Accessed: 10/12/2020 Gas Leak Occurs at the New North Torrey Pines Living Learning Center - UCSD Guardian
Gas Leak Occurs at the New North Torrey Pines Living
Learning Center
 October 7, 2020  Andrew Ha 
On Oct. 7, a gas leak occurred at the North Torrey Pines Living  Learning Center due to 
construction activities along the fence line of the site. The scope of  the gas leak affected the 
new Living Learning Center as well as Peterson Hall, the Applied  Physics & Mathematics 
building, and the Media Communications building. The gas has since been shut off and 
repairs were estimated to be completed by 6:30 p.m. on the same day. 
No one, including students and construction personnel, were hurt as a result of the gas leak. 
According to the San Diego Fire Department, the area is now completely safe and that it is 
fine to re-enter the aforementioned areas. Once shut off, the leak was deemed not 
hazardous and no evacuation was needed.
Notifications were sent out via UC San Diego Triton Alerts to students on a rolling basis 
from approximately 3:10 p.m. on Oct 7. If you have any questions regarding this incident, 
please contact UCSD Environment, Health, and Safety Emergency Management & BusinessTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 10/12/2020 Gas Leak Occurs at the New North Torrey Pines Living Learning Center - UCSD Guardian
Continuity at eoc@ucsd.edu or (858) 246-0695.
Information in this article was provided by UC San Diego Emergency Alerts and the  
Associate Director of University Communications, Leslie Sepuka. 
Photo courtesy of Ellie Wang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Campus Sororities Lack Accountability, Must Emphasize Reform, Inclusion - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Zara Irshad
With a large majority of our student body studying from home this quarter, it’s easier now than 
ever to feel isolated. Joining student  organizations is a great way to combat this loneliness, and 
participating in Greek life is a popular route to take. It offers to fill that void with  friends, virtual 
events, and community service — it’s perfect. Well, almost. While I believe that in theory, Greek 
life is a wonderful way to get  involved and stay connected with your campus, there are some 
glaring flaws that shouldn’t be overlooked. 
From their founding , many sororities have excluded people of color and those from lower 
socioeconomic backgrounds. Despite the fact that this was hundreds of  years ago, many of these 
discriminatory sentiments remain deeply embedded within the culture today, just heavily veiled. 
Unfortunately, this  includes sororities at UC San Diego. 
Three sources from Sigma Kappa and one from Tri-Delta felt comfortable enough to share their 
experiences with racism in their respective sororities at UCSD. What they shared confirmed that 
despite being hidden, sororities at UCSD do foster racism and discrimination, and that change 
needs to be made. One member of Sigma Kappa feels there is discrimination within disciplinary hearings. She  
described an incident where unequal punishments  were given to two members who were called  
before the disciplinary board. One member was white, the other was Middle Eastern. The white  
member was called before the board for yelling the n-word in public. She was only required to 
attend a diversity workshop, and many  members thought even that was extreme, claiming that 
“she didn’t know better.” 
The Middle Eastern member was called before the same board for posting a video with her  
international friends with the caption “when ¼ of  your school is Chinese International and 
everyone’s wearing a mask.” She was expelled from Sigma Kappa. 
Her expulsion came despite many emails protesting the decision from other participants of Greek 
life and student organizations, and despite submitting three appeals herself.  
The judicial process that determined her expulsion was extremely unjust. According to my source, 
the video in question was not even shown to those voting on the expulsion. Instead, they relied on  
a biased description from a white member of the sorority. Additionally, at that meeting, the  
accused member was not allowed to defend herself, and there was a scripted member, which goes 
against the sororities rules, who spoke out against her. My source confirmed that every Asian  
member of the executive board reached out to her during this process, and none of the white 
members did.  
The issue here lies within the structure of the disciplinary system. The standards board that 
accused members are called to is led by a single member. This member gets to handpick the other 
three members of the board, leaving no assurance of a fair and equal assessment. The Middle  
Eastern member was still expelled from the sorority despite protests from countless sorority  
members and executive board members, while the white member got away unscathed. 
While future accountability and reform of the larger structures of Greek Life on campus will help  
to prevent further incidents, it won’t necessarily solve the current issues. In order to correct the 
damage that has already been caused, current sorority members need to be held accountable for  
discriminatory actions or comments that they’ve made.   
Another former Sigma Kappa member that I spoke with explained how microaggressions are  
woven into everyday conversations with the sorority. The member recounted comments like “wow 
she’s actually really pretty for a black girl, I thought she was more exotic” and “[he’s] probably not  
documented” being tossed around without any understanding of the weight that those words 
carry.  Accessed: 10/12/2020 Campus Sororities Lack Accountability, Must Emphasize Reform, Inclusion - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 10/12/2020 Campus Sororities Lack Accountability, Must Emphasize Reform, Inclusion - UCSD Guardian
Not only do these kinds of microaggressions suggest that being “exotic” is ugly and 
undesirable, but they perpetuate harmful stereotypes that  have been introduced by the media 
and, quite honestly, racists over decades. 
Furthermore, all four of my sources spoke about tokenism within their respective sororities. 
Those from Sigma Kappa revealed that during  recruitmentent, members were told things such 
as “we have too many Asian girls, let’s try to look for others” and “c’mon ladies we’re the most  
diverse chapter by far let’s keep it that way.” This is harmful because it condones the idea that 
women of color are only valuable in order to  meet diversity quotas, not because they are 
intelligent assets to the group. 
The opposite approach is also found within sororities at UCSD. As my Tri Delta source 
explained, some predominantly Asian sororities  attempt to recruit more white members in 
order to become more respected and desired, perpetuating the belief that white members are  
superior and more valuable than women of color. Both instances go to show that even though 
these organizations may not come off as  blatantly racist, there are definitely ignorant and 
discriminatory practices.  
Another way that this ignorance can manifest if left unchecked is through performative 
activism. According to one Sigma Kappa source,  members were advised to avoid speaking up 
about racial injustices in case they were misinterpreted, yet they were all encouraged to speak 
up about COVID-19 and the Black Lives Matter movement once it became “trendy” to post 
black squares on Instagram. Not only does this  illustrate a blatant inconsistency, but also a 
complete disregard for current social issues as anything more than another post on social 
media. 
Again, I truly believe that if run properly, sororities have the potential to do good. Sisterhood 
and service are two great values that I think  everyone can benefit from, not to mention all of 
the post-college connections that you will be left with. And lasting social ties aren’t the only  
benefit sorority members have access to later in life. 
Having diversity within our sororities is crucial because participation in Greek life is a pipeline 
to future power. A 2016 study shows that Greek life participation in college increases one’s 
future income by 36 percent.  It is crucial we ensure that these opportunities are available for 
everyone, not just those who are affluent and white.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Campus Sororities Lack Accountability, Must Emphasize Reform, Inclusion - UCSD Guardian
Ensuring this diversity within our sororities must start with more accountability and internal 
reform, which is attainable for all of our  sororities on campus. While all members of our 
sororities already have to go through diversity and inclusion training, something clearly isn’t  
working. By looking inward and demanding accountability from these organizations, we can 
move toward more equal post-college  opportunities for our students of color. 
Art created by Angela Liang for The UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 10/12/2020 Ways to Celebrate a Quarantine Halloween - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020  Colleen Conradi 
It’s Spooky Season, my friends! Even though Halloween is looking a bit different this year,  
that’s no reason not to celebrate! We can’t go out for Halloween, but we can definitely bring  
some Halloween home this year: 
Decorate: Since there won’t be any sort of trick-or-treating outside, take those decorations 
you’d usually put out front and cover the inside of the house with them. Maybe you could 
even try to scare a roommate with a skeleton or ghoul! Even if you don’t want to go all out, 
one of my favorite things to do is to put orange or purple twinkly lights on and let them set 
a spooky mood at night. 
Halloween Cookies : Something fun to do with your roommates is to set out a time to 
make and decorate some festive cookies! You can get creative with putting icing on plain 
sugar cookies and using fun cutout shapes, or, for less effort, you can always buy the special 
ghost or pumpkin editions of premade cookies from Pillsbury! Accessed: 10/12/2020 Ways to Celebrate a Quarantine Halloween - UCSD Guardian
Movie Marathons : One of my favorite parts of Halloween is the movies! One you’ve  
decorated and made your cookies, the only logical thing to do next is to have a movie  
marathon with your roommates. Tune into some fan favorites like “ The Haunted Mansion ”, 
“Halloweentown”, “ Nightmare on Elm Street ”, or “The Addams Family”!
Pumpkins : Like with decorations, pumpkins are another thing you can have inside! With  
pumpkins at most grocery stores and even some pumpkin patches open, there’s nothing  
stopping you from carving a jack-o-lantern this year! Also, if you’re not into getting messy  
with carving, you can always paint your pumpkin, too! Painting also means your pumpkin  will 
have a longer life than a jack-o-lantern. 
Dress up : One of the biggest bummers about Halloween this year is that we can’t go out and  
show off our costumes. However, if you live with roommates, you can always have your own  
little party and wear that costume! Hanging out with a small group may not be the same as a  
big party, but it will still give you a fun, festive feel. 
Spooky Playlist : Another advantage to being at home for Halloween this year is that you  
can put on your favorite spooky songs and dance like nobody’s watching! Finding or creating  
your own Halloween playlist on Spotify or Apple Music will definitely help set the holiday  
mood!Accessed: 10/12/2020 Let's Create Housing for the Public, Not for Profit - UCSD Guardian
 Guest Writer  October 11, 2020  
This this the first of three submissions written by students in ETHN 104: Race, Space, and 
Segregation during Summer Session Two .
The Urban Displacement Project  defines gentrification as a process of  neighborhood change 
that includes economic change in a historically disinvested neighborhood,by means of real 
estate investment and new  higher-income residents moving in, as well as demographic change . 
This demographic change is not limited to income level but also includes a  change in the 
education level and racial makeup of the community. This is important to UC San Diego 
students as most of us will be driving  this demographic change. Therefore, it is necessary to be 
aware of the effects our future housing arrangements will have on low-income Black  and 
Latino communities without a college education. Gentrification occurs when the renewal of a 
community attracts wealthier residents and  businesses while replacing the current residents in 
the process, and it has continued to displace Black and brown working-class communities  in 
cities throughout the United States. In Oakland, this process has resulted in a significant loss 
of the city’s cultural and racial diversity, replacing historically Black neighborhoods and small 
businesses with wealthier residents and businesses. Gentrification in Oakland has occurredAccessed: 10/12/2020 Let's Create Housing for the Public, Not for Profit - UCSD Guardian
due to the commodification of housing; as of this year, the average rent of one bedroom 
apartment in Oakland has increased to  $2,930,  a 6% increase from the year before. This 
statistic alone  illustrates the large profits the real-estate market has made by placing housing 
in Oakland on the speculative market. East Bay Permanent Real  Estate Cooperative is one 
Oakland organization that is devoted to offering long-term affordable housing by buying land 
and keeping it off the  speculative market. This is significant as it leads to a more stable housing 
market while also decreasing the displacement rate in Oakland, so  that housing can be 
permanently affordable for communities of color. This impacts UC San Diego students due to 
our role in the real estate  market as future homeowners.
In “Possessive Investment in Whiteness,” George Lipsitz, an American studies scholar and 
professor of Black Studies at UC Santa  Barbara, demonstrates that in the 1980s, Oakland had a 
primarily Black population, one that had already faced disinvestment and  exclusionary 
homeownership practices due to redlining policies created in the 1930s. White flight which 
refers to the phenomenon of white  people leaving urban areas with large minority populations 
to settle in suburban neighborhoods, occurred during this time due to the  availability of 
subsidized housing in the suburbs, creating a predominantly Black inner city. However, Black 
and brown people have been barred from owning homes due to predatory loans and racist 
exclusion. Due to these policies many of Oakland’s low-income communities have been made 
vulnerable by skyrocketing rents. In addition, urban renewal projects, land speculation, and 
the influx of tech corporations have threatened to siphon the city’s cultural and racial 
diversity; predominantly white and higher income residents have been rapidly replacing 
Oakland’s Black population due to these structural inequalities.
Today, up to 31 percent  of Oakland has been gentrified, and due to its proximity to San 
Francisco across the bay, West Oakland has become the most gentrified section of the city. 
Land speculation in disinvested neighborhoods has created a boom for newer, richer 
businesses, as well as housing that is unattainable for Black and brown people. As a result, the 
value of property and rent in such areas has soared, becoming unaffordable for Oakland’s 
existing residents. Wages for Black and brown populations remain stagnant as the city 
becomes more gentrified, increasing their risk of eviction and housing insecurity. Today, the 
median household income of a Black family in Oakland is $32,000, while that of a white family 
is up to $90,000; because affordable housing is based on the city’s average income, more and 
more housing has become unavailable to Black and brown populations. This phenomenon can 
also be seen today in other cities of the U.S. such as Charleston, South Carolina, District of 
Columbia, and Denver, Colorado where the cost of housing has more than doubled.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Let's Create Housing for the Public, Not for Profit - UCSD Guardian
Racial capitalism has driven Oakland’s disinvestment and has incited the gentrification of the 
city. Redlining and defunding of public urban  resources in the 1930s locked Black Oaklanders 
into poorer inner-city neighborhoods. A lack of policies protecting deteriorating, disinvested  
neighborhoods from speculative purchases of the predatory real estate market, and scarce rent 
control, has left them vulnerable to  displacement. Despite this, work is being done to reclaim an 
affordable Oakland, one that preserves its rich history of diversity and culture. 
One way this issue of gentrification is being fought is through the development of cooperatives 
like the East Bay Permanent Real Estate  Cooperative. EBPREC is a cooperative created by Black, 
Indigenous, and people of color residents that were born and  raised in Oakland and have 
observed the negative effects that gentrification has had on the city throughout their lives. The 
cooperative was  created to remove housing from the speculative real estate market in order to 
stop tenants of color from being displaced. The way that this  intervention works is EBPREC 
buys land and leases houses and units to residents for affordable prices, the cooperative gives 
control to  residents and uses long-term leases to simulate real home ownership. 
When it comes to buying buildings with multiple units, EBPREC seeks out buildings with 
majority BIPOC residents that are on the verge of  displacement. From there, they recruit 
residents to invest $1,000 each so the coop can purchase the entire property, which then 
guarantees no  tenants will lose their homes. By investing in their own community, EBPREC 
gives guidance to tenants on how to steward their own land.  Their goal for the future is to see 
diverse communities living on land without landlords. This practice allows EBPREC to 
encourage Black and  Indigenous land ownership while also creating a system of collective 
wealth to make sure that our current real estate market system does not  have the power to take 
that land and wealth away. EBPREC believes that healing for historically marginalized 
communities can come from  participating in cooperatives.
The organization’s continued growth models scalable solutions for low-income people to access 
stable homes that are affordable in the long term. Also, the funding sources for the 
establishment of communities are also relatively stable and secure, which ensures the 
sustainable development and protection of communities. At the same time, the upgrading, 
redevelopment, and renewal of such residential areas can develop a community with dilapidated 
housing, poverty, and lack of living infrastructure into a comfortable, convenient, and more 
modern middle-class residential area. This gives every resident a chance to get better 
opportunities, such as education and work. Nevertheless, there are many opportunities to solve 
these problems. In addition to raising awareness about this issue, one can donate to 
organizations that are focused on creating affordable housing such as Moms for housing and The 
East Bay Permanent Real Estate Cooperative. In addition to hiring, EBPREC also offersAccessed: 10/12/2020 Let's Create Housing for the Public, Not for Profit - UCSD Guardian
memberships that give one the opportunity to become an investor owner, a community 
owner, or to plan future projects for the organization.
Considering that many UCSD students are science, technology, engineering, and math 
majors and may end up working in the Bay Area, it is important to know the effects that 
our actions may be having on historically Black communities such as Oakland. Silicon 
Valley, as shown previously, has had a great effect on the gentrification of Oakland. As the  
ninth most recruited school by Silicon Valley, many UCSD students will end up moving to 
San Francisco or neighboring areas such as Oakland, therefore contributing to the 
displacement of native Oaklanders. Furthermore, gentrification is not an issue limited to 
Oakland, in fact it is becoming a worldwide problem that affects people from across the 
U.S. to cities like Seoul,  South Korea. As students, we have the power to not only support 
the struggle for fair and affordable housing but also to imagine and create  new solutions.
Art created by Angela Liang for The UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 10/12/2020 TV Review: "Outer Banks" - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Deyshna Pai
“Outer Banks” is not the teen drama you’d expect.
Although Netflix advertises it as such, “ Outer Banks” is not your typical soapy teen drama. I 
would even argue this label to be a misnomer, considering that “Outer Banks” avoids the 
trite cliches characteristic of this genre such as love triangles, high school sports, and teen-
parent conflict. Instead, “Outer Banks” discards these tropes and memorably surprises 
viewers with a complexity unseen in most teen dramas with its originality and commentary 
on classism and abuse.  
“Outer Banks”  begins with a good-natured spirit for adventure. The Pogues, composed of 
John Booker Routledge (Chase Stokes) and friends JJ (Rudy Pankow), Pope (Jonathan 
Daviss), and Kiara (Madison Bailey) are scrappy, independent, and accustomed to living life 
on the edge. When looking to blow off steam from cleaning up after the hurricane that 
devastates their town, they stumble on a treasure hunt mystery linked to John B.’s father’s 
disappearance nine months prior. That, coupled with Child Services’ intrusion into JohnAccessed: 10/12/2020 TV Review: "Outer Banks" - UCSD Guardian
B.’s guardian-less life, the unexpected arrival of hitmen nipping at their heels, and a violent,  
hateful struggle between the Pogues and their wealthy island rivals, the Kooks, underscores  
the fact that this treasure hunt is anything but simple. It all feels very S.E.Hinton-meets-the-
conspiracy-theories-of-National-Treasure in a way that strangely works. And despite being  
vaguely reminiscent of these older classics, “Outer Banks” maintains freshness with its rich,  
interwoven storylines. 
For example, there were opportunities where the show could have easily relied on overdone  
tropes, but avoided doing so, creating an unexpectedly engaging viewing experience. Within  
the first episode, I was ready to roll my eyes at what I expected to be a nascent love triangle  
between John B., Kiara, and JJ, but was pleasantly surprised when Kiara, the female lead,  
rejected John B. ‘s advances and stressed to him the importance of maintaining solid  
friendships. To me, this kind of character development is unseen in contemporary teen  
dramas  such as “Riverdale,” and I appreciated that Kiara was written as a female character  
with agency instead of letting her inability to handle a difficult situation become cheap  
entertainment. These surprises continued throughout the first season and are partly  
responsible for why “Outer Banks” is so bingeable. And where most teen dramas prefer to  
focus on a singular group of teen frenemies that trade dating partners as a source of conflict  
with one another, “Outer Banks” once again defies stereotypes with its focus on the Pogues’  
friendship and teamwork to overcome challenges as a group under high stress environments. 
The show’s originality also stems from its authenticity, which shines through several aspects  
of its production including writing, character portrayal, and cinematography.  I’ll be the first  
to admit that the characters aren’t immediately likeable. After all, our first experience with  
the Pogues involves them breaking and entering, taunting a cop, and a Kook v. Pogue brawl  
that ends only because one of the teens brings a stolen gun to a public place. Objectively, 
none of these behaviors are very likeable, nor should they be glorified. However, by the end of 
the first episode, the real villains are differentiable and the Pogues are easy heroes to root for
—flaws included.
The Pogues give strong performances both individually and as a group. It’s difficult to 
imagine any of the actors swapping characters, which speaks volumes about the writing and 
the actors’ ability to make their respective parts feel real. Rudy Pankow as JJ is a standout as 
he balances an endearing recklessness and sardonic charm that masks the abuse he deals 
with at home. John B.’s conscientiousness and faith in his father gives his character a depth 
that redeems his more questionable behaviors such as stealing, trespassing, and lying to 
authorities. Similar to other teen dramas, there is a convenient absence of adults, but it feels 
more excusable, considering that the instability of Cut families emphasizes survival andAccessed: 10/12/2020 TV Review: "Outer Banks" - UCSD Guardian
independence in Pogues, while the indifference of wealthy Kook parents influences their  
entitled teens’ attitudes. Despite the actors all being older than 16, performances do not rely  
on overdone teen stereotypes—each character feels like a real person with genuine  
motivations for their behaviors. Accordingly, Outer Banks gifts viewers with thoughtful  
storytelling by preserving each character’s integrity. 
Furthermore, the emphasis on location in “Outer Banks” ties the show together nicely,  
influencing wardrobes, attitudes, and our sense that these are teenagers exploring a world  
much larger than themselves, again reinforcing the realism of the characters and their  
stories. Frames tinged with Carolinian golden hour glow and scenic wide shots immerse  
viewers in John B.’s world and inspire a sense of adventure. Whereas the closed-quarter sets  
of “Outer Banks’” contemporaries can appear more performative, this open, exploratory  
approach feels fresh and never contrived. 
I may have found John B.’s and Sarah Cameron’s relationship (Madelyn Cline) to be  
melodramatic at times, and the reason Sarah and Kiara detested each other was  
unconvincing. Both of these storylines felt a little weak in comparison to the honest 
portrayal of relationships in this show. However, these are two very minor issues within 
“Outer Banks” larger season, and they don’t detract from the season’s overall quality. 
Overall, “Outer Banks” is a wild ride and worth every minute. It pits its protagonists against  
high stakes, but also gives them the tools to overcome their obstacles, which makes a hard-
earned victory at the end of the season all the more enjoyable. Hopefully the already-
confirmed Season 2 provides as much excitement as this first season did, but until then, you  
can get tan with the teens of North Carolina on Netflix.  
Grade: A 
Creators: Josh Pate, Jonas Pate, Shannon Burke 
Starring:  Chase Stokes, Madelyn Cline, Madison Bailey, Jonathan Daviss, Rudy Pankow, 
Austin North, Charles Esten, Drew Starkey 
Release Date: April 15, 2020 
Rated: TV-MA
Image courtesy of Entertainment Weekly.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Head-to-Head: "I'm Thinking of Ending Things" - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020  Erin Chun 
Arts and Entertainment takes on a new debate over Charlie Kaufman’s “I’m Thinking of  
Ending Things”: Is it a hit, or is the television screen the only thing that’s ending the titular  
film?
TW: Mentions of Suicide
Growing up alongside an ever-expanding catalogue of media can be both overwhelming and 
comforting. The poems, essays, books, paintings, photographs, television shows, and films 
that we surround ourselves with are molded into sentience when combined with our own 
thoughts and experiences. They act as interwoven frames of reference for how we should 
continue existing in the world. As our experiences shape and prune the very anatomies of 
our brain matter, this accumulation of art evolves into that of a coping mechanism as itHead-to-Head: "I'm Thinking of Ending Things" - UCSD Guardian
allows  individualistic escapism from the otherwise unbearable. This is especially potent in  
childhood, and if never confronted, the consumed media burrows itself securely within our  
consciousness until we have no choice but to live it as our own reality. This brings me to the  
question: How do the coping mechanisms of a lonely childhood manifest in adulthood? In  
Charlie Kaufman’s latest film, “I’m Thinking of Ending Things,” we see a deeply personal, yet  
surprisingly universal externalization of just that.
This film of somber fantasy schema was released just this year, and with every rewatch, the  
depth of isolation feels increasingly accurate. Paced by the daily routine of a high school  
janitor, and a simple story of a young woman considering breaking up with her boyfriend, 
the two tracks of the film are cross-cut and continually united by the titular sentence “I’m  
Thinking of Ending Things.” The intentionally proposed end of a romantic relationship  
merges with the intentionally proposed end of one man’s life. The janitor’s idiosyncrasies 
and fantasies become a melancholic exploration of how ending a life so fraught with 
fictitious  lives makes it nearly impossible to conjure a true end, even when it is what is most 
desired.  Moving through the film felt like the world’s most tragic scavenger hunt, sifting 
through  famous works by famous folks, attempting to separate reference from real. The 
characters are wholly human and disastrous, purposefully messy and inconsistent, 
extensions of one  singular man’s ailing psyche of snow, musicals, ice cream, and pigs. And 
with a film so  focused on ends, it did not disappoint with its own. Rousing, theatrical, and 
absurd, there is a  profound emotional undercurrent that culminates in an applauded stage 
solo, everything  coming together. Then, the end. Not a film of comfort, but of catharsis.
If you ever need to reflect on your own loneliness and reliance on the consumption of media  
in an unnerving, yet familiar way, “I’m Thinking of Ending Things” is the most dynamic 
place  for such exploration. Run away to a blurry, greyed mindscape of floralled wallpaper 
and high school theatre, and battle your own consciousness with someone else’s words.
— Marina Lee, Contributing Writer
As a perpetually tired college student, I look forward to sleeping every night, which is why 
Charlie Kaufman is one of my favorite directors — his films bring me dreams and I don’t 
even have to close my eyes. Critically acclaimed screenwriter, producer, writer, director, and 
novelist, Kaufman is responsible for gifting this decade with some of the most iconic and 
critically revered films in modern cinema history, including “Being John Malkovich” (1999), 
“Synecdoche, New York” (2008) and finally, “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” (2004) Accessed: 10/12/2020Accessed: 10/12/2020 Head-to-Head: "I'm Thinking of Ending Things" - UCSD Guardian
which happens to be my personal favorite. His film’s utilize the human psyche as metaphors 
in order to self-describe the complexities present within collective life experiences of love, 
heartbreak, and identity. 
Kaufman is an undoubtedly talented absurdist filmmaker who I admire as an artist, which is 
why I was so disappointed with his latest film “I’m Thinking of Ending Things.” Now, don’t 
get me wrong; the film captivated me when I viewed it for the first time, and I enjoyed it even 
more on the second watch when I was able to piece together the puzzle that was the meaning 
of the titular sentence and the bizarre dreamscapes. The decision to conclude the film with 
Jake’s repetitive, unfulfilled life unceremoniously snuffed out under the white, shapeless 
blob of a lone car covered in snow, was a stark and brilliant juxtaposition to the insanity that 
was the previous two hours of the film. “I’m Thinking of Ending Things” plays on all of 
Kaufman’s strong suits, which is exactly the problem. The winding philosophical 
monologues, the physical manifestation of his subconscious, and the abstract shots that play 
on the themes of isolation and disorientation all feel too forced as trademarks of his style. 
Clarity became lost between its novel source, written by Iain Reid, and Kaufman’s film 
adaptation. Granted, book-to-film adaptations are notoriously difficult to get right due to the 
time and resource constraints between the two, but Kaufman sacrificed accuracy of the 
original writing in the name of his style.
Some defenders of the adaptation have a tendency to dismiss constructive arguments 
towards the film by claiming that its critiquers simply “do not understand” Kaufman’s 
genius, and to that, I reply that I don’t feel indifferent towards the film because I “don’t get 
it”; I feel neutral towards it because others don’t. This film is one of the director’s more 
pretentious projects, and it feels inaccessible to a large demographic of viewers. The reason 
why Kaufman’s films have attracted the amount of traction that they did in the past decade 
was because of his ability to understand the human experience and manifest them for 
anybody to recognize. “I’m Thinking of Ending Things” does not have the same relatability.  
The complexities of the film’s metaphors overshadow the actual meaning behind them. “I’m 
Thinking of Ending Things” has two underlying meanings behind its titular name: it refers to 
Jake’s forgettable life, and to the reaction from its viewers towards the television screen as 
we get slowly dragged along through two confusing hours of snow and a single, old, white 
man regretting his life.
— Hemmy Chun, A&E Editor
Image courtesy of The Suffolk Journal.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The NBA Faces Its Greatest Foe Yet: The Superteam - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Praveen Nair
The NBA has never really been a balanced league. For teams like the Lakers, Celtics, and  
Bulls, winning titles was a foregone conclusion at one point or another. But the competitive  
balance of the league faces a new threat, one that is no longer tied to the dominance of a  
single player like Jordan, Russell, or Kareem: the superteam. Manufactured in  
unsanctioned  meetings and private player communications, these powerful creations could 
upend the balance of the NBA for years to come. And worst of all, since these teams are both 
fueled by factors outside of league control and incredibly valuable to the league’s bottom 
line, there’s nothing anyone’s doing to stop them.
Before true free agency began in 1988, teams built a roster either through the draft or 
through trades — both inherently self-balancing institutions. But in the 2010s, spurred on 
by the creation of the LeBron-Wade-Bosh “Heatles,” more and more contenders were built 
through a free agency process directed as much by players as by front offices. For teams 
without the luck to draft a generational star who’ll play for cheap, or the skill to manage a 
team well enough to create a winning squad over years of rebuilding, the superteam has 
provided a ticket to the front of the line — but that opportunity isn’t accessible to just any  
team.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The NBA Faces Its Greatest Foe Yet: The Superteam - UCSD Guardian
One of the most frustrating parts of the superteam is that the viability of an NBA franchise  
now rests largely on something they cannot change — their geographic location. Take the  
Lakers, for example. In the five years prior to LeBron James’ arrival, the team posted an  
abysmal 126–284 record, all the while dealing with chemistry issues among the players and  in 
the front office. But none of that mattered, because they were the Lakers and they played  in 
Los Angeles, and that’s all LeBron needed to choose them. When teams as incompetent as  the 
Lakers have been this decade are able to attract free agents far better than even the best-run 
small-market teams like Oklahoma City and Denver, it presents a real issue for the league  in 
the long run.
But even if you’re not a small-market fan, the superteam is still damaging to the strategic  
appeal of the league. What makes the Lakers so annoying isn’t just that they’re from Los  
Angeles, but that the team was mostly constructed from scratch within a year. Put another  
way, not a single player on the current squad was on Kobe Bryant’s final Lakers team just  four 
years ago. Across the country, the Brooklyn Nets, who look to be a contender next  season with 
Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant, formed their prospective superteam in a span of  days; what’s 
more, the signings required jettisoning the heart of their exciting young core,  D’Angelo 
Russell.
If these trends continue, we’ll no longer see the natural team cycle from rebuilding to  
contention and back again. Rather, as with LeBron’s old team, the Cleveland Cavaliers,  
players will join teams en masse, mortgage their futures and cap space for current assets,  then 
leave those teams’ husks by the wayside as they proceed to their next avenue for  contention.
As much as the Lakers represent what’s wrong with the league, however, the playoffs in the 
2020 NBA bubble have been possibly the best since before the emergence of the Warriors 
dynasty in 2015; the stakes to the playoffs feel much more real than the seemingly inevitable 
quartet of Warriors vs. Cavaliers finals from 2015 to 2018. In fact, the emergence of Jimmy 
Butler, who previously underwent two separate, ill-fated attempts to pair him with existing 
stars in Minnesota and Philadelphia, as the leader of a team in the Finals speaks volumes 
about what is still possible for teams that do not or cannot operate in the superteam mold.
However, we make a mistake when we assume that everyone involved wants to see a healthy, 
competitive league. In fact, NBA television ratings have been highest when the Bulls and 
Warriors were at the peaks of their dominance, and the international appeal of superteams 
and their biggest stars, especially in the lucrative Asian market, ensures the league isn’t 
planning to break up the biggest teams by rule any time soon.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The NBA Faces Its Greatest Foe Yet: The Superteam - UCSD Guardian
Consequently, the NBA’s response to the superteam trend has been relatively mild. The rules  
against tampering and collusion, which essentially boil down to “don’t make it public,” are a  
joke, especially when many of the league’s top players are friendly with each other off the  
court. The recent introduction of the supermax contract, allowing teams to offer their own  
players more lucrative extensions than others teams can, has proved ineffectual both in that  
the additional money pales in comparison to the potential earnings boost of a championship  
and of playing in a big market, and in that the additional cost just further complicates teams’  
cap situations; that isn’t even to mention what happens if that player is to get injured — the  
Wizards paid John Wall $38.2 million last season to play zero minutes of basketball.
If there’s anything keeping the NBA together, it’s that superteams are often much less than  
the sum of their parts. The Los Angeles Clippers, considered by many to be title favorites  
when they signed LA natives Kawhi Leonard and Paul George last summer, were taken down  
by a Denver Nuggets squad led by a pair of homegrown stars in Jamal Murray and Nikola  
Jokic; the Clippers struggled with a lack of team chemistry and leadership. The Houston  
Rockets, who united former MVP’s Russell Westbrook and James Harden, continued to  
suffer from playoff woes that have troubled them throughout the Harden era. And the Nets,  
who on paper have paired one of the league’s most explosive point guards with one of the  
greatest scorers of all time, may win a lot of games, but they’ll also almost certainly be a hot  
mess next season.
Even with the rise of the orchestrated superteam, the future of the NBA is far from certain.  
Much of it rests on the young shoulders of two-time reigning MVP Giannis Antetokounmpo,  
who will decide this offseason whether to stay with Milwaukee or test free agency next year.  
But in an NBA landscape where legacies are increasingly tied to championship rings, it’s no 
surprise so many players are banding together to improve their odds — can we really say 
they’re being given any reason not to?
Art by Kalo GrimsbyAccessed: 10/12/2020 The Future is Sunny for the San Diego Padres - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020  Wesley Xiao
The San Diego Padres’ postseason run came to an end last Thursday. With a 12–3 win, the  
Los Angeles Dodgers swept the Padres in the National League Divisional Series.
Granted, this wasn’t an entirely unexpected result. The Padres’ top two pitchers were out 
with injuries, making every game devolve into a bullpen game. In game 3, the team 
managed to set a record for the most pitchers (11) used in a nine-inning game. While the 
pitching struggled, the Padres bats — which had carried the team through the regular 
season — failed to make up the difference. And most importantly, the Dodgers are the 
Dodgers, the best team in MLB. Even if the Padres were at full strength, it would have 
been a tough series to win.
The sweep by the Dodgers brings the season to a disheartening close, but it doesn’t take 
away from the fact that this was a great season for the Padres. This is the best Padres team 
in nearly a decade. The Friars went 37–23, the second-best record in the National League 
—second only to the Dodgers, of course. They broke a 14-year playoff drought and won 
their wild card series 2–1 against the St. Louis Cardinals.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The Future is Sunny for the San Diego Padres - UCSD Guardian
They turned the San Diego Padres into the Slam Diego Padres. Off the bats of Fernando Tatís  
Jr., Manny Machado, Wil Myers, and Eric Hosmer, the team set an MLB record for the most  
consecutive games with grand slams. Tatís especially had a fantastic season. El Niño 
hit .277/.366/.571 and tied for fourth in home runs with 17 out-of-the-park swings. Machado 
was right behind Tatís, hitting .304/.370/.580 with 16 homers. But this wasn’t a stars-and-
scrubs team. All across the lineup, the Padres were producing. Jurickson Profar put together a 
solid  season, and Jake Cronenworth put together a season worthy of NL Rookie of the Year.
The Friars’ issues on the mound were in full focus during their playoff run, but they have  
more young talent developing to fill the gap. Luis Patiño got time as a reliever this year. Ryan  
Weathers became only the second pitcher in MLB history to debut in the postseason, going  
right from Single-A ball to the NLDS. MacKenzie Gore, the Padres’ top pitching prospect, will  
likely move up to the majors next season.
The Dodgers remain the Goliath of the NL West, but the Padres are starting to nip at their  
heels. The Padres-Dodger rivalry is heating up, and it already has a bit of drama, with a  
heated Machado protesting Dodgers pitcher Brusdar Graterol’s celebration of Cody  
Bellinger’s homer-stealing catch in game 2. Both teams will be contenders in the NL West  
next season and will likely see each other many more times in the regular and postseasons.
For now, the Padres are headed back to San Diego, but they are by no means done. Coming  
off their first postseason berth since 2006, and with a young squad stacked with potential,  
there’s little doubt: next season, they’ll be back.
Photo courtesy of San Diego PadresAccessed: 10/12/2020 Get Out The Debate - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020  Nelson Espinal
The San Diego mayoral race shifted its focus to UC San Diego students as the two  
candidates took questions centered around topics considering students.
The political science department of UC San Diego hosted a mayoral debate between two 
Democratic candidates, San Diego City Councilwoman Barbara Bry and State 
Assemblymember Todd Gloria. The event, rather than being on a stage, took place via a 
Zoom conference call in partnership with KPBS. Andrew Bowen, a reporter at KPBS Metro, 
moderated the event with guest appearances from faculty members and students. 
The partnership between the political science department and KPBS developed as a result 
of PBS’s coverage of local politics here in San Diego, according to Thad Kousser, the 
Department Chair of UCSD’s political science department. Their expertise as a news outlet 
in San Diego provided the event with professionalism. On top of the experience they 
provided, KPBS’s platform allowed for the event to “expand the reach of the event to the 
border community,” Kousser said.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Get Out The Debate - UCSD Guardian
The mayoral debate aimed to help UCSD students make an informed decision about who they 
want to vote for. The event complements the “Triton Vote” initiative at UCSD, which 
encourages students to register to vote. The intitivate, created by the Associated Students  
Civic Engagement Office, is receiving support from the Triton Athletes’ Council and has a goal 
to have all student-athletes registered to vote and have the election day free as well. 
On top of their partnership with UCSD student-athletes, the “Triton Vote” movement  
encourages all students to register to vote. The initiative uses the TurboVote website as the  
way students can sign up to vote. 
Additionally, “Triton Vote” provides students with information about deadlines and guides  
about the upcoming candidates and propositions. As a way to help students that are  
undecided or don’t want to make their decision over a guide, UCSD’s political science  
department wanted to provide a debate that had a narrow scope on issues that students care  
about. 
“During a time in which national politics is dominating the headlines, but local government is  
more important than ever to San Diegans’ daily lives, we wanted to highlight what is going on  
in UCSD’s hometown,” Kousser told The UCSD Guardian. “And we wanted to create an issues  
forum, rather than a traditional debate, in order to push each candidate to dive deeply into  
the issues that we highlighted — social justice, San Diego’s housing crisis, and the post-
pandemic economic recovery.”
All of these issues addressed some of the concerns students have with staying in San Diego 
long-term. The candidates answered all of the questions directed towards the students as they 
made their case as to why they are best fit to lead San Diego into the future. 
Both candidates were “very happy to be part of this” for a reason, according to Kousser. 
Students participated in the event with the hope of knowing who they will be voting for in 
November and learning more about other measures that will be on the ballot. 
“Some students might be hesitant to vote because ballots in California ask voters to make so 
many choices, with local offices and many propositions,” Kousser said.  “While voters are free 
to leave any of those blank, we felt that by giving students a change to engage on local issues 
through meeting the mayoral candidates and hearing more about city ballot measures, they 
can have the confidence to come to the polls informed and engaged.”Accessed: 10/12/2020 Get Out The Debate - UCSD Guardian
After opening remarks from Chancellor Kholsa, the moderators presented the topics and  then 
each speaker was allowed one minute and 30 seconds to respond. 
The first question was about the housing affordability issue here in San Diego and how 
to improve the situation going forward. Both candidates cited their records and plan in 
their answers as they laid out their case. 
Following the first question, three panelists delivered questions to the candidates. 
Abbey Reuter, Associated Students AVP of Local Affairs, asked a question pertaining to  
privacy issues related to technology within the police force. Julia Adrian, Graduate Student  
VP of External Affairs, provided a question about improving child care during the COVID-19  
pandemic. The last panelist, Professor Marisa Abrajano, department of political science and  
Warren College, asked how either of the candidates would address concerns about economic-
racial inequality that has become more of an issue during the pandemic. 
“We wanted to represent some of the many groups that make up the UCSD community,”  
Kousser said. “We reached out to the elected leadership of the undergraduate and graduate  
student leadership to select their panelists and chose a professor from our department who  
also leads a college.”
The rest of the forum followed a similar pattern as the moderator would shift the 
conversation to climate change and then the Black Lives Matter protests. The last 15 minutes 
featured moments of really back and forth as the topic of political action committees arose. 
Political action committees, which are funded via people outside either candidate’s campaign, 
buy ads that attack the opposing candidates. 
Recently, a political action committee attacked Todd Gloria’s stance on “a bill that would give 
judges discretion on sex offender registration in certain statutory rape cases,” according to 
NBC 7. This attack led to threats being made to Todd Gloria on social media. Another political 
action committee passed out fliers that decried Babrabara Bry as either a progressive or a 
repulican, meaning to create confusion.
Both Todd Gloria and Barbara Bry were asked about the actions of these independent 
committees that have attacked the other candidate. 
While things did heat up, the debate fared better than it did during the first presidential 
debate of the 2020 presidential race.Accessed: 10/12/2020 Get Out The Debate - UCSD Guardian
“Comparing this civil discussion of key issues to the debacle of the first presidential debate, it  
is no contest,” Kousser said.
During these exchanges built around controversy, one can’t help thinking what it would be  
like on a stage with an audience. The political science department planned the debate to  
happen in-person during Spring Quarter 2020, but the plans were thwarted due to the  
pandemic and had to be reorganized months later. 
“While everyone misses the electric excitement of an in-person political event, I thought the  
intellectual level of the discussion was very strong and candidates interacted and challenged  
each other’s ideas as if they were in the same room,” Kousser said. “But we missed the 
chance for students to interact personally with the candidates afterward and to volunteer 
with their  campaign teams if they liked what they heard. We hope to do that in an in-person 
issues  forum in the next election cycle.”
Even though it was held via Zoom, the political science department feels that the event
“exceeded expectations” with more viewers still to come in the future as the event is available  
on-demand on YouTube and will be broadcasted on UCTV as well. According to the political  
science department, 1,000 people registered for the Zoom call with 400 tuning in live. There 
were more that tuned in live on YouTube and on KPBS radio. 
“Even in a busy election season, Tritons and the broader community are hugely engaged,” 
Kousser said.
The final five minutes of the debate featured closing statements as both candidates were 
given time to speak directly to UCSD students and let them know what they have planned for 
the future. Baraba Bry was the first one to address the UCSD student body. 
“When you all graduate from UCSD, I’m thinking about you and what we need to do to keep 
you here in our city,” Bry said during the debate. “To make sure you are going to get a good 
job, that you’re going to have a place to live, that you’re going to be able to enjoy our natural 
environment: our beaches, base, and canyons.”
Following her closing remarks, Gloria followed Bry’s comments by connecting his past to his 
current platform and plan. Accessed: 10/12/2020 Get Out The Debate - UCSD Guardian
“I’m the son of a maid and gardener that were able to buy a home. Today in 2020 San Diego,  
blue-collar workers like them can’t buy a home and put their kids through college,” Gloria  
said during the debate. “I will be a mayor who will go to city hall every single day with stories  
like mine to make sure that pathways of opportunity that were there for me are there for you  
too.” 
With UCSD starting a movement to get students to vote, they need to send voters that are  
informed about what both options are. This mayoral forum follows up on all of the efforts to  
get people to register. The format attempted to limit the research barrier that people feel  
when voting as the candidates laid out what they can offer students not only during their  
undergraduate degree, but also the rest of the students’ lives.  
Art by Yui Kita  for The UCSD Guardian .Accessed: 10/12/2020 The New Sixth College and North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood is Open - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi
UC San Diego debuted three new residential halls as part of the new Sixth College, marking 
it the first year that students are living in the new  Sixth College dorms. The buildings are 
part of the larger North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood, which is still under  
construction and expected to be completed in 2021.
As of Fall 2020, only three out of the four residential halls –– Catalyst, Kaleidoscope, and 
Tapestry –– have been completed, while Mosaic is  expected to be completed in 2021. In 
accordance with the Sixth College theme of Culture, Art, and Technology, the new residential 
halls each  have their own name based on symbols  from La  Jolla’s natural landscape.
“The buildings are nice; they give off the new feeling,” Earl Warren College sophomore Nick 
Hale said. “I like the feel of the new buildings and enjoy the location of the complex. From 
where I am, I haven’t heard the construction, but I know it’s a problem for other people and 
they can hear the construction at night sometimes. Overall it’s pretty active and has a 
friendly atmosphere.”The New Sixth College and North Torrey Pines Living Learning
Neighborhood is OpenAccessed: 10/12/2020 The New Sixth College and North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood is Open - UCSD Guardian
Students like Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Jenayah Shaheed made positive 
comments on the location and new design of the  buildings. 
“It’s more modern,” Shaheed said. “They try to make it more “community” like because of 
how they set up the floors. So when you enter it is  the common room. It’s more in the middle 
of campus and it has better views of the ocean. The people are still the same, everyone is kind 
and nice and great to be around. It would be so much better if we weren’t in a pandemic, 
because then I could hold socials in the common space.  But right now I can’t use the kitchen, 
I can’t use the fridge, can’t sit on common space furniture. It would be a lot more helpful and 
a lot more  interactive, because those buildings are made for community-building.” 
The four buildings will house  2,000  undergraduate students, however, with the COVID-19 
pandemic Housing Dining Hospitality has reduced undergraduate housing to 50 percent  of 
its typical density. 
Construction of NTPLLN began in 2018 and the complex is part of a $1.6 billion  expansion, 
one of the biggest in campus history. The new residential buildings will provide affordable 
housing for many UCSD students while also helping the university increase its enrollment. 
UCSD hopes to enroll approximately 40,000 students by 2021.
https://youtu.be/gPcHF6NasQkAccessed: 10/12/2020 The New Sixth College and North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood is Open - UCSD Guardian
The NTPLLN complex, which is located between John Muir and Marshall Colleges, is more than 
10 acres in size and will include the Arts and Humanities building, the Craft Center, and the 
Social Sciences Public  Engagement Building. The Arts and Humanities building will house the 
history, literature, and philosoph y departments as well as other programs such the Analytical 
Writing Program. The Craft Center will include  classrooms, dedicated studios, and specialized 
facilities to provide “community members chances for self-expression and skill-building 
practice.”
NTPLLN is designed to provide more open space and seating areas. “There will be plenty of 
places to socialize and relax as well as  pedestrian and bike-friendly pathways and elements,” 
said Matthew Smith, project manager and architect with UCSD Capital Program  Management. 
“Enhancing movement of people and bikes through the campus core rather than on to the 
surrounding streets is an ongoing goal  for the university, which development of this 
neighborhood will help us achieve.”
Six new restaurants are coming to NTPLLN in 2021 — the restaurants will represent the “San 
Diego experience” on campus and will include Asian fusion, Japanese, plant-based diets, and 
Middle Eastern street food. You can learn more about these restaurants at the Eater article.
NTPLLN is only one of UCSD’s construction projects at the moment. These building projects 
contribute to UCSD’s rise as the fifth  largest research university in the country. The university 
has many other facilities currently being built or planned to be built in order to meet  the vision 
of having a total of 12 colleges.
Photo courtesy of Ellie Wang for the UCSD Guardian.
Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Lindsey Choo 
This article is part of a new UCSD Guardian series on the 2020 United States elections. We  
will be discussing registration, state propositions, and  various elections from the local to  
federal level. Tune in every Tuesday on Facebook or Instagram to see the latest article.
As election day nears, many are focused on the presidential race, however, local elections in 
San Diego County are just as important. Some of the major seats up for election this year 
are for mayor of the city of San Diego, City Council positions in Districts 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9, and 
positions on the board of supervisors in Districts 1, 2 and 3. 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, California Governor Gavin Newsom made an executive 
order to send all registered voters in California vote-by-mail ballots ahead of the Nov. 3 
election. According to the San Diego Registrar of Voters, in-person polling locations will 
also be available and open from Oct. 31 through Nov. 3. Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
The UC San Diego campus houses a number of in-person polling locations. To find out more  
information on how to register to vote in this election, visit the UCSD Guardian’s guide to  
voting in San Diego. Registered voters in San Diego county will have a number of  
candidates to select from, depending on the voting address. 
The UCSD Guardian will focus on City Council District 1 and the Board of Supervisors  
District 3 as those districts cover La Jolla and San Diego proper. To look at the specific  
district maps, visit the San Diego Registrar of Voters tool.  
The Mayoral Race
While local elections are nonpartisan, as individuals do not officially run with party labels,  
this year’s mayoral candidates consist of two Democrats: City Councilmember Barbara Bry  
and California State Assemblymember  Todd Gloria. This will signify a change in party 
influence for the mayor of San  Diego as Republican incumbent Kevin Faulconer, has 
become ineligible to run due to term  limits. 
According to a San Diego Union-Tribune/ 10News SurveyUSA poll  with a sample size of 
600 adults from the city of San Diego released Tuesday Sep. 1, Councilmember Bry and 
Assemblymember  Gloria are close in the polls. Councilmember Bry leads Assemblymember 
Gloria 37 to 34 percent, but her lead is within the poll’s 5.3 percent margin of error, and 29 
percent are still undecided.
City Councilmember Barbara Bry has been serving as the representative for District 1 since 
December 2016, and has served as Council President Pro Tem since December 2017. She 
also worked at UCSD for 10 years, between 1986 to 1996 as the associate director of 
CONNECT. In an interview with the UCSD Guardian, she said that she is running on a 
platform that focuses on the economy, housing and homelessness, and public safety. 
“I ran for city council in 2016 because I was frustrated that the street in front of my office 
was being torn up again and again to have the same work done,” Bry said. “I got to city hall 
and found a culture of corruption, where there was no accountability, no transparency, and 
where major decisions were made behind closed doors. I am running for mayor to bring 
accountability and transparency to city hall, to make city hall work for our residents, 
particularly our neighborhoods.”Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
California State Assemblymember Todd Gloria has been serving as the representative for the  
78th Assembly District, which includes much of San Diego, since 2016, represented District 3  
on the city council from 2008 to 2016, and served as council president from 2012 to 2014.  
Gloria told the UCSD Guardian that his platform was one of ending housing and  
homelessness, increased public transportation and increased affordability for working and  
middle-class San Diegans, while being mindful of COVID-19 and Black Lives Matter. 
“I am a native San Diegan, a third generation San Diegan,” Gloria said. “I am running for  
mayor because I am the son of a maid and a gardener, which means I know how hard it is to  
make ends meet in a town as expensive as San Diego. I am very concerned that we are  
increasingly becoming a city that is just for the very wealthy who can afford to live here and  
the very poor who are trapped here. I’d like to be a mayor that makes sure that housing is  
affordable for working and middle-class San Diegans.”I knew politics was bad. But I never thought my opponent would exploit the deep
divisions in our country, cynically attacking me for being too conservative to
Democrats, and for being too progressive to Republicans.
Solving problems starts by bringing people together. And our ideas get better when
we listen to each other.
If you’re tired of politicians who exploit our differences to advance their careers, I’m
Barbara Bry. I’m a problem-solver. And I’m asking for your vote for Mayor.
Barbara Bry for MayorBarbara Bry for Mayor 
https://youtu.be/YPJhLfZO3XwAccessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
The City Council
City Council District 1 also has two Democratic candidates,  Joe LaCava, a civil engineer and 
public policy consultant, and Will Moore, a lawyer. 
Joe LaCava has lived in La Jolla since 1985 and graduated from San Diego State University  
with a bachelor’s degree in engineering.
“I envision a city run by leaders who spend less time on soundbites and photo ops and,  
instead, deliver promised public facilities and infrastructure to our neighborhoods,” 
LaCava  said. “I envision a city that spends less time strangled by endless debates and 
focuses on  addressing the challenges facing our city; making housing more affordable to 
more San Diegans and achieving a diversified workforce in the green, blue and hi-tech 
companies.” 
Will Moore is a small business attorney and graduated from Columbia Law School with a  
Juris Doctor degree.
“I’m running to reform our city government so that it responds to the people, not the  
lobbyists and special interests,” Moore said. “That’s why I’ve proposed a slate of ethics  
reforms to close loopholes that let lobbyists hide who they are and who is paying them. I 
am running for city council because today’s decisions become tomorrow’s successes.”
The Board of Supervisors 
The board of supervisors District 3 race could flip the board’s Republican majority to 
Democratic. Incumbent Republican candidate Kristin Gaspar is running against 
Democratic candidate Terra Lawson-Remer, a former senior advisor in the Obama 
administration. The race will determine the political leaning of the board.
Supervisor Kristin Gaspar has represented District 3 on the board since 2016, after having 
served four years on the Encinitas City Council and as the first elected mayor of Encinitas. 
“When I ran, I promised to focus on the things that matter most to each of us in our 
communities,” Gaspar said. “Since taking office, I have worked to help those who are most 
vulnerable in our society — the elderly, the formerly incarcerated, those struggling with 
mental health or addiction, and our homeless population, while protecting taxpayers and 
keeping our communities safe.”
Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
realkristingaspar
2,351 followers
192 likes
realkristingaspar
Being prepared and knowing what to do when you only have minutes or seconds to act can give you  
peace of mind and... SAVE YOUR LIFE!  
Today I talked about a new 5-step plan called “Listos California” designed to help vulnerable  
communities access critical information needed for emergencies and natural disasters. The plan is  
available in 7 languages and can be found at https://ccdsd.org/listos/ 
Please help spread the word. And don’t forget to register your cell phone number at Alert San Diego:  
readysandiego.org/alertsandiego/  
#ListosSDAccessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
Democratic candidate Terra Lawson-Remer is a third generation San Diegan, and worked as  
a senior advisor in the Obama administration to develop economic policies to cut pollution  
from oil drilling and mining.
“Terra puts public health first. She will listen to county health officials, expand coronavirus  
testing and contact tracing, and mount an evidence-based pandemic response,” Lawson-
Remer’s website states. “Terra is the only supervisor candidate committed to defending the  
Affordable Care Act and ensuring access to healthcare for every San Diegan.”
The San Diego County Board of Supervisors historically has Republican majorities, so many  
Democrats now see District 3 as an opportunity to change that. 
“Democrats who have so long been excluded from having the majority in the County Board 
of Supervisors, even in a county that’s been blue, in the last several elections, have been 
eyeing  this opportunity,” UCSD Political Science Chair Thad Kousser said in an interview 
with NBC7  San Diego.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
lawsonremer
919 followers
61 likes
lawsonremer
I’m running for San Diego County Supervisor to fight for urgent action on the climate crisis. Climate  
change is setting San Diego’s chaparral on fire, flooding our coastlines, and threatening generations  
to come with lifelong health problems. Join me to fight back.Accessed: 10/12/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Local Elections - UCSD Guardian
City Attorney 
The city attorney race sees incumbent Mara Elliott  up against  attorney Cory Briggs. 
City Attorney Mara Elliott was elected in 2016, and was the first woman and first Latina to be  
elected into the position. She was a first generation college student, earning her bachelor’s  
degree at UC Santa Barbara and her Juris Doctor degree at McGeorge School of Law. Her  
track record as city attorney includes issues on preventing gun violence, fighting for victims  
of abuse, and holding big corporations accountable.
Attorney Cory Briggs has lived in San Diego since the 1990s, earning his bachelor’s degree at  
UC Riverside and his Juris Doctor degree from California Western School of Law after  
passing the bar exam in 1995. 
“I am running both to restore the role of the city attorney’s office to giving straight-up, non-
political legal advice to the mayor and city council so they can do what’s in their constituents’  
best interests; and overall to improve the public’s confidence in government,” Briggs’s  
website states. “I have done my best from outside city hall. It’s now time for me to give San  
Diegans my best efforts from the inside.”
According to a study published by Tuft University,  the rate  of voting by college students has 
doubled from 2014 to 2018. Voter turnout increased from  16.2 percent in 2014 to 36.1 
percent in 2018 among undergraduate students, and increased  from 27.6 percent in 2014 to 
46.4 percent in 2018 among graduate students.  
UCSD has greatly increased its efforts to encourage students to vote, with the new Civic 
Engagement Office  under Associated Students. In  California, students can register to vote 
until Nov. 3 on the California state website.
Photo courtesy of Yui Kita  for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/12/2020 UCSD Introduces the New Changemaker Institute - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Sabrina Wu 
Established as a new campus-wide initiative, the Changemaker Institute was announced on  
Monday, Oct. 5 as an advancement to the Changemaker research, education and community  
program at UC San Diego. This organization will act as the core of the Changemaker  
programs that comprise a cross-disciplinary, school-wide effort to serve all colleges and 
divisions to create educational change throughout the campus community. 
According to Assistant Vice Chancellor Patricia Mahaffey, as educational ideas and change 
occur at UCSD, the Changemaker Institute will serve to identify and implement them.
“Changemaking is all about turning ideas into positive change whether that includes big 
ideas or small ideas, it all matters,” Mahaffey said in an email to The UCSD Guardian.
“Changemaking is an ethos that we hope to cultivate throughout the campus community. 
We know change is happening in all corners of our university and the Changemaking 
Institute will work to educate, recognize and amplify these efforts for our students, staff and 
faculty.”
The Changemaker community works to create social innovation and seeks higher educationAccessed: 10/12/2020 UCSD Introduces the New Changemaker Institute - UCSD Guardian
throughout different institutions. Colleges and universities are chosen globally and are  
identified as Changemaker Campuses, which influences how students  develop critical 
problem-solving skills. In 2017 The Ashoka Foundation, an initiative that  includes a 
network of social entrepreneurs, designated UCSD as a Changemaker Campus to  provide 
students skills to navigate complicated solutions. 
“Both the Ashoka U Changemaker Campus designation and the Changemaker Institute  
signify that UC San Diego is a thought-and-action leader in changemaker education, which  
seeks to empower students to lead and develop critical problem-solving skills,” Mahaffey  
said. 
ucsdchangemaker
1,010 followers
11 likes
ucsdchangemaker
Want to get involved with community service at UCSD but not sure where to start? Drop into virtual  
office hours and learn about community service options and make a plan!Accessed: 10/12/2020 UCSD Introduces the New Changemaker Institute - UCSD Guardian
One specific goal for the Changemaker Institute is to plan the establishment of the Global  
Changemaker Scholars Program, which is open to all undergraduate students. This program  
is to push students to use the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as an overall  
idea for the curricular and co-curricular activities. 
Through the Co-Curricular Record, the collaborative team of Ashoka U Change Leaders 
have found over 300 changemaker student leadership positions that make for Changemaker  
Recognition. UCSD students that are interested in participating or want to learn more about  
Changemaking can visit a virtual Changemaker 101 workshop. 
As the Changemaker Institute begins, the Changemaking team will focus their research and  
work around the COVID-19 pandemic this year. They have programs planned for the  
students, staff, and faculty at UCSD.
“Our theme this year is Inspiring Changemaking for a Just and Equitable Future,” Mahaffey  
said. “We’ve identified 16 new Changemaker Faculty Fellows for this year who are all doing  
some amazing programs. More will follow soon on the Institute, the Fellow and all the great  
Changemaking programs planned.”
If you would like to learn more about the Changemaker Institute, please visit their website 
or contact them at changemakers@ucsd.edu. 
Photo courtesy of UC San DiegoAccessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, Wellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
 October 11, 2020   Vivian Yang
In UC San Diego Associated Student Council’s Week 1 meeting, senators discussed a variety  
of issues including making election day a non-instructional day, distributing wellness kits  
and creating an initiative to restructure the student council voting procedure.
UC Berkeley student Miyako Iwata made a special presentation to the UCSD A.S. Council 
and proposed the resolution to make the coming election day a non-instructional day at 
UCSD. The resolution passed in the meeting on Wednesday evening.
According to Iwata, this initiative will benefit the out-of-state students who do not have the 
ability to vote by mail.
“Maybe [out-of-state students] are still back at home but taking zoom lectures,” Iwata told 
The UCSD Guardian. “We know that in some states, for example Georgia, people have to 
wait in five or six hour lines [to vote]. If they were stressing about attending their zoomAccessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, Wellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
lecture  because of attendance, and standing in line to be able to exercise [their] right to vote, 
then that actually becomes the deciding factor. We need to be mindful and aware that not  
everyone has the luxury of having their ballot automatically mailed to them.” 
In the year 2018–19, there were 5.8 percent, 1,745 out-of-state undergraduate students at  
UCSD. A roughly same  amount of students this year may currently be at their home state due 
to the pandemic,  where voting by mail is not necessarily available. In states including 
Indiana, Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas, the request to  vote by mail  needs  an 
excuse beyond COVID-19 fears.  
Besides UCSD, UC Berkeley Associated Students Council passed the resolution unanimously  
last Wednesday. Other University of California campuses, including UC Irvine, UC Santa  
Cruz, UC Davis, and UC Merced, have all been reached out to or have made progress to  
endorse the proposal.
“In my ideal universe, this policy will hold for every single midterm election, every single  
primary, and every single general election,” Iwata said. “But it’s understandable why  
professors, faculties, administrators preserve precious class time. So I would want to try to  
start by having this be recurring for at least general and midterm elections cycles.” 
The A.S. Office of Health and Well-Being and the Office of Food and Housing have decided 
to proceed on a project to distribute wellness kits — through the Triton Food Pantry — to all 
students who request it. Each kit will contain COVID-19 related items such as face masks, 
bandaids, hand sanitizers, sanitizing wipes, information brochures, and toothbrushes.
The project piloted during spring quarter 2020 and distributed 250 kits. Due to positive 
feedback, the Office of Health and Well-Being decided to distribute 800 kits this Fall quarter 
and aim for 1000 kits each for Winter and Spring Quarter 2021. 
Kits will be delivered to students both on and off campus through a collaboration with the 
UCSD Triton Food Pantry Mobile Clinic. On-campus students may request a kit through the 
Triton Food Pantry Student Center A’s request system. Off-campus students may request a 
kit through the Triton Food Pantry Mobile Clinic and the new Triton Food Pantry delivery 
program.Accessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, W
ellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
asucsd
4,402 followers
90 likes
asucsd
IMPORTANT: are you ready to vote by mail? 📬🗳 Start today, and make sure your ballot will be
eligible and received in time. Ballots can be tracked at Where’s any Ballot and more info on upcoming
election events can be found @asucsdceo ! #TritonsVote 🔱
Accessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, Wellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
The wellness kits will be ready after Week 5, and relevant information will also be posted on  
their social media  when the kits  are ready.  
According to Associated Vice President of Health and Wellbeing Issac Lara, the office is also  
looking for ways to ship to international and out-of-state students, although they are  
currently still in the process of seeing how this could be carried out. 
Sixth College Senator Zacchary Bradt proposed an initiative to reform the A.S. student  
meetings so that the executive board will be separated from the senate. He argues that this  
change will improve the efficiency of senate meetings, as well as reduce the influence of  
executive members on the senate’s decision making process.  
“The A.S. student council meetings regularly go over midnight and the budget meeting this  
year lasted over two nights for over 14 hours,” A.S. Senator Bradt told The UCSD Guardian. 
Bradt argued that removing the executive board members from the discussion of the senate  
will streamline the meeting by reducing the number of people in the meeting. 
“Our time is spent rephrasing the same points over and over again in a way that is 
unproductive for the sake of our own meeting times and in our goal of best serving our 
students” Bradt said. “My idea to help curb this issue is to first of all reduce the amount of 
people present for debate in the Senate by removing the executive board, who, especially in 
years past, have been some of the most vocal and repeat contributors to the conversation. 
Additionally, by establishing an internal Senate Leadership position as outlined in my 
presentation on Wednesday, we can attempt to streamline the communication and internal 
processes among Senators in order to facilitate a more productive, less recursive debate.”
According to reports from Bradt and other senators heading the initiative, this reform is 
also motivated by their observation that executive members are able to sway the senator’s 
decision making. 
“People who run for executive members usually have more influence power by virtue of 
their position because they carry the weight of inherent trust,” Bradt said.  
“The way it works right now is, at least in my opinion, the executive board members of 
Associated Students are de facto figure heads of the senate, which I think is a problem 
because the senate writes the rules and directs executive action,” Campus-Wide A.S. 
Senator Ben Lonc told The UCSD Guardian. “I am not fond of the fact that they essentiallyAccessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, Wellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
get to  govern themselves, which is why the package of reform is labeled as a separation of 
power.” 
In the meeting on Wednesday, there has also been suggestions to ask the A.S. Judicial Board 
to act as the role of supervision. 
“I like the suggestion that came up [on Wednesday] regarding the Judicial Board,” Lonc 
said. “I don’t think we use their knowledge and their experience, and their impartiality, most 
valuable of all, to its full potential, which is why I gravitate towards using the Judicial Board 
to provide some level of oversight more to the executive than to the senate. Because I think 
the senate already has a pretty good oversight mechanism in the form of the senate 
leadership position.”
Moreover, both Senators Lonc and Bradt expressed that the reform is not meant to sever the 
communication between the executive board and the senate. 
“Senators really don’t put in the same kind of face time with Associated Students as 
executives do,” Lonc said. “We put in 10-20 hours per week, but the executive members can 
put in 40 hours with high level university personnel and administrators. They vouch on the 
senate’s behalf with the chancellor, with different vice chancellors, associated vice 
chancellors, with the regents, with UC Student Association.” 
The A.S. meetings employ Robert’s Rule of Order. During a roll-call voting procedure, each 
member in the senate and the executive board will be called upon and announce their vote 
in front of all members. Last year, the A.S. Senate passed a resolution to move the votes of 
executive members in a roll-call voting procedure to the end so that they do not sway thehttps://www.facebook.com/ASUCSD/videos/335525591037213/Accessed: 10/12/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Election Day Off, Wellness Kits and Voting Procedures - UCSD Guardian
opinions of other senators. 
“That was one of the first steps we’ve taken,” Lonc said. “When you have these three or four  
executives who take a certain stance on something, it can be really hard for less experienced  
senators to want to break the mold and say ‘I disagree.’ Even in their presence, it creates  
informal leadership of the senate that I dont think is healthy for any legislative institution.  
My hope is that we can separate the  executive and the senate so that there are more  
initiatives in the senate. There is more confidence in saying that between the senators, this is  
the consensus, this is what we’ve decided, and we will hand this to the executives to get 
done. The decision lies with the senate because that is what we are elected to do.”
With regards to changes on campus, Lonc told us that there will be some adjustments to the  
student centers vendors: Shogun, Bombay Coast, and Kaplan decided not to renew their  
leases with the university. The vendor that will replace Bombay Coast is in the last stage of  
negotiation and while there is still no information on what this vendor will be, the university  
center advisory board will be hearing from the coordinators of the pilot about the project in  
Week 4.
The space currently occupied by Shogun will likely be replaced with a parcel locker similar to  
the Amazon Locker. This new location will accept parcels for students from any college and  
thereby reduce the workload of parcel centres in each college.
A.S. Meetings take place every week and are open to the public. Students can be a part of  
these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S. website.
Art courtesy of Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.