Circulate San Diego, a regional 
special interest group, released 
data on Jan. 15, 2020 showing that 44 people traveling by foot, bicycle, motorcycle, or car died in San Diego throughout 2019. This data comes at a time when local government officials have been taking steps to monitor a changing transportation landscape.
Of the 44 vehicular accident-
related deaths in 2019, 22 were pedestrians and five were bicyclists. Pedestrian deaths as a whole decreased from 34 in the previous year. However, 
bicyclist deaths were up from 
zero fatalities in both 2017 and 2018.
Maya Rosas, a representative 
of Circulate San Diego, spoke to the UCSD Guardian about what the organization hopes the city will do to decrease collision-related deaths.
“We urge the current mayor 
and any future administration to prioritize safe streets within existing transportation funding 
through the annual budget 
process, ” Rosas said. “San Diego can prioritize infrastructure improvements that can save lives Members of UC-AFT, a union representing lecturers and librarians throughout the University of 
California system, rallied in front of Geisel Library on Feb. 3, 2020 in response to the expiration of their employment contract with the university of Jan. 31. This expiration has led to approximately 6,500 lecturers across UC campuses, including about 500 UC San Diego lecturers, to be currently working without contract. 
UC-AFT began negotiations with the UC 
administration for a new employment contract in April 2019. However, the new contract was not finalized before the previous one expired. 
Stacy Steinberg, a lecturer with the UCSD 
Analytical Writing Program and member of the San Diego UC-AFT collective leadership team, stated at the rally that the UC administration shared with UC-AFT a proposed contract with a slight salary increase the night before the former contract expiration. She claimed that accepting this offer would require UC-AFT to neglect many of their key demands.
“Their ploy is to divide us by using this sad 
salary offer as a wedge to force us to abandon our commitment to crucial improvements in job security, workload and academic support, ” Steinberg said. “This will not work. Solidarity defeats precarity. ” 
The UCSD Guardian contacted the UC 
Office of the President for comment on contract negotiations, including the offer made to UC-AFT on Jan. 30. 
“Our lecturers play an essential role in 
supporting the University’s educational mission, and our goal is to reach an agreement on a multi-year contract that includes fair pay and excellent benefits, and recognizes their contributions and is in line with other labor agreements, ” the statement read. 
UC-AFT is currently negotiating their new 
contract to demand greater job stability for non-tenured track lecturers and an increased amount of full-time positions. The union also requests improved working conditions for lecturers, including higher salaries to meet cost-of-living, better health care, and longer paid leave for both new parents and to work on research projects.
According to a UC-AFT statement released 
to the Guardian, over two-thirds of lecturers have to reapply for their positions on an annual basis. The 2018 median salary for a UC lecturer was $19,900 per year. 
Alison Black, a lecturer in the UCSD 
Educational Studies department and co-chair for the San Diego UC-AFT chapter, echoed the union’s contract demands in her speech at the rally. She also highlighted the issue of gender inequality among tenured professors at UCSD. 
“...tenure track faculty are almost 75 percent 
male on our campus, and the majority of female faculty at UCSD and across the UC system are non-senate faculty lecturers, ” Black said. “We are simply asking for the UC to expand our family leave and health benefit access to have similar, if not the same, leave options and benefits that all those mostly male senate faculty currently have. ”
Dr. Jade Power-Sotomayor, an assistant 
professor for UCSD Theater and Dance, also spoke at the rally, reflecting on her time as a lecturer. Power-Sotamayor explained that at the time her first child was born, she had not been teaching at the university long enough VOLUME 53, ISSUE 16  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 10, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CITY
San Diego Pedestrian and Bicyclist Fatalities Data Released
UC-AFT members rally on Library W alk for improved UCSD faculty rights. // Photo by T anya Bharatula 
By  Daisy  scott   Editor-in-chiefUC SYSTEM
UC-AFT Rallies on Library Walk for Better Lecturer Working PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"So as the season of love 
and romantic gestures 
rolls in, companies must 
ensure the occasion 
remains as inclusive as 
possible through their 
advertisements."
CORONA VIRUS  RESPONSE
CAMPUS  RELATIONSHIPSxenophobia  on  campus
ONLINE  AND  OFFLINEOpinion,  Page 4
Features,  PAGE 6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Like ordering from 
a McDonald’s drive-
through, cheesy rom-
coms like “To All the 
Boys I’ve Loved Before” 
are cheap to produce, 
quick to release, and 
broadly palatable, but 
we could probably get 
by with much fewer of 
them.”TUESDAY
 H 64 L 44
THURSDAY
H 62 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 46
FRIDAY
H 58 L 46
CURIOUS TRITONS........3
VALENTINE’S CULTURE.8
GUARDIAN GURL..........10 
BLACK HISTORY ............11
TRITON TIMEOUT..........16Steven Zhou
Rom-com or Rom-con?
 PAGE 9The data showed an overall decrease in vehicle-related fatalities from 2019 throughout San Diego.
BY  Jacob  Sutherland
News EditorOPINION: VALENTINE’S 
DAY AND LGBTQ+
Opinion, page 4
See PEDESTRIANS,  page 2See CONTRACT,  page 2
Jacobs School of  
Engineering Students 
Receive Mass Spam 
The emails came from a number 
of sources, but all resulted from a 
singular system glitch.
Undergraduate students at 
the UC San Diego Jacobs School 
of Engineering began to receive spam emails en masse on Jan. 30. Due to a flaw in the school’s mass email feature, many students received unwanted emails often regarding account confirmations. 
Based on data collected by 
the UCSD Guardian, students connected to the Structures and Nanoengineering email groups received emails from various websites like LinkedIn, Tinder, and Christian Mingle. Purportedly meant for a person 
under the pseudonym of Joseph 
Hawk, these email confirmations caused a lot of confusion among the student body. 
“I was a bit fed up with all 
these constant verification emails, so that is why I replied with a ‘this is not me, ’” Thurgood Marshall student Alison Lao said to the Guardian. “ After receiving over 20 emails from other Jacob Undergraduates saying ‘this is not me, ’ I realize I am not the only one getting spammed by this LinkedIn verification email. ”
The JSOE Office of 
Engineering and Computing, the school’s internal IT department, quickly acquired notification of the problem and began analyzing it. They discovered that there was an issue with the normal protocol for the school to send out mass emails to students. When emails are sent to jsoe-ugrads@eng.ucsd.edu, they are automatically sent to all students in the Jacobs School of Engineering. 
“[Since] someone started 
signing up to various websites purporting that their email address was jsoe-ugrads@eng.ucsd.edu … this generated over 40 emails regarding various website accounts, ” JSOE Director of Media Relations and Public Affairs Daniel Kane said. “The 
departmental undergraduate 
Google groups for Structures and Nanoengineering both had differing issues that resulted in these emails being successfully delivered to all of the undergrads in these two groups. ” 
In order to stop receiving 
further emails, some students took the initiative to reply to jsoe-ugrads@eng.ucsd.edu stating that they were not in fact Joseph Hawk. However, as more students replied, it created a lengthy email chain. Students could see other students’ replies and the chain began to spam and become an even greater CAMPUS
BY  andrew  ha
news editor
See EMAILS,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Real tears or fake tears?        
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Andrew Ha
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Co-Editors
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Saida Hassan
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
disturbance. This back and forth 
lasted for several days through the weekend following Jan. 30.
To circumvent the problem 
from further spiraling out of control, the Office of Engineering and Computing moderated, rather than allowing the automatic send feature, incoming email to jsoe-ugrads@eng.ucsd.edu. By doing this, OEC was able to examine emails before they were sent out en masse. OEC began moderating on Monday, Feb. 3. 
“The underlying moderation 
issues with the two undergraduate Google groups have been resolved, and the groups are now correctly moderated, ” Kane said. “OEC analyzed each of the emails that were delivered and determined they did not contain any malicious code. OEC did NOT visit each of the websites to determine whether the websites contain malicious code. ”
If there are any additional 
concerns regarding strange and possibly malicious emails, Jacobs School of Engineering IT Services recommends you contact them at support@eng.ucsd.edu if you have an @eng.uced.edu account. If you have an @ucsd.edu account, contact the UCSD Service Desk at servicedesk@ucsd.edu.using data-driven methods. The city must also focus on educating everyone on how to safely share the road so that the most vulnerable people, pedestrians and bicyclists, are safe. ”
Rosas also discussed how her 
organization is partnering with local government officials to implement new transportation safety initiatives in a campaign 
called “Vision Zero, ” which aims 
for San Diego to have zero traffic related fatalities and injuries by 2025.
“Circulate San Diego is 
currently working with the City of San Diego to increase awareness of Vision Zero goals through educational campaigns such as the ‘Don’t Be A Distracted Driver’ pledge, interactive scooter safety demonstrations, and informational signage highlighting street safety improvements, ” Rosas said. “In addition, Circulate San Diego is working with the County of San Diego and San Diego Police Department on a variety of presentations, workshops, and events aimed at informing residents and decision makers about collision prevention through education and 
infrastructure design. ”
Government officials have 
responded to the increase of 
micro-mobility vehicles and single-user transportation devices like electric scooters and bicycles with new regulations throughout the city, county, and on campus at UC San Diego.
In April 2019, the San 
Diego City Council passed new regulations for app-rented bicycle and scooter companies. The rules included a new process for companies to be allowed to operate within the city, limited speeds for devices in designated areas, and a requirement for users to scan a valid driver’s license with the app before using the device.
Additionally, the city of 
San Diego has partnered with organizations like Circulate San 
Diego to incorporate innovative 
methods for preventing collision-related accidents. Mayor Kevin Faulconer committed the city to upgrading 300 intersections, done throughout 2020, to be more pedestrian friendly.
UCSD has also taken new steps 
to decrease collisions between pedestrians and micro-mobility vehicle users. At the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year, new signs were posted around the campus to designate areas as either pedestrian only or mixed-use.
In Nov. 2019, the UCSD 
Police Department proposed new regulations on micro-mobility devices that would have introduced a number of new rules if they had been passed, including a ban on cell-phone use while using micro-mobility 
devices and requiring such 
vehicles to use lights or reflective material during dark hours of the day.
Circulate San Diego is a non-
profit special interest group advocating for safer mobility options within San Diego county.to qualify for the six weeks of paid maternity leave allotted to lecturers. As a result, she had to apply for unemployment after her child’s birth. 
Diamond Brandon, a 
representative from the office of Assemblymember Lorena Gonzalez, who represents California’s 80th State Assembly District, attended the rally on Gonzalez’s behalf to support the demonstrators. 
“This has been an ongoing 
problem across California,” Brandon said to the Guardian. “We value workers, and everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. ”
Once the rally in front 
of Geisel Library ended, the demonstrators marched down Library Walk with signs, singing the words “solidarity forever, the union makes us strong” to the tune of “Battle Hymn of the Republic.” They finished marching at the Chancellor’s complex, where they continued to sing and chant. 
Organizers of the rally 
passed out flyers with the phone numbers for UCSD Chancellor Khosla, UC President Janet Napolitano and Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth Simmons. The demonstrators concluded their rally by calling these numbers in front of the Chancellor’s complex to voice their concerns. 
Paulina Gonzales, a UCSD 
lecturer who has taught within the Analytical Writing Program for the past four years and has been its curriculum coordinator for the last two, shared her reasons with the Guardian for protesting in front of the Chancellor’s complex.
“I really do believe our 
working conditions are our students’ learning conditions,” Gonzales explained. “I want to fight for living wages and stable employment. ”
For the time being, all 
lecturers working outside of contract will continue working under the conditions of the expired contract, as is required by law. UC-AFT is continuing with negotiations for a new contract with the UC administration, although an official signing date has yet to be released.
Paulina Gonzales: I really do believe our working conditions are our students’ learning conditions
Local government bodies have been trying out new accident prevention methods over the past several years
Students who continue to receive spam emails are encouraged contact the Jacobs School’s IT Support▶ CONTRACT , from page 1
▶ PEDESTRIANS , from page 1
▶ SPAM , from page 1Daisy  Scott   editor@ucsdguardian.org
Jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.org
Andrew  Ha   news@ucsdguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Play The Game That
   Will Change Your Life...
at UL TRAZONE
...
...
RANKED AMONG
IN USA
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  619.221.0100
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •   San Diego, CA 92110
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
20% OFF Your Event!UCSD 
Greeks / Student Orgs:
#ultrazonesd
“COLLEGE 
  NIGHT” 
Thursday —
3rd Game FREE
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
COLLEGE 
” 
3rd Game FREE
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
LATE NIGHT
at the ZONE 
Fri & Sat • 10:30pm to Midnight
$6.50 per Game
SEE YOU LATER
By Michi Sora
Walk around Geisel Librar y during 
the day at any hour, on the hour, and 
you’re bound to hear one unlikely sound — the melodious sound of carillon bells more commonly synonymous with cathedrals.
The bells, which were installed in 
the late 1980s and were first played on Sept. 21, 1989, were donated to the university by educational patron Joe Rubinger, a scientific researcher who co-founded the Institute for Continued Learning at UC San Diego with his wife, Irene.
While the bells generally play pre-
programed songs, Scott Paulson, a staff member at the UCSD Library, has been playing the bells weekly since 1992.
“I wanted to start a song-request 
series and was able to get permission to start playing the carillon “live” on the roof of Geisel around 1992, ” Paulson said in an interview with the UCSD Guardian. “To do this, I climb up to the top of the Library and [went] into a small rooftop structure that houses 
the chimes. In that little bunker there 
is a small, three-octave, piano-like keyboard. That’s where I sit to fulfill requests. ”
Paulson explained that recently, he 
has only been playing requests on the carillon bells once a week. This usually takes place on Fridays, and for events like Dr. Seuss Day, World Aids Day, and the Sept. 11 Commemoration.
“These days, I only play about once 
per week, ” Paulson said. “I also check my calendar for non-Friday requests, and I have special notes regarding 
scheduled official campus ceremonies.  
There’s extra music during Triton Spirit Week.”
One other special occasion that 
Paulson honors with the bells annually is Joe Rubinger’s birthday.
“[Joe] insisted that our campus 
should have clock chimes playing lively song requests and I am glad to make sure he gets his way, ” Paulson said. “We often commission student composers to write new works for our chimes and we premiere them on Joe’s birthday. ”
Paulson mentioned that the only 
time in the carillon bells’ thirty year existence went silent was when Rubinger passed away at the age of 103 in 1997.
“Joe specifically stated that no 
memorial service should be held, but his colleagues insisted on hosting one, featuring Joe’s favorite songs from the carillon, ” Paulson said. “I reluctantly played, but the next day the instrument fell mysteriously silent and technicians from the Maas-Rowe Carillon Company had to be called in to trouble-shoot.  Many of us feel this sudden silence was spirited revenge from Joe for disobeying him.  He obviously forgave us, because the chimes never again failed after that incident. ”
But the question remains: Why don’t 
we have tours of the carillon bells at Geisel Library?
“Tours of the carillon aren’t offered 
because the roof of the Library isn’t really set up for visitors, ” Paulson explained. “You have to do a bit of crawling to get to the chimes and it’s not really safe for the average visitor. ”
UCSD Library is currently 
celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of the carillon bell’s installation. Paulson is currently taking requests from students, faculty, and community members via email at spaulson@ucsd.edu. Paulson responds to requestor emails to alert them of the date of their chosen song’s performance.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor CURIOUS  TRITONSSend in your questions and have our 
news team investigate! This week we 
examined why the school does not 
provide tours of the Geisel Library 
bells.
JOIN  THE  GUARDIAN!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
With Valentine’s Day around the corner, everything from live television 
broadcasts to radio stations have been filled with gi ft advertisements, 
date ideas, and other propaganda geared toward getting people to 
buy for the day of celebration. Year a fter year, one aspect of this marketing 
that sticks out like a sore thumb is the utter lack of LGBTQ representation. Heteronormative marketing has flooded the media for years, whether it be 
jewlery advertisements urging men to treat the special woman in their lives or color-coded his and hers cards in convenience stores. This predominately heterosexual 
representation of love has resulted from the heteronormativity that is deeply ingrained within soceity, and feeds the prevailing stigma against LGBTQ couples in more conservative areas. In doing so, these commercial companies are sending the message that only straight couples should be accepted.
LGBTQ representation in 
the media is already scarce, and in turn, those who identify as LGBTQ are o ften misunderstood 
by the general public. The Gay 
and Lesbian Alliance Against 
Defamation conducted a “Where 
We are on TV” study which found that between 2018 and 2019 only 8.8 percent of regular characters on primetime broadcast TV identi fied as part of 
the LGBTQ community. Considering that there are about nine million people in the U.S. that identify as LGBTQ, according to a study conducted by UCLA, this is far from great. Additionally, GLAAD’S “Studio Responsibility Index” found that only 45 characters from last year’s mainstream film releases identi fied as LGBTQ. Furthermore, this 
representation o ften improperly represents LGBTQ members of society. LGBTQ 
characters are o ften plagued by tropes, such as coming out, and met with abrupt 
deaths that undermine the impact of including queer characters to begin with.
Advertisements are menial, everyday things, so ensuring adequate 
representation during Valentine’s Day would be impactful in normalizing queer relationships on a large scale. If more Valentine’s Day advertisements featured LGBTQ couples, the exposure that the advertisements would get in addition to support from companies who created them would help ensure an authentic normalization of queer love. Large companies need to understand their role in this normalization and step up to the plate; better representation is not di fficult, 
companies just have to be willing to stand up for equal representation. 
Providing queer youth with the media represention that straight people 
have the privillege of growing up with is key. Representation matters because it affirms people in their identity and fosters social consciousness and 
understanding of a constantly progressing world according to Jennifer O’Brien, a clinical psychologist at MIT Medical. During a holiday celebrating love, this is even more important. According to Dr. O’Brien, teenagers are more susceptible than adults to in fluence, as they are still trying to understand who they are. 
Media representation provides them the space and resources to do so. LGBTQ youth not only learn more about their identities through characters they see themselves re flected in but may also gain con fidence through them, according to Dr. O’Brien. 
As Amber Leventry, a transgender LGBTQ activist, from The Washington 
Post put it, “for queer youth to feel normal, they need to see, read and hear the voices of others who look like them and use the same identifying labels. ” Just as reassurance tends to make people feel more con fident about things such 
as an out fit or idea, the validation that LGBTQ youth would get from seeing 
themselves portrayed in Valentine’s Day advertisements will provide them with more con fidence and comfort in their identities.
Additionally, increased representation in Valentine’s 
Day advertisements would normalise 
heterosexual relationships for those who 
may otherwise discriminate against 
LGBTQ youth. Being exposed to a 
diverse array of relationships through 
the media, especially through 
smaller things like Valentine’s Day 
advertisements, would help to 
educate those who look down on 
those who identify as LGBTQ. 
Consequently, larger 
companies should make more 
of an e ffort when constructing 
new campaigns for the season. 
Constructing LGBTQ friendly 
campaigns is not a di fficult task; 
GLAAD, for example, has even 
published a media resource kit to 
coach companies on LGBTQ 
inclusive Valentine’s 
Day coverage, even 
offering storylines for 
the campaigns. Now 
companies just need 
to care enough to take action and integrate 
these resources 
into their advertisements. 
H e s i t a t i o n 
to create 
advertisements with LGBTQ couples is understandable to an extent, as it may jeopardize the number of customers, and in turn, pro fits that a company earns. 
Last December, a fter airing an advertisement featuring a same-sex couple 
kissing, The Hallmark Channel faced backlash from conservative customers, 
leading them to momentarily remove LGBTQ advertisements from the channel. However, companies should abide by their own set of morals apart from their customers. 
The wellbeing of LGBTQ youth could be improved by these companies, if 
they made their Valentine’s Day advertisements more LGBTQ inclusive. These 
representations of healthy LGBTQ relationships would work toward normalizing those relationships. There has de finitely been progress in terms of representation 
during the past few years, with companies such as Lush including LGBTQ couples in their Valentine’s Day advertisements. Yet, according to a report conducted by Adobe in 2019, 58 percent of LGBTQ people identifying people report no longer supporting a brand or company due to lack of representation in advertising. Although some companies have evolved with the times, many, like 
the Hallmark channel, fail to recognize the implications of the morality behind 
their advertising decisions.
So as the season of love and romantic gestures rolls in, companies must ensure 
the occasion remains as inclusive as possible through their advertisements. The 
current failure of advertisers to show equal representation is unacceptable. Future campaigns must utilize their platform to normalize LGBTQ relationships and send a message of support to queer youth.Companies, Show Some Love For LGBTQ+ Folks
By: Zara Irshad // Contributing Writer
The Divide Between Us: More Damage from the Coronavirus
By: Sean Kim // Contributing Writer
The coronavirus epidemic has been a major driver of fear. But something other than the fear of the virus has been spreading — a fear of Asian people, and particularly Chinese people. In Chinatown, Sydney, a Chinese 
man passed away a fter he collapsed and bystanders “refused to give CPR over 
coronavirus fears” . Ever since the first confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the 
US, the outbreak has exposed xenophobia towards Chinese people, particularly the idea that they may carry the virus regardless of the statistical unlikeliness of that happening. These kinds of xenophobic attitudes are also prevalent on 
the UC San Diego campus. In a poll conducted by the UCSD Guardian, we found that more than 70 percent of respondents had at least witnessed a form of xenophobia since the outbreak, such as refusing to meet with Chinese people. Such negative responses surrounding the viral outbreak are not only immoral, but also damaging for the campus community as a whole.
The current division between the international and U.S. resident population, 
which is common on U.S. campuses due to cultural and language barriers, makes it di fficult for American students to potentially see the impacts of their 
actions, intentional or not, on those who are personally a ffected by a major 
humanitarian crisis. While impacts on a personal level will vary from person to person, one major impact is clearly visible — the responses surrounding the coronavirus will deepen the already existing divide between the international student community and the general student population.
According to a study published in 2015, cultural and language barriers 
created the isolation of Chinese international students that exists today. This 
isolation harms both the international community and the general student body. International students can provide greater diversity in classrooms, and a perspective in classes that many American students may not have. But the division of these two student groups negate the assets that international students can bring — ultimately depriving ourselves of these useful and relevant perspectives. And for the international student community, the isolation that international students can face will deprive them of our perspectives while also forcing them to face the realities of being relegated as an obscure community on campus.
Xenophobic responses, as well as jokes that play into irrational fears of 
Chinese students, will deepen this division on campus. Insensitive jokes about the outbreak, such as those on UCSD’s own meme page, can be funny to some, however they can hit very personal nerves for others. The jokes make light of 
a situation that may be quite literally a fear of death of loved ones, and the offense that follows will do nothing but further isolate the international Chinese 
student community. Overtly xenophobic and racist attitudes will have even 
ART BY ANGELA LIANGART BY ANGELA LIANG
See CORONAVIRUS,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kitaworse e ffects. They will and do create racial enmities on campus that 
no one needs — and turn the isolation that international students 
face into bigotry. 
The administration’s responses to the outbreak have not been 
perfect, but frequent communication between the administration and students through emails and workshops are a step in the right direction. The key to managing the virus and the negative responses 
that follow is transparency and communication, something that the administration has seemingly taken to heart. In order to address the xenophobic attitudes towards international students, the administration should also focus on addressing the isolation of international students that allowed xenophobic attitudes to develop 
and propagate.
It is important to keep in mind that the division between the 
international community and the rest of the student population 
is not inherently permanent. While joking about the coronavirus does not de fine someone as xenophobic, such jokes can sow further 
division between the two communities. While the administration of the university undoubtedly has a responsibility to help bridge this divide, this bridge building must first occur on a personal level. 
Greater communication and the mindfulness of the impacts of one’s actions, for both sides of the campus, may be able to bridge the divide that exists today. ▶ CORONAVIRUS , from page 4
GRAPHIC BY UCSD GUARDIAN DATA VISUALIZATIONGRAPHIC BY UCSD GUARDIAN DATA VISUALIZATION6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
“So how’ d you meet?” There’s always a story, whether it be 
by chance from walking someone home from a party, having a 
similar circle of friends, or literally running into them on Library Walk on your way to class, and so on. 
It turns out that there are plenty of ways people meet, with 
some ways being more common than others. On one hand, dating apps and sites such as Tinder and Grindr are widely used, especially among college students and young adults. According 
to one survey, around 91 percent of college students had mobile 
dating apps installed on their phones. Not only are they used for meeting that special someone, but they are also great ways 
to make friends. Users can edit their profiles to identify what 
they’re specifically looking for. For example, Tammy, 20, can write “ just looking for a drinking buddy” in her bio. Dating apps can even be used by couples or more adventurous pairs looking to have more fun with others. Whatever it’s used for, online apps definitely take up a large portion of how people meet at UC San Diego.
“I met my boyfriend on 
Tinder, ” John Muir College junior Ana Cervantez said. “That’s how a lot of couples 
do it nowadays. ”
Other social media apps 
had also helped students 
navigate the dating scene on campus. In a survey conducted by the UCSD Guardian about the dating scene at UCSD, students also reported using platforms such as Instagram and Facebook groups to meet others.  Social media overall takes up 21.5 percent at UCSD for how people meet.
Not so keen on the social media scene? 32.1 percent of our 
surveyors in a relationship had met in person before college, such as in high school or when they were kids. Moreover, the remaining 46.4 percent percent had met in their social circles through student organizations, parties and social gatherings, church, and even courses.
“She’s my ex now, but we met in class and it was great 
what we had while it lasted. ” Revelle College senior Joseph Vo commented. “We had our differences. ”
UC Socially Dead — our school’s less-esteemed moniker for 
lacking community — may not be the most thriving garden for socializing. So the dating scene may not be the most vivacious thrill going around, with a reported 62.6 percent of our pollsters 
who said “No” to if they were in a serious relationship. 37.6 
percent of respondents said that they had never been in one. 
But the few less-lonely hearts out there seem to make it through. If you are out on the dating scene, one study conducted by Mic magazine using Google consumer data says that most people meet their partners in person. According to its 2,373-person survey, more 18 to 34-year-olds met their current significant others through mutual friends than through any other means where 39 percent of respondents said they met “through friends in common. ” This was closely followed by 22 percent who said they met “out in a social setting. ” Just like it 
is in the movies, the vis-a-vis interaction can be a very special 
serendipitous event for many and be more meaningful than meeting through a screen.
But is dating a real priority for students? According to our 
poll 50.6 percent responded “No” to if they were looking for love. One student in particular doesn’t really see the appeal.
“I’m really not looking for anybody, ” Thurgood Marshall 
senior Jessica Khan said. “I really don’t have a lot of time. ”
She notes that she had 
some special relationships but never really felt a sense of spark or connection mainly due to the effort she couldn’t put in. After briefly telling me her dating history 
— a few flings and a one-
year relationship— it really came down to the amount of time for Khan. “I think we are still really young,” she commented. “There’s no 
rush. I am just focusing on school and my career. ”
Prioritizing a social scene can be a difficult thing to do, even 
in college where it seems like we have all the fertilizer we need to grow more friendships with all the new people surrounding us. Course load, finances, eating, and just having a few good friends seems to be a main priority for many, and maintaining a healthy relationship may be a bit too much for some students. Others just may not have found someone to connect with yet. Whatever the case, Valentine’s Day is a special day geared toward love and its expression. For some students, it may not be sexual or romantic love, but something special for best friends and family. 
The origins of Valentine’s Day are hardly romantic, with 
historical practices such as physical whippings with raw animal hide. Valentine’s Day can be traced back to the Roman holiday of Lupercalia where goats and dogs were sacrificed, everyone was drunk, and women were to expect beatings in hopes of becoming more fertile. The holiday most likely got its name from when the 
emperor at the time executed two men, both named Valentine,  
The  Most  Popular  W a ys  UCSD  Students  
Meet  Their  Significant  Others 
Still looking for a valentine? We speak to students about how they have met their partners and 
who is still looking for love (or maybe just a little company).
*All Names Under Alias
By Lanlil y  nguyen   staff writer
“According to our poll 50.6 
percent responded ‘No’ to if 
they were looking for love. 
One student in particular 
doesn’t really see the appeal.”
See VALENTINES,  page 7GRAPHIC COURTESY OF BELLOMAGGRAPHIC COURTESY OF BELLOMAGFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 and the Catholic Church eventually honored their martyrdom. Over time, 
Western authors such as William Shakespeare enshrined the holiday. This then carried over to the New World and the tradition lived on long enough where businesses such as Hallmark in 1913 could make a profit off the celebration.
Fast forward to modern love where we find ourselves romanticizing the 
idea of, well, romance. The holiday in and of itself can create pressure for some, even enough to have a “counter” holiday known as Singles Awareness Day, Singles Appreciation Day, or simply SAD for short. Celebrated on Feb. 15, those not currently in a serious relationship rejoice out of spite for Valentine’s Day, as a special day of the year, or for other reasons. Ways to celebrate according to daysoftheyear.com are to send other single friends presents or even send flowers to yourself. It also suggests that it is common 
for people to wear green, as it is the complementary opposite of red, or even 
black to represent the celebratory absence.
Not only can Valentine’s Day put pressure on couples, but also on the 
LGBTQ community as heterosexual relationships are the apparent norm for Hallmark films as are the stereotypically gendered hedgehogs on your Valentine’s Day card. As the Huffington Post reports, the holiday can be largely centered on heterosexual couples with queer representation hard to find. For one couple in particular, they noted that, “I feel like our love would never be accepted into the traditional understanding of Valentine’s Day. People will look at us strangely and might even get violent if we had a candlelight dinner at a restaurant together, or even if we held hands in public. ”
Diversity in our society can be easily cast out in the media and create 
overwhelming expectations as mentioned by the couple. This phenomenon is even more distorted when realizing that queer relationships are not at all different from that of heterosexual relationships. According to a 2012 Williams Institute study, “Same-sex couples in Census 2010: Race and Ethnicity, ” in general, the racial and ethnic distributions of same-sex couples by households were similar to that of heterosexual households. Interracial couples may be more common than people realize. According to the same study, the states with the largest percentage of interracial or interethnic same-sex couple households include: Washington, California, Nevada, Arizona, 
New Mexico, Colorado, Texas, Oklahoma, Alaska, and Hawaii, as well as the 
District of Columbia.
Single, in a relationship, or whatever be the case, love exists in a variety of 
different ways. As our spotlight student Jessica Khan expressed, “It’s a special thing, I would think … to be in love with a best friend and to travel the world with them. But it’s kinda like you need to love yourself first in order to love others. ”
However you’re spending Feb. 14 this year, someone out there loves you, 
whether that may be your parents or your roommates or your dog. 
▶ VALENTINES , from page 6
Many students now find love online.GRAPHIC COURTESY OF MEDIUMGRAPHIC COURTESY OF MEDIUMA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Whether you’re with someone else or a pint of ice cream for Valentine’s Day, just know that you’ll 
always be A&E’s valentine <3. And that means we really know how to treat you right. Here are our 
playlists and movie recommendations for a lovely evening.
By the Arts & Entertainment Sta ffGuardian   date   night
In love with love? Waiting for your future soulmate? 
These dreamy songs will sweep you off your feet and 
into the romantic fantasies of your dreams.
“Frozen” - Sabrina Claudio
“Fool for You” - Snoh Aalegra
“T eenage Blue” - Dreamgirl
“Bloom” - The Paper Kites
“T emptation” - RaveenaYou’ve been together for three days. But hey, it’s called 
the honeymoon phase for a reason. The smoothness of 
these oldies are like honey out the bottle, a never-ending 
stream of love. Enjoy it while it lasts.
“Natural High” - Bloodstone 
“La La La Means I Love” - The Delfonics 
“Sitting in the Park” - Billy Stewart 
“My Guy” - Mary Wells 
“Living for the Love of You” - The Isley Brothers Get ready for some real bangers.
“Champagne & Sunshine” - PLVTINUM, Tarro
“Play” - SoMo
“Sexual Healing” - Marvin Gaye
“Hot Stuff ” - Donna Summer
“Breathe on Me” - Britney Spears
Listen, sometimes you just like to listen to the lovey 
dovey songs AND the fun songs that have nothing to do 
with a relationship. 
“Hero” - Frank Ocean
“Piece Of Mind” - Kehlani
“Water Me” - Lizzo
“Best Thing I Never Had” - Beyonce
“wish u the best” - blackbearFor when your significant other becomes an other. 
Deep down, you know you don’t need them … but 
sometimes the emotions come
. 
“Dead to Me” - Kali Uchis
“La Canción” - Bad Bunny and J Balvin
Pristine” - Snail Mail
“Cellophane” -  FKA
“Better Off ” - Ariana Grande
 Description: Missing your special someone this 
Valentine’s Day? You can beat the distance! Keep the heartache at bay with these sweet songs for when you’re 
missing your SO. 
“The Girl” - City and Colour
“Oceans Away” - A R I Z O N A
“Love on the Weekend” - John Mayer
“A l l  o f  t h e  S t a r s”  -  E d  S h e e r a n
“My Dear” - Kina Grannis
What better way to spend Valentine’s Day than with 
a Studio Ghibli movie and the “lofi hip hop radio-beats 
to study with” girl herself? Shizuku is a precocious writer who would rather have her nose deep into a book than focus on schoolwork. One day, she discovers a recurring name in the checkout cards for every library book she has borrowed, fashioning an image of a noble male counterpart to her bookworm self. One day, by the hand of Ghiblian fate, Shizuku comes across a fantastical antique store whose owner happens to be the grandfather of Seiji, the boy from the library books, who she had 
previously encountered in an embarrassing exchange. 
But as Shizuku and Seiji grow closer, they divulge each other’s aspirations — Shizuku’s of becoming a writer and Seiji’s of traveling abroad to study how to make violins. The two begin a beautiful friendship of mutual support, with Shizuku planning to finish her manuscript before Seiji returns from Italy. It’s chicken soup for the cynical college student soul — a feelgood tale of aspiration and the innocence of young love that remains invigorating on every successive viewing.
— Justin  Nguyen
Senior Staff WriterY ou might not have either the girl or the latest iPhone 
this Valentine’s Day, but you could always watch Spike Jonze’s 
“Her, ” a film portraying an amalgamation of everything you (may) lack. A love story between a human and an A.I. that is surprisingly touching in its narration of a romance, viewers 
will find themselves reflecting on what it means to fall in love 
and experience heartbreak. Although the central premise of the 
plot regarding falling in love with one’s computer may seem off 
putting at first, this film touches on real life connections more accurately than most romance narrative genres. The essence of an individual’s soul is exalted in importance over physical appearance, and the focus of the story is shifted from the actors to their relationship effectively through the metaphorical use of artificial intelligence. “Her” guides the audiences to feel a range of emotions alongside Theodore (Joaquin Phoenix) and Samantha (Scarlett Johansson) as we intimately follow their 
relationship through Samantha’s conception, to their growing 
connection, to their first shared turmoils, and finally, to their inevitable separation. This unorthodox love story manages to be both a realistic timeline of modern day relationships and a refreshing way to view love, and is a film I strongly recommend for this Feb.14.
— Hemmy  chun
Senior Staff WriterIf you happen to be the kind of person with three hours to 
watch a movie on Valentine’s Day and an interest in non-Western movies, consider putting on the modern Bollywood classic from 2003 “Kal Ho Naa Ho. ” Never has Stefon’s catchphrase from Saturday Night Live applied better than here because this film 
has everything: a star-studded cast including Shah Rukh Khan, 
Jaya Bachchan, Preity Zinta, and Saif Ali Khan, a love triangle, 
culture clashes, family feuds, terminal illness and, of course, 
multiple elaborate and melodramatic dance numbers. All of this is wrapped up in the story of Indian-American Naina Kapur, as she navigates tensions within her family and falling for her new neighbor Aman as her best friend Rohit realized he’s in love with her too. The film is a true journey, leaning into every emotion from the rush of early love to the tragedy of life loss but never doing so to the point where it’s laughable. It invites us into a world that is familiar but heightened, allowing the audience to 
feel like their every moment might be just as cinematic. The 
music and dances are big, colorful, and catchy as always (if you find a way to get “Maahi Ve” out of your head, please let me know). Some of the sequences do feel dated to the early 2000s, so this is a good Valentine’s Day pick if you want to watch something a little cheesy but completely sincere.
— Asiy ah  syed
Staff WriterROMANTIC  RECORDS
VALENTINE'S  AND  CHILL                           IN DREAMS                                        HONEYMOON  PHASE                                                               ;)
             SURVIVIN  SINGLE                                             BREAKUPS                                                             LDR  BLUES
       WHISPER  OF  THE  HEART                                                           HER                                                                                KAL  HO  NAA  HOA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
UCAL.US/REGISTER“To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before: Rom-Com or Rom-Con?”
Let’s be honest: absolutely nobody is above a good, cheesy rom-com, 
and Susan Johnson’s 2018 film adaptation of Jenny Han’s beloved book series “To all the Boys I’ve Loved before” is a quintessential example of 
a modern day teenage love story. 
The film snobs and bored boyfriends who pride themselves of their self-
proclaimed hatred towards this genre are the same exact people you can find huddled under their blanket covers at night, snacking on junk food while 
their faces glow blue under computer light as they count down the minutes 
until the release of the film’s sequel. All of the reasons why the haters claim to dislike this film — and all romantic comedies, for that matter — are actually the very reasons why this genre is so incredible. The plot of girl-meets-boy, girl and boy create a secret pact to pretend to be in a relationship but vow to never actually be together, end up falling in love and getting together at the end of the film as they share a kiss on a field (a lacrosse field, but nevertheless still a field), is exceedingly predictable, yes, but still manages to be enjoyable. And I get it — these types of films tend to use impossibly attractive actors to portray their highschool characters. However, the entire premise of rom-coms revolves around an unrealistic romance that is clearly fictional and impossible to actually obtain. These stories are fantasies created in order to satisfy a mass audience. Will you ever get to date Lana Condor? Unfortunately, the answer is probably not. However, you and every other viewer do have the opportunity to watch the two fall in love on screen and live vicariously through Noah Centineo during the two hour film.
Formulas exist because they work. If nobody would ever dare question the 
Pythagorean Theorem, or refuse to acknowledge the fundamental theorem of calculus simply because of the predictability present in their set principles, why do we as a society have to feel the need to dismiss romantic comedies entirely for their cliche storylines? I did not watch “To all the Boys I’ve Loved Before” to have my jaw dropped from a shocking M. Night Shyamalan-type plot twist, nor did I watch it for its enriching social commentary. I watched this movie because I had a long day at school, and I was tired, and I remembered reading the book my freshman year of highschool as I stumbled across the recommended movie box, and it turned out to be one of movies I had enjoyed watching the most in a long time. This book-to-film adaptation was a heart-warming, unapologetically tropey, and light-hearted teenage romance story that was successful in creating an entertaining romance from a narrative I had been exposed to countless times before. “P .S. I Still Love You” gets officially released on Feb. 12, but until then, I will be sunbathing in blue computer light 
under my bed sheets rewatching Peter and Lara’s first love story.Before anyone throws any shade at me, I’m not above a good rom-com 
movie nor the rom-com genre as a whole. Heck, one of my favorite movies of all time is “Love Actually, ” a Christmas-themed rom-com 
anthology following the lives of several people as they experience the joys and struggles of love. However, “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” sadly falls short of anything beyond average.
I get the appeal of this type of rom-com to some extent; sometimes you 
just want to kick back and relax with an incredibly digestible movie that doesn’t require you to google an explanation about afterwards. And to be fair, after watching this movie twice, I still wanted to give Peter a hug after Lara Jean reminded him that “we’re just pretending. ”
That doesn’t change my opinion though that “To All the Boys I’ve Loved 
Before” is any different from the scourge of high school themed rom-coms featuring an attractive white boy designed to milk every penny out of impressionable teens (or adults). In fact, it seems to hit just about every marker of a teen rom-com with factory-produced precision. Girl waking up to a cute boy’s face? Check. Inflammatory message written on the main character’s locker? Check. Misunderstanding caused by a jealous ex that leads to temporary break-up? Check. This is a hastily directed rom-com so I expected there to be at least a few stereotypical tropes but when the movie becomes one cliché after another, there comes a point where one has to wonder: were they even attempting to try something interesting with this movie? The most remarkable thing about this is that instead of some quirky white girl being the titular character, it’s a half-Korean girl that — since we’re on the topic of tropes — ends up with the white boy.
While formulaic movie-writing will continue until the end of time, that 
doesn’t make it inappropriate to call these movies out for their laziness. Like ordering from a McDonald’s drive-through, cheesy rom-coms like “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” are cheap to produce, quick to release, and broadly palatable, but we could probably get by with much fewer of them. If you feel compelled to watch the umpteenth twist on the “platonic friends become lovers” concept, go ham. It’s a free country. But I think we owe it to younger audiences — especially young women — to evolve beyond movies with girls fighting over who gets the guy.ROM-COM - Hemmy Chun - Senior Staff Writer ROM-CON - Steven Zhou - Senior Staff Writer10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 0 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
FEEDBACK FORUM
For more information, contact AS Campus Aﬀairs at asvpcampusaﬀairs@ucsd.edu.Join Associated Students and voice your opinion at our 
monthly Feedback Forum. We will be asking for your 
feedback on the current campus construction.TOPIC:
CAMPUS
CONSTRUCTION FREE FOOD!Tuesday, February 18 • 4–5 pm
Red Shoe Room • Price Center West, Level 2XOXO, GUARDIAN GURL - An Advice Column
Dear Oh My God They Were Roommates,
So maybe hooking up with your roommate wasn’t the best idea — but 
that’s okay. We’re in college to make mistakes and learn from them.
First of all, home should be a place where you can relax and be 
comfortable, not feel nervous and on the edge. I know confrontation is 
scary and that you would rather do anything other than talk to him, but it’s better to do something now than wait for things to get worse. You don’t want things to get worse, and if you wait … things might really get worse.
If there’s one thing I’ve learned, it’s that communication is key. If 
you’re nervous about confronting him about the whole situation, maybe ease into the conversation with a simple question like, “How was your day?” “Do you have any midterms coming up?” “Did your Rice Purity Test score go down recently?” Then you two can start talking, and it’ll be easier to talk about The Hook Up instead of asking about it on the fly.
Hopefully you two can work something out, and if not, you can 
always cancel your lease, I guess.
xoxo guardian gurl
P. S .  Ju s t  r e m e m b e r  t h a t  y o u  c o m e  f i r s t  b e f o r e  a n y o n e  e l s e !
“xoxo guardian gurl” is the UCSD Guardian’s newest advice column. 
Use the form at tinyurl.com/ask-guardian-gurl to ask guardian gurl for 
advice on whatever UCSD life has thrown at you!
Dear Guardian Gurl,
My roommate and I dated online over the 
summer, but we broke up and haven’t spoken 
all year. However, the other day we both 
happened to come home drunk and hooked up. We haven’t spoken since then, and I’m 
nervous to confront him about it. What 
should I do?From,
Oh My God They Were RoommatesART BY ANTHONY TRANART BY ANTHONY TRANLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Growing From Our Past: Black History in SD
by Natalie Duprey Contributing Writer
Happy Black History Month! It’s a time to celebrate 
all the beautiful black culture that has shaped American 
history. But this year I want to delve further into how the black community has shaped the city of San Diego and UC San Diego as well as the ways you can celebrate locally.
Our campus hasn’t always had the greatest history 
with ensuring the needs of its black students. I, like many 
students of color, didn’t find out about the infamous 
Compton Cookout, a black-face party hosted by Pi Kappa Alpha in 2010, until after I was enrolled. There also was the controversy that arose in 1990 when Third College was named after Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and black students asked for the new college to have a similar safe space environment to  historically black colleges and universities . However, this proposal did not get approved by the administration and the situation was turned into a politically incorrect satire piece that was published by the UCSD Guardian for April 
Fool’s Day. 
While the climate on campus has definitely improved 
through the creation of safe spaces, and having a more 
active Black Student Union, there definitely is room 
for improvement. I don’t have all the solutions to fixing 
black issues and creating a truly diverse environment but transparency and an open dialogue is something that I hope UCSD continues to promote in the future to address issues faced by black students. As of last year, roughly 2.6 percent of undergraduate students identify as Black/African American, which led to the creation of our sarcastic unofficial slogan  of “2 percent Represent. ” Simply because we are one of the smallest racial demographics on campus, however, does not mean we should let our needs be silenced.
It is important to remember our past, but we should 
also move forward to grow from the tragedies and injustices that happened before us. After we confront the skeletons in our closet and go on to succeed in higher 
education, we as a black community are fulfilling our 
own dreams and continue the legacy of those who paved the way for us. You should never let the color of your skin or where you are from, deter you from walking into a room to seize your moment.Besides, not all of our history is grim, there also are 
plenty of incredible moments of black students making 
their mark here. To start, Angela Davis, a political 
activist and former Black Panther, attended UCSD for her graduate degree and taught philosophy classes. During her time here she stood her ground on her political stances and wasn’t afraid to call out the administration for trying to have her removed for her views. Not all our alumni are as politically inclined as Davis, but UCSD did foster some incredible black excellence such as James Avery, who played Uncle Phil on “The Fresh Prince of Bel Air, ” and Marsha Stephanie Blake, who recently won an Emmy for her performance in Netflix’s “When They See Us. ” There also is Ken Anderson, who is not only an alumni but also the current director of the UCSD Gospel Choir (MUS 95G). I highly recommend his class for your general education requirements because it’s such a fun time.
There is no time like the present to make a difference 
and speak your truth at events that promote you to be your unapologetic self. All this month, the Black Resource Center, a safe space for black students created 
after the events of the Compton Cookout, is hosting 
events to celebrate. This Wednesday, Feb. 12, there is the Mid-Year Mixer at 6 p.m. This is a great chance to have dinner with other black students and faculty. They also are hosting Express Yourself: Celebrating Blackness at M.O.M. on Feb. 21, after class for good music, coffee and vibes. If you feel like venturing off campus, I highly recommend Black Xpressions in downtown San Diego. It’s an open mic night that happens every Friday night at 7 p.m., that provides a safe space to celebrate yourself as well as support black owned businesses and vendors. 
This month is all about celebrating the black 
community and being proud of our accomplishments. So my fellow black students and allies, I hope you learn to grow during your time here and take your time in the sun to do something beautiful.
ART BY SHANNON ANDERSONART BY SHANNON ANDERSON12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 0 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 11am-4pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-5pm
Friday: 1 pm-4pmWINTER 2020Be Your Own Valentine
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
The holiday of love is upon us, and 
contrary to popular belief, you can still 
celebrate it even if you haven’t been shot with Cupid’s arrow! Whether you have a significant other or not, here are some ways to indulge in some self-love this Valentine’s Day. I’ve included more specific examples under each section with 
“How I’ d Do This!”
Give Back to Your Body
Our bodies do so much for us everyday, 
so it’s only fair that we give back to them. 
Maybe this means treating yourself to a massage, catching up on sleep, or taking a hot bath. This also includes mental health — like shutting off all your devices one night for a digital cleanse, or reaching out to friends to talk.
How I’ d Do This: I’ d put on a face mask 
after a long shower and try to get to bed early! 
Boost Y our Confidence
Confidence is beautiful, and so are you! 
Engage in a confidence-boosting activity, whether this means heading to the gym for a hard workout, going shopping for a new outfit, or buying that lipstick you’ve been eyeing. 
How I’ d Do This: Nordstrom Rack 
tends to have some gems! I’ d also probably walk around Westfield UTC mall for a bit and see if Zara is having a sale. 
Go on a Solo Adventure 
There are so many cool things to see 
and do in San Diego that you don’t need 
another person for. Find a secret swing 
near campus — most are accessible by the bus — go for a hike, or try a new restaurant. If you need to be productive, grab your laptop and notebooks, and head to a coffee shop for a caffeine pick-me-up. 
How I’ d Do This: I’ve been meaning to 
visit the new Better Buzz in downtown La Jolla for a while!
Gather Your Friends 
Call up your single friends and 
celebrate Singles Awareness Day instead. Go out for brunch, have a potluck dinner, or have a board game night. If you don’t feel like being alone, surround yourself with people!
How I’ d Do This: Making dinner and 
putting on a classic rom-com sounds pretty good to me. One year, my friends and I did a “Secret Cupid” gift exchange where we gave each other self-care items. 
Buy Yourself Something Pretty
Treat yourself! If you can’t afford a big purchase like a nice necklace right now, even something like a box of chocolates or some stickers to decorate your laptop or water bottle means a lot. 
How I’ d Do This: I like to go to Trader 
Joe’s and buy a bunch of flowers every once in a while. I put them on my desk or bedside table, and they really brighten up the space. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF KITCHNPHOTO COURTESY OF KITCHNCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
QUEEN & SLIMTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13
PC THEATRE • 6:30 & 9:30PM
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM - GSA 
GRAD LOUNGE
A supportive drop-in space for graduate and 
professional school students seeking strategies for resilience, perseverance, and flourishing. 
Common themes include: stress management, 
sustaining motivation, recovering from set-backs, 
work/life balance, and navigating interpersonal challenges ( personal and professional). Location: 
GDA Grad Lounge Contact : Dr. Miriam 
Adrianowicz, Psy.D 858-534-3456 or 
Madrianowicz@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
COMING OUT GROUP - WOMEN'S 
CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
The Coming Out group is a place to meet and gain support while discussing your sexual and/ or gender Identities in a confidential setting. This group is for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, straight, or questioning folks who are coming out, considering coming out or may already be out. Topics are determined by group participants and can include stress, fear, anxiety, loneliness, family/ cultural issues, excitement and celebration with regard coming out. The group is open to new members the first 3 meetings of each quarter and then closes to maintain safe space.
5pm
MY PUNNY VALENTINE - PC EAST 
BALLROOM
FREE for UCSD Students w/ID Pins, Puns, & Card Making galore Exchange enamel pins and valentine cards with your friends, significant other, or "pin" pals! Make your card as cute as a button and spread the love this Valentine's Day
6pm
NEVER BOARD OF MAHJONG - THE 
LOFT
University Centers Presents: Never Board of 
Mahjong Event: 6-8PM FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID Celebrate the New Year with board games and Mahjong. Learn how to play from instructors and enjoy snacks in the meantime. No prior experience needed! In collaboration with the UCSD Board Game Club. ,2pm
CAL FRESH WORKSHOP - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER
LGBT RESOURCE CENTER & THE HUB PRESENT 
a CAL FRESH WORKSHOP . Stop by the LGBTRC to apply! Members of Cal Fresh will be present to aid in your application process as well as answer questions. Interested in applying? Please bring: Valid picture ID Copy of your financial aid Copy of on campus housing or leasing contract Last 2 pay stubs (if applicable) *Cal Fresh is Californias food stamps program providing access to essential food resources for eligible participants. See Less. Contact: rainbow@ucsd.edu 8588223493
4pm
MIDTERM DE -STRESS EVENTS - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, RM 2072 (FLOOR 
2 EAST)
Take A Break from studying and tests to build, 
color, create, and play. Join your friends, or make some new friends, at our Take A Break event series in Geisels East Commons on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays of Weeks 4, 5, and 6. Fill out a short survey for a blue books, scantron, or another fun prize from our treasure box. Know of other activities youd like to see in the Library? Wed love to hear your ideas. Send questions, comments, and suggestions to LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact : Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or Cathompson@ucsd.edu (Weeks 2,4,6,8,10) Location: Women's CenterTUE2.11
THU2.13MON2.10
10am
BAJA ON HORSEBACK - LA BELLOTA 
RANCH
Put yourself back in the days of the Old West 
where the cattle roamed free and there were no fences. We will head southeast of Tecate, to the gated and secured guest ranch in the middle of Guadalupe Valley Grape Country, where you can try your hand as a vaquero (cowboy). After instruction in horseback riding, we will hit the trails. We will be Western style riding through shady oak groves, hidden water pools, quiet secluded valleys and vast mountain ranges throughout the 2800 acre ranch. **Prices (Earlybird by Jan 20th / Regular) Student: $335/365 Member: $335/365 Non-Member: $375/400 **Pre-trip Meeting - 6pm Wed 2/12 @ Outback Rental Shop SAT2.15WED2.12
11am
LOVE WELL TRITONS - LIBRARY 
WALK
Love Well Tritons is an event centered on self-love through health and well. This comprehensive health fair will cover physical, 
mental and sexual health, as well as healthy 
relationships. Participants will receive a mini 
Sprinkles cupcake after completing four wellness activities (while supplies last)!
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS - THE ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to 
incorporate state of the art technology for 
stress management! You'll learn strategies 
such as progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce 
stress as well as learn about some cool 
technology. We'll have free giveaways each 
week AND you can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to 
check out The Zone calendar for info on this 
and other free wellness programs! 
6pm
MILIJOHN RUPERTO GUEST 
LECTURE - VAF 306 
PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Based in Los Angeles, Miljohn Ruperto is a 
cross-disciplinary artist working across photography, cinema, performance, and digital animation. His work refers to historical and anecdotal occurrences, and speculates on the nature of assumed facts and the construction of truth. Rupertos work is often informed by his collaborations with experts from other disciplines.
8pm
MSAKI AND THE GOLDEN CIRCLE - 
THE LOFT
Trailblazing vocalist and guitarist Msaki 
creates a sound that combines soulful folk, Xhosa lyrics, and African polyrhythms with moments of sincere improvisation. Her raw delivery disrupts your senses as she weaves subtle tales of love, loss, home, revolution, and hope. For this performance, Msaki plays with the Golden Circle, an ever-evolving and expanding band of incredible musicians from different backgrounds that was created to retain and promote Africas identity and culture through soulful music.10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND – THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are 
provided! 
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
WOMEN'S CENTER SMALL GROUP 
ROOM
Starting week 2, join CAPS and the LGBT 
Resource Center for conversations about our experiences as gay men. This forum addresses relationships, sexual health, community building, and more! We meet during weeks 2-10( excluding holiday) in the Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters on, in the Women's Center Small Group Room. Come join us! Contact : Dr. Greg Koch, Psy.D. 858-534-3585 gkoch@ucsd.edu. Contact: gkoch@ucsd.edu 858-534-3585
4pm
THE TRITON TRANSFER HUB IS 
NOW OPEN! - BIOMEDICAL LIBRARY 
BUILDING: TRITON TRANSFER HUB
Celebrate the launch of the Triton Transfer Hub 
by joining us for a week of activities within our 
new space! Contact: jduerr@ucsd.edu
FRI2.14
3pm
CAPS LOVE AND RELATIONAL 
COMPATIBILITY - REVELLE FORMAL 
LOUNGE
With the information you learn during this 
stimulating afternoon, you can beat the odds and avoid becoming a statistic by learning the secrets of relational success that no one else will talk about or teach you. Be enlightened and entertained as you deepen your understanding of both the complexity and fundamental basics of love, and leave with valuable information that will help you improve your special relationship or prepare you to find that someone special.
8pm
DORIC STRING QUARTET - THE 
AUDITORIUM AT THE SCRIPPS 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Described by Gramophone magazine as one of the 
finest young string quartets, the Doric String Quartet receives enthusiastic responses from audiences and critics across the globe.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
FEB 10 - FEB 16
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
V ALENTINE’S DA YCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Composition
6. Beatle ____ McCartney10. Pub potables
14. Orchard fruit
15. Teen skin problem
16. ____ and void17. Epsom ____18. Cranky
20. Cleveland’s waterfront
21. Leg part
22. In front23. Motor City25. Traditional knowledge
27. Conclude
28. Supporting one political group
32. Reside35. Not punctual36. Note
37. Cow chow
38. Least fresh
41. Aussie bird42. Trampled44. Expended45. Baseball great Hank ____47. Sliver49. Austria’s cont.50. Tart51. Main courses55. Cavalry sword58. Slant60. Car part61. Most like milk fat63. Disparaging64. Lubricates65. Valley66. Eyed flirtatiously67. Story68. Harbinger69. Bar drinksDOWN
1. Relieved2. Extra tire3. Divided
4. Changed
5. Yup!
6. Artist’s need7. 43,560 square feet8. Not kin
9. Oahu garland
10. Disneyland site
11. Grease job12. ____ Fitzgerald13. Snow coaster
19. Sour in taste
21. Tease
24. Dollar bills26. Mineral deposits28. More wan
29. Visionary
30. Bullets, for short
31. Part of speech32. Play divisions33. Belch34. Revered person35. Thin ray of light (2 wds.)39. Ballet skirt40. Tense43. Ailment46. Organize48. Average49. Navy officer (abbr.)51. Dined52. Deport53. Senior54. Plant beginnings55. Highlander56. Diva’s forte57. Ringing device59. ____ of Man62. Altar vow (2 wds.)63. WeepCARS
2017 Toyota RAV4 - Grey 2017 Toyota 
RAV4 LE 36479 mis Front Wheel Drive, Powered steering, ANTILOCKING 
BRAKES, 4-Wheel Disc Brakes, Brake 
Assist, Brake Actuated Limited Slip Differential, Wheel Covers, Steel Wheels, 
Tires - Front All season, Tires - Rear All 
season, Temporary Spare Tire, Power 
Mirror(s), Rear Defrost, Privacy Glass, 
Intermittent windshield wipers, Rear Spoiler, Door locks power, Daylight….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2018 Toyota RAV4  - Black 2018 Toyota 
RAV4 LE 40955mis Front Wheel Drive, 
Powered steering, ANTI LOCK BRAKES, 
4-Wheel Disc Brakes, Brake Assist, Brake 
Actuated Limited Slip Differential, 
Wheel Covers, Steel Wheels, Tires - Front 
Four season, Tires - Rear Four season, 
Temporary Spare Tire, Power Mirror(s), Rear Defrost, Privacy Glass, Intermittent windshield wipers, Rear Spoiler, Power locking doors ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Mercedes-Benz GLA  - Blue 2015 
Mercedes-Benz GLA GLA 250 20744mis 
Turbocharged, All Wheel Drive, Powered 
steering, ANTI LOCK BRAKES, 4-Wheel 
Disc Brakes, Brake Assist, Aluminum 
Wheels, Tires - Front Performance, Tires 
- Rear Performance, Heated Mirrors, 
Power Mirror(s), Integrated Turn Signal Mirrors….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
PART-TIME JOBS
Summer Camp Counselors & Activity Instructors - Day camps all over 
California are now hiring camp counsel -
ors and activity instructors for the sum-
mer months. Camps are seeking posi-
tive, nurturing role models to be a part of dynamic, motivate….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Part-Time Executive/PR Assistant - We 
are seeking a promising Part-Time 
Executive / PR Assistant for a start-up in 
the Fin-Tech Industry! A fervent interest 
in the field partnered with good writing 
and research skills are very important to us. If you’re also well-organized, confi -
dent, detailed, and an excellent commu -
nicator….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Part-time Speech Language Pathologist 
- We need an exceptional school-based Speech Language Pathologist SLP for a part-time position in San Diego, CA. We’re looking for a Speech Language Pathologist SLP who can start immedi -
ately and work through the balance of the school year. This role will provide the opportunity….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
 TUTORING JOBS
Statistics Tutor for College Student - 
Need regular/ongoing help with stats. Student is at local community college 
and is struggling with comprehension 
and homework. We live in University 
City so close….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -sifieds for more information
San Diego CAN-Certified Nursing 
Assistant Jobs - Varsity Tutors has stu -
dents in #San Diego looking for Series 
CNA - Certified Nursing Assistant 
tutoring. Varsity Tutors is a live learn -
ing platform that connects tutors with students to provide personalized learn
-
ing. In addition to having knowledge of the CNA - Certified Nursing Assistant 
Exam….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
San Diego NCE-National Counselor 
Exam Tutor Jobs - Varsity Tutors has 
students in #San Diego looking for NCE 
- National Counselor Exam tutoring. 
Varsity Tutors is a live learning platform 
that connects tutors with students to provide personalized learning. In addi
-
tion to having knowledge….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
5
27
17
89643
71
4
56
5
81
24
9
7
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
Just over a minute remaining in 
the final quarter of Super Bowl LIV , 
the San Francisco 49ers have the 
ball on 2nd and 10 at their own 25-
yard line and down 20–31. Their 
quarterback, Jimmy Garoppolo, snaps the ball, takes a five-step 
drop, and, while trying to get the 
ball down field to his primary 
offensive weapon and wide receiver 
Deebo Samuel, gets picked o ff by 
Kansas City Chiefs cornerback 
Kendall Fuller. 
With that late game pick, the 
49ers sealed their fate and lost the game, and the Chiefs were less than 
a minute away from securing their 
first Super Bowl title since 1969. As 
the Chiefs’ o ffense took their kneel-
downs to run out the clock, NFL 
Mic’ d Up heard 49ers tight end 
George Kittle repeating, “I will be 
back here. I will be back here, and I 
will be back with a [motherf------] 
vengeance. ”
Unfortunately for George Kittle 
and the 49ers, a Super Bowl return 
is unlikely. At least not right away. 
Since 2000, only two teams have managed back-to-back Super 
Bowl appearances: the Seattle 
Seahawks (2013-2014) and the 
New England Patriots (2004-2005 
and 2017-2019). The last three 
NFC representatives in the Super Bowl — the Los Angeles Rams, the Philadelphia Eagles, and the 
Atlanta Falcons — have not been 
back. The Rams, a fter capturing 
the league by storm with their high-flying o ffense, failed to even 
make the playo ffs this season a fter 
getting to the Super Bowl last year. In a league that has a salary cap, a 
short average career lifespan, high 
injury rates, an unpredictable dra ft, 
and free agency, it is di fficult to sustain success. This off-season, the 
49ers will have to confront these 
challenges if they hope to extend 
their Super Bowl window and 
make an unlikely return to the title 
game.
The 2020 49ers will look di fferent 
from the 2019 49ers. For the first 
time in a long while, the 49ers have 
cap issues. The team enters the o ff-
season with just $19.6 million in cap space — the 8th lowest in the 
NFL — to resign upcoming free agents. Two key defensive players 
set to become free agents are free 
safety Jimmie Ward and defensive 
lineman Arik Armstead. Both are 
former 49ers first-round picks who 
broke out late into their tenures in San Francisco. Ward, tasked with playing the single high safety in 
the 49ers’ 4-3 cover 3 Seahawks 
defensive scheme, excelled and 
was a contributor to the 49ers’ 
top-ranked passing defense. A fter 
adjusting to his role as an outside rusher, Armstead had a key role 
in the 49ers’ dominant pass rush, 
racking up a team high 10 sacks. As it stands now, it is unlikely 
that the 49ers are able to keep 
both players. There is some cap 
flexibility. The 49ers front o ffice can 
restructure contracts and there are 
a few obvious cut candidates whose 
release could free up cap space, like running back Jerick McKinnon 
and wide receiver and kick returner 
Marquise Goodwin, or Garoppolo 
depending on your thoughts on 
his performance this season — 
his contract does have an out that 
would save the team $22.4 million with only $4.2 million in dead cap.
Normally, when a team is tight 
on cap space, they look to the dra ft 
as a means to replace departing talent. However, the 49ers do not have much dra ft capital either. The 
49ers spent a lot of their dra ft picks 
to get to the Super Bowl, namely, 
by trading a second rounder to 
the Chiefs for pass rusher Dee 
Ford and also a third and fourth 
rounder to the Denver Broncos for 
wide receiver Emmanuel Sanders. 
Because of that, the 49ers have 
just six dra ft picks: one first-round 
pick and five picks in rounds five 
through seven. Based on history, general manager John Lynch will 
likely flip the first rounder for more 
later picks. The 49ers will need 
to dra ft some immediate-impact 
players in the late round in order to replace the talent they will lose in 
free agency. There is a small silver 
lining since the 49ers under the 
current regime have had a knack 
for unearthing talent on Day 3 of 
the dra ft, like tight end Kittle in the 
5th round and defensive tackle D. J. 
Jones in the 6th round, while they 
have not had as much success with 
their Day 2 picks, like quarterback 
C. J. Beathard in the 3rd round and running back Joe Williams in the 
4th round.
In addition to players, the 
49ers are losing a few key assistant 
coaches at two positions the 49ers 
improved the most at: secondary 
and pass rushing. The Cleveland 
Browns — a fter considering 49ers 
defensive coordinator Robert Saleh for the head coaching position 
before they hired Kevin Stefanski 
— poached defensive backs coach 
and passing-game coordinator Joe 
Woods to be the Browns’ defensive coordinator. Woods, who joined 
the 49ers before the 2019 season, 
elevated their secondary to become 
the best passing defense in the league. He also helped develop 
players like 49ers cornerback 
Emmanuel Moseley. Pass-rush 
specialist Chris Ki ffin — who star 
defensive tackle DeForest Buckner called a huge addition to the 
coaching sta ff — is also leaving the 
49ers to be the defensive line coach 
for the Browns.
The 49ers had one of the most 
difficult schedules in the NFL 
because they not only faced o ff 
against NFL powerhouses, like 
the Baltimore Ravens and the 
New Orleans Saints, but also 
because they played in the most 
competitive division in the league: 
the NFC West. Next season, the 
division will become even more 
competitive. The Seahawks ended 
the 49ers’ undefeated season in 
week 9 and were mere inches away 
from stealing the division title away 
from the 49ers in week 17. With 
quarterback Russell Wilson at the 
helm, the Seahawks will always be 
playoff contenders and the biggest 
obstacle for the 49ers. The scariest 
part is that the Seahawks’ 2019 season seems to be the floor of 
this team’s ability. Head coach Pete Carroll’s old-fashioned “establish-
the-run” philosophy e ffectively 
limits the Seahawks’ best weapon. If Carroll decides to opt for a more 
forward-thinking o ffensive system, 
like letting Wilson throw the ball, 
the Seahawks could really rise 
to be one of the most explosive 
teams in the NFL. In addition, 
the Arizona Cardinals, though 
they finished at the bottom of 
the NFC West, are on track for a 
massive leap in quarterback Kyler 
Murray’s and head coach Kli ff 
Kingsbury’s sophomore seasons. Murray was an absolute di fference maker, showcasing his accuracy, 
athleticism, and decision-making 
at the NFL level. As they add talent 
to surround Murray, the Cardinals 
will become a much bigger threat 
to the 49ers than they were last 
year.
But it is not all doom and gloom 
for the 49ers. For once, the team has stability in the front o ffice and 
coaching sta ff, and the team’s owner 
has decided to remove himself 
from all football operations. Head coach Kyle Shanahan is still 
one of the best o ffensive football 
minds in the game. Garoppolo will continue to develop and learn 
from Shanahan’s scheme and 
improve. This season, the team 
saw tremendous contributions 
from their rookies — like Samuel, 
defensive lineman Nick Bosa, and 
outside linebacker Dre Greenlaw 
— and their homegrown talent — 
like linebacker Fred Warner and 
running back Raheem Mostert. 
Next season, wide receivers Jalen 
Hurd and Trent Taylor will come 
back from injuries. Hurd, a 2019 third-round pick, has yet to take 
a regular season NFL snap. A fter 
seeing what Shanahan did with Samuel by lining him up at wide 
receiver and at running back, it 
will be fascinating to see what he 
does with Hurd, who has a bigger build but the same pro file, as a wide 
receiver with running back skills with the ball in his hands. Though 
they face a series of challenges, I believe and hope the 49ers are 
positioned well to make another 
championship run.Down But Not Out: How The San Francisco 
49ers Will Make it to the Super Bowl in 2021
WESLEY  XIAO   wex057@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Stanislaus State
vs Concordia Irvine@ Point Lomavs CSU Dominguez Hillsvs CSU Dominguez HillsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
M Tennis
Baseball 
W Basketball 
M Basketball1PM3PM2PM
5:30PM
8PM2/152/122/112/132/13
In a rematch against the 
California State University, Chico 
Wildcats squad that handed them 
their only loss of the season, the No. 4 UC San Diego Tritons rode 
a 30-point performance from 
redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts to an 82–74 victory at Art Acker Gym in Chico. Redshirt 
senior guard Christian Oshita 
added 20 points of his own to help the Tritons to their 14th straight 
win, as they improve to 22–1 
overall and 16–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association.
Both teams entered the match 
tied in the all-time series between Chico State and UCSD, at sixteen games apiece; their last contest 
was an 83–71 loss by the Tritons 
at home on December 5th, the Tritons’ sole loss of the regular 
season to date. 
The Tritons came out with a 
blazing start; a fter both teams 
traded a couple of baskets, UCSD went on a 14–0 run on 2 straight 
three-pointers from senior forward Scott Everman, an Oshita 
three, and a jumper, then a three 
from Roberts. With just 4:11 o ff 
the clock, the Tritons led 19–4. 
Another Roberts three and 
an Oshita layup gave UCSD a commanding 24–6 advantage with 11:03 still to go in the first 
half. The Tritons would lead by 
double digits until just before the final minute of the period, and a 
fast-break layup by the Wildcats 
with just five seconds remaining 
had the Triton lead cut down to 
just 37–28 going into the half.
Coming out of the half, Chico 
State was determined to make a change to avoid having the match 
slip away, but 3 three-pointers from Oshita and one from Roberts 
in the first 5 minutes of the half 
kept the Wildcats at bay. Another 
Oshita three with 13:53 remaining had the lead back up to 59–41. 
Soon a fter, however, Chico 
State finally got its o ffense in gear, 
rattling o ff an 11–0 run to bring the game to within just seven points with 8:16 to go. 
After both teams traded 
points for the next few minutes, the Wildcats finally brought the 
Triton lead down to just 68–64, the lowest since the first minutes 
of the game. But, with a free throw and paint jumper from Oshita 
followed by a three by junior guard 
Gabe Hadley, the Tritons brought the lead back up to double digits 
with 4 minutes remaining. 
In the final minute of the game, 
the Wildcats came within 4 once again, but a Roberts three-pointer 
pushed the lead to 7 a fter Roberts 
made one of 2 free throws with 28 seconds to go to bring the score 
to 80–74, Oshita made a key steal, 
and Roberts hit both free throws this time to ice the game, as the 
Tritons won 82–74. 
It was a familiar hot shooting 
night from downtown for the 
Tritons, who shot an efficient 16-
for-30 (53.3 percent) from behind 
the arc, including a blistering 9-of-13 (69.2 percent) in the second 
half. Roberts set a personal best 
with 7 three-pointers; in addition to his 30 points on 9-of-17 shooting, Roberts added 6 assists, 
as did Oshita. 
Despite being scoreless, 
redshirt junior guard Mikey Howell left his mark with a 
team-high 9 assists, as well as 5 rebounds.
The Tritons will try for their 
fifteenth and sixteenth wins in a 
row as they welcome California 
State University, Dominguez Hills and California State University, 
Los Angeles to RIMAC Arena on 
the 13th and 15th, respectively; 
after that, they’ll conclude the 
regular season with three road 
matchups against California State 
Universities East Bay, Monterey Bay, and San Marcos.Roberts Puts Up 30 In Tritons’ 
14th Straight Win
At this point in my life, I’m 
still a fairly young kid, and my 
memories are even younger. I 
can remember birthday parties, sleepovers, and family gatherings 
scattered across more than a 
decade of existence. But for all of those memories, my most vivid come from baseball, specifically 
from my first few seasons playing 
at Knapp Ranch.
Even today, I can distinctly 
remember one of my biggest let 
downs, when I was driven up to the field by my parents during a 
light drizzle early one Saturday 
morning. The field glistened with 
a sheen of rain and the infield dirt 
never looked more inviting.
My teammates all were huddled 
underneath the trees behind the visitors’ dugout, trying to dodge 
raindrops while stretching and 
preparing to play catch. Only 
minutes later, members of the 
other team, the enemy on the 
other side of the field, slowly 
began packing their bags and walking toward us, back toward 
the parking lot, carrying with 
them the most insidious message of all: The rain would be keeping us from playing today. 
The infields were all dirt, the 
mounds reminded most of a slight incline rather than an imposing hill, and the out fields consistently 
were littered with gopher holes taken up by rattlesnakes during the late spring and summer. But for every shortcoming, Knapp 
gave me fi ve new friends, one new 
scrape on my knee, and hopefully 
a lifetime of memories. 
Unfortunately, starting this 
season, no other kids will get a chance to make similar memories at Knapp. The league is finally 
closing its doors to registration. Traditionally, Opening Day is the first weekend in March, and 
practices already would have started. 
Now, the fields are barren 
and any would-be players are left  
without their league. For many of 
them, they’re too young to realize 
what they’re missing. Maybe 
they’ll move to another league, or maybe play a diff erent sport, 
or maybe just stop competing 
altogether. 
For my friends and I, who grew 
up steeped in the friendly culture emanating from these fields, built 
into steep hills filled with sage, it’s 
a reflective and depressing time. 
Over the last few weeks since learning the league is o fficially on 
its way out, we’ve been thinking about all of our memories, collective and otherwise, that we made on those fields. We’ve won 
championships, we’ve made fools of ourselves and we’ve — well, mostly I’ve — created nicknames 
that found lasting power even 
off the field. Just ask my friends 
Cheese Head and Peanuts.
But now, a fter filtering through 
all of my own memories, I have begun wondering about the future of kids and sports. Particularly in 
recreation leagues like this one, 
that like the expensive price tags and the arduous schedules of 
travel or club teams. 
Will these sorts of leagues 
survive in a world of highly competitive scholarships and 
multiple transfers during high school for sports, where the multi-sport athlete is, except in 
extreme cases, being overtaken by 
specialization and sport-specific private coaches?Honestly, the odds aren’t in the 
favor of rec leagues, and neither 
is the money. Many parents want 
the best for their kids, and for those already privileged enough 
to consider pushing their kid 
to enter the world of traveling, hypercompetitive club teams, the added cost is not likely a stiff  
enough barrier of entry. 
With the end of Knapp, and 
plenty of leagues around the 
country like it, I feel it is coming 
to a period where kids will have less fun in sports, where stress levels will rise while playing. 
Instead of playing for fun, with an 
abstract hope of winning, kids will be plopped into pressure cooker 
leagues where the win is king, 
and where making it onto your high school team or local scout 
club is the most important goal, 
not making friends or connecting 
with your family. 
It’s a sad day in youth sports, 
and it’s likely not going to change 
any time soon.
Triton 
Timeout
Down goes 
the local youth 
baseball leagueWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edupra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS