Accessed: 11/16/2020 SPONSORED: USC Offers New Advanced Degree in Product Innovation - UCSD Guardian
 November 9, 2020   Guardian Staff 
As part of the expansive suite of offerings within the USC Iovine and Young Academy, a new  
Master of Science in Product Innovation is now available for students interested in pursuing 
product design  for the 21st century. 
The Academy’s revolutionary new degree reimagines the traditional concept of product to 
include not only physical, but also virtual, multidimensional and cross-platform devices, as 
well as environments and immersive experiences. Interweaving design, technology, 
entrepreneurship, and communication, the program will give students a deeper 
understanding of the entire product ecosystem from a 360-degree perspective. Students 
interested in product design and innovation will learn how to take ideas from the concept 
stage all the way through prototyping, funding, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and 
launch.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 11/16/2020 SPONSORED: USC Offers New Advanced Degree in Product Innovation - UCSD Guardian
The program’s unique cohort model brings together students from diverse backgrounds and  
areas of practice including design, engineering, computer science, architecture, and visual  
and interactive media. Students collaborate as multidisciplinary teams to envision and  
develop original solutions and breakthrough products to make a positive impact on society.  
In addition to learning collaborative design methodologies, student teams have unique  
opportunities to work with experts from top-tier companies on real-world challenges.
The Academy’s Master of Science in Product Innovation is a  two-year, full-time graduate 
degree program in which students have the unprecedented ability to tailor  their degree path 
to specific career needs and outcomes. 
Founded in 2013, the USC Jimmy Iovine and Andre Young Academy was born out of a  
visionary gift from music industry legends and pioneering entrepreneurs Jimmy Iovine and  
Andre “Dr. Dre” Young. The duo founded the Academy to establish a new school that would  
nurture critical thinking and unbridled creativity at the intersection of four essential areas:  
the arts and design; engineering and computer science; business and venture management;  
and communication. 
While the Master of Science in Product Innovation is a new degree, Academy student 
innovators are creating global award-winning products and launching product-based 
companies that have garnered the attention of big tech, investors, and leading publications.
For more information, visit the Academy’s Product Innovation page  and attend virtual 
information sessions  throughout November and December.  To be considered for admission 
in the upcoming Fall semester,  apply  by Jan. 15, 2021.
This sponsored content does not represent the views of The UCSD Guardian editorial 
board or any staff member and is paid content that serves as an advertisement for the 
client. To inquire about sponsored article guidelines, email managing@ucsdguardian.org.Accessed: 11/16/2020 A.S. Council Brief: SPACES, the Student Sustainability Collective and New Advocate Assignments - UCSD Guardian
A.S. Council Brief: SPACES, the Student Sustainability
Collective and New Advocate Assignments
 November 12, 2020   Andrew Ha 
This edition of the UC San Diego A.S. Council Meeting news update will only include the  
Week 4 meeting. The Week 5 AS meeting was cancelled in observance of the U.S. Elections  
week. 
A.S. Council’s Week 4  meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 28 included multiple special meetings 
regarding Student Promoted Access Center for Education and increasing the budget of the 
Student Sustainability Collective. The meeting was then followed by the appointments of 
various advocates for multiple campus offices. 
After the roll call, SPACES  began its presentation with an explanation of  who they are and 
what work they do for students on campus. The service is built upon a variety of programs 
and organizations including multiple cultural groups, like the Black Student Union or the 
Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanola de Aztlán. Their primary goals are to promote access to 
higher education and increase UC San Diego student retention. 
Accessed: 11/16/2020 A.S. Council Brief: SPACES, the Student Sustainability Collective and New Advocate Assignments - UCSD Guardian
The SSC Directors followed with their  presentation by first explaining that they were an 
advocacy group that promotes social and environmental  rights with seven on-going 
campaigns at UCSD. The directors asked A.S. Council to increase their stipends to $250 per 
week, citing that their current $120 per week is comparatively lower than other offices on 
campus like SPACES’s $162 per hour, the Women’s Center’s $135 per hour, or the Cross 
Cultural Center $210 per hour. 
“Directors may be able to work just one job and less hours after other jobs,” SSC  Co-
Director of Internal Development Sophia Jara said in the presentation. “In turn,  this will 
support  their livelihood working while being a student at UCSD. But not only that, this will 
help them dedicate more time to SSC projects. We can expect more quality and valuable 
content [with the increased stipend].”
Many associated vice presidents and senators took issue with the SSC’s demands citing that 
AVPs themselves have dramatically lower stipends and that stipends as a whole are not a 
replacement for salaries. They state that stipends are made to break down barriers to allow  
disadvantaged students to join A.S. Council and other student groups on campus without 
too much of a financial burden. 
“Frankly this is absurd and I wonder if you even know how much we get paid,” AVP of 
Transportation & Transformation Manu Agni said to the council. “We get paid $100 per 
week and we put in 20-25 hours of work per week. I don’t think stipends were ever designed 
to be a salary. More than a doubling of your personal stipend is not something AS should be 
agreeable to… I think asking for more student fees to line your pockets is a little bit offensive 
to myself as an AVP but I think other AVPs share a similar perspective.” 
After multiple debates and an attempt to table the discussion regarding SSC budget 
increases, the Senate went into a roll call vote and approved the SSC budget increase with a 
vote of 20 yes, zero nos, and three abstensions. The proposed stipend change will now go to 
Human Resources for evaluation. If HR decides it will not be possible or that there are some 
other issues, A.S. Council will have the authority to retroactively amend the SSC stipend 
request. 
The legislative committee also approved new advocates to fill a few roles in the A.S. Office of 
Health & Well-Being as well as the Office of Local Affairs. Bills L2-L8 and L11  were  
approved. The advocates within the former office will now assume responsibilities to 
promote a wide variety of health issues on campus including mental and sexual health. Bill 
L11, however, will be a part of the latter office to deal with local affairs. Accessed: 11/16/2020 A.S. Council Brief: SPACES, the Student Sustainability Collective and New Advocate Assignments - UCSD Guardian
L10 on compensation, within Standing Rule Title V, was amended and approved. However,  
Bill L9 regarding Standing Rule Title III, which lists the rules and procedures for the Senate,  
has been tabled indefinitely. The second half of the meeting encompassed a long debate  
about budgetary matters for the next fiscal year. 
A.S. Council meetings take place every week and are open to the public. Students can be a  
part of these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S. website.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/16/2020 Affirmative Action Measure Fails in California - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020   Valentina Du Pond 
California State Proposition 16, which would have reintroduced affirmative action, failed to  
pass with 57 percent of state voters rejecting the measure, according to The New York 
Times. The proposition, which has previously passed as a bill in the California State  
legislature, is the most recent attempt byt he government to allow state institutions to  
consider race, sex, and national origin in employment, contracting, and education.  
Prop 16 would have allowed universities, such as the University of California campuses, to  
practice affirmative action to promote diversity and inclusion of historically excluded  
groups in admissions. With the failure of Prop 16, the UC system will continue to follow race 
neutrality and cannot consider race as a factor in admissions decisions. 
Those in favor of Prop 16 argued that it would be a tool for “leveling the playing field” by  
considering challenges ethnic minorities have experienced and offering opportunities for  
greater inclusion. The campaign  cited that the government lacked accountability in 
ensuring that state institutions would seek diversity and appropriate minority  
representation.
Accessed: 11/16/2020 Affirmative Action Measure Fails in California - UCSD Guardian
The campaign for the ballot measure raised much more than the campaign against it; the 
yes campaign raised close to $20 million, while the no  campaign raised short of $2 million. 
Prop 16 was also supported by prominent democratic  leaders, such as former Sen. and Vice 
President-elect Kamala Harris, Sen. Bernie Sanders,  Rep. and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 
and California Gov. Gavin Newsom. 
Despite this, the proposition was voted against on a larger margin than the passing of  
Proposition 209 in 1996, according to an editorial from The Atlantic. The author, Conor 
Friedersdorf, suggests that “race neutrality is more  popular now than when it was initially 
mandated by a 1996 ballot initiative that passed.” 
Those opposing Prop 16 argue that it would legalize  racial discrimination by permitting the  
considerationof race as a major factor in employment and education. Under race-conscious  
policies before the passing of Prop 209, the UC system was accused of discriminating 
against Asian applicants. 
In 1989, former UC Berkeley Chancellor Ira Michael Heyman formally apologized for  
declining rates of Asian admission under “insensitive”  admissions policies. More recently, 
Harvard University has experienced similar charges and accusations of holding Asian 
applicants to a “higher standard” due to their current use of affirmative action programs.  
Stephen Miller, Volunteer Co-Chair of Orange County Campaign Against Prop 16, said in an 
interview with The UCSD Guardian that he feared the passing of Prop 16 would affect his 
children in a similar way. 
“My own children are nearing the age of applying to college and […] their primary race 
would be Asian … Asian-Americans are often given a higher bar or hurdle to get admitted 
into college, and come to a University of California,” Miller said. “The implication would be 
[that my children] would be treated differently by their government based on their race or 
sex or color or ethnicity or national origin. When it comes to colleges, UC has said that they 
want to discriminate between applicants based on race in order to have the student body 
ethnicity more closely matched to the population. That would mean a racial bias against 
children such as my own.” 
The UCs released a statement on their website in support of Proposition 16 on June 15, 
writing that they had difficulty reflecting “California’s full diversity in its student body” due 
to race-neutral admissions.Accessed: 11/16/2020 Affirmative Action Measure Fails in California - UCSD Guardian
“It makes little sense to exclude any consideration of race in admissions when the aim of the  
University’s holistic process is to fully understand and evaluate each applicant through  
multiple dimensions,” former UC President Janet Napolitano, J.D said. 
In response to the failure to pass the measure, UC President Michael V. Drake, M.D. stated  
that the, “UC remains steadfast in its commitment to attract and support a student body that  
reflects California’s dynamism and diversity, despite this setback.”
While the UC system supported the proposition, California voters decided against race-
conscious employment, contracting,and admissions to higher education. The UCs and other  
public California universities will continue to be prohibited from using race as a factor in  
admissions decisions.
Photo courtesy of Irvin Yang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/16/2020 Don’t Lose Momentum: the Election May be Over, but the Work of Democracy Continues - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020  Zara Irshad 
This past weekend marked the beginning of the end of what may be the one of the most  
controversial presidencies in history. Seeing as our current president has been accused of  
sexual assault, fraud, and racism  continuously during his four years in power, it’s clear why 
this was such a high-stakes election for a large number of Americans. Many of us sat by the 
TV each night, anxiously watching as the ballots were counted. Many of us obsessively 
checked the election map on our phones during the day. And many of us developed an 
emotional attachment to John King and Chris Cuomo, or maybe that was just me. 
Regardless, it’s safe to say that a large number of Americans let out a sigh of relief when 
the results were finally announced last Saturday morning, confirming Joe Biden as  
president-elect. Although some states are still counting or recounting ballots, Biden was 
announced victor because he was the first to surpass 270 electoral votes, despite several 
high-ranking Republican officials refusing to acknowledge  his victory. 
Accessed: 11/16/2020 Don’t Lose Momentum: the Election May be Over, but the Work of Democracy Continues - UCSD Guardian
There’s a lot to celebrate about this result for many, as it confirms Kamala Harris as the first  
female vice president and the first Vice President of Black and South Asian descent.  
However, it’s crucial to remember that the fight for social justice does not end just because  
the presidential election has. While many viewed Biden’s win as a win for equality and justice  
for all, the work is far from done. It can certainly be argued that the removal of President  
Donald Trump from office in January will do a tremendous amount of good for communities  
of color and minority groups, seeing as roughly 50 percent  of Americans believe him to be 
racist. But it is still important to remain educated and involved  in local and state elections, 
not to mention hold the president-elect and vice president-elect  accountable for their actions 
and promises once they assume power.  
First off, while the results of the presidential election flooded just about every popular news  
station, it’s likely that the results of your local or even state election didn’t. So look them up!  
Learning what candidates and propositions were passed not only shows the results of your  
vote, but also presents you with the opportunity to remain involved. If you don’t know much  
about a certain person or stance, do some research. Being an educated citizen is part of your  
civic duty. Not only will it help you formulate political opinions on a smaller level, but it’ll  
also allow you to push for any change that you are passionate about. 
The past eight months have been filled with insurmountable injustices, from the continued 
exposure of inequalities in the justice system to the violent tear-gassing  of peaceful Black 
Lives Matter protesters. This makes it all the more important to speak up when you witness 
wrongdoings and corruption. 
We need to keep this fervor for equality and justice at the forefront of our nation, and use it 
to encourage legitimate change on all levels, not just the national level. Considering that 
changing legislation on the local or even state level is oftentimes a lot easier to accomplish 
than at the national level, we need to make sure to focus our attention there even after a 
large election. 
A prime example of this is the gradual implementation of chokehold bans across the country 
after the murder of George Floyd by chokehold. States such as Florida, California, and New 
York were quick to ban the restraint across all police forces within the state, whereas other 
states have only managed to ban the chokehold in specific cities, such as Denver, Houston, 
and Minneapolis. Accessed: 11/16/2020 Don’t Lose Momentum: the Election May be Over, but the Work of Democracy Continues - UCSD Guardian
Most of these policies were  implemented back in the summer, as the process for putting city- 
or state-wide legislation  into action is a lot quicker than that of the national level. So while 
the entirety of the U.S. has  yet to ban the chokehold from police practices, it was the voice of 
the people that pushed so  many states and cities to do so immediately.
Holding the president and vice president-elect accountable for their actions and promises is  
equally as important, especially considering that roughly 56 percent  of those who voted for 
Biden did so because “he is not Trump” rather than because they  supported his policies. 
Some organizations have already started on this. For example, the  leaders of the Black Lives 
Matter Global Network recently wrote an open letter  to Biden and Harris regarding their  
plans to tackle systemic racism in America, and even requested to meet with them in person.  
Additionally, there are sites such as BidenJusticeDemands.com  that list out potential 
executive orders and actions  that Biden and Harris can implement, even without winning the 
Senate, that would  champion justice and equality for all. 
The 2020 election broke many voter records, with 101 million early ballots cast  and roughly 
150 million voters in total. It has been estimated by the Center for Information and Research 
on Civic Learning and Engagement that the youth vote, ages 18–29, has made up almost 20 
percent  of all votes, so we’re looking at around 30 million youth votes.  
This level of civic engagement is wonderful, as it means that our democracy is functioning 
properly and incorporating as many Americans as possible. But now is not the time to drop 
your guard; this momentum that has built up, this surge for education and reform is just as 
important post-election as it was before it. Continuing forward as an educated and involved 
citizen will help push for that. 
At the end of the day, this may have been the first presidential election that many of us have 
been able to vote in, but it won’t be the last. As college students, we are the future of America, 
and whatever policies that get implemented or actions that are taken will be present in our 
lives moving forward. So it’s crucial that we remain involved and vocalize how we want the 
future of our country to look. The wheels have already been set in motion by the sheer 
turnout of the 2020 presidential election, now it is up to us to keep that momentum going. 
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 It’s Not Too Early To Decorate For Christmas 2020 - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020  Megan Cox 
I love peppermint hot chocolate, ugly sweaters, old claymation Christmas movies, the comically 
large holiday inflatables from Home Depot,  and all other things holiday related. If it was up to 
me, all radios would start playing holiday music in September. Despite my own personal  
opinions, there has always been a long-standing debate on when the holiday season actually 
starts: Is it after Thanksgiving? Dec. 1? Mid-November? Although celebrations are usually 
isolated to December, extending the holiday season by a couple weeks might be an easy way to  
add joy to an extremely hard year.
2020 has gone down in history as one of the worst years ever, and the mental toll has been 
pervasive. Amidst the pandemic, global protests,  and an extremely contentious election, the 
Centers for Disease Control reports elevated cases of  diagnosable mental health disorders among 
Americans. Of course, having some eggnog in November won’t completely undo the trauma 
caused by 2020, but experts do recommend  finding little bits of joy in everyday life to combat  
quarantine-related depression. As sung by Andy Williams, the holiday is “the most wonderful 
time of the year,” and many people could benefit  from extending that season a little bit longer. 
Moreover, that “holly jolly” happy feeling is backed by science. Christmas time can actually 
change your hormones  and prompt your  brain to produce more feel-good chemicals. For 
example, people’s brains automatically produce more dopamine if they are around Christmas  
decorations. Additionally, Christmas music is intentionally structured in a way  that is more 
pleasing to the brain and releases extra serotonin. The neurological effects are so strong that 
some scientists  actually use holiday music  in treating intense stress or chronic pain. 
Perhaps the most significant reason why people are happier during the holidays, however, is 
that many people get to spend the holidays with their families. 2020 has put extra stress on 
families, especially considering economic hardships and political divides. With this in mind, 
many aren’t excited to go home for the holidays. This being said, spending time with family 
is the  strongest indicator  of joy. Collective joy rises during the holidays because many people 
are lucky enough to spend that with loved ones. Having decorations up activates the 
nostalgia centers in your brain and reminds you of your loved ones, putting you in an overall 
better mood.
The holiday season is proven to be a more joyful time  for most people, and starting  
celebration a little early might be a small way to add more happiness into people’s lives. If 
the holidays aren’t your thing though, don’t feel pressured to partake in celebrating. The pain 
of 2020 won’t be erased by an extra-long holiday season; however, it can be made more 
bearable by finding little ways to bring joy into your life. Do you love Halloween? Keep  
wearing your Spooky Season gear. Do you miss early March when you still thought COVID 
wasn’t that big of a deal? Here’s a recipe for homemade Shamrock Shakes. Do you absolutely 
love Christmas? It’s ok to start listening to Michael Bublé’s “Christmas” album even though 
it’s still November.
Especially in 2020, there is no timeline on activities that bring you happiness.  
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 It’s Not Too Early To Decorate For Christmas 2020 - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 Target, Welcome to the Jungle - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020   Nelson Espinal
The addition of Target to the shopping ecosystem at UCSD presents a battle for a  
generation of customers. 
At the start of Library Walk, the UC San Diego Bookstore used to house two floors of 
exclusively UCSD merchandise and some textbooks. Then in 2018, remodeling began that 
shut down the entire second floor of the building. The shutdown culminated in a new store 
entering the shopping center.
The second floor of the bookstore features a 19,000-square-foot Target that offers a variety of 
food, apparel, and health essentials. The store attempts to streamline their usual 100,000 ft2 
model into a small scale store that provides what students need on a day-to-day basis. 
“Target’s small-format campus stores are each unique and provide a curated assortment of 
products and services tailored to the specific needs and wants of the students, staff and 
faculty, B UCSD stated  through Blink. “Typically the customized assortment of goods and 
services offered trends toward basic daily goods for immediate needs and create a
personalized, locally relevant shopping experience.”
While all students are welcome to the store and its presence fits with a variety of students, 
Target is specifically reaching out to students on campus. There are no public parking 
spots around the store, making it inconvenient for outsiders to come and shop. Only those 
around campus will frequent the store on a day-to-day basis. 
With the nearest Target being 15 minutes away, students on campus will receive more 
accessibility for those who do not have a car or simply don’t want to deal with the bus 
system.
The ease of use to students is similar to Amazon, another UCSD partner, whose platform is 
centered around curtailing the ordeal of leaving campus just to make a quick shopping run. 
The comfort comes from the ease of use within the Amazon center and the large variety of 
items they provide.
Amazon, back in 2016, was the new kid on the block. Amazon launched an Amazon hub in 
the bottom floor of the Bookstore that features various lockers so students would not have 
to worry about lockers around campus being full. 
Staff would help students with returns or simply smooth out the learning curve that came 
with the Amazon platform. 
“It can be especially difficult for college students to get the things they need in a fast and 
easy way, particularly with college mailrooms being overloaded,” an Amazon spokesperson 
said to The San Diego Union-Tribune. “Amazon@UCSanDiego is a way for us to better 
serve UC San Diego students, faculty, and staff so they can easily and safely pick up their 
packages at times that are convenient for them.”
UCSD uses the traffic that the Amazon lockers generate to complement the Bookstore as 
well with merchandise and other items readily available for students to pick up on their 
way out. Tom Bonetati, director of the UC San Diego Bookstore, addressed the value that 
Amazon presents UCSD students in a statement on the UCSD website.  
“Because Amazon offers such great value, this will also create an environment in the 
bookstore that drives us to be a better retailer — finding products at better prices, offering 
unique services and providing an exceptional customer experience.”Target, Welcome to the Jungle - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 Target, Welcome to the Jungle - UCSD Guardian
Back then, Amazon’s prices allowed for students to have textbooks at either retail price or 
below, which competed directly with the Bookstore, which could only sell at retail price. On 
top of the price differences, the rental prices and used textbooks available gave students  
flexibility if they were not happy with the retail prices at the Bookstore.
Amazon’s stock, combined with the Bookstore, gave students an ease of access regardless of 
the platform that they went with. The competition for business ended up providing options 
for students so the textbook-buying process would not be as centralized. 
Now, Target enters the picture as a competitor that directly rivals with more aspects of 
Amazon’s platform and the Bookstore as well. The battle between the traditional brick-and-
mortar stores and the giant online store begins with different approaches. 
Target wants to create a traditional feeling of comfort that comes with going to a store and 
walking through the aisles. The instinctual nature of entering a store is exactly the feeling 
Target is playing into. Growing up, students are taught to go to these stores if they need 
something or to see what is new. 
On the other hand, Amazon captures students that have grown accustomed to their 
reliability. Gene Del Vecchio, a professor who teaches marketing at the University of 
Southern California, spoke to The Union-Tribune about the different tactics the companies 
are employing.
“They’re battling Amazon, which offers Amazon Prime memberships at half-price to college 
students,” Del Vecchio said. “Target believes that if you get students early, you’ll have them 
for life.”
The deal Amazon offers students is a six-month free trial of Amazon Prime, a service that 
offers free shipping on most items along with access to Amazon’s on-demand media suite. 
After the six months, students pay a reduced rate compared to other customers. This deal 
falls under the “Prime Student” initiative. 
Both companies employ an approach that generates long-term loyalty to either company 
and that style of shopping. 
The differing styles of the companies’ vision for shopping make UCSD a battleground of 
sorts. Their proximity of each other will test which method of shopping is preferred by this 
generation of Tritons. Accessed: 11/16/2020 Target, Welcome to the Jungle - UCSD Guardian
UCSD is now in the middle of this struggle, with two of its partners dueling. In a recent 
statement to Blink , the school attempted to pour cold water on the idea that there is going 
to be a competition, emphasizing both companies as important to the school. 
“A UC San Diego Campus Retail Vision and Strategy is in process and indicates that there is 
more than enough demand for a small-format Target,” a UCSD spokesman told students 
through Blink. “The potential inclusion of Target on campus will not change the status of 
Amazon as an important campus partner.”
While the faculty views the addition of Target as a move that does not affect Amazon, some 
students at UCSD are already choosing sides. 
“I don’t know how much of the store I am going to be using,” a Roger Revelle College senior 
who wishes to remain anonymous told The UCSD Guardian. “I rely on Amazon so that I can 
get around the whole ‘brick and mortar’ thing. Their catalog is just too big and they have 
been so reliable.”
On the other side, there is appeal for off-campus students who roam around campus waiting 
for classes or a ride. This group of students benefit from having a store to get a few items 
they need or simply browse the clothing or snack section.
“Even though I am not on campus, I feel like the Target store is more my vibe for sure,” a 
Seventh College freshman anonymously told The Guardian. “When school opens up, I’m 
going to head there some times to kill time between class or study sessions. It is awkward to 
live on campus and order things to school, so I’ll be relying on that store.” 
The division between these two students displays the contrast between circumstances and 
how they alter and influence people’s preferences. The students on campus might give the 
Target a shot in order to get items immediately, but still use Amazon for other items. The 
commuter students might pop in to the Target to casually shop while they wait for class or 
want to take a study break. 
The audience Amazon and Target are going after is getting younger with college students 
receiving plenty of investment as a customer base. The strategy to create a long-term 
consumer is not a foreign economic strategy, however the platforms are now clearly making 
a geographical investment as well as a brand-based one. After Jeff Bezos shared plans to 
start a school where “the child is the customer,” the future may end up leading to preschools Accessed: 11/16/2020 Target, Welcome to the Jungle - UCSD Guardian
with Amazons lockers.
Art by Ava Bayley for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Provides COVID-19 Guidelines on Leaving Campus for Fall Break - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020  Lindsey Choo 
With the Thanksgiving holiday in a few weeks, UC San Diego Housing Dining Hospitality has  
rolled out specific COVID-19 guidelines for undergraduate students living on campus. Over  
Fall break, Nov. 26–27, students living on campus are offered three options: to continue  
staying on campus, to leave and return for Winter Quarter 2021, or to leave and return for 
the rest of Fall Quarter. 
Students who choose to stay on campus through the break are able to resume in-person 
courses, research and activities after Fall break. They are also able to socialize in groups of 
up to three under UCSD’s ‘Three’s Company’ Pilot Program, with guidelines stating that they 
must be outside, wearing face coverings, and observing physical distancing at all times. 
Students are also expected to complete the daily COVID-19 Symptom and Exposure 
Screening regardless of location.
Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Provides COVID-19 Guidelines on Leaving Campus for Fall Break - UCSD Guardian
According to a campus-wide notice issued by the Office of the Chancellor, students who are 
leaving  campus for home over Fall break are highly encouraged to remain at home for the  
remainder  of Fall Quarter and complete their courses remotely. 
As stated in a press release  by the UCSD News Center on Nov. 5, as a general rule, students 
who  need to leave campus overnight or for more than 18 hours must notify their Residential 
Life staff through the Housing Portal by completing the “Returning Home After Move-In” 
form.
For students who plan to leave and return at the beginning of Winter Quarter 2021, the  
prorated balance of their fall housing contract will be applied towards a room credit in the  
winter housing contract. The “Returning Home After Move-In” form must be completed  
through the Housing Portal by Nov. 20 for the credit.
Upon their return, students must sequester in their unit for 14 days. As defined in the above  
press release, sequestration means that students are required to wear face coverings within  
their residential unit, with the exception of the shower and personal bedroom, along with  
maintaining physical distance within their residential unit. When outside of the residential  
unit, students are required to wear face coverings at all times, except while eating or  
exercising, and practice physical distancing.
Students in sequestration are allowed to attend in-person classes and participate in campus 
activities, but will need to schedule their own asymptomatic test. Students must be tested at  
least three times — once within 24 hours of their return, another within five days, and again 
within 10 days. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in disciplinary action. 
If a student tests positive for COVID-19, they will be moved immediately to isolation housing,  
and will not be able to attend in-person classes and campus activities until they are cleared 
from isolation.
When asked about their thoughts on COVID-19 guidelines on campus, Krysia Olszewska, a 
fourth-year cognitive science student living on campus at Eleanor Roosevelt College as a 
Residential Assistant, told The UCSD Guardian that she wished there was more transparency 
from the school, but it is slowly improving.Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Provides COVID-19 Guidelines on Leaving Campus for Fall Break - UCSD Guardian
“For example, we all thought there was some kind of notification system for when you’re  
supposed to get your test and there wasn’t, and I talked to my supervisors about this, like  
how am I supposed to tell my residents when to do it?” Olszewska said. “They’re supposed to  
do it every two weeks, do they get a notification or something like that? That’s why there’s  
this email link system now that reminds you. That wasn’t in the plan originally and we were  
confused so we all reached out to Return to Learn.”
In an email toThe UCSD Guardian, Christine Clark, the Assistant Director of University  
Communications spoke on behalf of HDH, stating that they are dedicated as a community to  
make [UCSD] an exemplar of caring and responsible behavior.
“The success of our plan is dependent on the full support of our community in following  
campus safety requirements,” Clark said. “[This includes] wearing a face covering, practicing  
physical distancing, completing the daily symptom and exposure screening, and washing  
hands often.”
On Nov. 10, San Diego County shifted to the purple tier, the most restrictive tier in  
California’s color-coded COVID-19 tiers. According to UCSD’s COVID-19 Daily Dashboard, 
UCSD’s average positivity rate, at  approximately 0.6 percent as of Nov. 13, is significantly 
lower than that of San Diego County,  which is at approximately 3.8 percent as of Nov. 13. 
“At this time, Institutions of Higher Education follow these guidelines, dated September 30,  
2020,” Clark said. “All decisions about following this guidance are made in collaboration with  
local public health officials and other authorities. At this time, if San Diego County moves  
into the purple tier there will be no changes to higher education operations at UC San Diego.  
Auxiliary campus industries (e.g., Target) may be affected.” 
More information on UCSD’s Return to Learn Program  as well as the most up-to-date travel 
recommendations can be found at their respective websites.
Photo courtesy of Tanya Bharatula for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Scientists Receive DOE Grant for Renewable Plastic Research - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020   Zhuoying Lin
Two UC San Diego bioenergy projects have been selected by the United States Department 
of Energy to get funding for their research.  Receiving $4 million of funding in total, these  
researchers will work to develop bio-based renewable plastic.
The Plastics Innovation Challenge, initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy, provides 
funding opportunities to accelerate innovation in reducing plastic waste in oceans and 
landfills. As principal investigators of the two individual projects, UCSD Professor of 
Chemistry and Biochemistry Michael Burkart and Professor of Nanoengineering Jon 
Pokorski will each use the funding for their continuing research on biodegradable 
polyurethane and degradable thermoplastic polyurethanes, respectively.
Polyurethane is a durable plastic material with wide applications such as coating other 
products, furniture and footwear. It is made from reacting organic compound polyol with 
diisocyanates, both of which are derived from crude oil, a type of nonrenewable fossil fuel  
formed by decomposition of ancient organic matter.  
Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Scientists Receive DOE Grant for Renewable Plastic Research - UCSD Guardian
Burkart was awarded $2 million for his project  on making biodegradable polyurethane 
products from environmentally friendly algae. 
“It’s interesting that when polyurethane was first discovered back in the 1930s, it was  
biodegradable, but the idea was to make it last forever, so they engineered out the  
biopolymers to make the material long lasting,” Burkart said. “We’re revisiting and picking  
up [the old idea] back again.”
Along with colleagues Dr. Skip Pomeroy and Dr. Stephen Mayfield, Burkart has spent the  
past years making commercial products such as flip-flop footwear, surfboards and athletic  
shoe midsoles up to 50 percent biodegradable. Published  in September, the  team’s 
research discovered that polyurethane foams could be formed with the polyol in algae  oil. 
The DOE grant will support the next stage of research, which is to develop bio-based  
diisocyanates, hence increasing the renewability of the final product.  Burkar’s lab utilized 
the technique of flow chemistry to synthesize diisocyanates in-flow from algae-derived 
organic matter. Their method was published in May.
“Our goal is to get the bio-content greater than 80 percent,” Burkart said. “We are really  
excited about that.”
As part of the three-year funded program, the research team will also identify the 
breakdown products and evaluate their toxicity after the bio-based polyurethane foams 
decompose in a natural environment, such as a backyard compost pile.
Pokorski, on the other hand, works with degradable thermoplastic polyurethanes, which is 
different from polyurethane in structure. Pokorski’s research focuses on incorporating 
microbial spores to promote TPU biodegradation. Spores are resistant to the temperature 
and hard chemical conditions required to form the bio-incorporated materials. They can 
also potentially improve the rigidity of TPU without impacting its endurance.
Pokorski will evaluate the stability and activity of the bio-integrated TPU, while his 
colleague and co-principal investigator, Dr. Adam Feist, research scientist at UCSD, will 
further optimize the non-pathogenic microbial strain for the degradation process. 
The successful outcome of the research will mark the first-of-its-kind biodegradable TPU. Accessed: 11/16/2020 UCSD Scientists Receive DOE Grant for Renewable Plastic Research - UCSD Guardian
The two researchers are members of the recently launched Institute for Materials 
Discovery and Design  at UCSD, whose mission is to apply advanced materials  to achieve 
higher sustainability. 
Photo courtesy of Rudolph and Sletten.Accessed: 11/16/2020 Athletes Across America Went on Strike in August. Has Anything Changed? - UCSD Guardian
Athletes Across America Went on Strike in August. Has 
Anything
Changed?
 November 15, 2020    Praveen Nair
Nearly three months ago, the American sports world saw three days of athlete strikes over the 
police  shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Beginning with the Milwaukee Bucks 
choosing not to come  out of the locker room for their first-round playoff match against the 
Orlando Magic on Aug. 26, games  were postponed in the NBA, WNBA, MLB, MLS, and NHL. 
It was a surprisingly rapid display of collective  action, with the shutdown going from a mere 
rumor to a sports-wide phenomenon in hours. So given the  historical gravity of the situation, 
why, when leagues resumed play soon after, did it feel like little had  changed?
The sprawling nature of the strikes is relatively novel in the history of American sports. The 
only other external events that have forced NBA games in multiple cities to be postponed 
were the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr., the 9/11 attacks, and 
the COVID-19 pandemic. But this was the first time that the initiative for stopping a game 
was a player-driven protest, although the Los Angeles Clippers considered doing so in the 
2014 playoffs after the public revelation of racist comments by owner Donald Sterling.
Accessed: 11/16/2020 Athletes Across America Went on Strike in August. Has Anything Changed? - UCSD Guardian
In fact, according to reports from an informal NBA players’ meeting held the night of the Bucks’ 
protest,  both Los Angeles teams, the Clippers and the eventual champion Lakers, voted to  
cancel the remainder of  the season  outright. While it  doesn’t seem that we ever got close to a 
complete end to the season, the fact that players from around the  league, including majorities 
of two teams, voted to do so is massive. So, once again, given the  unprecedented nature of these 
strikes in American sports history, why did the sports world mostly move on,  relegating these 
strikes mostly to a footnote of this season?
For starters, it’s clear that the amount of risk that players took was limited. From the beginning 
of the  strikes, the message from the NBA league office was that players wouldn’t be disciplined 
for choosing not to  play games, and any potential financial loss would have paled in comparison 
to the 25 or so percent hit  players took anyway due to lost revenue caused by the pandemic. 
Across sports, players had the benefit of  leagues that had their backs when it came to protests, 
although owners and fanbases, of whom plenty  disagreed with the strikes, are a different story 
entirely. It’s interesting to consider the potential difference  in reaction if, say, a week of NFL 
football had been postponed, given  football’s larger, more conservative fanbase and its fraught  
history with player protest.
Another recurring issue with player strikes is that it is very difficult for the general public to see  
multimillionaire athletes as the labor classes. With the exception of smaller leagues such as the 
WNBA,  where the league’s rank-and-file are decidedly middle-class, major professional athletes 
significantly out-earn most Americans. Placing LeBron James, with over $1 billion in career 
earnings, in the same box as,  say, teachers striking for better pay in West Virginia, is a  
Herculean mental task. We saw these storylines  play out earlier this year surrounding MLB 
players’ negotiations of the parameters for the 2020 season —even if players can very well be 
exploited by their owners, middle- and working-class fans will have little  sympathy for them.
Then there’s the debate over whether or not these events constituted a strike at all. While Rep. 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) called them a strike and not a boycott, as players withheld 
labor as opposed to  capital, James, the NBA’s de facto leader, himself called it a boycott; some 
also referred to the  events as a walkout. The answer lies somewhere in between — while Ocasio-
Cortez is correct that players  withheld labor in a wildcat strike, it is important to note that most 
players had no intention of extending the  strike in order to meet certain demands. Accessed: 11/16/2020 Athletes Across America Went on Strike in August. Has Anything Changed? - UCSD Guardian
While there were certainly some murmurs that the league might have been cancelled, for the 
most part, players signaled that their choice not to play was temporary. The concessions that 
players extracted from  the league — the formation of a social justice coalition, the use of 
arenas as voting sites, and voting-rights  commercials during games — may not have been 
achieved any other way, but they were still relatively  minor. The strikes were planned to be 
temporary, and especially after they grabbed two days of the news  cycle from the end of the 
Republican National Convention, all about making a point.
But did that point get made? 
It’s hard to tell. We are at a place with political polarization in American life where the idea 
that anyone  changed their minds due to athlete strikes is almost laughable; some  
conservatives,  including White House  senior adviser Jared Kushner, said that such actions 
might even make viewers less likely to support Black Lives Matter and police reform,  
espousing the unrealistic yet understandable maxim that politics should stay out of sports. 
The NBA did suffer massive ratings drops in the 2020 bubble, although these have been 
observed in nearly every sport  and are therefore unlikely to be the  result of the league’s social 
justice movements.
But even though the immediate consequences of the strike were relatively few, there definitely 
was a shift in  the league’s tone as play continued. The Denver Nuggets’ Jamal Murray gave an 
emotional postgame  interview about racial injustice after scoring 50 points to force a Game  7 
in a first-round series against the Nuggets, with the faces of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor 
on his shoes; LeBron James similarly cited the focus on social change in accepting the Finals 
MVP award. Most of all, the league emphasized voting, as players registered to vote in  record 
numbers, and the league promoted a LeBron-led voting initiative, More than a Vote. Of 
course, as with every other get-out-the-vote program by liberal  institutions this year, the 
message to vote had the unstated goal of removing President Donald Trump from  office.
While it might have been a footnote in the history of both this NBA season and the 2020 
election, in one area, the NBA may have actually had a significant impact on the outcome of 
the presidential race. After the player strike, many teams announced that they would offer 
their stadiums as voting locations. Likely the most vital of these stadiums was State Farm 
Arena in Atlanta, Georgia, home of the Hawks, where 40,000 early votes were cast. Given 
that, pending a recount, Joe Biden leads the state by just over 14,000 votes, it is entirely 
possible that the Hawks’ facilitation of early voting in heavily Democratic Fulton  County 
flipped the election; at the very least, additional voters have pushed the margin to a  level suchthat a Biden win is extremely likely, rather than the extended legal battle we might have seen  
had Georgia’s recount been conducted after an election decided by a few hundred or couple 
thousand votes.
There’s just as interesting of a story with the WNBA team that shared State Farm Arena with 
the Hawks last  season, the Atlanta Dream. The Dream is co-owned by Republican senator 
Kelly Loeffler, who will face  Democrat Raphael Warnock in a runoff election in January to 
retain the seat she was appointed to in 2019.  Loeffler describes herself as the most 
conservative member of the Senate and has touted her 100 percent  rate of aligning with 
Trump’s positions on FiveThirtyEight’s Senate vote tracker ; in July, she wrote a letter to the  
WNBA  denouncing its support of the Black Lives Matter movement. 
So it goes without saying that Loeffler isn’t particularly popular among the players on her 
team. Dream players, along with dozens across the league, went so far as to wear “Vote  
Warnock” shirts before games;  they along with the WNBA players’ union  have denounced 
Loeffler and called for the team to be sold. Atlanta is at the epicenter of American politics in 
the runup to two January runoffs that will decide the balance of the Senate, and even if sports 
teams are among an uncountable number of forces that will decide the election, when the 
margins are as thin as they are, every vote counts.
Perhaps three months still isn’t enough time to gauge the late-August player strikes in full 
context — after all, had the results in Georgia looked a little different, one might have 
concluded that they were a failure. Certainly, it looked to many as if the strikes were wider 
than they were deep, especially given that they were more of a one-time protest than an 
extended strike for change. But perhaps their most important impact will be the precedent 
they set, whether or not we ever see a similar general athlete strike again. Despite what many 
fans, including Loeffler, will say until the end of time, politics and sports will always be 
intertwined — because they always have been.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 Athletes Across America Went on Strike in August. Has Anything Changed? - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 11/16/2020 Newly Appointed UC President Drake Answers Questions on Pandemic, Other Issues - UCSD Guardian
 November 15, 2020  Jose Chavez
The newly-appointed University of California President, Dr. Michael V. Drake, held a Q&A  
panel exclusive to UC student-journalists on Nov. 10 at 1:30 p.m. PST. Drake answered many  
inquiries regarding how he plans on leading the UC Board of Regents in the coming years,  
including issues of the pandemic and current political environment. 
Correspondents from The UCSD Guardian asked the UC Regents president about how his 
diverse medical and academic background will contribute to his performance.
“I became the first practicing medical doctor to become a chancellor, which came with 
skepticism: what does a medical doctor know about running a campus?” Drake said.
Drake has published numerous articles, co-authored six books, and served as a reviewer for 
several medical journals, including the Journal of the American Medical Association. 
Additionally, he has spent nearly two decades as a faculty member of the UC San Francisco
Accessed: 11/16/2020 Newly Appointed UC President Drake Answers Questions on Pandemic, Other Issues - UCSD Guardian
Medical School, nine years as the chancellor of UC Irvine, and 2014 to last July as the  
president of The Ohio State University. To this effect, he stated that the general training he  
received as a medical doctor allowed him to be an effective leader across a variety of  
disciplines, especially those in the UC system.
The questions meandered from the UC system’s response to the pandemic to how the  
President’s connection with the president-elect will benefit students and faculty.
Journalists from UC Berkeley and UC Irvine started the panel off with questions on the topic  
of the pandemic. A writer for The Daily Californian posed a  question specifically regarding 
sentiments held by UC labor organizations regarding austere  measures  that would 
necessitate staffing cuts or tuition hikes.
Drake voiced his dedication to protecting low income workers in the UC system.
“The university, along with many aspects in society have been impacted … [some decreased  
revenue] was restored by the Federal Care Act … We have had a hiring and firing freeze,  
travel decrease, and many things to budget,” Drake said.
Drake stated that the Federal Care Act, a hiring-and-firing freeze, a decrease in travel, and  
many more changes to the budget will be the first step in restoring the decreased UC system  
revenue. This and the “Access, Affordability and Excellence” strategic plan  was cited to 
reassure additional concerns about increased tuition as remote learning  continues. Drake 
claims that the UCs will continue to remain among the most affordable universities in the 
nation.
“We think that affordability access is a cornerstone to a successful education,” Drake said.  
“UCs are often seen as the best value universities in the country and should continue to be a 
hallmark.”
Additionally, as a writer for UC Irvine’s official campus newspaper “ New University”  
pointed out, there has been an air of mystery around the implementation of COVID-19 
testing and the universality of its methodology. While university testing wasn’t adequate 
initially, Drake believes the UC system has held up especially well, pointing to the half a 
million tests administered throughout the UC system and the focus on sensitivity. 
On the topic of national politics, writers from The Highlander asked about what Drake 
thought about the results of the election this year.Accessed: 11/16/2020 Newly Appointed UC President Drake Answers Questions on Pandemic, Other Issues - UCSD Guardian
He was especially disappointed that Proposition 16 — a measure taken to legalize affirmative  
action within the state of California — didn’t pass. He reflected upon the grievances he held  
towards diversity and inclusion in the 1990s, including an argument with then UC Regent,  
Ward Connerly, on the topic. 
Drake is still optimistic about the future prospects of diversity, especially because  Chicano/
Latino students were the largest ethnic group of admitted freshmen, up 34 percent from the 
previous year.
Additionally, he believes that the Biden-Harris administration will bring plenty of aid to the  
efforts championed by the UC system. Drake says that the UC system’s $2.1 billion deficit 
brought about by the pandemic will be largely  closed under the new administration. He 
congratulated the Biden-Harris team on their  victory, citing that he knows both of them on a 
personal level. Vice President-Elect Kamala  Harris is a graduate of the UC Hastings College 
of Law School in San Francisco and  President-Elect Joe Biden cares deeply about higher-
education. Drake particularly wants  help from the new administration on ensuring DACA 
students’ protections are clarified.
As he closed the session, Drake mentioned that instruction will remain mostly virtual for the 
rest of the year, as he thinks vaccines need a lot more time for testing. With lots of 
movement taking place during the holiday season, he wanted to encourage all students to be 
safe when with family members.
Photo courtesy of the University of California.