Accessed: 11/24/2020 DisreGuardian: A Definitive Guide to Surviving Thanksgiving With Politically Hostile Friends and Family Members - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020   Marcella Barneclo 
Editor’s Note: This is a DisreGuardian satire piece
So, you want to go home for the holiday season. Well, I commend your bravery during these 
times. I completely understand that you’re feeling emboldened by the recent results of the  
presidential election, but are you really prepared for this? Do you have your fact sheet 
ready? Are your arguments solid and foolproof, but simple enough that even your younger  
cousins at the kids’ table can understand? Are you sure? 100 percent positive? Not a doubt 
in your mind? I sensed some hesitation there, but don’t worry, I’m here to help. However, if  
you’re looking for facts, genius arguments, and genuine advice, you won’t find them here.  
Here are some (illegitimate) tips and tricks for surviving a holiday with politically hostile  
friends and family.  
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 11/24/2020 DisreGuardian: A Definitive Guide to Surviving Thanksgiving With Politically Hostile Friends and Family Members - UCSD Guardian
1.Be prepared for anything.
Mentally prepare yourself, because things could get rough out there. Come up with some game 
plans, escape routes, anything to ensure survival. Queue up your favorite playlist beforehand 
to get that adrenaline pumping (I know you have a hype playlist lying around somewhere). 
This is the moment you’ve been waiting for. This is the culmination of months of preparation. 
This is your time to shine --- be tolerant . 
2.Take a shot of sparkling cider every time someone mentions Trump and voter
fraud.
Honestly, there is not a lot that you can do in this situation (reference point four for more 
details). It’s highly likely that you will run out of Martinelli’s Sparkling Cider before the night 
is over. At that point, panic and drive away; it’s really the only sensible thing you could do.  
3.Burn a Trump flag in the backyard (to be used in extreme circumstances).
Now I’m sure everyone in the family knows you’re the “snowflake” with the left-leaning,
“socialist” views, so why not go all in and have a little fun while you’re at it? Maybe your family 
will come to their senses and you can all roast some marshmallows over the campfire that is, 
conveniently, already lit thanks to you. You might end up with some crispy pieces of cloth in 
your s’mores, but it was totally worth it.  
4.As those penguins in “Madagascar” once said, “Smile and wave, boys, smile
and wave.”
Sometimes politics just isn’t worth arguing over. People are often deeply rooted in their ideas 
and opinions, and no amount of undeniable facts coupled with scientific evidence that you 
throw at them is going to change their mind. I’m not saying you have to validate their 
opinions, but the attention you give them will most likely only encourage them to stay 
obstinate and immediately discredit anything you say. Not to mention, you’re most likely just 
playing into their narcissism and selfishness, so take a deep breath and let it go. While this 
may be difficult and frustrating to accept, I promise that you’ll save yourself a lot of time and 
heartache by realizing that some battles simply can’t be won. Wait a minute, that advice was 
actually kind of good…  Accessed: 11/24/2020 DisreGuardian: A Definitive Guide to Surviving Thanksgiving With Politically Hostile Friends and Family Members - UCSD Guardian
5.Need some relaxation? Lock yourself in the bathroom and scroll through  your
choice of meaningless social media!
Personally, I recommend TikTok. It’s all the rage these days, and while the “For You” page is 
scary accurate — which is disconcerting on so many levels — the entertainment and escapism 
it provides is top notch. Trust me, you won’t find the same amount of emotional gratification 
on Instagram when you scroll through your old high school classmates’ posts and stories. Do 
you really want to read that Fall-and-leaves pun in Jessica’s caption? I didn’t think so.  
6.Hide behind a mask, literally.
Try planning an outfit before the big dinner event, and buy a nice mask to match the whole 
ensemble. Masks are the new accessories, right? Or is that just large corporations trying to 
profit off of a global pandemic by making masks fashionable? Or could it be a marketing 
scheme to make masks trendy and pretty to encourage people to wear them? Ah, capitalism 
makes for a fun guessing game. Anyway, point being, use the rise in mask usage to your 
advantage. Hide that grimace or scoff with more than just a fake cough or other not-so-subtle 
hand motion you commonly use to cover your face. 
7.Do your best to avoid realizing that you’ve made a huge mistake.
All the political talk has grown incessant and you’re tired of hearing it. It’s almost a guarantee 
that at some point in the evening you’ll begin to miss sitting in your quiet dorm room doing 
homework, and that’s when you know you’re in trouble. Who misses homework? People on 
the brink of madness, that’s who. If (or when) you reach this point, try your best to remain 
calm. This is a great time to try some meditation exercises and good coping skills that you 
most likely haven’t been employing since your arrival at college. Though, if you’re anything 
like me, then just revisit point five for more details.    
While I’m still not entirely confident that you haven’t gone completely mad by allowing 
yourself to be exposed to awkward, veiled bigotry in the form of political discourse over a 
family dinner, I have a final piece of actual advice: always leave with love and forgiveness. All 
jokes aside, these people are your family members, and it’s important to practice rising above 
hate no matter what. I know that you are frustrated and angry and hungry for an open-
minded world because I am too. However, we have to be the ones to shape that world, and it 
all traces back to love and forgiveness. Anyway, I hope to see you in one sane piece when you 
get back, and maybe we  can grab a celebratory dinner at the Bistro when all is said and doneAccessed: 11/24/2020 DisreGuardian: A Definitive Guide to Surviving Thanksgiving With Politically Hostile Friends and Family Members - UCSD Guardian
(after we all quarantine and get tested, of course). Good luck and may the odds be ever in 
your favor.
Art by Kalo Grimsby for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 11/24/2020 Stalled By Stigma - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020  Sparky Mitra
How a history of both action and silence foreshadowed the failure of President Trump’s  
America in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic
Contagious. Hope, healing, and action are all contagious. But so is a virus. So is stigma. So 
is inaction. Sadly, the Trump administration falls decidedly into the latter category. 
Infection has plagued our country, yet our government has done nothing. While Americans 
make up less than 5 percent of the world’s total population, we make up 20 percent of the 
world’s COVID-19 cases. Throughout history we, as a nation, have faced many hardships, 
but it is the actions of our leaders which have determined our subsequent triumphs. In our 
criticism of the incumbent administrations’ effectiveness, we have long held the key 
towards tackling our crises.
Citing their fear of big government, conservative lawmakers and officials have shunned the 
idea of any type of restriction. They claim that any mandates to keep Americans safe would 
largely stunt economic growth and prosperity. But an economy is built on people, and with 
the safety of the people, we can ensure the continuing strength of our economy. In a time of
Accessed: 11/24/2020 Stalled By Stigma - UCSD Guardian
crisis, care for the people translates handsomely to economic growth. Rather than  gaining 
the trust of Americans in our federal capabilities like President Roosevelt did during  the 
Great Depression, President Trump continued to encourage the people to dread any  
government intervention. When our nation’s leader does not trust his own institutions, it is  
our job to restore faith in them.
Glancing back at the trials and tribulations our nation has faced, we can begin to 
understand  why our current approach is doomed to fail. During the Great Depression, FDR 
invested in  the people. In a time where confidence was lost in stock investments, he worked 
to rebuild  that confidence: not with checks alone, but with jobs and monetary security with 
serious  banking reform. He closed banks, which in the short term might have hurt 
panicked Americans trying to withdraw their money from the institutions that had 
swallowed their  savings. In the long term, however, he paved the way for a system where 
banks were held  accountable for funds with which they were entrusted. The leadership-
motivated erasure of  stigma towards government intervention led to everlasting success. 
When FDR closed the banks, he was thinking of Americans’ prosperity in the long term.  
When Trump kept the country and its stores open, he thought about his popularity in the  
short term. During the COVID-19 crisis, Donald Trump refused to back the people. His lack  
of investment in contact tracing ensured the vast reach that this pandemic has gained. His  
refusal to enforce lockdowns or limits on gatherings locked our nation in a downward spiral 
where every day we are breaking records of new coronavirus cases. In a time when we were 
decimated by a deadly virus, he spurned safety and masks. Even with many of us 
Americans taking proper precautions, there remain thousands who heed the president’s 
counsel exclusively. In the heat of the Great Depression, we as a country united behind 
common sense reforms. Conservatives and liberals succeeded in understanding the plight 
of much of the country. Minimal inconveniences were endured by the fortunate as they 
waited for their destitute neighbors to regain their financial grounding. 
In the face of the Great Depression, FDR knew that the “nation ask[ed] for action, and 
action now,” (First Inaugural Address). But Mark Meadows, a senior official under 
President Trump, deemed it impossible to fight our crisis, stating in a  CNN interview  with 
Jake Tapper that “[They were] not going to control the pandemic.” 
President Trump is not the first to utilize stigma to shirk his responsibilities in light of an 
epidemic. While Trump hid his inaction behind the facade of favoring small government, 
Reagan hid his abysmal AIDS response behind the facade of condemning homosexuality. InAccessed: 11/24/2020 Stalled By Stigma - UCSD Guardian
a time of crisis, these leaders’ silence was, and still is,  deafening. Trump’s inaction, like 
Reagan’s, for  any reason, led to and continues to guarantee  that Americans will contract the 
virus at increasing rates. Rather than stigmatizing death,  loss, and suffering, President 
Trump shamed government-sponsored aid to ensure our safety.  He has halted major action 
by tainting the role that the government has successfully played  in previous crises. Rather 
than setting aside personal philosophies behind LGBTQ+ rights or  economic prosperity to 
construct a national action plan, we let our presidents’ personal  rhetoric encourage our 
negligence. 
Our current progress has been stalled by stigma from the upper echelons of our government.  
But it is “We the People” who decide who represents us, and it is also “We the People” who  
get to decide what matters most: a sense of faux liberty or a guarantee on life. Do all of us  
truly have a right to “Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness” if our blind faith in the  
president’s skepticism puts others in harm’s way? This is not about political ideology. Just as  
temporarily closed banks did not bankrupt Americans, a temporary mask mandate does not  
enslave us. The stigma surrounding perceived tyranny is far from reality. Yes, our nation’s  
executive branch currently stands on one side of this issue, but it is our job to counter their 
narrative. It is our job to follow science. It is our duty to accept rational regulation. It is time 
to stigmatize any position that causes preventable death during this pandemic.
Art by Yui Kita for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Grand Army" - UCSD Guardian
TV Review: “Grand Army”
 November 22, 2020   Hanaa Moosavi 
Netflix original “Grand Army” attempts to make waves in show production with  
performative narratives including Muslim-American representation and a focus on the  
female experience.
Last month marked the release of several Netflix original shows, including the hit show
“Grand Army.” “Grand Army” is a melting pot of four different character stories, all taking 
place in the heart of New York City’s high schools. While this show harbors the beginnings 
of creative risk with the different narratives they give a voice to, the show is still seen as an  
attempt from Netflix to ride the coattails of the HBO show “Euphoria.” While the main focus  
of the show is directed towards white feminist Joey Del Marco (Odessa A’zion), secondary 
character Dominique “Dom” Pierre (Odley Jean) deserves the spotlight, or more accurately, 
the screentime.
Accessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Grand Army" - UCSD Guardian
“Grand Army” begins its season with a myriad of avenues of plot exploration: a terrorist  
attack, racial injustice, sexual assault, questioning sexuality, etc. The show sheds light on  
many issues that are not often discussed on screen; however, these issues are not given  
enough attention in “Grand Army” to make a difference. The only plotline that is given the  
majority of screen time is Joey Del Marco and her narrative of sexual assault. Joey Del Marco  
is a white woman who engages with performative feminism and miscalculates racial politics  
with little-to-no regard for the consequences. Modeled after writer Katie Cappiello’s play
“SLUT,” a play about the impact of slut-shaming and slut culture in modern society, Del  
Marco’s character development and narrative are given the most screen time and  
consideration in writing, taking away from the other plots that are arguably more interesting.
Dominique Pierre is a Haitian-American woman who undergoes many hardships in order to  
make opportunities for herself. She takes care of the children in her family while also  
managing house financials, attending school, and keeping up with her extracurriculars. Leila  
Kwan Zimmer (Amalia Yoo) is a Chinese adoptee who struggles between identifying with the  
whitewashed, slightly Jewish childhood she grew up in and her obvious ties to Chinese  
culture. There is an added feature of animating Zimmer’s daydreams that serves to elevate  
her indecisiveness with her identity and how starkly different it is to her reality.  
Unfortunately, the show barely uses this added feature, making the moments of animation  
feel thrown together and incohesive.
Lasty, Siddhartha Pakam (Amir Bageria) brings a new narrative: the Muslim-American 
experience after a terrorist attack. After only getting a taste of this narrative after the release  
of A24’s “Ramy,” it was refreshing to see an on-screen portrayal of how directly impacted  
Muslim-American students were after an immediate terrorist attack in their city. He also  
struggles with his family’s cultural boundaries and the ways in which they affected his  
sexuality. All of these characters, although briefly mentioned in this article, were equally only  
briefly mentioned in “Grand Army.” There are many interesting stories behind the secondary  
characters. However, if a viewer were to become distracted while watching the show, they  
would miss them. Cappiello misses opportunity after opportunity, maintaining the main 
focus on Del Marco and only touching on explosive narratives that are rarely seen in modern 
television. It is refreshing to have many main characters in “Grand Army” be women and 
have their plots focus on the female specific experience. When Cappiello writes narratives 
that she actually can speak on, the plots are executed well; unfortunately, the narratives that 
would generate the most audience traffic as well as elevate the quality of the show are 
narratives that Cappiello cannot speak on. Accessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Grand Army" - UCSD Guardian
A direct parallel to Joey Del Marco is Katie Cappiello in her  performative plotlines and 
miscalculation of plot diversity. Cappiello is a white woman  writing about narratives of 
Muslim-Americans facing racial backlash after a terrorist attack  and the racial discrimination  
towards black students, and it is not appropriate. She does not  have the firsthand experience  
of these narratives, and she is profiting off their uniqueness  and appeal to the current  
political climate. The brief moments of racial injustice that are only  revisited when the plot 
becomes less interesting shows that Cappiello might have only added  those factors to make  
“Grand Army” relatable and palatable to the BIPOC viewers scrolling  through Netflix.
Author: Hanaa Moosavi, Senior Staff Writer  
Grade: C  
Created By: Katie Cappiello  
Starring:  Oddly Jean, Odessa A’zion, Amalia Yoo 
Release Date:  October 16, 2020  
Rated: TV-MA
Image courtesy of Rolling Stone.Accessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Enola Holmes" - UCSD Guardian
TV Review: “Enola Holmes”
 November 22, 2020   Deyshna Pai  
Enola Holmes’s wit and charm excuse a plot that at times lacks clarity.
Based off of Nancy Springer’s novels, Enola Holmes (Millie Bobby Brown) is left to fend for 
her future when her mother, Eudoria Holmes (Helena Bonham Carter), disappears from the 
family estate on her 16th birthday. One might think that the arrival of her brothers, the 
famous Sherlock and Mycroft, would provide Enola with a sense of comfort in such trying 
times. However, this is not the case in late 19th century London as the misanthropic Mycroft 
(Sam Claflin) and kind, but aloof, Sherlock (Henry Cavill) are more preoccupied with 
sending Enola to finishing school to rectify her social impropriety and lack of education. It 
seems to Mycroft that Eudoria homeschooled Enola in literature, history, science, and 
martial arts —but nothing “useful.” Determined to uncover the truth about her mother, who 
is the key to protecting her independence, Enola flees the manor, stumbling upon a new plot 
and a new friend in the form of Marquess Tewkesbury (Louis Partridge), all while evading 
her brothers and Inspector Lestrade (Adeel Akhtar). 
Accessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Enola Holmes" - UCSD Guardian
“Enola Holmes” is a charming film, though at a run time of two hours, it can sometimes feel a  
bit long. There are times when the plot and multiple storylines can be a bit confusing, but the  
occasional lack of clarity is hardly disengaging with Millie Bobby Brown on screen. In a  
typical Conan Doyle story, mysteries are formally presented to Sherlock who proceeds to  
solve the case in a structured, clever manner. Enola, on the other hand, has a very different  
style — her independent, spirited nature lands her in the midst of others’ troubles, and at  
times this chaos can make the plot feel vague. For example, an assassin threatens her and the  
Marquess’s survival on a train for some ambiguous reason that is not revealed until later on  
in the film. This kind of “find trouble now, investigate later” pattern is repeated in the movie  
which can be confusing by assigning importance to drastic scenes while simultaneously  
glossing over why these events are significant. As Enola recurrently finds herself in such  
situations, viewers have to just accept the events that unfold, trusting that all will be revealed  
in the end. 
One of the movie’s biggest strengths is its cast. Brown captures viewers’ attention with  
impeccable comedic timing and self-aware quips to the camera. Through breaking the fourth  
wall, Brown gives Enola an omniscience other characters lack — making viewers feel like they  
have a secret friendship with the protagonist — adding to the amusing quality of her  
performance. Henry Cavill’s Sherlock is sentimental and emotive compared to other versions,  
while Sam Claflin turns Mycroft into a misanthropic meme; but the character dynamic  works. 
Sherlock comes to respect Enola’s intelligence and understands how her place in the  world is 
threatened by viewpoints similar to the one Mycroft holds. Helena Bonham Carter as  Eudoria 
Holmes is briefly present at the beginning and ending of the film, but her  effervescence and 
commitment to empowering her daughter through knowledge makes her  character feel 
everlasting. 
Furthermore, the setting of Suffragette London is a nice background for the events of the film 
and Enola’s character arc as an independent young woman who doesn’t conform to societal 
expectations. The costumes are aesthetically pleasing, and the incorporation of purple, green, 
and white colors is an ode to suffragette movements. In looking for her mother, Enola finds a 
speaker event that includes the names of real suffragettes, and reads Wollstonecraft during 
her homeschooled education. It’s details like this that tie the movie together and make its 
moving parts, plot, and characters feel like a cleverly pieced puzzle, even if it does take to the 
near end of the film to make sense of it.Accessed: 11/24/2020 TV Review: "Enola Holmes" - UCSD Guardian
Grade: A- 
Creator: Nancy Springer 
Starring:  Millie Bobby Brown, Mary Parent, Paige Brown, Ali Mendes, Alex Garcia 
Release Date:  Sep 23, 2020 
Rating: PG-13
Image courtesy of The New York Times.Accessed: 11/24/2020 San Diego County Officially Shifts to the Most Restrictive Purple Tier on November 14 - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020   Nikita Cardozo 
Following two weeks of increasing COVID-19 cases, San Diego County must now abide by  
new  restrictions under California’s purple tier in an effort to slow the spread of the virus. As 
of Nov. 22, San  Diego County has averaged 1,004 new cases per day, which equate to 12.1 
cases per 100,000 residents.  
Under purple-tier restrictions, indoor operations like restaurants, gyms, places of worship, 
and areas of entertainment must close until the county moves back to the red tier. Shopping  
malls may remain open at 25-percent building capacity with no food courts open. Public  
schools may continue in-person or hybrid learning if they were doing so prior to the purple-
tier designation. Only essential services like groceries and healthcare facilities will be allowed 
to remain open. Furthermore, a temporary month-long curfew has been placed from 10 p.m.  
to 5 a.m. starting on Nov. 21, which prohibits residents from gathering in other households  
between these hours.  
Accessed: 11/24/2020 San Diego County Officially Shifts to the Most Restrictive Purple Tier on November 14 - UCSD Guardian
In light of the purple tier restrictions, UC San Diego has shifted all classes to remote-learning 
for the  remainder of Fall Quarter 2020 in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus. All UCSD 
students living  on campus are required to wear face masks indoors  — attending class, working,  
purchasing essential  goods, and in apartments and suites  — except when they are in their own 
dorms and showers. Masks  must be worn outdoors except when one is doing strenuous physical  
activity and is at least six feet away  from others.  
Moreover, socially distanced gatherings around campus are limited to three people, instead of  
the previous five.  Students living on campus will be tested weekly instead of biweekly at no cost. 
For students that leave  campus and engage in any unmasked activities, they will need to be  
sequestered for 14 days and tested  on the first, fifth, and tenth days from their initial return.  
“As a first year, it’s been hard getting to know people on campus and creating relationships with  
professors and classmates,” Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman Kate Merritt said to The UCSD  
Guardian. “Luckily, UCSD is a very outdoor-friendly campus and there are a lot of safe ways to  
hang out  with roommates, like socially distanced picnics, hikes and trips to the beach.” 
Nov. 21 marks the 11th consecutive day of more than 600 new COVID-19 cases daily. The county  
reported a 4.7 percent positivity rate on Nov. 20, compared to UCSD’s 0.2 percent. As of Nov.  
21, San  Diego County has had 70,709 total cases since the start of the pandemic. Of these cases, 
6.2 percent have required hospitalization, and 1.4 percent required admittance to the intensive  
care unit.  
“These totals show [that] people are not following the public-health recommendations that we 
know work to prevent getting and passing COVID-19,” Public Health Officer for San Diego  
County, Dr. Wilma  J. Wooten, said to ABC10. “[People] need to follow public health guidance  
throughout the upcoming  holiday season.”Accessed: 11/24/2020 San Diego County Officially Shifts to the Most Restrictive Purple Tier on November 14 - UCSD Guardian
Although San Diego County is implementing stricter policies, some students feel the county 
isn’t being strict enough. The high numbers and hospitalizations leave some students worried 
about the direction  the county is going in. Despite this, many students are pleased with the 
measures UCSD has taken to  slow the spread. 
“[I am] concerned that the current plan for the county is not working and needs to be stricter 
…possibly a four-to-six-week shutdown with paid leave funded by the federal government, 
similar to Italy’s past plan,” Sixth College senior Kyle Clark said to The UCSD Guardian. 
“UCSD is doing a good  job with limiting visitors to campus and doing regular testing, contact 
tracing, and one person per  room.”
While many originally believed that young adults were not in serious danger of COVID-19, it 
is clear  that that is no longer the case. Researchers from the American Medical  Association 
have found that of the 3,222 young adults admitted to US hospitals for COVID-19 in the  
second half of spring 2020, 21 percent required intensive care and 2.7 percent died. 
The World Health Organization  has further noted that long-term  implications for individuals 
that recover from the virus include decreased concentration, weakened  immune systems, 
muscle pain, and intermittent fevers. In a telephone survey of young adults aged 18-34, WHO 
reported that 20 percent noticed that their COVID-19 symptoms were prolonged. 
FREE COVID-19 testing at 50+ locations in San Diego County.
Find locations and more info at coronavirus-sd.com
County of San Diego - GovernmentCounty of San Diego - Government
on Saturdayon SaturdayAccessed: 11/24/2020 San Diego County Officially Shifts to the Most Restrictive Purple Tier on November 14 - UCSD Guardian
“If everyone gives up and doesn’t try to stop the spread, the rules placed on us will never be 
lifted and  people will keep dying,” Clark said. “It’s even proven that risk of severe 
complications for our age group  is not as low as people think … we need to do our part to 
protect others and ourselves.”  
With the rise in COVID-19 cases around the country, many people have decided not to travel 
home for  Thanksgiving. In order to help connect friends and family through the holiday, the  
video-conferencing  platform, Zoom, announced that all users will be able to have free calls  
without a time limit from 12  a.m. on Thanksgiving day to 6 a.m. on Black Friday.
As San Diego transitions into the purple tier, state and local health officials are urging 
residents to  follow COVID-19 guidelines to limit the spread of the disease. If you would like 
to learn more about the  county’s reports and further guidance, please refer to their  
coronavirus website.
Photo courtesy of Getty Images.Accessed: 11/24/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Triton Food Pantry, UC Carbon Offset Policy, On-Campus Parking - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020  Lindsey Choo 
This edition of the UC San Diego A.S. Council Meeting news update will only include the  
Week 7 meeting. The Week 6 A.S. Meeting was cancelled for unspecified reasons.
The A.S. Council Meeting on Wednesday, Nov. 18 included special presentations regarding 
the Triton Food Pantry and the UC Carbon Offset Proposed Policy. The Council went on to  
hold brief discussions on the topics of campus parking and UCPD’s hiring of mental health  
professionals, ending with a vote on the cancellation of the Week 9 A.S. meeting.
After roll call, the Triton Food Pantry began their presentation with an introduction of who 
they are, along with their usage data and budget review. The Pantry is an emergency food 
resource service with two locations on campus:the Student Center A next to Soda and 
Swine and the Graduate and Family Housing on One Miramar Street. To help food-insecure  
students, the Pantry provides a discreet grocery service and builds a network of food  
resources regarding health and nutrition.  
Accessed: 11/24/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Triton Food Pantry, UC Carbon Offset Policy, On-Campus Parking - UCSD Guardian
Based on internal data, about 78 percent of students visited the Pantry at least once, and the  
number of students using the Pantry has significantly increased from 6,666 in the 2015-16  
school year to 19,754 in the 2019-20 school year. Their total expendable income for the 
2020-21 year is projected to be $628,340 and total expenditures is projected to be $405,904, 
with a  surplus of $222,435. 
The presentation was followed by another regarding the UC Carbon Offset Proposed Policy.  
The policy is part of the UC Carbon Neutrality Initiative  aimed at reducing greenhouse gases 
emitted at UC San  Diego to 1990 levels by 2020 and achieving carbon neutrality from scopes 
one and two  sources by 2025 and scope three sources by 2050. Scope one relates to all direct 
emissions, scope two is indirect emissions, and scope three is all other indirect emissions.
“We have done a lot as far as dedicating resources, money, and time in implementing  projects 
on our campus, going through significant amounts of retrofits in our buildings  through our 
energy efficiency and energy-management program,” Michelle Perez, the UCSD  
representative of the  Carbon Abatement Technical Committee, said. “We also participate in  
purchasing clean power through our direct access contract with the UC Office of the  
President who is our energy service provider for the La Jolla campus.” 
The proposed policy will prioritize direct reductions of emissions from the covered three  
scopes, only use high-quality offset credits, and serve as a model for other higher education  
institutions. Additionally, it will advance university research and support student education.  
It will also reportedly exhibit health and social justice benefits for the UC communities.
The finance committee then reported that they are reviewing the budget to consider possibly 
changing certain expenditures, along with reviewing items A.S. has funded in the past. 
Harper Estus, Off-Campus Senator, then moved to open a moderated caucus on the topic of 
parking on campus for Winter Quarter 2021. Clayton Allen, Campus-Wide Senator, 
commended the transport office for keeping parking accessible during Fall Quarter 2020. 
Other senators were in agreement, with the general consensus being that this quarter’s 
parking system works well and should be continued. 
“I noticed that the current system where they have the D permits interchangeable with the S 
spots and B spots has been going well. In terms of feedback, continue that. If possible, even 
promote it so that it’s interchangeable with A spots as well,” Isabella Ying, Physical Sciences 
Senator, said. “Aside from that, as noted, people seem pretty content with the current parking 
[system].”Accessed: 11/24/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Triton Food Pantry, UC Carbon Offset Policy
, On-Campus Parking - UCSD Guardian
It was also reported by Adrianna Blackshire, Marshall Senator, that UCPD expressed  
intentions to instate experienced mental-health professionals to respond to mental-health  
emergencies. However, concrete documents relating to UCPD’s budget and how these  
professionals will be hired have not been made public. 
After multiple reports on projects the various A.S. offices are working on, the legislative  
committee approved items L3 and L4,  the two new appointments to the Office of Spirit and 
Athletics. Item  L2 was tabled till Week 9. Item L1 was amended to read the correct year of 
2020-21 and  amended to include correct pronouns, as well as tabled till Week 10. 
The cancellation of Week 9 A.S. a meeting in observance of the Thanksgiving holiday was put  
to a vote, with a vote of 24 yes, zero nos, and one abstention. 
A.S. Council meetings take place every week and are open to the public. Students can be a  
part of these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S. website.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/24/2020 A Party Fail - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020   Nelson Espinal 
 The 2020 Presidential Election coverage left students in a state of anxiety and stress which  
proved to be unifying. UC San Diego attempted to neutralize some of the unease through  
conversation and planning.  
The buzzword for the 2020 election was “doom-scrolling.” — the act of constantly refreshing 
Twitter or your favorite news outlet in order to see if the mail-in votes from Maricopa  
County had come in yet. With so many students getting information from social media,  
Election Night consisted of anxiety about the pace of the election just as much as the result.  
xDating back to 2016, stress about the election was a phenomenon that would affect the  
performance and lives of students. A student’s identification and ideology played a role in  
how much stress a student had on election night. 
According to a study done by Dr. Melissa J. Hagan for the Journal of American College  
Health, the stress about the results of the election had effects that would extend into the  
days following the election.   Accessed: 11/24/2020 A Party Fail - UCSD Guardian
“One out of four students met criteria for clinically significant symptoms related to the  
election. The high level of event-related distress is concerning because elevated symptoms of  
event-related stress are predictive of future distress and subsequent PTSD diagnoses.”
On top of the ramifications for just any student, there is a specific concern for young adults  
that are involved in therapy. The compounding effect of having to deal with personal mental  
health issues and the stress of the election can further aggregate one’s mental health.  
Those students who receive any sort of therapy or counseling showed setbacks in their  
progress according to a study done by J.S. McCarthy. Their findings illustrate the impact  
that this “doom-scrolling” can have on young  adults processing their own inner challenges.  
“We found that on measures of interpersonal conflict and problems with control in  
relationships, clients were making progress in therapy up until the election, then suffered  
setbacks in the period following the election, returning near to the point at which they  
entered treatment. On other types of relational problems, like non assertiveness, clients  
showed improvement with therapy. Tension in interpersonal relationships was especially  
heightened after the election among younger and REM individuals.”
The longer term effects studied during the aftermath of the 2016 Presidential Election 
places more focus on the election that recently passed.  
A Thurgood Marshall College senior voiced how the election further amplified their mental  
health issue: anxiety. The student was left very traumatized from what happened and 
altered their appetite for politics.  
“I have some pretty bad anxiety on a daily basis already, but it was really bad on election 
night. It was really rough to deal with the conspiracy theories and the incoming votes. I had 
no clue who would win and I still don’t even feel comfortable with the result right now. I  
learned my lesson this year, I won’t be watching election night coverage again.”
While the stress felt on election night from college students remained non-partisan, the  
current polarized political climate presents an amplification of concern for the future of the 
country. Students who are minorities and “Never-Trumpers” felt more anxiety about the  
outcome of the election than other students according to a study done by Dr. Lindsay Holt.  Accessed: 11/24/2020 A Party Fail - UCSD Guardian
“We observed a high, and increasing, negative effect leading up to the election across all  
participants. Young adults who had negative perceptions of Trump’s ability to fulfill the role  
of president and/or were part of a non-dominant social group (i.e., women, ethnic/racial  
minority young adults) reported increased signs of stress before the election and on election  
night.”
Election Night took place on Nov. 4 this year. The race featured the incumbent President  
Trump facing off against the challenge from Delaware, former Vice President Joe Biden. The  
election took an unprecedented turn in March as the pandemic ramped up to an extent that  
made it clear the election this year would be different. 
The pandemic specially adds a layer of unease due to the changes in the voting process and  
the months of isolation that students have already endured. The consequences of prolonged  
isolation are already well documented. The stakes of this specific election, according to Pew  
Research, were larger  than past  years. 
“Currently, 83 percent of registered voters say it really matters who wins the presidency, up 
from 74 percent four years ago and the highest share saying this in two decades of Pew 
Research Center surveys. Nearly identical shares of registered voters in both parties say it 
really matters who prevails; other indicators of engagement with the election are equally 
high among Republican and Democratic voters.”
While anxiety persisted through the average American voter, Inside Higher Education  
released  the results of a survey conducted surrounding college students and their stress 
levels about the election. The findings illustrate the heavier burden that students felt on a 
political level compared to even their own academics.
“In data collected this month, we found that the majority (75 percent) of college students 
indicated that they were “stressed out” by the current election. Students reported higher 
levels of sociopolitical stress compared to general psychological stress (based on responses 
to a widely used measure of perceived stress).”
The culmination of the factors intensify the actual night filled with “Key Race Alerts” as 
states are being called all night long. Certain states were called as soon as their polls closed 
due to the data showing that it was not possible for a candidate to win with the outstanding 
vote. Accessed: 11/24/2020 A Party Fail - UCSD Guardian
The pattern at the beginning of the night was similar with around 40 states being called by 10  
p.m.. The outstanding states that remained were all swing states, meaning they would
determine the winner of the election.
The main swing states were Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsalvania, Georgia, and Arizona . The 
states all featured results that showed Donald Trump winning the  election with the 
outstanding mail-in ballot count dragging into the following days. The  question for the rest of 
the night was whether or not there were enough votes for Biden to  win. 
The vote count remained in a constant state of flux as votes were being dumped from certain  
counties. A Roger Revelle College sophomore suffered from the unconventional counting of  
votes both mentally and academically. 
“Election Night was horrible. I had a few assignments to complete, but I barely finished them 
with a subpar effort. I kept waiting for results from Florida, Wisconsin, and Michigan. I 
couldn’t stop refreshing the Apple News app along with watching ABC News. I didn’t know 
whether to sleep or not after it was known that the mail in ballots wouldn’t be counted.”
Conspiracy theories were crafted during the time when people went to sleep claim that a 
variety of voter fraud was happening all over the country. From ballots being dropped off out  
of nowhere to more people than were registered, the theories ran awry on the internet.  
UC San Diego planned for this type of information and prepared staff to handle it in a guide 
sent out to faculty members.
“Leading up to the election, there were concerted efforts to help alert voters about 
misinformation and disinformation campaigns. Unfortunately, these issues did not go away 
with the passing of the election. Help students navigate through the myths that have come up 
since the election.”
The school prepared for the conspiracy theories with a plan to ease students through what are 
myths and what is the truth. 
Inside Higher Education  proposed the creation of plans for schools to tackle the broader issue 
of stress when it comes to the election. Their ideas range from conversations for all types of 
challenges students may go through to allocating dedicated time for students to reach out to 
counselors. Accessed: 11/24/2020 A Party Fail - UCSD Guardian
“Outside the classroom, colleges and universities might consider facilitating workshops on  
effective communication and de-escalation techniques for difficult conversations about  
divisive issues. At times when socio-political events are especially salient — for example, this  
week before a national election — faculty and administrators might work together with  
clinical staff and counselors to provide programs, dialogues and spaces for students to meet  
with counselors.”
Revelle offered a space for students to talk about these results among other students or staff 
through two separate Zoom links. Revelle Student Affairs hosted one of meetings and a group 
of Revelle students moderated another Zoom conference call. 
On top of the college-specific organization, the political science department held a Zoom 
panel with four political science professors: Dr. Pamela Ban, Dr. Seth Hill, Dr. Thad Kousser, 
and Dr. Tom Wong. The topic of the meeting centered around where the election stands two 
weeks removed from Election Night. The panel targeted the lingering anxiety from the  
various recounts in certain states  and the lack of concession from President Trump. 
The result of the 2020 election ended with President-Elect Joe Biden becoming the 46th 
President of the United States. There still remain legal challenges from the Trump campaign, 
but they seem unlikely to manifest into anything concrete.
While the country is seemingly breathing a sigh of relief, the aftermath of the election leaves 
lasting effects on the mental health of students. The seemingly never-ending cycle of votes 
being counted remains a negative experience for most students. The uneasiness even to this 
day shows how the birth of resentment towards the political process begins at college. 
In today’s political climate, the one, true non-partisan statement remains that Election Night 
2020 was not fun. 
Art by Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/24/2020 Edwards, Wiseman, Ball Headline an Unusually Timed NBA Draft - UCSD Guardian
 November 22, 2020   Hayden Wellbeloved
The NBA Draft took place last Wednesday, marking the start of the already exciting 2020  
NBA offseason. In such a strange year, prospects from both college and overseas have  
patiently waited to be drafted since early spring. And to make this situation even more  
unprecedented, these new draftees will now have to get acclimated quite quickly for the 
2021 season, which starts on Dec. 22. Enough talking, though — let’s get into the draft.
For a few months leading up to the draft, there had been a consensus top-three class of elite 
prospects: Anthony Edwards, James Wiseman, and Lamelo Ball. To no surprise, these 
hoopers were the first ones off the boards, making for a chalk beginning to the draft. 
Although these top three all have elite qualities and traits, they are all respectively very 
different.
Atlanta native and SEC Freshman of the Year Anthony Edwards went No. 1 overall to the 
Minnesota Timberwolves, giving them a formidable trio of Karl-Anthony Towns, D’Angelo 
Russell, and Edwards — all great scorers. After trading away Andrew Wiggins last year, the
Accessed: 11/24/2020 Edwards, Wiseman, Ball Headline an Unusually Timed NBA Draft - UCSD Guardian
Wolves lacked wing scoring, and often relied on rookie Jarrett Culver to be that guy for them  
down the stretch. In Edwards, they are getting quite easily the best player in the draft, and  
the potential for a future offensive superstar who can score effortlessly at all three levels of  
the court. And while he certainly needs to devote more effort on the defensive side of the ball,  
once he learns to utilize his 6’9” wingspan, opposing wings are going to be in trouble. His  
college coach Tom Crean said he’s “never had a player like Edwards before,” which is heavy  
praise coming from someone who coached Victor Oladipo and Dwyane Wade. For the first  
time in a few years, the Wolves could have a deep playoff run to look forward to.
Just hours after announcing the devastating news of another brutal injury to future Hall of  
Famer Klay Thompson, the Golden State Warriors selected James Wiseman second overall.  
Some wondered whether the injury to Klay would sway their pick, but they did the right thing  
by taking the best player available in Wiseman. Standing 7’1” with a 7’6” wingspan, the  
former top-ranked ranked high school player will be a seamless fit into the Warriors pick-
and-roll offense, and will provide them with a much-needed shot blocker — something  
they’ve been missing in their starting lineup since Kevin Durant arrived at Golden State.
The polarizing Lamelo Ball had his name called next by the Charlotte Hornets. Lamelo will be  
a very intriguing watch in the NBA due to his lack of competition playing overseas and  
controversial route to the league. The sky’s the limit for Ball, however, as he has elite size for  
a guard, and from day one will be one of the league’s best passers. In his experience playing  
for professional basketball teams, he has proven no moment is too big for him, but ultimately  
his ceiling will come down to whether or not he’ll become a more consistent shooter and  work 
on his mechanics just a bit. Pairing Ball with the newly signed Gordon Hayward and  Devonte’ 
Graham will make for one of the more exciting backcourts to watch this year.
After this first trio of picks, there was a bit of a lull, as there were no trades until the back half 
of the second round. In the past two NBA Drafts, there had been five trades within the first 10 
picks combined, but this time, potentially due to the lack of tape on prospects due to 
COVID-19, no teams seemed eager to move up. 
One draft-day faller was Dayton’s Obi Toppin, who was selected by his hometown New York 
Knicks at eighth overall. After winning the Wooden Award last year and shooting the rock at 
an astounding 64 percent, he seemed like a top-five lock. While he may lack lateral quickness, 
he is a terrific all-around scorer and will hopefully assist the Knicks’ trek back to contention 
in the coming years. Accessed: 11/24/2020 Edwards, Wiseman, Ball Headline an Unusually Timed NBA Draft - UCSD Guardian
While there were undoubtedly many hidden late-first- and second-round gems drafted last  
Wednesday, I think one of the more underrated selections to value was Tyrese Maxey to the  
Philadelphia 76ers at 21st overall. Part of the reason the Sixers haven’t had great success with  
both Embiid and Simmons is because of the lack of floor spacing, which was exacerbated  with 
the departure of JJ Reddick last offseason. Although not an elite outside shooter, Maxey  
excels both in shooting off the dribble and catch-and-shoot, and does so with swagger and  
confidence — something currently missing in Philly. His 83 percent from the free-throw line  
demonstrates his shooting ability, and if he can continue to improve upon that 3-point  stroke, 
Daryl Morey will look like a genius in his first draft in Philadelphia.
Many players found new homes last week, and with such a quick turnaround to the start of  
the season, don’t be so surprised if it takes the rookies some time to become accustomed to  
the pace and size of the NBA game. With already so many trades and new free agent signings,  
however, there is no doubt this season will be another exhilarating one. Last year, rookie Ja  
Morant took the Grizzlies to the play-in game out of nowhere — who will that rookie be this  
year?
Photo courtesy of Katie Dugan / Gamecock Central