Accessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not Lower T uition and Fees due to COVID-19" - UCSD Guardian
 May 12, 2020   Guest Writer
Dear Editor,  
Today (5/11/20) I read one of the opinion piece “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not 
Lower Tuition and Fees due to COVID-19.” I felt that the post was inadequate in its 
argument and had some arguable points and flaws. Here is my opinion on the 
COVID-19 situation and how I felt UCSD and the UC system in general failed both the 
student population and faculty. 
I had many discussions about the relief or refund of the student activity fees with my 
parents. I feel that university is largely unjust in taking my student fees while campus is 
closed. My father thinks otherwise. He explained this in an analogy (although he, too, 
pays for paying some of it). It goes something like this: To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not Lower T uition and Fees due to COVID-19" - UCSD Guardian
Dad: “For any car to be on the road, the owner of the car needs to pay car registration 
fees to  the DMV, regardless of whether that car is in use or not. Like right now, when 
there is a  limited permission for people to be outside and traveling around, drivers still 
need to pay for  the car registration, because the roads are there whether you like it or 
not, and they need to  be fixed, maintained, and used, if not by you, then by someone 
else.” 
But there is a logical flaw to this analogy he made to UCSD’s student activity fees. The 
public  road, freeways and highways can still be used if I choose to during the stay-at-
home order. During any point of the quarantine, the driver has the freedom to be on the 
roads. But the  library, gyms, classrooms, university centers and its events are not 
available during this time.  Even if we choose and want to use it, we cannot, because these 
facilities are closed due to the  pandemic. This unavailability of service is why I am 
making a case for a refund of the student  activity fees, even if it is partial, as well as 
addressing the university’s bigotry of less fees  equals to laying off workers, putting the 
burden of facility and staff management on students  rather than their incompetent 
decisions before the pandemic. 
University of California collects these “student activity fees” every quarter. UCSD’s 
student  financial solution lists these fees as Student Service Fees, Campus activity fees, 
University Center fee, ICA Student Activity fees. These fees range from $200 a year to 
more than $1,000  a year, depending on what they are. There are very little explanations 
for these fees,  TritonLink puts vague language such as “construction and operation of the 
Student Centers,”  and “services that benefit the student.” I had contacted the student 
business center in my  first year to ask about these fees. The student employees as well as 
the staff were not able to  give me a clear explanation but reiterated that these fees had to 
be paid to register for the  classes. Summing up the university fees give roughly $2,000 a 
year per student and  estimating forty thousand students in UCSD gives a whopping $80 
million just by student  fees alone. 
Despite paying these large sums of money, many students do not know where these fees 
are headed. One example is the college activities fees. During Earl Warren College’s vote 
on returning the $9 student activity fee, I discovered that 23% of Warren’s college 
activity fee was going to financial aid. I do not think that financial aid should be getting 
less funding; I, too, receive financial aid from UCSD. However, I am more concerned 
about the fact that students do not know where these funds are headed once we pay them 
every quarter. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not Lower T uition and Fees due to COVID-19" - UCSD Guardian
During a regular school year, we have the option of participating in many student events,  
going to the gym, attending classes in a classroom, going to the Geisel to study, or utilizing  
many services that UCSD has to offer. Some of these services are still virtually functional.  
However, many of these services UCSD offers has now been shut down, including 
facilities,  library, gym, and classrooms, and a refund of student fees should reflect the 
unavailability of the services that are provided to the students. With no students, there 
wouldn’t be a need for  lights, nor projectors, speakers, automatic doors, elevators, air 
conditioners, or bathroom use, which can be returned to the students. University’s claim 
that the student fees are  needed to maintain the buildings are rather illogical, considering 
that they are unused  entirely by the student body. 
In response to the issue of unemployment due to refunding of the fees, I agree that  
unemployment is a valid and national concern. I am an employee who was asked to not 
come because of the pandemic, and my parents are home without pay, relying on the 
government assistance because their workplace closed with COVID. However, I still think 
there is room  for refunding fees. I do not believe that the entirety of $2,000 is used for 
hiring employees.  This is where the title of the article should have been used: “Change My 
Mind: I do not think UC needs $2k per student to keep its employees.” In fact, I am afraid 
that these giveaways  that various student services are having on social media may be the 
replacement for the  student activity fees. Although giveaways are slightly better than 
having Zoom yoga and at-home craft lessons for $2,000 a year, I would prefer that these 
fees be returned to the  students instead. I am disappointed at the university’s decision to 
hold such mundane  “events” and perhaps try to justify collecting the student fees. In that 
case, students  essentially “bought” our raffle tickets, and for the high ticket price, I would 
rather use that at  a casino instead for similar odds, or better yet, use it for our daily needs 
like rent, food, or paying back unsubsidized loans. 
Thus, the call for a refund of these fees is rather a protest against how the university was 
not transparent about how these fees are used, and to use the clause of furloughing 
workers for the refund of these fees feel like an unreasonable demand and a tantrum by 
the UC system. 
The issue of refunding fees is bigger than returning the fees itself; it is an issue rising out 
of the university’s neglect on the students’ well-being before the pandemic, and the 
administrators’ focus on raising revenue through more constructions while bringing down 
the quality of student life even before COVID-19 had started. The complaints start with 
the issues of parking fee  adjustment during summer, overcrowding in the public transport 
throughout the year, plans  for 7th and 8th college, high-revenue and mandated diningAccessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not Lower T uition and Fees due to COVID-19" - UCSD Guardian
hall system, restricting on-campus housing guarantees as well as maximum units for 
financial aid, and refusing COLA  for graduate students. Complaints against UCSD’s 
actions continue down a very long list, and  show the university’s reluctance, as well as the 
UC Regents’ disinterest in student well-being  and students’ rights, and their desire to 
pursue revenue over the students they are to serve in  public universities. Thus, when 
these universities cry for help and funding during difficult  times, students are more 
reluctant to say yes, because the university had forsaken the  students first. 
The article also mentions the student activity fees will not be impacting the low-income  
students, to win the pathos of the readers. The mention of UC Blue and Gold program is  
valid, as UC Blue and Gold scholarship does provide for the low-income students. 
However, I would like to mention that to my knowledge, and confirmed by a financial aid 
officer, UC  Blue and Gold scholarship is essentially CalGrant aid. When a student is not 
eligible to get  the CalGrant, but qualifies in low-income status, Blue and Gold scholarship 
acts as the  replacement to cover the tuition-related expenses. Cal-Grant, however, is only 
eligible for  covering the tuition part of the bill. Essentially, Blue and Gold does not pay for 
the student  activity fees, but some of the other grants help pay the fees, including a 
combination of Pell  Grant (FAFSA), and UCSD grant, which were not mentioned in the 
article. 
I am ultimately vouching for the students who will be leaving the university with 
substantial  student debt. Many students will not realize the extent of the student debt’s 
power in the  adult years. For government-subsidized loans, students must begin paying 
the debt back with  interest six months after graduation (without referral due to approved 
causes), and  unsubsidized loans start gathering interest the moment they are disbursed to 
the students.  These debts can follow the student even after bankruptcy, and usually take 
upwards of 20  years to pay back. Many middle-income students, as well as some low-
income students will  come out of the college experience with a bundle of financial debt to 
repay. To provide direct  relief to these loans that students are suffering should be the first 
step the university takes.  Keeping the student fees is the exact opposite of that, for both 
low- and middle-class  students.
However, I am not in support of a lawsuit against the UC systems. The class-action 
against the UC system will bleed out the universities, allowing the lawyers to profit from 
the fight and hindering the educational process for future generations of students. I for 
one want to stay in the San Diego area, work in a lab funded by UCSD, and work on the 
progress for science and knowledge as UCSD has pursued. However, I also hope the UC 
systems, and UC San Diego can realize the truth to its students’ needs, and actAccessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to “Change My Mind: UCSD Should not Lower T uition and Fees due to COVID-19" - UCSD Guardian
accordingly, starting with even a partial  student fee refund, and leading to more 
transparency about the fees. If a lawsuit should scare  the UCs to do that, then I will go and 
support the lawsuit, for the Universities need to stop taking advantage  of the students who 
are pursuing a better life and opportunities through higher education. 
I also do not agree with a refund of the tuition. The quality of education has been lowered,  
granted, despite the Chancellor’s claim for maintaining the academic standards and rigor.  
However, I do see and appreciate each faculty’s effort to adjust to the new setting and make  
the necessary calls to make this the best experience for each student. They, too, are people  
after all, and I cannot expect them to be good at something they have not done in their  
professional careers. I applaud their efforts during this difficult time to teach the students 
to the best of their abilities. 
We are all in difficult times, university and students alike, and no one can “measure” each  
individual’s amount of difficulty and proclaim someone is in “less difficulty” than another.  
However, the UC system taking the student fees and threatening to fire more employees as 
a result of returning the fees seems like putting the weight of university maintenance solely 
on the students’ burden. How about the administrators, deans and the chancellor taking up  
these burdens for a change? They will not, and rather hide behind a wall of excuses that  
continues to disappoint the student body. These acts continue to make college students the  
ultimate victims of financial crises. That is why I am disappointed in the UC system and  
UCSD, and that is why I support refunding the student fees. Change my mind. 
Thank you, I’ll wait for your reply. 
Joseph Oh
3rd year UCSD Student
Photo courtesy of Joseph Oh.Accessed: 6/8/2020 COVID-19: Governor Proposes 10% Reduction in UC State Funding; Reallocation towards Pandemic Relief - UCSD Guardian
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
The University of California is set to take a 10 percent cut in state funding under 
Governor Gavin Newsom’s proposed 2020-2021  budget,  which was released on 
Thursday, May 14. The proposed change is in response to the redistribution of state 
funding to other sectors of the economy as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Newsom’s original budget, which was released in January, included an additional 
$217.7 million for the UC’s core educational spending ability.
This new budget reflects an approximately $338 million cut in funding to the UC, as 
well as a$398 million cut to the California State University system. May 14, 2020   Jacob SutherlandAccessed: 6/8/2020 COVID-19: Governor Proposes 10% Reduction in UC State Funding; Reallocation towards Pandemic Relief - UCSD Guardian
UC President Janet Napolitano issued a statement  on the new budget shortly after its 
release, stating that  she and the UC administration would support the Governor’s actions.
“The University of California recognizes the unprecedented challenges California is facing 
in the wake of COVID-19 and regrets that Gov. Newsom was put into a position to steeply  
reduce the University’s budget in response to the State’s dramatically diminished 
revenues,” Napolitano said. “Regardless, UC stands with the governor and the legislature 
to help lift the  State out of this economic crisis.”
UC Student Association President Varsha Sarveshwar expressed in a public statement on 
the matter that he looks forward to continuing to work with the Governor to provide future  
funding for students in light of the pandemic.
“The UC has faced severe budget impacts of over $1.2 billion as a result of the COVID-19  
crisis so far,” Sarveshwar said. “UC students will be looking to the federal government to  
meet its responsibility during these times to provide our state with vital aid to help support  
our state. We also look forward to our continued engagement with the Governor and the  
legislature in supporting our students and vulnerable communities in the path ahead.”
The new budget is expected to pass and be signed into law later this summer.
This is a breaking story, and the UCSD Guardian will continue to monitor it as it 
develops.
Photo by David Paul Morris for Getty Images.Accessed: 6/8/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Resume Limited On-Campus Research in June - UCSD Guardian
 May 15, 2020   Daisy Scott
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.  
UC San Diego has announced that the university will work toward increasing the 
amount of on-campus activity for faculty and staff research beginning June 1. This plan 
follows the university’s May 5 announcement of their  “Return to Learn” initiative, which 
is currently in its first phase of preliminary COVID-19 screenings. 
The May 15 email cited UCSD’s “Continuity of Research Task Force” as the group who 
has developed the procedure strategy for how campus will open up for more 
researchers. 
“The strategy lays out a multi-phase approach in which the level of activity in our labs, 
facilities and performance spaces will vary in response to public health conditions and 
stay in line with campus, local and statewide directives,” the email explained. Accessed: 6/8/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Resume Limited On-Campus Research in June - UCSD Guardian
The announcement clarified that all research work that can be conducted on a remote basis 
will continue to do so. Those researchers who will be returning to campus for work will be 
expected to  follow the health guidelines recommended by the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention
(CDC). This will mean researchers will have to social-distance, wear personal protective 
equipment, and practice good hygiene.
The UCSD Guardian spoke with UCSD Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences David Brenner, 
for his insight as to how these guidelines will be implemented. 
“As you know we’re one of the world’s great public research institutions and we want to 
create a safe  environment where we can still do research,” Brenner said. “We really think 
that if we’re proactive  and practice good public health measures, we can maintain complete 
safety and be able to continue  to do research.”
Faculty and staff researchers will be able to work on campus under these new guidelines 
beginning June 1. The email did not include information about when current students 
involved in research would be able to resume on-campus work. 
The UCSD Guardian also interviewed UCSD alumna Christina Clark, who currently works 
for Kiger  Lab as a research assistant, for her reaction about the university’s decision to 
increase on-campus  lab activity. 
“I think it’s nice to have some general guidance finally,” Clark said. “It was very abrupt in 
March and we were kind of sent home all of a sudden with no real plan about what comes 
next. Today was  the first time I heard about these phases.”
The email further explained that those individuals responsible for leading research 
programs will  be expected to refer to UCSD’s  Research Ramp-Up Guidelines  for information 
on how to safely conduct research activities. Research program leaders will also need to 
submit plans for their labs’ ongoing operations through the Research Activity Framework 
tool. Plans will then be reviewed by their division leader and department chair for Health 
Sciences, or by their division chair and director for Scripps Institution of Oceanography.
“I think there’s going to be a lot for labs to think about before June 1st,” Clark said. “In my 
case we share a tiny microscope room with 4-5 other labs on the floor. There’s no social 
distancing in there and everyone does imaging. We are thinking about moving our 
microscope to the second office but that would severely limit who could work in the lab atone time—the office isn’t big enough to have two people 6 feet apart.” 
Clark concluded by discussing how the program could play out for her research department.
“I think it has the potential to work but projects are going to progress much slower than 
people think and goals will greatly have to be changed about how we do our work,” Clark 
said. “Wearing masks and gloves isn’t new to us, but the social and time aspects will 
definitely be a change.”
The UCSD Guardian also contacted Vice Chancellor for Research Sandra Brown for 
comment.
“Today we launched our Research Ramp-up Guidelines and website. Although we are 
excited, we proceed with an abundance of caution and hold the health and safety of our 
community as a top priority,” Brown said. “Our plan was established based on CDC safety 
standards and in consultation with epidemiologists, infectious disease experts and broad 
campus involvement. We know that much research is needed to help understand the 
COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on people in the community and around the world, and 
we look forward to advancing this research.”
This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian has contacted the university for further 
comment. The article will be updated with any further developments.
This article was updated as of 1:45 p.m. May 15 to include Vice Chancellor Brenner’s  quote, 
and on May 17 at 1:30 p.m. to include Vice Chancellor Brown’s quote.
Photo by Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego Publications.Accessed: 6/8/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Resume Limited On-Campus Research in June - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/8/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Fall Pass/No Pass Grading Standard to be Considered - UCSD Guardian
 May 15, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
Associated Student Senators discussed the allocation of financial aid from the  
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, the distribution o f wellness kits 
from the well-being collective, and pass/no pass options for the upcoming Fall Quarter 
during their weekly meeting on Wednesday, May 13. 
UC San Diego received approximately $35 million through the CARES Act fund, $17.4 of 
which was dedicated to undergraduate and graduate financial aid. However, A.S. 
President Eleanor Grudin announced that most of the funds that UCSD had received for 
undergraduate and graduate financial aid have already been distributed. 
“All of the CARES dollars, except for the graduate student money that haven’t been 
allocated yet, have been allocated and the CARES money is almost gone,” Grudin said 
during the meeting.
The UCSD administration has not provided much clarity about who would be eligible for 
these funds. The CARES Act financial aid was meant for students whose expected familyAccessed: 6/8/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Fall Pass/No Pass Grading Standard to be Considered - UCSD Guardian
contribution was lower than $1,000, comprising about 6,000 UCSD students. However,  
students who feel that their economic situations have changed due to the COVID-19 can 
still apply for basic needs grants,  which include  a special COVID-19 Relief Fund Request. 
Grudin also shared that the Academic Senate is advocating for Fall Quarter to include
pass/no pass as a default option for all academic departments. During Spring Quarter, each  
department chose whether to allow pass/no pass for students leaving some students  
confused. Grudin explained that having a universal default pass/no pass option, similar to  
UC Berkeley’s approach for Spring Semester, would ease some of the stress on students 
during the current pandemic.  However, at the time of the publication of this article, the 
UCSD administration has not  announced any modifications involving pass/no pass for 
Summer Session or Fall Quarter.
Additionally, Senator Nick Lee announced the distribution of wellness kits in collaboration  
with the Well-being Cluster. The kits will include band-aids, face masks, stress balls, and  
other items which will be distributed to 350 on-campus and 150 off-campus students. 
There will be an interest form for students, and the kits will be issued on a first-come first-
serve basis.  Lee also stated that he has hopes that this program will continue beyond the 
COVID-19 pandemic to help with students’ well-being.
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: Take BOLD Action to Support Students Instead of Celebrity’s Bank Accounts - UCSD Guardian
 May 16, 2020  Guest Writer
Letters to the Editor do not reflect the opinions or beliefs of the UCSD Guardian.
There is no doubt that the current COVID-19 pandemic has caused massive turmoil 
throughout the nation on all fronts. This turmoil is all too familiar to UCSD students. 
Without much of a warning, a rapidly changing situation left much of the student body 
anxious and concerned about the uncertainty of the future. For many, these changes 
(moving to online coursework, social-distancing rules, etc.) left them without a stable 
source of income. Many on and off-campus students still continue to pay rent or spend 
money for basic necessities in the face of shortages.
It came as no surprise, then, that students from all colleges took to social media to 
urge student government groups such as AS and college councils to return their 
unspent student fees. Some of these proactive students even took to making petitions 
or spur public outcry; going so far as to urge Chancellor Khosla to refund tuition costs.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Letter to the Editor: Take BOLD Action to Support Students Instead of Celebrity’s Bank Accounts - UCSD Guardian
Unfortunately, the reality is that this is not that simple. While, at least as of writing, certain  
college councils are working on ways to return student activity fees, it seems as though  
refunding is an insurmountable task. Other groups like AS and the UCSD administration  
have noted that particular refunds or decreases in tuition are not feasible. This has left 
many students frustrated since they are still paying full price for tuition and student fees 
while  listening to podcasts in their home miles away from campus.
You can imagine my shock, then, given the current climate when I went on social media to  
see posts regarding the upcoming elections made in poor taste. BOLD, according to their  
finance report, has spent hundreds of dollars on Cameos from C-list celebrities and $200 
on an art commission made in support of their campaign. I find it disheartening that there 
is so much animosity towards AS in the first place, but spending exuberant amounts of 
money on promotion that is unlikely to sway voters is absurd. It will only serve to create a 
greater divide  between the students and those seeking to hold positions in next year’s AS.
If students have already created such a strong outrage in support of returning student 
activity fees (which range around the $10 mark depending on the college), imagine how 
these same  students may feel knowing that a group spent $70 to have Drake Bell utter their 
name?
What these students (I included) want is change, not the status quo we have been given 
time after time. And, given the economic turmoil and global destruction COVID-19 has 
caused, what many want to see is a student government who puts their needs first. After 
all, if all of  your campaign goals can be placed on a large bingo card, maybe these promises 
are being a  bit too vague?
What I want to see is action, not hundreds of dollars being thrown into the trash for flashy 
promotion and useless celebrity endorsements. When worse comes to worse and students 
clamor for basic needs, will we all think that those hundreds of dollars spent on advertising 
were put to good use? After all, there is a difference between paying for ads on social media 
and wasting away hundreds more on art and Cameos that serve little purpose but to spit in 
the faces of those who are experiencing difficult times.
Ian McKeever – Former Muir Senator
Photograph by UCSD Guardian Photographer Hazel Leung.
This article was updated at 3:36PM on May 16th to correct the title of the author.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Lara Sanli 
Features Editor Lara Sanli shares her top choice albums to listen to while practicing 
self-isolation in quarantine.
Like many other students, I’ve spent a significant portion of quarantine maintaining a 
series of carefully curated playlists. They came in handy when I was stressed, bored, or 
whenever I needed something just cathartic enough to have a calming effect on me. But 
inevitably enough, as quarantine life became more monotonous and my repetitive 
playlists became more monotonous with it, I’ve gotten sick of them. I decided to switch it 
up by seeking a different kind of musical experience: the full album. 
Choosing to make it through a whole album, uninterrupted, even when you have the 
option to instantly put on any other random song, whenever you want, is extremely 
impressive. At the risk of sounding slightly pretentious or melodramatic, the full album is 
an underrated experience. 
Here are some albums where every single song is worth a listen from start to finish. 
Hopefully, even if only for the limited duration of one of these albums, you can escape this 
crazy world and get lost in something else. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
If you enjoy Beach House, The Marías, or Tame Impala, chances are you’ll like YMA, too. 
YMA, one of the most influential rising artists with the Brazilian indie music scene, achieved  
phenomenal success with her first full-length album. Although its brief run time is just shy of  
30 minutes, “Par de Olhos,” which translates to “pair of eyes,” successfully transports the  
listener into the atmospheric realm of dream pop. YMA sings in both Portuguese and  English, 
and the language she sings in shapes the mood of the song. English songs, “Shake It”  and 
“Sun and Soul” are more upbeat, but she keeps a slow, sultry mood with the Portuguese  songs 
“Vampiro” and, my personal favorite track, “Colapso Invisível.” Deep synths mesh with  slow, 
breathy murmurs, and every song on the album maintains a degree of ethereal and  intimate 
psychedelia. 
Every single minute is worth listening to. You won’t regret it. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
Manwolves, a six-piece multi-instrumental band from Chicago, combines hip-hop, jazz, and  
rock to achieve a genre-bending sound that is fundamentally their own. Jamie McNear, lead  
vocalist, switches between his singing and rapping, often impressively blending them so at  
times they are nearly indistinguishable. With vocals, guitars, bass, drums, keys, and trumpet  
all together, a lot is happening at once. But instead of being overwhelming, it works, and all  
the instruments complement each other. 
Amidst a series of strong singles and EPs, “A Safety Meeting” is Manwolves’ first and only  
album. It’s feel-good and casual, oftentimes reminding me of San Diego with its sunny,  
uplifting sounds—Manwolves actually played a show at The Che Cafe back in 2019!. Tracks  
like “Georgia Peach” and “Weather Is Warm” are about falling in and out of love, while
“Fisherman’s Friend” is about the menthol lozenges of the same name for smokers. Other  
songs, such as “Fear and Loathing,” deal with heavier personal and mental topics, but the  
songs still sound uplifting to the point where, if you don’t pay attention to the lyrics, chances  
are that you wouldn’t be able to tell the song is about anything challenging at all. 
The laid-back nature of “A Safety Meeting” offers a refreshing reminder not to take life too 
seriously, and I’m thankful for it. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
For all you Sad Girl simps out there, I present Alexandra Savior’s debut album: “Belladonna  
of Sadness.” Garnering comparisons to the likes of Lana Del Rey (in fact, many critics argued  
that she was  too much like Del Rey), Savior mixes vintage, eerily atmospheric sounds to  
achieve a sound that’s both sultry and dangerous — but she’s the belladonna, so of course it  
is. 
The 11-song album album starts out with “Mirage,” which features smooth and appropriately  
spooky synths to make a quintessentially sad girl point about the futility of performing  
multiple identities: “She’s almost like a million other people/That you’ll never really get to  
know/And it feels as if she’s swallowing me whole.” The next song, “Bones,” is, as the name  
suggests, dark and visceral, but the album soon picks up with “Shades” and “M.T.M.E.”  
“Girlie” makes good use of the xylophone and roasts a nemesis in Los Angeles who is “always 
looking for a wilder ride.” The last song, “Mystery Girl,” sounds like Halloween. It’s the 
perfect gothic and glamorous ending to an equally gothic and glamorous album. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
In “Beethoven Meets Cuba,” The Klazz Brothers and Cuba Percussion join to fuse  
Beethoven’s classics with a Cuban style. When I first stumbled across the album and glanced  
at the cover, I falsely assumed the album would be relatively quiet and repetitive enough so  
that I could play it as background noise while completing my homework. But that couldn’t  
have been further from the truth.
“Beethoven Meets Cuba” is worth your complete and utter attention. Dramatic and over the  
top, it skillfully weaves styles and even some synths that I never thought could accompany  
each other this well. Cuban percussion accompanies piano in their version of “Für Elise” —
which, hot take, I enjoy significantly more than Beethoven’s original — to give the album a  
phenomenally rich start. The real gem of the album comes toward the middle, with the three  
movements of Beethoven’s Piano Sonata No. 8 “Pathétique.” Each of the songs individually 
demonstrates the stylistic range of the artists, but taken as a whole, they demonstrate an 
epic. At times the listener feels carefree, ready to dance, and at others, they’re swept into 
melodrama. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
The Growlers trace their beginnings back to 2006, in Dana Point, California, where they  
played at house parties and in garages. They eventually rose to underground prominence  
within the Southern California music scene for their quirky blend of surf and psychedelic-
rock, which became its own genre: beach goth. 
Full disclosure: I love The Growlers. I’ve been lucky enough to see them in concert several  
times, once even attending their annual Beach Goth festival. I proudly wear their merch,  
display three of their posters in my room, and have tickets to see their postponed Natural  
Affair tour after quarantine ends. However, “Natural Affair,” their sixth full-length album,  
was met with lackluster reviews. Critics called it cliche, repetitive, and stylistically  
disappointing. It seemed to move toward a more poised, mainstream pop sound, and 
away from the iconic beach goth genre The Growlers are credited with creating. A 
significant proportion of fans were disappointed, too. To them, the album didn’t seem like 
celebratory artistic growth or experimentation; it felt like The Growlers were forgetting 
the roots of their sound. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Lara’s Favorite Albums From Start to Finish - UCSD Guardian
At first, I was one of those fans. I listened to the singles as they came out — most of which I  
unfortunately did not like. I did not start enjoying them until I listened to the album in full  
when I could finally appreciate their context.
The album starts off with the titular song, “Natural Affair,” which is very pop heavy and can  
get annoying if listened to on repeat. Thankfully, the album soon improves after the first few  
songs with “Social Man,” a funky, but surprisingly non-cringe social commentary about lead  
singer Brooks Neilson’s notorious refusal to participate in social media. His perfectly raspy I-
love-cigarettes voice accompanies a stellar blend of percussion and ‘80s riffs to remind  
listeners that “Social man must be careful/He might end up alone/When his cover is blown.” 
“Coinstar,” my favorite song on the album, oozes nostalgia, and is perhaps the best example  
of Neilson’s vocal delivery. “Truly” includes gorgeous, futuristic synths. “Tune Out” is one of  
the most upbeat songs of the album. Every time I listen to the chorus my problems somehow,  
miraculously, disappear. “Try Hard Fool,” an overt roast at try-hards, is a catchy bop that  
embodies The Growlers laid-back mentality. 
Listening to “Natural Affair” makes me feel like I’m living in better days, back in pre-
COVID-19 San Diego. Hopefully, when you listen to it, you’ll momentarily let go of your 
worries too. 
Images courtesy of Album of The Year, Mild Sauce, Genius, CeDe.com, mxdwn Music
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5
 May 17, 2020   Tori Anderson 
Clear your mind, write out your schedule for the week, try something new, and get your heart  
rate up each day with something small. There’s no better way to start a week. It’s time to  
smash our goals for the week and to start it off with the perfect blood pumping, endorphin  
producing workout! Let’s push ourselves this week by going from a full-body HIIT workout 
last week, to a full-body weighted workout this week. We are going to combine all different 
movements and variations from the past weeks to have an intense full body workout. You 
know the drill: grab your music, head outside, and enjoy the sun while getting your workout 
in! Let’s get started, but don’t forget to do your stretches and warm up!Accessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Circuit 1:
Reverse Lunge
•Three sets of 15 for each leg
•Standing straight up, bring one leg back and bend your knees
oKnees should be at a 90 degree angle
oBring leg back to starting position and repeat
Ski Jumps
•Three sets of 15 for each leg
•Start with one leg forward and knee bent in a 90 degree angle
•Your other leg will be behind it but further out to the side (straight)
•Then from the starting position, jump off your bent leg to the other side
•You will land on your opposite foot—the one that was straight—and bend it to a 90
degree angle
•The other foot will be behind and to the side like in the starting position
•Simultaneously repeating jumping from one foot to the other
Kick Backs 
•Three sets of 15 for each leg
•Standing up straight, slightly bend your knees and back
•Place your hands on a wall or pole in front of you—your neck and back should be
aligned
•Kick one leg straight back and up
•Squeeze your butt and then release your leg back down
•Repeat
Crab Walks
•Three sets of 20 for each leg
•Bend your knees with your chest facing forward and your legs shoulder width apart
oDepending on whether you want to target your glutes more, you will go into a
deeper squat
•Then in the squatting position, you will walk side-to-sideAccessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Elevated Heel Squat
•Three sets of 15
•Find a somewhat elevated surface—a brick, tile, weights, a small step, etc—and place
your heels on it
•Your feet should be angled
•With your legs together and chest facing forward, squat down and up
•Try to have your squat go as low as possible
Split Leg Squat
•Three sets of 15 each leg
•Find a knee-hight elevated surface:bench, chair, step, etc
•Place on foot on the elevated surface with toes facing down
•Step away from the surface so you have enough room to bend your knees
•Have your chest face forward with weights on the side of your body
•Bend both legs down.our knee that is not on the elevated surface should be at a 90
degree angle
oOne leg should be at a 90 degree angle while the other leg is completely bent
was drawn back towards the elevated surface
•Come back up and repeat with the other leg
•It is like a lunge but with one leg elevated
Accessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Circuit 2:
Fire Hydrants
•Three sets of 15 each leg
•Straight with your hands and knees on the ground
•With or without a resistance band, lift one knee off the ground and bring it up towards
your side
oPicture how a boy dog pees
– Bring back down and repeat for each side
Chest Press into Narrow Chest Press
•Three sets of 15
•Lay on the floor and with your feet on the ground, knees bent
•Weight already in your hands, place your arms in 90 degree angles and in a straight line
with each other
•With your knuckles up, push the weights up towards the sky while simultaneously
inward towards your chest
oThe inner side of the weights should touch
•Then bring weights back down in starting position and turn your wrists and thumbs
toward your face
oBring the weights in together and push up from there
oThen bring the weights back to your chest in starting position and repeatAccessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Slightly bend your knees and back
Bring your weight next to your chest
From there, them straight back
Your arm should be relatively straight and squeeze your tricep
Then bring your weight back next to your chest
Dumbbell Hammer into Bicep Curls
Three sets of 15
Begin with your weight in both hands to the side of your body
Curl straight up with knuckle facing away
When you bring your curl back down simultaneously shift hand position
Your palms will be facing up with your weight and once again curl your weight
Keep repeating, going back from one to the other simultaneously Hip Thrusts
•Three sets of 20
•Place your shoulder blades slightly above the elevated surface
•Draw your butt back;your feet should be slightly wider than shoulder width apart with
knees bent
oDo not extend your body too far out, but also not too close to your chest
oYou want to be able to have your back be straight without your butt hitting the
ground
•Place your weights on the abdominal hip area and push your back towards the
elevated surface
•Once in this position, you will squeeze and pull your butt up. Act as if your squeezing
and tucking your butt forward and in
– Hold for three seconds and then release to starting position
•Your head and shoulders should stay in the same position the entire time
 Bent Over Tricep Extensions
Three sets of 15Accessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Finisher:
Plank
•One-minute planks for 3 sets
•Can do forearm planks or extended arm planks
•Place forearms or hands on the floor
•Engage your core and your back should be level
oLower back should not be super high up or caved in creating a slope
 Heel Touches 
•Three sets of 20 reps each side
•Lay on the floor
•Place your feet on the ground and close to your butt
•With your hands to your sides, slide one hand to your foot and repeat on the other side
Mountain Climbers
•Three sets of 20 reps each leg
•Place hands on the ground
oStarting position is like a plank
oMake sure your back is straight and engage your core
•Bring one foot towards your chest and then back down to starting position
•Then simultaneously bring your other foot towards your chest and repeat
Accessed: 6/10/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 5 - UCSD Guardian
Plank Walk Outs
•Three sets of 10
•Start in the plank position with your hands on the ground
•Engage your core and your back should be level
Shoulder width apart, lift one hand up and place it farther away and repeat on the
other side
•Then once again lift and place one hand father away and repeat on the other side
oYou should be lower to the ground and your body length should be longer
•Once you are in this position do the following steps in reverse
•You should end up in starting position:90 degree angle of arm to bac k
I know that day-by-day, quarantine is tending to get harder and the news of the pandemic is 
constantly changing, but do not let it get in the way of your goals no matter how small or big 
they are. You have power over how quarantine will affect you mentally and physically. Keep 
pushing. We are in this together.
Accessed: 6/10/2020 Questions are being raised about Pre-Med Mental Health - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020  Nelson Espinal
The pre-med path is under the spotlight based on new findings about the mental health of 
pre-med students. How will universities balance having academic success with lowering  
the academic intensity for students?
All students — some more so than others — struggle with their mental health at some 
point. Mental health concerns are especially common among pre-medical undergraduate 
students, who face near-constant stress and the looming prospect of applying to medical 
school.  
There is a strong pre-med presence at UC San Diego. A  total of 20  organizations are 
available for students interested in the medical field. From the American Medical Student 
Association to Pre-Meds Without Borders, there are large board organizations and more 
specific organizations with a focus on certain ethnic groups. 
The path to medical school begins as an undergraduate student, where college students 
pursue a pre-medicine — or “pre-med” — academic path, in which they take the collegeAccessed: 6/10/2020 Questions are being raised about Pre-Med Mental Health - UCSD Guardian
classes necessary to eventually enroll in medical school. The pre-medicine path follows a 
very rigid structure: undergraduate education, then medical school, and then residency, 
which leads to a full-time job. 
Kaplan Test Prep, a resource for students who are going to be taking both undergraduate 
and graduate entrance exams, conducted a survey in 2020 of about 400 pre-med students 
centered around their mental  health while on this path.
The published results of the survey showed that “almost four in 10 aspiring doctors (37  
percent) surveyed say that they have ‘seriously considered’ dropping their plans for a 
medical  career because of the level of stress they experienced as a pre-med.”
Kaplan also released findings that offered more specifics when it came to the breakdown of  
how much stress pre-med students were feeling as a whole, as “more than a quarter (26  
percent) of pre-meds surveyed say they experience stress ‘pretty much always.” Another “45  
percent say they experience it ‘frequently.’ Twenty-eight percent say ‘occasionally,’ while 
only 1 percent say ‘never.’”
While stress is not reserved to being pre-med, pre-med students face unique stressors.
Dr. Koetje, Kaplan Test Prep’s director of pre-health programs, knows the ins and outs of 
the pre-med pathway as someone who has personally gone through it and by being an 
advisor to students.
“They deal with long hours in labs and late-night studying for challenging courses 
like organic chemistry and other weed-out courses,” Dr. Koetje told The UCSD 
Guardian. “So there’s a lot of anxiety associated with some of this coursework, for 
example, and then you add in the other challenges like studying and preparing for tests like 
the MCAT.”
The workload that many pre-med students face can be hard to handle for most, as there is 
a high-level of pressure to not stray from the four year plan that is standard for medical 
school applicants. The heavy general education workload that comes from certain colleges 
like Roger Revelle College and Eleanor Roosevelt College can take up valuable space 
in student schedules. There are financial aid ramifications to adding on more years at the 
undergraduate level, as financial aid stops after four years. 
The financial cost of pursuing a career in medicine is extremely high. On top of the debt Accessed: 6/10/2020 Questions are being raised about Pre-Med Mental Health - UCSD Guardian
accumulated at the undergraduate level, the average cost of attendance at a public medical  
school is $34,592 per year. The required four years of medical school can also lead to an 
abundance of  additional debt from loans. Furthermore, the course load at the graduate 
level also lends  little time for working part-time, making it harder for medical students to 
financially support  themselves. At the residency level, the post-graduate trainee only earns 
$61,200 annually, on  average. 
All students will be thinking about post-graduate opportunities at some point or another, 
but UCSD houses one of the more renowned medical schools, serving as a daily reminder of 
the task at hand. 
Pre-med culture is based around competition to achieve the highest possible results  via 
testing and GPA to get one of the coveted spots at a medical school. Students are pushing  
themselves in a similar fashion to other competitive graduate programs, such as law school,  
to stand out in each of the admission categories that medical schools focus on.
“Medical schools, if you look at the data for GPA and MCAT scores, when you look at those  
numbers you see very high numbers across the board for students that are accepted into  
medical school,” Dr. Jeff Koetje said. “So students who are pursuing the medical field are 
well aware that to be competitive in the application process, they really need to have a 
strong academic record and strong MCAT scores to be competitive in an environment, 
where currently the acceptance rate to medical school is about 40 percent overall. So in any 
given application year there is 60 percent of applicants that are not getting in.”
There was a reluctance from some pre-med students at UCSD to comment on the survey 
done by Kaplan. This was driven by a stigma of appearing to be weak when it comes to 
addressing mental health issues faced by students. Even with the promise of anonymity, the 
students declined to be included in this article. 
This competition can then lead to scores and grades becoming personal. Some students feel 
trapped in this mindset. “I remember crying constantly throughout the day over how 
unhappy I was in my major and how trapped I felt studying biology,” one student said in 
the Kaplan survey. “I wanted to do medicine, but I felt I wasn’t smart enough or good 
enough.”
“Another impact here is recognizing what is known as imposter syndrome, where students 
have a fear where they will be discovered as a kind of intellectual fraud, that they don’t 
belong, that they haven’t earned the right to be a pre-med student, they haven’t earned theAccessed: 6/10/2020 Questions are being raised about Pre-Med Mental Health - UCSD Guardian
right to be in that school to be accepted into med school, ” Dr. Koetje said. 
Former pre-med students in the medical community are exploring  the idea of collaboration  
as a change in pre-med culture that would benefit the mental health of pre-med students. 
The idea is centered  around prioritizing collaboration among the students early on in the 
pre-med process since it  is already important once the students become doctors. This would 
mean more group work in  the classes and reward those students who have worked on team-
based projects. The results  from the collaborative emphasis is easing the pressure on the 
academic grades and creating  opportunities for friendships to be formed. 
The students would be getting used to collaborating, something they will do once they  
become doctors.  
“So you know one is saying it’s happening now in the conversations about the whole overall 
impact of the culture that favors competition vs. collaborations,” Dr. Koetje said. “We need 
to be supporting the development of collaborative skills and cooperative skills in students 
who are pursuing the health professions because the way that they will practice health care 
is in a collaborative and team environment.”
This part of the medical community wants to tone down the intensity of the competition 
among pre-med students, but Dr. Koetje points out the need for balance of both academic 
competition that develops naturally and demonstrating a willingness to collaborate. 
“That [collaboration] doesn’t mean we change the focus around learning and successfully 
achieving learning goals and performance goals; it’s not changing that per se,” he said. “It’s 
changing how we get to those performance goals. We can all perform well through 
collaboration and cooperation.”
A pre-med student responding to the Kaplan Survey showed a prime example of what it 
feels like to seek help in such a competitive environment: “Pre-meds tend to be very 
competitive as well and constantly compare themselves to the other pre-meds, so that just 
exacerbates the stress and makes it almost embarrassing for a pre-med student to admit 
they’re stressed and seek out help.”
The solution to this problem is by destigmatizing mental health problems and encouraging 
students to reach out for help. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Questions are being raised about Pre-Med Mental Health - UCSD Guardian
Previous generations in America as a whole have generally labeled the act of reaching out  
for help as something only the weak do. The medical field wants to pivot away from this  
approach that has been in the culture into a more open-armed approach. 
“So a few things just in terms of meeting individual students’ needs: it’s important that  
educational professionals like advisors, career counselors, [and] faculty members 
encourage  students to seek help when the students need help,” Dr. Koetje said. “Part of 
that is also  related to destigmatizing mental health issues and experiences of psychiatric 
and mental health illnesses. Resources are available through university wellness centers 
and drop-in counseling centers, it’s important for students to know that they are available.” 
A tentative proposal brought by Dr. Koetje could help give context to certain student’s 
grades or scores that were affected by mental health problems. The “holistic review” is a 
process intended to acknowledge the overall context in which the numbers like GPA and 
MCAT scores will be considered, so that the numbers are not the make- or the breakpoint, 
according to Dr. Koetje. It will track the journey of students and the circumstances that 
they have had to endure in their life. This could theoretically  lead to room for students to 
reach out for help and know that it will be taken into account in their application.  
The findings from the Kaplan survey are  initiating the conversation  about how to tweak the 
pre-med path so it can take into account future doctors. The changes to the application 
review process and the environment of pre-med students are all steps taken from this 
conversation, but it is only just starting.
“We need to continue the conversation on what does this academic community really value 
and what do we — as the academic community that is the pipeline into the health care 
professions and the caring professions —how do we care for pre-meds,” Doctor Koetje said
Kaplan took one of the first steps to gauge the mental toll that the pre-med process has on 
students. It has only scratched the surface of long-term studies to follow. As new 
information comes in, it’s going to be up to the students to take the medicine. 
Art by  Kalo Grimsby for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: An Unfiltered Look Into an Uncertain Time - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Colleen Conradi
The biggest theme I’ve seen throughout quarantine so far is that the idea of time has  
disappeared. The days have begun to bleed into each other, and regular hours for sleeping  
and eating have been erased. This quarter has felt like the world has completely stopped, 
but the days on the calendar keep getting crossed off and I’ve been struggling to keep up. 
For my Quarantine Chronicles, I pictured myself writing something along the lines of “this 
is a difficult time, but here are all the great things that have come out of it for me!” 
Unfortunately, I haven’t suddenly gained tons of new hobbies, learned a new skill, or even 
been able to establish a loose schedule for myself. Online articles and posts lately either 
describe the doom and gloom of today’s climate, or they brag of how someone has used this 
time for self development and have emerged a better person. I found I can’t fully relate to 
one side or the other because that doesn’t tell the full story. So, in the hopes of being as 
authentic as I can be, I put together some snapshots from the quarter so far to show the 
tough and uncertain alongside the beautiful and unexpected.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: An Unfiltered Look Into an Uncertain Time - UCSD Guardian
Week 1 
Online classes. Five courses for the first time in my academic career here at UC San Diego,  
but things are bound to be easier since they’re online. I have a sparkly notebook from  
Walmart for each course and a brand new pink pen. Even though I have always been the type  
of person that has to drag themself out of bed each morning, I see myself becoming an early  
riser in the near future. I’ll get up early, find a fun quarantine workout, and have schoolwork  
done by 2 p.m. each day. I’ll journal, read more, and cook all my meals. Hit me with your best  
shot, quarantine! 
Weeks 2-3
Another email from my teaching assistant. Do I intend to turn in any of my missing  
assignments any time soon? Sounds like the kind of question I should let myself mull over  
after another nap. I should eat something, or at least drink some water. Picturing myself  
getting out of bed and walking all the way—20 steps at most—to the kitchen brings actual  
tears to my eyes. My roommate laughs over a Zoom call with a friend from class in the living  
room. Maybe I’ll just try again tomorrow. Back to sleep. 
Week 4
Bioluminescence. I finished some missing assignments and it’s 12:30 a.m. already, but I feel  
good. Start the car, put on a good song, and drive. The ocean looks like someone broke a glow  
stick and spilled its contents into the water. I stand and watch the flashes of electric blue  
outline the waves. Magic. Filled with awe, I am reminded that there is hope and beauty and  
wonder, even now, in this strange time. At a stoplight on my way home, I’m playing The Cure  
too loud with windows down. A cute boy with a stupid snapback pulls up next to me, rolls 
down his window, and sings along just as loud. The light turns green and we go our separate 
ways. Missed connection?
Week 5
I cry in a Zoom meeting with my academic counselor. I can’t get out of bed or get work done. 
Staring at the ceiling while wrapped like a burrito in my blankets has become a familiar 
pastime. He tells me I’m not a failure and that this is just a strange, strange time. He says 
that now is not the time to hold myself up to such high standards. Lower the stakes. Drop 
some classes. Don’t let myself crash and burn when there’s no reason to. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: An Unfiltered Look Into an Uncertain Time - UCSD Guardian
Week 6
I’m now enrolled in two classes and that’s okay. I tell my academic advisor I decided to drop  
the other classes and he tells me there is no right or wrong decision, but he’s happy that I  
followed his advice, which, according to him, is always the right decision. I’m caught up on  
my classes and I can feel the fog lifting. I forgive myself for not being able to be the student I  
know I can be when my mental health isn’t getting in the way. I revisit the book on self-
compassion that I only bought to please my therapist and finally start to connect with the  
words. I make real meals that aren’t microwaved frozen burritos from Trader Joe’s. I watch  
Camp Rock and let myself revert back to being nine years old again and laugh at how in love  
with Kevin Jonas I was. 
Week 7
I FaceTime with my sister and she tells me to come watch a tv show with her on her bed.  
Even though I’m currently a cool 500 miles south from her, I tell her I’m on my way and I’ll  
be there in 10. I stay up too late and look through some old pictures on my phone and start to  
miss the home I don’t have anymore. I let myself feel sad and go to bed. In the morning I  
attend my Zoom University classes and wonder how it’s already week seven. Trader Joe’s has  
pretty pink tulips, mini pots of colorful calandivas, and a cute, green plant called a peperomia  
that all look great in my room. I host the Quarantine Chronicles on Instagram and I don’t  
know what I’m doing, but I pretend like I do. Turns out that me with cut bangs is actually a  
crowd favorite. 
Quarantine is hard. We are living in a tough and confusing time that no one has ever had to 
live through before, and yet, we still expect ourselves to carry on with work and  school as if 
coexisting with a worldwide pandemic won’t affect our productivity and/or mental health. We 
are not meant to simply power through this. You can use this time to pick up a hobby or to 
lose weight, but if you end up doing the exact opposite, that is nothing to be ashamed of. 
Continuing to be a student, waking up before noon, or even just getting yourself to change out 
of your night pajamas and into your day pajamas are all still accomplishments. If quarantine 
has been hard for you, this is a perfect time to practice being gentle with yourself. Feel your 
way through the hard things and remember to cling to all the good. We will all get through 
this, six feet apart, but together all the same.
Photo by Finn on UnsplashAccessed: 6/10/2020 Opinion: The U.S Isn't Prepared to Reopen the Economy - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Sean Kim 
In this article UCSD Guardian writer Sean Kim argues that reopening the economy 
without  the proper infrastructure will lead to disaster.
To fully reopen the economy, the country needs the proper infrastructure in place. 
Expanded testing capacity, and contact-tracing would be necessary in order to reopen the 
economy. But since a vaccine is not expected until mid-2021, testing capacity and contact-
tracing are the only viable options to mitigate new outbreaks. For example, researchers at 
Harvard  University found that testing capacity in the U.S. needs to triple before the 
economy can  reopen . But there is currently no national plan, or funding,  to achieve this 
needed testing capacity. While testing capacity has increased to about 264,000 people per 
day, the capacity itself has not yet expanded to the point where it is safe to revive the 
economy.
Contact-tracing is another essential aspect; in order to manage the outbreak properly and 
allow the economy to safely reopen, states need to expand the number and funding ofAccessed: 6/10/2020 Opinion: The U.S Isn't Prepared to Reopen the Economy - UCSD Guardian
contract-tracers. Some states are doing so, but other states, such as Idaho and Indiana,  
depend on local health departments for such efforts. This raises a point about  the 
fragmented nature of the contact-tracing system in the U.S. The virus will not spread  
according to jurisdictional lines, therefore, a system that manages only most states is not  
enough. An outbreak not managed or traced properly in one state can harm every other 
state. Yet, the current coronavirus tracking system does not cover all 50 states. To properly 
address  the spread of the disease, the U.S. needs a unified, cohesive system, one that is not 
even in the works. The consequences of choosing not to reopen still exist, but delaying 
reopening  may save lives in the process. 
According to some estimates, if states do not reopen at all prior to June 30, 18.6 million 
more jobs are expected to be lost  between May and June — but there will be nearly no 
additional loss of life.  On the other end  of the spectrum, if states fully reopen in May, an 
additional 233,000 deaths are expected as a  result. And in the middle  ground scenario, if 
states partially reopen and citizens maintain social distancing  recommendations, an 
additional 45,000 deaths are expected. This debate between lives  and livelihoods has been 
labeled as the “Terrible Moral Choice”  by some, as it pits the value of human life against 
the ability to support oneself. However, in such a debate, human life should win every 
time. To label human life as collateral damage for economic progress is a decision that, in 
my view, is fundamentally immoral. Furthermore, if the process of reopening the country 
is flawed, the resulting following outbreaks could cause future economic stagnation. 
Once the U.S. reaches adequate testing capacity and creates a cohesive contact-tracing 
system, the economy and businesses should reopen. But as of right now, the proper 
infrastructure does not exist. A large-scale reopening before the country is ready would be 
a mistake, and one that would be paid for in human lives.
Artwork by UCSD Guardian Art Department artist Susan Sun.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fun Adventure/Exploration Movies to Watch During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Veronica Menendez
Being in quarantine has certainly put a hold on many of our plans that require being 
outside  and gathering with lots of people. The stay-at-home order prompted us to cancel all 
of our travel plans ranging from out-of-state trips, hiking excursions, music festivals, and 
much more. Many of us are left wondering when will it be safe to continue with our planned 
activities. 
Until that time comes, we must keep our adventurous spirit alive. There is nothing like fun 
adventure/exploration movies to keep us motivated to go outside once things return to 
normal. Below, I listed seven of my favorite adventure and exploration movies that are sure 
to bring out the adventurous explorer in all of us and maybe even give us some exciting 
ideas to look into once quarantine ends.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fun Adventure/Exploration Movies to Watch During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
1.“Journey to the Center of the Earth” (2008)
Starring the recognizable Brendan Fraser and “The Hunger Games” heartthrob, Josh  
Hutcherson, this movie is about an expedition to the center of the Earth, loosely based on the  
book of the same name by Jules Verne. Fraser plays Hutcherson’s on-screen uncle as the  
movie follows their exciting adventure led by their tour guide deep into a cavern. As problems  
arise, their only escape route leads them to strange terrains, unique animals, and an arduous  
fight to stay alive. It’s an entertaining movie that leaves us thinking about the possibilities of  
what the center of the Earth could look like. Overall, it’s a great adventure movie.
2.“Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull” (2008)
While I recommend watching all four of the Indiana Jones movies because they are fun to  
watch, I will be talking about the fourth movie in this article. Taking place around the 1950s,  
the movie follows college professor and archaeologist, Indiana Jones, portrayed by Harrison  
Ford, in another adventure in search of a long lost artifact. In this movie, his quest is in  search 
of the legendary Crystal Skull of Akator in Peru. Aside from his trusty hat and whip, he  is 
assisted by Mutt (Shia LaBeouf) in his adventure, battling evil Soviet agents who also want  
the skull, but for wicked personal gain. This movie will certainly leave us all desiring to be an  
adventurous archaeologist and with a catchy theme song stuck in our heads.
3.“Jurassic Park” (1993)
If you have gone on the Universal Studios water ride based on this movie but haven’t actually  
seen it, go see it now! Directed by the famous Steven Spielburg, Jurassic Park is about a  world 
where dinosaurs have been genetically created from prehistoric DNA in the modern  era. 
Wealthy businessman John Hammond, constructs a theme park on an island in which  the 
dinosaurs will be the main attractions. Hammond invites paleontologists Alan Grant
(Sam Neill), Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern), and mathematician Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) to  
tour the park, along with Hammond’s two young grandchildren. As majestic as dinosaurs are,  
they are just as dangerous, and this tour group finds out the hard way when they are hunted 
by the escaped predators. The movie is a thrill ride as the characters explore the island’s 
jungle in hopes of getting back to the park alive.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fun Adventure/Exploration Movies to Watch During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
4.“Onward” (2020)
Following two teenage brothers, Ian (Tom Holland) and Barley (Chris Platt), this Disney  
movie shows us both the difficulties and the fun that can be had when going on an adventure  
with your sibling. Taking place in fantasy land, the two elf brothers, upon discovering that  
their late father was a wizard, embark on a quest to find the required items for a magical spell  
that will bring their father back for one day. As the boy’s mom starts a quest of her own to  
look for her sons, the brothers encounter obstacles and face magical creatures as they race  
against time to complete the spell. It is a lighthearted movie illustrating the bonding roadtrip  
of two siblings, inspiring enough that we might want to do the same.  
5.“Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief” (2010)
If you are a fan of greek mythology, this is certainly a must for your movie watch-list. Percy  
Jackson, played by Logan Lerman, wasan average high school student until he discovers that  
he is the son of the Greek god Poseidon and is being blamed for a capital crime. Upon this  
discovery, he joins a training campground where he learns to control his newfound powers  
and meets other teens that are the children of deities. Percy, along with friends Annabeth
(Alexandra Daddario) and Grover (Brandon Jackson), embark on an adventure to clear his 
name and rescue his kidnapped mother from the underworld god, Hades. This movie also  
encapsulates the theme of “road trip,” as the characters stop in different locations all while  
running into mythical obstacles.
6.“National Treasure” (2004)
As a history major I could not make this movie list without including this movie. Historian  
Ben Gates (Nicolas Cage) searches for a long lost treasure dating back to the American  
Revolution. In order to find the treasure, he must get ahold of the Declaration of  
Independence, but he’s not the only one looking. With computer expert Riley (Justin Bartha)  
and National Archives worker Abigail (Diane Kruger) by his side, Ben follows a series of clues  
in the East Coast that bring him closer to the treasure. Of course, no journey is complete  
without some hardships on the way, and in this case, Ben must dodge the FBI and his ex-
partner turned thug, who is also looking for the treasure. Even if history is not your favorite  
subject, I guarantee you won’t want to miss a second of this movie.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fun Adventure/Exploration Movies to Watch During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
7.“Guardians of the Galaxy” (2014)
Being the huge Marvel fanatic that I am, I had a hard time choosing just one movie that was  
adventure/exploration. But of course, “Guardians of the Galaxy” is a story about the ultimate  
journey that takes the characters all over the galaxy. Taking place in outer space, Star Lord,  
played by Chris Pratt, is a space adventurer collecting trinkets from planets which he then  
trades. When he steals a powerful orb wanted by an evil overlord named Ronan (Lee Pace),  he 
gets in trouble,landing him in jail. Once there, he teams up with some unlikely allies: the  
fierce Gamora (Zoe Saldana), Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista), a genetically engineered  
racoon named Rocket (Bradley Cooper), and a tree-like creature named Groot (Vin Diesel) in  
order to escape and retrieve the orb from Ronan, who plans on destroying planets. In the  end, 
the plotline and the comedy make the journey in the movie one we want to join as well.
While there are many, many other movies I wanted to list, I hope you enjoy my list of care-
free adventure and exploration movies and are inclined to watch one of them. Even though  
we can’t go on adventures right now, we should keep our adventurous spirit alive and keep on  
planning to explore.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No Time to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Jack Dorfman  
With the coronavirus pandemic putting live sports on the backburner, the last few months  
have been filled with “On this day in sports history…” remembrances. Across professional  
sports, archival footage has displayed the exploits of our favorite players and teams from  
across generations in an effort to fill the void live sports left behind. 
Though they played in different eras, the stories of our favorite teams from the past still 
have plenty to teach us, especially now that we have more ample time and attention to 
give them; one such team played its home games in La Jolla.
Fifty years ago, in the fledgling years of UC San Diego, the men’s volleyball team won the 
first national championship in school history, taking home the NAIA Small College 
Championship over Indiana Tech University on April 30, 1970.
But unlike today’s Tritons, the 1970 squad had a far different set of resources at their 
disposal. Players were not on scholarships, and the campus had only one gym, with a pool 
and dirt parking lot behind it. Players were not recruited out of high school, largely Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No Time to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
because  high school volleyball had not yet expanded to the mainstream status it holds 
today.
Instead, players who had never participated in organized volleyball found a way to slot in  
hours of practice, learning the sport with full course loads and part-time jobs. Tim Rose 
and his roommate Earl Holmes both played volleyball for UCSD’s 1970 championship 
team, and for the third-place team in 1969.
The duo joined the team with no volleyball experience, but a love for the game drove them 
to keep at it. Two years after being introduced to the game by a beginner’s volleyball class, 
Rose would have a national title under his belt.
“[The team] lacked players so they took me in, and the coach, Jim Callendar, spent 3 
months teaching me how to spike, block, pass, and set,” Rose said. “I sort of became 
obsessed with  volleyball and my roommate Earle [and I] spent all of our spare time playing 
volleyball.”
Rose’s teammate Christopher Oberg joined the team under similar circumstances. Like 
Rose, Oberg had played basketball in high school, and came to UCSD to study 
oceanography and to  surf, not for sports and especially not for volleyball.
“We were less a recruited group than a really organized club team, all carrying full 
academic loads and working as well,” Oberg said. “We had a love for the sport.”
After limping through the early stages of the championship tournament, the team buckled  
down and dominated the rest of the way, even without years of game experience to draw  
from.
“We tenaciously hung in there and took out all of the other teams — including the number 
one seed — by never letting up,” Rose said. “I think what affected me the most was how we 
all worked together and overcame the odds to win the championship.”
Now, the men’s volleyball team finds itself in a similar position five decades later, only on a 
slightly bigger, RIMAC Arena-sized stage. With players on scholarships and plenty of gyms 
to practice in, the men’s volleyball program is one of the strongest at UCSD. The team is 
one of a select few that led Triton Athletics into NCAA Division I competition back in 2017.
Only a few seasons later, with the rest of the university’s teams competing in their final Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No T
ime to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
seasons at the Division II level, the men’s volleyball team found themselves in the midst of a  
breakout season this year.
The 2019-2020 team towered over the milestones that squads of the last few decades left  
behind. This year’s Tritons secured their first wins in the Big West conference this season on  
their way to national prominence. With wins over UC Irvine at home and on the road, UCSD  
vaulted up the national standings into sixth place in the NCAA Division I. The Tritons ended  
their season with a win against another ranked opponent, Pennsylvania State University,  
giving them seven on the year.
After this season, the program as a whole carries a hefty weight that could set into motion a  
lasting legacy on campus. Rivalries against UC Irvine and UCLA are beginning to take shape;  
student involvement is increasing as the big-name programs begin to do battle in RIMAC  
Arena; ESPN3 covers every men’s volleyball home game.
This was the year for the men’s volleyball team to finally have a chance to return to its roots  
and fight to bring another national championship back to La Jolla.
Obviously, the odds would have been stacked against them. The top-ranked Rainbow  
Warriors from the University of Hawaii would have certainly tested the Tritons’ mettle come  
playoff time, and so too would have the rest of the Big West.
But the team was stripped of the chance to compete this spring, as were teams at all levels of  
competition across the sports world. The milestone-wrecking season would not see UCSD  
win its first Big West tournament match, a game that would have symbolized the ultimate  
culmination of efforts for the emergent program.
Instead of celebrations came Zoom meetings and stay-at-home orders. And even though the 
Tritons of 1970 got the chance to compete in the playoffs and end their season on their own 
terms, they still can appreciate losing any chance to celebrate.
When the men’s volleyball team returned to campus in 1970, fresh off their national win, 
there was no parade or pep rally, but instead protest. Volleyball and sports in general were 
not on any UCSD student’s minds at that time.
“We voted as a student body that previous fall not to have a football team or otherwise 
engage in high level college sports,” Oberg said.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No T
ime to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
But the lack of celebration in 1970 went beyond any general disdain for athletic 
competition  the student body may have harbored the year before. During that season, the 
Vietnam War  was the prescient issue and protests rocked college campuses around the 
nation. UCSD’s campus was no exception.
“That spring was the invasion of Cambodia  –– in fact, while the bombing had been going 
on for years, the actual military movement into the country began during the 
championship tournament,” Oberg said. “And then four days later we had the Kent State 
killing of a student  by the National Guard. So was the campus aware? Hardly. But it didn’t 
take anything away  from what we enjoyed.”
Their lives already filled to the brim with volleyball, work, and class, the added pressures of  
the protest made the escape volleyball provided, even if just for a short while, even more  
valuable.
“There was a lot of social strife going on obviously on campus, which disrupted a lot of  
classes, as well as our minds. The Vietnam war was foremost in everyone’s mind, as was 
the issue of the military draft, which had just had a lottery to give a number to all boys,” 
Rose said, whose draft number meant he would be going to war directly after college 
graduation. “There did not seem to be much awareness of the volleyball team or the 
national championship. My wife, Lynn, was a lifeguard at the pool at the time (prior to me 
knowing her) and wasn’t aware of the national championship going on next door.”
For all the differences and years separating these two distinctly era-defining UCSD men’s  
volleyball teams, one theme is constant: a murky and uncertain future.
“We’re all worried about our futures, and there is a lot on our plate even in the best of 
times,” current head coach Kevin Ring said, “so be open-minded to what direction you may 
go.”
This message came from the Zoom meeting Ring and Oberg helped set up between a few 
members of the 1970 team and the Tritons of today.
“There are always events both beyond our control, but they can’t take away from what we 
had,” Oberg said. “It would have been nice to celebrate our championship, but war 
trumped winning and I don’t resent that. It’s always provided me perspective as I grew 
older.”Accessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No Time to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
Even while on campus, volleyball was only a piece of Rose and Oberg’s days. Classes, work,  
and surfing all served important roles within their lives as well, breeding a balance that is  
characteristic within student-athletes, both from 1970 and today.
“Being a student athlete is a tremendous internship,” Ring said. “It’s not just that you’re  
grinding through the season and putting in so much time and energy, but you learn how to be  
part of a team and to set goals. That kind of experience is really sought after in the  workforce.”
This sentiment of openness and going with the flow permeated throughout the Zoom meeting  
and seems to represent the team’s effect on its players, even so many years later. But there  
may be no better embodiment of this mindset than Rose’s life after UCSD.
After graduating from UCSD, Nixon ended the draft, which allowed Rose to stay in San Diego  
and marry Lynn while working at Scripps as a research technician. He even got some of the  
other graduated players to join him on a club volleyball team. But Rose wouldn’t stay put for  
long.
He and his wife took the advice of a German co-worker and tried living abroad. The couple  
worked for the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, and did graduate work at  
the University of Geneva, earning PhDs in immunology and molecular biology, respectively.
But that didn’t mean he was done playing volleyball. Just as he’d done in La Jolla, Rose  found 
a release through volleyball, playing in a small elementary school gym with a club  team. But 
that simple once-a-week workout turned into much more. Thanks to a well-connected club 
coach Rose got a chance to play for Star-Onex, a national club team with an A  squad in the top 
league in Switzerland.
“Due to my experience in volleyball at UCSD, I ended up playing in the top division in 
Switzerland for seven years, making long time friendships with Swiss players, learning French 
and traveling all over Switzerland, France and Germany playing volleyball,” Rose said. “I also 
played on the University of Geneva volleyball team made up of National A League players, 
and we won two Swiss National titles.”
Now, with the help of their team and teams of the past, players have to prepare for their own 
uncertain futures. For some, their time at UCSD is over, and for others a chance at a 
redemptive season looms large in their training. But in the back of everyone’s mind is the 
comforting fact that they’ve got a generation-spanning support system that can last at leastAccessed: 6/10/2020 Fifty Years Later, Still No T
ime to Celebrate - UCSD Guardian
50 years, and even a shortened season can’t take that away.
Photo Courtesy of Tim RoseAccessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Kicks Off First Week of Return to Learn; Testing Sites Available in All Colleges - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here.
UC San Diego began the first week of its COVID-19 screening program with the 
establishment of voluntary testing sites throughout campus on Monday, May 11. The 
three-week introductory program offers free self-administered tests for all on-campus 
undergraduate and graduate students asymptomatic for the novel coronavirus.
This on-campus screening is a part of the broader “Return to Learn” program, which 
was announced in an email from Chancellor Khosla on May 5. In this initial phase, the 
university aims to screen over 5,000 on-campus students for the novel coronavirus.
The first week of the program, which ran from May 11 through May 15, allowed 
undergraduate students the opportunity to self-administer the test at one of seven on-
campus testing sites. The second week, May 18 to May 22, will allow on-campusAccessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Kicks Off First Week of Return to Learn; Testing Sites Available in All Colleges - UCSD Guardian
graduate  students the opportunity to do the same at their own testing sites located near 
graduate  student housing.
During the third week of the program, both undergraduate and graduate students will be 
able to self-administer tests at a number of on-campus locations anytime between 9 a.m.–
3 p.m.  from Tuesday, May 26 through Friday, May 29. Testing is free for all on-campus 
student  residents.
Undergraduate testing sites will be available at:
•Conference Room C in Roger Revelle College
•The Mariposa Room in John Muir College
•The Middle Earth Lounge in Eleanor Roosevelt College
•Angela’s Space in Thurgood Marshall College
•The J. Kevin Wood Lounge in Earl Warren College
•The Apartments Lodge in Sixth College
•The Village West Building 2 Residential Services Office in The Village at Torrey 
Pines 
Graduate testing sites will be available at:
•The lobby of Rita Atkinson Residences
•The Building 4 level 2 Study Lounge at the One Miramar Street apartments
•The Small Conference Room at Cala in the Mesa Nueva/Nuevo West apartments
•9126 Regents Road Community Room at the South/Central Mesa apartments
•The Community Room at the Coast apartments 
All testing is self-administered using a nasal swab obtained from the testing sites. 
Detailed instructions on how to take the test are available on the Return to Learn  website  
and in a YouTube  video created by UCSD Health Promotion Services.
While the university has not released any official numbers, a spokesperson for the school 
told The UCSD Guardian that over 200 tests had been administered during the first 
three days of the program.
Jack Mitchener, a Muir College junior, spoke about his experience with taking the test 
during the first week of the program in an interview with The UCSD Guardian.
“It was a very smooth and quick process,” Mitchener said. “Everyone was wearing masksAccessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Kicks Off First Week of Return to Learn; Testing Sites Available in All Colleges - UCSD Guardian
and gloves and they made sure everyone was following social-distancing guidelines. They 
made sure I performed the swab properly and answered all my questions as I went 
through the  process. Overall it was a nice and chill experience.”
Testing results are made available to students via their MyChart/MyStudentChart 
accounts  within 24 to 48 hours of taking the test. Students who test positive will also 
receive a phone  call from Student Health Services.
In the event that a student tests positive for novel coronavirus, an SHS provider will work  
with them to assess their clinical condition and to determine if relocation to a designated 
on-campus quarantine location for 14 days will be necessary. SHS will also work with the 
student  to identify anyone they may have come in contact with while contagious. The San 
Diego  County Public Health Services will be notified of the positive test and may reach out 
to the  student as a part of their ongoing efforts to contain COVID-19.
On-campus student residents will only be  able to take the test once during this 
introductory period. However, students will be able to take more COVID-19 screening 
tests during Fall  Quarter 2020, as the university anticipates they will be able to test the 
nearly 65,000  students, staff, and faculty members on a monthly basis beginning in 
September.
All asymptomatic students are encouraged to participate in the self-testing program. 
Students experiencing any symptoms of COVID-19, including shortness of breath, cough, 
fever, chills, or loss of smell or taste, should contact SHS immediately by phone at 
858-534-3300.
Artwork by Anthony Tran for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCOP Proposes Suspension of SAT/ACT for Freshman Applications - UCSD Guardian
 May 17, 2020  Troy Tuquero 
UC President Janet Napolitano recommended that the body suspend usage of the SAT and  
ACT exams as part of UC undergraduate admissions over a four year process beginning in  
2021 in a May 12 proposal  to the UC Board of Regents. This would allow the university 
time to create or modify a new exam “that better aligns with the content [the] UC expects 
applicants to have learned and with [the] UC’s values.” 
If approved, the plan would first make the ACT and SAT exams optional for prospective 
Fall 2021 and 2022 undergraduate applicants. UC campuses would then no longer 
consider these test scores for the admissions process for students from California public 
and independent high schools in the third and fourth year.
Fall 2025 freshman applicants and beyond would be expected to submit scores from a
“modified content-based test” or a new independent exam prepared by the university. The 
recommendation calls for the complete elimination of the admissions testing requirement 
if the UC fails to meet this deadline.Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCOP Proposes Suspension of SAT/ACT for Freshman Applications - UCSD Guardian
The proposal further calls for the university to consult “K-12 educators, test experts, the  
California State University, and UC faculty” to facilitate the creation or modification of a 
new  admissions exam and advises that UC create “a public online dashboard for tracking 
the progress of this process.”
Napolitano would request that the Academic Senate review UC’s current policies on  
admissions guarantees and analyze factors “contributing to disproportionate 
representation  of California’s diverse high school student population.” The UC Office of 
the President would  also work with the Academic Senate to determine their approach 
towards out-of-state and  international applicants after 2025.
During the four-year suspension period, applicants will still be allowed to submit their  
ACT/SAT scores for use in determining eligibility for the UC statewide admissions 
guarantee. They can also still be used for scholarship consideration and course selection 
purposes.
Napolitano’s proposal was reportedly based on the findings of a January 2020 report 
which examined UC standardized testing admissions by UC Academic Senate’s 
Standardized Testing Task Force. The STTF report notably differs from Napolitano’s plan 
in that it did not  call for the adoption of test-blind undergraduate admissions and it did 
not make a recommendation on test-blind admissions.
UCOP declined to comment on this story to the UCSD Guardian, but referred readers to 
the publicly released documents outlining the proposal.
In an interview with the UCSD Guardian, incoming Marshall College first-year Stephanie 
Rios thought that changes in admissions testing could allow prospective students to better 
demonstrate their “true potential” if implemented well.
“If there is a way to improve [the UC admissions exams], it could really benefit many 
students in the future,” Rios said. “…now is the perfect time to do so since the class of 2021 
has had their SAT and ACT [exams] suspended already.” Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCOP Proposes Suspension of SAT/ACT for Freshman Applications - UCSD Guardian
The Board of Regents voted to approve the proposal at its meeting on Thursday, May 21. As  
of this article’s update, the SAT/ACT exam requirement is now suspended as part of the  
freshman admissions process for all UC campuses beginning in Fall 2021.
This article was updated on May 21 to reflect the approval of UC President Napolitano’s 
proposal by the UC Board of Regents.
Eleni Kounalakis
@EleniForCA
Proud to have voted in favor of the @UofCalifornia  Board of Regent's 
historic and unanimous decision today to eliminate the SAT/ACT as an 
admissions requirement. latimes.com/california/sto…
54 3:28 PM - May 21, 2020
22 people are talking about thisUC makes landmark decision to drop ACT and SAT requirement for a …
UC regents vote to suspend SAT and ACT testing requirements for
admission, marking a turning point in the debate over standardized test
latimes.com
