Accessed: 2/18/2021 UC Santa Cruz to Rehire Graduate Students Fired for Striking - UCSD Guardian
UC Santa Cruz to Rehire Graduate Students Fired for
Striking
 August 20, 2020  Vivian Yang 
UC Santa Cruz reinstated 41 graduate student workers on Tuesday, Aug.11 who had been  
fired in February for their wildcat strike demanding a cost-of-living pay adjustment (COLA).  
“Wildcat” refers to a labor shutdown conducted without authorization from the representing  
union and against a no-strike clause. This reinstatement resulted from a settlement between 
UC Santa Cruz and United Auto Workers Local 2865, the labor union representing the  
Academic Student Employees (ASE).
UCSC agreed to reinstate students and will be providing them with an additional quarter of 
funding along with an employment or fellowship guarantee for the next academic year. The 
settlement further states that UCSC will remove letters of warning records from ASE  
personnel files and, in exchange, the union will drop the unfair labor practice charges they  
filed after the university fired the student employees.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 2/18/2021 UC Santa Cruz to Rehire Graduate Students Fired for Striking - UCSD Guardian
Along with the settlement to reinstate the dismissed students, UCSC has also agreed  to 
provide an annual $2500 housing stipend as well as  student support packages  for all 
graduate  student workers until more housing becomes available. 
UAW Local 2865 Northern Vice President Tom Hintze announced in an email that the union  
is “proud to right the wrong perpetrated by UC on our 41 colleagues who were unfairly  
terminated. And we look forward to working together as a union to win a cost of living  
adjustment in the very near future.”
Accessed: 2/18/2021 UC Santa Cruz to Rehire Graduate Students Fired for Striking - UCSD Guardian
In an announcement to the campus community, UCSC Chancellor Cynthia Larive and Provost 
Lori  Kletzer described the deal as “an important step toward rebuilding community trust and  
moving beyond the discord created by the wildcat strike.”
The statement also argued that the University acted appropriately in terminating the  
graduate students’ contracts as “ample notice was provided and opportunities to submit  
grades were offered right up to the deadline.” It also notes that UCSC continued to pay for the  
health insurance of those who were fired.
Beginning in December of 2019, 233 UCSC graduate student workers engaged in a grading  
strike and demanded a $1,412 monthly raise to compensate for the high rent and cost of  
living in Santa Cruz. The workers withheld 12,000 Fall Quarter undergraduate student  
grades, resulting in about 20 percent of grades not being filed by the entry deadline in mid-
December. 
In response, UC Santa Cruz filed an ultimatum  on Feb. 14 that stated that if the student 
strikers did not submit the missing grades in a week’s time, they would be released from their 
positions  and would not be offered appointments for Spring Quarter. Some persisted in 
withholding  the grades and UCSC fired 54 graduate students from their teaching positions on 
Feb. 24. 
Support for the graduate students spread to other campuses including UC San Diego.  
Graduate student members of the  COLA UCSD General Assembly voted on Mar. 9 to begin a 
grading strike in solidarity with  the UCSC strikers and their demands.
Many student workers who were fired faced severe circumstances following the blow of the  
COVID-19 pandemic due to the loss of income and inability to access health insurance. 
The strike occurred amidst the California Affordable Housing Crisis, which results from a 
shortage  created by outdated zoning practices and a lack of construction of new housing units 
to meet growing demand. UAW 2865 claims that across the UC campuses, graduate student 
workers on average spend between 38 to 60 percent of their pre-tax income on renting costs. 
By the standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, if a family 
spends more than 30 percent of their annual income on housing, they are considered rent-
burdened. Accessed: 2/18/2021 UC Santa Cruz to Rehire Graduate Students Fired for Striking - UCSD Guardian
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, UCSD graduate students  voted on April 8 to end their  
grading strike. The University of California has not signed on to  providing the $1,412 a month  
cost-of-living pay adjustment to the graduate student strikers.
Photo taken by Santa Cruz Films on behalf of pay us more ucsc