Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mutual Aid at UCSD - UCSD Guardian
 June 12, 2020   Lara Sanli 
COVID-19 has further exposed and exacerbated structural inequalities. But instead of 
relying on  uneven government relief efforts to improve things, people across the country 
are organizing mutual  aid networks to lift each other up. Students at UC San Diego have 
taken on this responsibility of  caring for each other and have organized their own mutual 
aid network to help UCSD community  members seeking COVID relief. 
Mutual Aid UCSD traces its beginnings back to winter quarter, when a group of UCSD 
graduate students first organized to provide a safety net for graduate students 
participating in the  Cost of Living Adjustment movement. Once COVID-19 hit, Mutual 
Aid UCSD decided to maintain itself as an autonomous, student-run collective. It now 
organizes outside of COLA to provide basic needs for UCSD faculty, students, and staff 
disproportionately affected by COVID-19. 
The term “mutual aid” refers to self-organized volunteer efforts to redistribute resources 
more equitably within a community. Mutual aid is distinct from charity; while charity isTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic,  click here →Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mutual Aid at UCSD - UCSD Guardian
vertical and flows from top to bottom, mutual aid is horizontal— it’s symbiotic, self-
organized, and focused on  changing the structures that created inequality in the first place. 
Mutual aid has historical roots as a grassroots organizing method during the ‘60s and ‘70s. 
Prominent examples  can be seen in The Black Panther Party,  which led a free-breakfast 
program for children in impoverished areas, and the Street Transvestite  Action 
Revolutionaries, led by transgender revolutionaries Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia  Rivera, 
to support homeless trans youth in New York. Mutual aid efforts are now resurfacing in the  
coronavirus era. 
The philosophy of mutual aid holds that no struggle is completely independent or mutually 
exclusive  from any other, and COVID-19 is interwoven with other social, political, and 
economic structural  inequalities. 
“COVID-19 affects certain people differently,” Eleanor Roosevelt College junior and Mutual 
Aid UCSD  member Grayson Sims explained. “In particular, people of color, Black people, 
and Indigenous  people. And so we want to stick together.” 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, COVID-19 has a 
disproportionately  large impact  on racial and ethnic minority groups. In addition, the 
university’s transition to Zoom has made differences in privilege and circumstance  even 
more apparent. For example, some students face unique obstacles in accessing computers 
and Wi-Fi.  Other students are facing financial hardship and struggling to gain employment. 
Many students have  moved back home, and some live in highly affected areas with unequal 
access to food, healthcare, and  other resources. These CDC says these socioeconomic 
conditions are more common among racial and ethnic minority communities than among 
white  communities.
Nearly all of the 14 Mutual Aid UCSD core organizers identify as Black, Indigenous, and 
POC students themselves. As members of underserved communities that already face 
unique challenges in navigating a historically white institution, Mutual Aid UCSD works to 
provide community support outside of the university, the collective told The UCSD 
Guardian. 
Because mutual aid philosophy encourages existence independently of institutions, Mutual 
Aid UCSD has partnered with independent co-ops on campus to organize joint 
programming. For example, the Food Co-op has donated extra food to Mutual Aid UCSD. 
Mutual Aid UCSD is also collaborating with Groundworks Books to host reading groupsabout social issues and build community about the  philosophy of mutual aid. Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mutual Aid at UCSD - UCSD Guardian
Mutual Aid UCSD also organizes weekly social check-ins via Zoom to discuss social issues, 
mental health, and come together as a UCSD community. The social check-ins provide a safe 
space for UCSD community members to reflect on their positions in the world. 
“I think the emphasis is on self care,” Sims said. “Especially amidst all of this ongoing police 
brutality going on. We do have discussions on it, specifically for people who just want a 
space to talk about it.” 
By taking time to reflect and heal at these social check-ins, community members stand up 
for themselves and insist that they deserve support in a world historically structured against 
them. This revolutionary idea can be traced to the black lesbian activist Audre Lorde, who 
once said, of her in her fight for social justice, in the ‘80s, “Caring for myself is not self-
indulgence, it is self-preservation, and that is an act of political warfare.” The practice ofself-care has historically served as a gesture of defiance against racist and oppressive 
systems, and Mutual Aid UCSD considers it a critical component of their activism. These 
social check-ins offer a space for emotional healing and education on allyship, especially for 
Black Lives Matter.
“We believe an important part of mutual aid, especially with the pandemic of police brutality, 
is to be allies, to use our privilege to call out anti-Blackness in our communities, and stand 
with the voices of Black people,” the collective said.
So far, Mutual Aid UCSD has collected $4,903 in donations. It has disbursed $2,550 to 20 
different UCSD community members with financial needs, and is currently in the process of 
disbursing the rest. In addition, more than 80 volunteers have signed up to deliver food and 
supplies to those in need. 
Those interested UCSD community members can get involved by donating, attending weekly 
social check-ins, and signing up to volunteer or organize. People can also sign up here to 
request aid. Mutual Aid UCSD’s list of Black Lives Matter resources can be accessed here. 
For more information, visit @mutualaiducsd on Instagram/Twitter/Facebook.
Photo courtesy of Mutual Aid UCSD.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mutual Aid at UCSD - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/29/2020 Graduating Students Organize Petition for Regalia Refunds - UCSD Guardian
 June 13, 2020  Troy Tuquero
Graduating UC San Diego students have created a petition  that asks for refunds for 
students whose graduation regalia arrived after the virtual  commencement ceremony on 
Saturday, June 13. This comes after UCSD sent an  email out to graduating students on 
May 14 claiming that Jostens, the memorabilia manufacturer contracted by the 
university to supply graduation regalia, would be able to fulfill student orders received 
by May 15 in time for the ceremony.
The Change.org petition begins by referencing how the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
economic downturn has created barriers for the Class of 2020 to celebrate their college 
graduation. 
“For many of us, the ability to wear our graduation regalia on our graduation day sitting 
in our living rooms on Zoom was something to look forward to,” the petition states. 
“Despite it all, at least we could take graduation pictures on our big day and try to make 
the occasion [meaningful] in a different way. Essentially, we were trying to make the 
best of what we had.”Accessed: 6/29/2020 Graduating Students Organize Petition for Regalia Refunds - UCSD Guardian
The petition goes on to explain that the shipping delay has prevented students from doing  
that. The request concludes with a call to action from Jostens and UCSD to issue refunds to  
students.
Petition organizer and former Guardian Opinion Editor Geena Roberts said that while she  
hopes that Jostens would agree to at least a partial refund, it does not fix the fact that  
students were not able to properly celebrate their graduation.
“Many of us and our families are financially struggling because of the pandemic and yet 
still purchased [graduation regalia] because of the importance of wearing it on the day of 
[the graduation commencement],” Roberts said. “[Jostens] should have been much more  
transparent and [UCSD administration] should step in on behalf of graduates because they  
are the one that chose to contract with Jostens.”
Roberts said that she personally never received any notice from Jostens informing her that  
the graduation gear would be arriving late. She claimed that her UPS shipping portal was  
updated at 6 p.m. PST on June 12 to indicate that the graduation gear would not be arriving  
on that day and would now be arriving on Monday, June 15.
“A good friend of mine, who is [a first generation college student], and another friend of 
mine, [a resident’s assistant coworker], also both had this problem despite Jostens’s 
promises,” Roberts said. “I realized [that the delays were] a larger issue than just me and 
someone needed to do something.”
Jostens confirmed in an email on Thursday, June 11, that many students would not be 
receiving their shipments until after their graduation.
“On behalf of our Jostens team, I want to apologize for the delay in the arrival of your 
graduation regalia,” Jostens Sales Representative Sandra Ochoa wrote in the email. 
“Despite our best efforts during these challenging times, and faced with unforeseen 
shipping challenges, [the graduation] regalia was shipped with what [Jostens] thought was 
enough time to deliver by [Friday, June 12], yet it has come to our attention that it will not 
be arriving until early next week.”
Ochoa added that “no excuses or explanation could alleviate the disappointment 
[graduating students] must be feeling.” The email also notes that Jostens is working with 
university officials and the UCSD Bookstore to prioritize customer service and concludes Accessed: 6/29/2020 Graduating Students Organize Petition for Regalia Refunds - UCSD Guardian
with an invitation for graduating students to contact Ochoa directly to resolve any issues 
that may arise.
In a separate email to Roberts, Ochoa apologized again for the delay in the shipment of the  
graduation regalia. She added that a message is being put together to inform graduates that  
Jostens intends to issue a full refund to those who ordered their regalia by the advertised  
May 15th deadline and did not receive it in time for the commencement ceremony.
UCSD’s virtual commencement ceremony began at 9 a.m. PST on Saturday, June 13. At the  
time of publication, the refund petition has over 250 signatures.
This article was updated to reflect Jostens’s plan to issue a full refund to graduating 
UCSD students whose graduation regalia did not arrive on time.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego Commencement 2020.