Accessed: 10/26/2020  On Housing, Grad School and Viruses - UCSD Guardian 
 October 18, 2020   Kristin Leadbetter
by Gabriel Ascui, Kristin Leadbetter and Muhammad Yousuf
This article was compiled with the help of members of the HDH Resident Coalition, and 
sheds light onto the increasing prices of housing for  graduate students and the struggles  
that they have faced during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A graduate student doesn’t require that many things to study, generally speaking: a laptop, 
reliable internet, and hopefully, loads of caffeine. However, these are all things that come after 
satisfying one’s basic needs: healthcare, transportation, food, and housing. We would like to 
provide some perspective on the ongoing struggle grad students at UC San Diego are 
confronted with regarding this last item: housing. 
The first graduate housing units at UC San Diego, South and Central Mesa, were built in 1968  
with 256 individual two-bedroom apartments. These facilities allowed for the recruitment of 
brilliant students and researchers who were unable to afford rent in the scarce, costly La JollaTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →housing market. The increase in enrolled graduate students came with an increase in the 
demand for student housing, thus new complexes  were built. This situation also pushed 
UCSD’s administration to incorporate a two-year rental limit for all graduate and professional 
student  housing in 2008. As a reference of where are we now, Table 1 has a summary of 
historically available graduate housing.On Housing, Grad School and Viruses - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 10/26/2020
Table 1: A summary of historically available graduate housing.
For several years now, gradual increases in rental rates have been imposed on students, greatly 
exceeding the rates of inflation. In 2015, the  construction of the Mesa Nueva apartment 
complex was approved by the UC Board of Regents. This project committed UCSD Housing 
Dining Hospitality to increase all rental rates by 3% per year until 2025. This agreement , 
together with recent Public-Private Partnership deals for the  construction and rental of Nuevo 
East and Nuevo West complexes, has contributed to a devastating increase in on-campus 
housing costs.  These budgetary maneuvers shifted a great financial burden onto already 
underpaid graduate students. As reported by the Student Housing Association, between 2016 
and 2020, the average on-campus housing rent has gone up  37% while grad students’ stipends 
have only increased 9%. Additionally, a recent survey conducted by the UCSD Graduate 
Student Association found that although 40% of PhD students live in supposedly “affordable” 
on-campus housing, over 75% of residents are considered “rent burdened” or paying more than 
33% of monthly income in housing costs as defined by the US Department of Housing and 
Urban Development .
Thus, the immediate question that comes to mind is: Why? To answer this question, we need to 
take a deeper look at current trends in UCSD policy. 
As a public university system, the University of California is financed by the state with publicAccessed: 10/26/2020 On Housing, Grad School and Viruses - UCSD Guardian 
funds and bonds. In recent years, however, the  UC system has tended to externalize several 
essential services –housing being one of them. While available documentation is scarce, we 
believe HDH used to be an official University Department until 2008 ‚— housing was formerly 
administered by the “Department of Housing and Food Administration,” then the  
“Department of  Housing and Dining Services”. Today, HDH is considered an Auxiliary 
Enterprise, which means it does not receive public funding and must instead be self-
sustaining; in this case, that means HDH must finance itself solely through revenue: student 
rent rates. During fiscal year 2018-19, approximately 4% of UCSD’s revenue came from 
Auxiliary Enterprises like HDH
(Figure 1).
Figure 1: Auxiliary Enterprises revenue at UCSD . Bars represents each fiscal year 
revenue in thousands of dollars. Blue line represents percent change from the year before. Data  
from reference 8.
Although revenues are at a all-time high, HDH’s annual budget presented to  the Graduate & 
Family Housing Advisory Committee (GFHAC), formerly Associated Residential Community 
Housing Advisory Committee  (ARCHAC), in 2020 shows that HDH has an egregious financial 
deficit. This drove their office to initially propose even higher rent increases,  up to 6% for some 
units. One element of this deficit is that through fiscal year 2020-21, over $30,000,000 will be 
paid to the owners of the  Nuevo East and West complexes as “assessments.”In other words, 
public funds and students’ stipends are bleeding into the pockets of private  investors and HDH 
administrators, thus yet again accelerating students’ impoverishment. These trends have 
motivated the recent Cost-of-Living Adjustment campaign at UCSD, the  Academic Student 
Employee strike at UC Santa Cruz in 2019-2020, the ongoing Rent Strike at UCLA, and the 
formation of the HDH Resident Coalition.Accessed: 10/26/2020 On Housing, Grad School and Viruses - UCSD Guardian 
This is a duplicitous strategy of privatization, as “auxiliary” status permits HDH to evade 
accountability, transparency, and operate outside of  UCSD’s governance. For instance, in 
2019, when ARCHAC, an advisory committee comprise of students and staff,  voted 6-0 for a 
rent freeze for residents in Grad  and Family Housing, HDH callously ignored this 
recommendation and still raised the rent. This event has made explicit the lack of democratic, 
shared governance at UCSD, as our  campus is plagued with advisory committees.  
Furthermore, HDH has repeatedly and knowingly presented false information in their 
financial reports to the committee, only admitting to it when students found discrepancies in 
the numbers.
It’s important to consider that on-campus residents comprise some of the most vulnerable 
populations of undergraduate and professional students, as living off-campus in La Jolla or 
greater San Diego can be extremely expensive and with limited access to campus and on-
campus resources. Even HDH and UCSD acknowledge this fact, as a rent deferral system 
during economic hardship, food pantries and basic needs centers, and short-term loan 
programs are available to students. These are not benevolent signs of a compassionate 
university–they are symptoms of a system which recognizes that we are not paid enough to live 
where we work, and that we do not have access to truly affordable housing.
Nowadays, in the midst of a global pandemic that has disrupted the lives of millions, graduate 
students included, HDH has deemed it acceptable to further burden us, increasing rent once 
again for residents in Grad and Family Housing. This rent increase comes after in June, during 
the height of the pandemic, HDH “temporarily” laid off 200 workers, most of whom are of 
marginalized backgrounds. In July 2020, students asked HDH to provide clarity on why they 
were still paying for amenities which remain shut down due to the pandemic. HDH refused to 
provide a breakdown of how rent is distributed and refused to consider a remission of fees. 
Unsatisfied residents asked HDH to hold a Town Hall regarding the lack of reliable, consistent 
information. HDH again refused. HDH has refused time and time again to even openly 
communicate with the residents they claim to serve.
The COVID-19 pandemic has intensified graduate and professional students’ vulnerabilities. In 
particular, our homes have become our workplaces. In this unique moment, our education has 
been reduced to Zoom meetings, our homes turned into work spaces, and the undue stress and 
frustration caused by HDH has adversely affected our ability to do the work we came to UCSD 
to do. This fact even motivated a formal grievance by the UCSD Unit of the Student-Workers 
Union, United Auto Workers 2865, to ensure HDH was actually guaranteeing a safe  working 
and living environment for student-workers. Although HDH assured us that they would
Furthermore, HDH has repeatedly and knowingly presented false information in their financial 
reports to the committee, only admitting to it when students  found discrepancies in the 
numbers.Accessed: 10/26/2020 On Housing, Grad School and Viruses - UCSD Guardian 
improve their communication with  students, information regarding housing policies for the 
“Return to Learn” program at UCSD have been confusing and unclear, as evident with  the 
high volume of questions that arose for students from different forums and town halls 
organized by the GSA and UAW. The behavior of  HDH and its leaders is a flagrant display 
of disregard and contempt for the needs, concerns, and livelihoods of residents. Their 
actions and attitudes directly contradict their stated Principle of Community committed to 
the creation and maintenance of a climate of “fairness,  cooperation, and professionalism.”
In order to maintain UCSD’s status as a world-renowned educational and research 
institution, talented students of all backgrounds must be able to have their basic rights met 
so they can focus on cutting-edge research and the production and acquisition of 
knowledge. None of this is possible when HDH places its debt burden on residents as rent 
burden. None of this is possible when the majority of residents, students, and workers face 
consistent and constant financial precarity. Housing is a right that all students should be 
guaranteed.Accessed: 10/26/2020 It’s Time For The LGBTQIA+ Community to Rebrand Itself - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Megan Cox 
In the past decade, sexual and gender minorities have been grouped under many different  
names. LGBT, LBTQIA, LGBTQ+, and LGBTTIQQ2SA are all phrases currently used by  
major queer networks. In a world where people are identifying themselves in increasingly  
diverse ways, the world is struggling to find an inclusive label for the community. No 
matter what variation of the phrase, “LGBTQ+” is an exclusionary and unfit term for the 
community it is describing. 
The phrase LGBTQ+ is clunky. In an effort to point out how awkward it can sound, 
Jonathan Rauch of The Atlantic pointed out, “Imagine if the religious-liberty movement 
instead styled itself the CJMHBSBA+ (Catholic-Jewish-Muslim-Hindu-Buddhist-Sikh-
Baha’i-Animist-plus) movement.” Although each letter in LGBTQ+ represents an 
important subgroup, listing them off is a strangely complicated way to brand a 
community. Accessed: 10/26/2020 It’s Time For The LGBTQIA+ Community to Rebrand Itself - UCSD Guardian
Because there are an infinite amount of ways someone can identify, a truly inclusionary title  
in the style of LGBTQ+ would include an infinite amount of letters. More young queer people  
don’t identify with traditional labeling.  They are empowered to use more  diverse and  
emerging terms, like pansexual or non-binary. So while many identities are part  of the 
LGBTQ+ community, they are not all directly considered in the title.
Because some identities are left out in the phrase “LGBTQ+,” the title fosters exclusion in a  
community that should be centered around acceptance. Many intersex people express feeling  
left out  of the community, especially when people use the term “LBTQ”  — a phrase that 
became quickly outdated, but is still frequently used. Even with the more  inclusive phrase  
“LGBTQIA+” there are thousands of different people and identities lumped  into that plus 
sign. 
This exclusion can be deeply harmful. Because people in this community are used to being  
discriminated against and misunderstood, this is a situation where anyone who is not  
deliberately included may feel specifically excluded. One asexual UC San Diego student, who  
wished to remain anonymous, expresses feeling less valid than other community members,  
saying, “Some people think asexuals don’t need the support of the community. That  
mentality puts us in an uncomfortable position.” Not having your letter in the title can imply  
your identity and your struggle is not as valid as an “L,” “G,” “B,” or “T” person.
Another issue with the “LGBTQ+” moniker is the emphasis on sexual and gender labels.  
Labels can be incredibly empowering for some people — being able to name your identity 
and find a community of similar people can help you feel less alone. However, young queer  
people often  push themselves to label  their sexual or gender identity before they are ready.
Another anonymous UCSD student says, “I don’t 100 percent like the term bisexual, so I 
would much prefer an umbrella term. But I feel pressured just to call myself bisexual.” The 
term “LGBTQIA+” implies that you must label your sexuality or gender in order to be a part 
of the community, and that simply is not the case. You can be questioning or unsure, and 
still be a perfectly valid member. 
There has recently been a movement to rebrand the “LGBTQ+ community” as “the Q 
Community.” This movement was originally brought forward by journalist Jonathan Rauch, 
who also believed the term LGBTQIA+ is exclusionary and awkward. Q stands for Queer, 
which is an umbrella term for all sexual and gender minorities. If someone is not 
heterosexual and/or cisgender, then they would be considered queer by definition. Accessed: 10/26/2020 It’s Time For The LGBTQIA+ Community to Rebrand Itself - UCSD Guardian
Some people avoid the word because of its derogatory connotations and its history as a 
hateful  slur. For those people who are uncomfortable by the word “queer,” the Q in “Q 
Community” wouldn’t have to stand for anything if you don’t want it to. Q is simple. It is 
brief. It is holistic. while some feel left out of the LGBTQIA+ community, the  Q community 
has room for everyone.
Art created by Kalo Grimsby for The UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 10/26/2020 UCSD Researchers Highlighted By NIH For Discovering Possible COVID-19 T reatment - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Jose Chavez 
A UC San Diego research team was recently featured by the National Institute of Health for  
discovering a compound called heparan sulfate and its role in COVID-19. Heparan sulfate is a  
natural component made by cells and is part of how the virus causes infection. If the levels of  
the compound can be effectively manipulated or blocked by the blood-thinning medication 
Heparin, researchers hope that this can become a staple treatment of the disease.
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, visiting researcher Dr. Thomas Clausen of the 
University of Copenhagen in Denmark described the gravity of this breakthrough.
“What we’re developing is something that suggests that there will be a treatment for people 
that already have it,” Clausen said. “If that gets developed and you’re able to control the virus 
in a hospital setting for people who are infected then we could go back to normal.”Accessed: 10/26/2020 UCSD Researchers Highlighted By NIH For Discovering Possible COVID-19 T reatment - UCSD Guardian
Ever since the beginning of the pandemic, scientists have been struggling to find a medicine  
that targets the replication of COVID-19. Regeneron is an antibody-cocktail going through  
clinical trials; Remdesivir is a widely used antiviral that is the current standard of care  
treatment of hospitalized patients with the virus; and vaccines, which are still undergoing  
many measures to be approved, could possibly decrease the chance of getting infected. All of  
these treatments are aiming to prevent further infection.
“[We are] competitive with a common goal of solving a pandemic… it’s inspiring, it’s  
humbling, it’s life-changing in many ways,” said Dr. Jeff Esko, a UCSD Professor of Cellular  
and Molecular Medicine.
The UCSD research team has discovered a treatment that could prevent infection of cells  
throughout the human body. 
The blood-thinner Heparin is administered so as to prevent blood-clots, but can also block  
viruses from binding to heparan sulfate on the cells’ outer membrane. This characteristic  
could prevent the virus from making it into the cell and multiplying. Heparin has the  
potential to stave off the virus within patients already infected, leading to saving thousands of  
lives.
Dr. Esko has an apt analogy to describe the SARS-CoV-2 infection process. He describes the  
glycocalyx, a thin layer of proteins and carbohydrates surrounding our cells, as “a forest.” The  
various substances are dubbed as “the trees and the bushes above the cell.”
In Dr. Esko’s analogy, the infectious SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19, is 
represented as birds flying high above the trees to find and catch the worm, which is its  
preferred cell receptor ACE2, down on the cell’s surface. Put simply, COVID-19 needs to use  
specific substances in the outer layer of our cells to invade and replicate within them.
Heparan sulfate is the preferred cellular carbohydrate present within the glycocalyx for the 
virus to utilize. The physical spikes on SARS-CoV-2 interact with Heparan sulfate on cells and 
make their way to the ACE2 receptors, allowing for further replication.
 Researchers discovered a codependent relationship between the virus and the glycan, or 
substance within the glycocalyx. This hints at the possibility of using non-anticoagulant 
derivatives, otherwise known as blood-thinners, to further conceal the body’s cells and 
prevent COVID-19 from spreading as quickly.Accessed: 10/26/2020 UCSD Researchers Highlighted By NIH For Discovering Possible COVID-19 T reatment - UCSD Guardian
“In this case, SARS uses Heparan sulfate. And then, because Heparin is also used clinically as  
a drug, we can use it as a decoy,” said Daniel Sandoval, a Postdoctoral researcher on the  
team.
Heparin would be administered to patients already infected with the virus. No clinical trials  
have been held yet, but the National Institute of Health has used this discovery as a  precedent 
for pursuing such endeavors.
Artwork courtesy of Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Dak Prescott, Alex Smith, and the Revelatory Horror of Injuries - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Praveen Nair 
It’s often said that “NFL” may as well stand for “Not For Long.” Players’ bodies take a  
massive amount of punishment over the course of a season, but it’s easy for fans, for whom  
the league is an entertainment product, to forget just what’s physically on the line on the  
field. Unfortunately, in Week 5, we got a sobering reminder of those stakes and of the 
awkwardness of the fan-player relationship. But we also saw exactly the sort of resilience 
and willpower it takes for a player to come back from the very edge and move past an 
injury.
In an Oct. 11 contest against the New York Giants, Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak 
Prescott suffered a gruesome ankle injury that forced him to be carted off the field in tears. 
It was, by all accounts, the sort of injury whose image sticks in fans’ minds forever, and we 
are yet to know the consequences that it’ll have on the career of one of the best young 
quarterbacks in the league.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Dak Prescott, Alex Smith, and the Revelatory Horror of Injuries - UCSD Guardian
I say “by all accounts” because, in all honesty, I still haven’t seen the injury, nor am I  planning 
on ever doing so — one can only get burnt by the can’t-look-away allure of  gruesome injuries 
so much before realizing that it’s never a positive experience. But while my  avoidance is borne 
more out of selfish squeamishness than out of any sort of nobility, it does  feel unsettling that 
in just a week, Prescott’s injury has amassed millions of views on  YouTube alone. Sure, those 
views are much more likely the result of morbid curiosity than  schadenfreude, but the 
repeated viewing of the depths of human anguish takes us far from  the normal way we engage 
with athletes.
As fans and in sports media, we treat athletes as characters in the decades-long sagas of their  
sports. There’s often a separation between, say, Tom Brady the man, and Tom Brady the  
character, the one we tie our hopes and emotions to, the one we might say we hate or love  
despite knowing little about the guy in the helmet. There’s an ongoing discussion in our  
culture about separating art from the artist, but that separation cannot exist in sports, where  
players are their own art.
When we hear about most injuries, our first thought is usually for the success of the team, the  
loss of the player’s instrumental value. Perhaps we’re spoiled by the superhuman tolerances  
of professional athletes, the usually high quality of their medical care, and especially in the  
NFL, the massive amounts of painkillers that players are on, but it’s easy not to take injuries  
seriously. “I don’t think it’s fair to have cameras in faces when guys might be hurt,” former  
NFL Players Association President Eric Winston told Bleacher Report in 2017. “There is a lot  
of emotion going on. There are a lot of TV doctors — people watching the game saying, ‘He’s  
fine.’”
But when a player suffers a shocking injury like Prescott’s, in a flash, the artifice fades away,  
the curtain is pulled back, and we no longer see Dak Prescott  the character. There is only Dak  
Prescott, the man, in pain. It’s disturbing, but it is only in these moments when we really  
come face to face with the humanity that powers the stories we engage with.
Yet it seems fair that if sports showed us its worst on Sunday, it also showed us its best in 
Washington Football Team quarterback Alex Smith, who just hours before Prescott’s injury 
entered the game against the Rams, culminating a comeback that is nothing short of 
legendary. Almost two years ago, Smith suffered multiple serious fractures to his right leg 
after a sack by two Texans players.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Dak Prescott, Alex Smith, and the Revelatory Horror of Injuries - UCSD Guardian
After he received surgery, he contracted necrotizing  fasciitis, a flesh-eating infection that 
could very well have resulted in his death, and sepsis; he  underwent 17 surgeries on his leg, 
and at one point, doctors seriously considered amputation.  Smith had to have his leg held 
together with an external metal fixation device for almost a  year. In summary, Alex Smith is 
lucky to be able to walk today. But on Sunday, there he was,  taking snaps in an NFL football 
game. If anything, Smith is proof that as much as we  mythologize the players on a football 
field, it is sometimes the man that outshines the myth.
The NFL will always be a punishing league, and sadly, for every Alex Smith, there’s ten more  
players who never got the chance to return; that isn’t even to mention the much more silent  
battle former NFL players face with chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which can wreak  
havoc on their memories, mental health, and emotions. But these injuries also serve as a  
grave reminder that we’re watching people on the field, not superheroes or characters in a  
play, and of what those people risk to perform at the highest level.
Photos courtesy All-Pro Reels and Jeffrey BeallAccessed: 10/26/2020 After an Ugly Start to the 2020 Season, Are the 49ers’ Best Days Behind Them? - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Wesley Xiao
Back in February, after the 49ers lost the Super Bowl, I wrote an article titled “Down But Not  
Out: How The San Francisco 49ers Will Make it to the Super Bowl in 2021.” Despite the title,  
the article spends most of its time detailing reasons for a 49er decline and pessimism about  
their future. But at the end, I offered a glimmer of hope. In spite of a lot of evidence of how 
challenging it is to repeat Super Bowl trips, I thought the 49ers were the exception. They had 
a fantastic season and were returning with most of their key pieces still in place. And most 
importantly, they’re the team I root for. Of course, they had a shot at running it back this 
season. Unfortunately, I was wrong.
The 49ers have gotten off to a frustrating 2–3 start to the 2020 season. All three of their 
losses were to teams they should have beat. Against the Arizona Cardinals and the 
Philadelphia Eagles, the 49ers made mistake after mistake to give away the games, but at 
least they were close. Their most recent matchup with the Miami Dolphins was a train wreck: 
a 17–43 blow out, where the offense and defense looked dazed and confused. It’s fair to 
wonder: if not for two early back-to-back matchups against the New York football teams, theAccessed: 10/26/2020 After an Ugly Start to the 2020 Season, Are the 49ers’ Best Days Behind Them? - UCSD Guardian
worst teams in the NFL, would the red and gold be winless right now? 
San Francisco is not thinking of a Super Bowl run this year. It’s doubtful they’ll make it back  
to the postseason, even with the expanded playoffs. Though we’ve just passed the quarter  
mark of the season — five games are a small sample size — it’s clear that this team is not the  
2019 49ers,  in fact, they have much more in common with the 6–10 2017 49ers. Certainly,  
injuries have played a significant role in the 49ers’ disappointing start. But even considering  
the injuries, the 49ers have underperformed.
First, there’s the defense, which has been decimated by injuries. On the defensive line, Nick  
Bosa, Solomon Thomas, and likely Dee Ford are out for the season. The players who have  
stepped up in their place — Arik Armstead, Javon Kinlaw, and Kerry Hyder — have been  
playing decently. The defensive line has 10 sacks, 23 tackles-for-loss, and 31 QB hits.
But the defensive line needs to be elite to cover for the secondary, which has been just as  
injured as the defensive line. The secondary has had so many injuries that the 49ers have had  
to start a different set of cornerbacks every game. This team is built front to back, relying  
more on their pass rush than their coverage ability. Even with the secondary healthy, the  
49ers need top tier play on the defensive line. Without that, the secondary is getting exposed.  
There is no more egregious example than Brian Allen, a practice squad player elevated to play  
against the Dolphins. Allen got toasted by Ryan Fitzpatrick, giving up 124 yards in just 5  
series before being benched. Sure, Allen’s not the most talented player, but the coaching staff  
didn’t do much to help and kept putting him in tough situations. Too often, Allen was  
isolated against Dolphins receivers with no help. Knowing that Allen was fresh off the  
practice squad, why didn’t the team rotate coverage to his side or give him safety help over  
the top? They threw him out on defense and acted like he was Richard Sherman.
Short term, the 49ers need to evolve their defensive system to help the players who are filling 
in. Granted, wholesale change to a different scheme in the middle of a season is impractical, 
but they could introduce smaller changes to reflect their lineups. They cannot keep throwing 
players into a vanilla 4–3 Seattle defense who are not talented enough to succeed in it. Long 
term, the team needs to stop overinvesting in the defensive line at the expense of the 
secondary. Drafting one in the 5th or 6th round every other year and re-signing Dontae 
Johnson when someone gets injured is not enough. They need to create a more balanced 
defense.
The offense is not doing much better. They have not been spared by the injury bug. Deebo  
Samuel broke his foot in the offseason, George Kittle hyperextended his knee in Week 1, andAccessed: 10/26/2020 After an Ugly Start to the 2020 Season, Are the 49ers’ Best Days Behind Them? - UCSD Guardian
Weston Richburg has been out since December of last year. In Richburg’s absence, the  
offensive line has not performed well. Per Football Outsider (FO), the line ranked 29th in the  
NFL. Trent Williams has not integrated into the 49ers offensive line as easily as predicted;  
there’s a noticeable lack of cohesion between him and Laken Tomlinson that led to a few  
sacks and pressures. On some plays, it seems like he doesn’t know the protection schemes.  
But Williams is still the most reliable pass blocker on the line. From backup center Daniel  
Brunskill to right tackle Mike McGlinchey, almost all the other linemen are liabilities in the  
passing game.
The line isn’t doing much better run blocking. According to FO, 27 percent of the Niners’ run  
plays are stuffed at or behind the line of scrimmage, the highest rate in the NFL. Raheem  
Mostert, largely thought of as a system running back, is quietly dispelling the notion that any  
running back can look good in a Shanahan zone run scheme. He has broken off big runs in  
each of the games he’s been active, something his backups have struggled to do.
This finally brings us to James Richard Garoppolo. Because of a high ankle strain, Jimmy has  
only played one full game and two separate first halves. Even in limited action, the  
handsomest man in the NFL has gotten off to an ugly start, marred by poor decision making  
and inaccuracy. The same poor decision making that lost the 49ers the Super Bowl is  
resurfacing. Garoppolo is staring down first reads, throwing into double coverage, and taking  
unnecessary sacks. In his third year under Shanahan, we expected Garoppolo to continue  
developing and build off last season, but it looks like he is stagnating. Moreover, his  
characteristic short- to mid-range accuracy has degraded. On the last drive of the Cardinals  
game, Garoppolo had two shots to first win and then extend the game. He missed on both.  He 
underthrew a deep TD pass to a wide-open Kendrick Bourne, then overthrew a first-down  
pass to Trent Taylor in the flat. On both plays, Garoppolo was not under pressure.
Contributing to his inaccuracy are his throwing mechanics. Garoppolo has gotten into bad 
habits. He’s throwing flat-footed, relying too much on his arm to make throws and not using 
his lower body to drive balls on target.
The pessimistic and reactionary part of me wants to wallow in negative criticisms of the 
season, declared that the season is finished, and start a #tankfortreylance movement. But the 
fatalistically optimistic fan in me always wins out and I can’t give up on this team. This team, 
no matter how much they looked against Miami, is not the 2016 49ers; they are so much  
better than that. The 49ers will get players back from injury. Young players, like Kinlaw, will 
continue to develop and get better as the season goes on. Garoppolo will eventually recoverAccessed: 10/26/2020 After an Ugly Start to the 2020 Season, Are the 49ers’ Best Days Behind Them? - UCSD Guardian
from his ankle injury and he will improve as the rest of the team improves. And Kyle  
Shanahan, one of the greatest offensive minds, is still the head coach. Are they down?
Absolutely. But this team isn’t out yet.
Photo courtesy Flickr/AlexanderJonesiAccessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Elias Roman 
A small disclaimer: Some projects on this list were produced outside of the US, by non-
American Latinxs. I felt their inclusion served to bridge the conversations surrounding  
identity both in and out of the US.
I’ve always felt conflicted when it comes to the word “Hispanic.” It’s a word that finds its 
origins in the United States, being a catch-all term for Latinos and Spanish speakers 
alike. Using the word “Hispanic” to describe Latinos erases a large part of the Latino 
community; places like Brazil, one of the largest countries in Latin America, are often 
forgotten about in conversations about Latinos because they speak Portuguese and not 
Spanish. “Hispanic” also includes Spain, a country whose culture and experiences are 
very different from that of Latin America. Latin American culture was born out of a rich 
mix of indigenous, African, and European traditions. By grouping Latinos and Spanish 
communities under one umbrella, the term “Hispanic” positions Latinos as closer to 
white. This erases the many Black and Indigenous Latinos that have contributed great 
cultural treasures to our identities.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
Sept. 15 marks the beginning of National Hispanic Heritage Month in the United States, a 
month dedicated to celebrating Latino and Hispanic contributions to culture and society. As 
a Latino myself, I wanted to celebrate this month by sharing some of my favorite movies, TV 
shows, and musical projects that have been created by Latino people. So, even though the 
month is named “Hispanic Heritage Month,” I will be treating it as “Latino and Hispanic 
Heritage Month.” )
Fernando Frías de la Parra’s 2019 film “Ya no estoy aquí” follows Ulises, a young
“cholombiano” from Monterrey, Mexico whose sole passion is dancing to chopped Cumbia  
with his friends. After witnessing a murder in his neighborhood, he’s forced to flee to the  
United States without documentation. Finding himself in New York City with little 
resources, he has to find a way to survive.
Frías de la Parra weaves together a compelling story about missing home, as well as what 
constitutes a home. The film periodically cuts to flashbacks, showing us Ulises with his 
friends in the moments where he seems to need them the most. Most of the actors in the 
film are first-timers, though you wouldn’t be able to tell that from their performances. This 
film feels more important than ever now, given the rhetoric that’s surrounded Latin 
American immigration the last four years. “Ya no estoy aquí” tells the story of countless 
families and individuals who have fled their homes in search of better lives, away from the 
violence that often found itself gnarled around their lives.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
“Cidade de Deus,” “City of God” in English, is a 2002 film about a young boy living in the  
favelas of Rio de Janeiro. The film is narrated by Rocket, our protagonist, as he remembers  
what it was like growing up brushing shoulders with crime. In a refreshing twist, the  
protagonist of our film is not a criminal, but rather a documentarian. Rocket has a keen  talent 
for photography, something that comes in handy as he documents the life around him.  The 
film’s warm, saturated colors juxtapose the heavy emotional and physical trauma that  Rocket 
and his peers experience living in the favelas. This film shows the duality of many  
Latinamerican countries, torn between violence and crime while at the same time being so  
full of life and warmth. “City of God” is not only notable for its depiction of poverty in Latin  
America, but also because it follows a Black protagonist. This is something we sadly do not  
see often enough, despite the large Afro-Latino population who is a part of and contributes so  
much to Latin American culture.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
“Los Espookys” is unlike any other show on television right now. Originally premiering in  
June of 2019, “Los Espookys” follows a group of friends as they start a horror production  
company. Each episode follows the group, led by the horror-loving, punk-like Renaldo, as  
they find a new gig to make a name for themselves. This show is not only remarkable for the  
incredible balance it strikes between English and Spanish, but also for the way that it  
incorporates the literary tradition of magical realism; a genre originating in Latin America  
that treats the supernatural as part of the day-to-day. The fantastical moments created by  
magical realism are often juxtaposed with the character’s dry, deadpan personalities to create  
very unique comedic moments within the show. The show also touches on cross-border  
connections between family members; a small detail, but an important one nonetheless.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
This Netflix original series follows Casimiro Morales, played by Joaquin Cosio, and his  
grandchildren, as they try to save their East LA taqueria from rising rent and gentrification.  
This show explores generational tensions between second-generation Mexican Americans  
and their immigrant grandparents and parents. What struck me most was the way these two  
generations engage with each other. The younger generation communicates primarily in  
English with the older generations, while the latter almost always responds in Spanish.  
Watching this show, I was able to better relate to and understand some of my second and  
third generation friends. It’s a show that demonstrates the complexity of Latinidad and  
identity, also dealing with LGBTQ relationships within the Latin community. Ultimately,  
Gentefied is a show about family and identity, showing us that there is no one way to be  
Latino.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Espectaculo: Movies, Shows, and Music to Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month - UCSD Guardian
Hailing from New Jersey, Ambar Lucid is a 19-year-old Dominican-Mexican singer and  
songwriter whose bilingual slow jams are unlike anything else out right now. Lucid’s ear for  
mixing slow indie rock guitars with haunting melodies as she croons about lost loves creates  a 
listening experience that is as relaxing as it is melancholic. Songs like “Fantasmas” and “A  
letter to my younger self” come to mind, though she also shows her capacity for upbeat,  
danceable jams with songs like “Questioning my Mind” and “Universe” off of her 2020 album  
“Garden of Lucid.” Ambar Lucid is giving a voice to the newest Latinx generation, in both  
English and Spanish.
Images courtesy of: hispanicheritagemonth.gov, La Zona Sucia, JustWatch, Entertainment  
Weekly, KMOV.com, Blurred Culture.Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020   Victoria Bracco 
This article is part of a new UCSD Guardian series on the 2020 United States elections. We  
will be discussing registration, state propositions, and  various elections from the local to  
federal level. Tune in every Tuesday on Facebook or Instagram to see the latest article.
As early voting ramps up for this election, The UCSD Guardian looks towards statewide  
elections, where our State Legislature is taking new shape and Congressional  
Representatives try for a two-year seat.Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
State Assembly
District 78
The 78th District, which encompasses the UC San Diego campus, will have two new 
Democratic candidates in the race, Sarah Davis and Christopher Ward.
Midwife Sarah Davis has been active in the San Diego community by advocating for family 
and lobbying efforts with the California Association of Midwives, where she held the position 
of Vice President Policy Chair. Her three top policy goals are focused on providing California 
with single-payer healthcare, creating more public housing, and achieving net-zero carbon 
emissions by 2035.
“I am a healthcare provider myself, and so from multiple different angles I see how our 
current health payment system and our private health insurance system is broken. It does 
not help serve patients or communities,” Davis said to The UCSD Guardian. “So as a 
provider, I see how demoralizing it is for providers when our patients are denied care just 
because the idea of private insurance is to provide profit for shareholders. As a small 
business owner, I know how difficult it is for small businesses to afford private health 
insurance when we want to provide for employees or for ourselves, or even for individuals 
who are self-employed.” 
Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
Councilman Christopher Ward currently sits upon the San Diego  City Council representing 
District 3. 
“We have a multitude of crises that Californians face, which makes balancing multiple policy  
areas at the same time a key requirement,” Ward said to the UCSD Guardian. “From housing,  
to homelessness, to climate change, and job stability — efforts I have led at the City of San  
Diego can well serve for stronger statewide action if we want these changes. Climate Change  
should be considered an existential threat by all Californians. As the only candidate with  
specific goals and guidance on what I’ll do for climate change on our website, and my own  
record on progress.”
Councilmember Ward spoke of the need for robust mandates on fossil fuels as well as  
reducing vehicle emissions, increasing battery capacity, improving vegetation management  
and other initiatives in the statewide Climate Action plan that he hopes will also be 
supported  at the local level. 
Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
With many similarities between the two candidates, the UCSD Guardian reached out to 
both campaigns for comments on what they believe sets them apart to represent the 78th 
District.  
“Although the general election brought forward two Democrats, I am the only one who has 
the experience to know how to impact the bold, progressive change our state needs.” Ward 
said. “As UCSD’s Assembly representative, [I] will keep in touch actively with students, staff, 
faculty, and all members of the community to make sure the state is making good on its 
promises to you.”
Davis told The Guardian that one key difference between their two campaigns is the way 
they are running.
“I have signed the no fossil fuel money pledge, the no cop money pledge, and [Ward] has 
signed neither and takes money from both of those industries,” Davis said. “In general, I 
want to stand for people over corporate profits. While he, for example, has voted repeatedly 
with the interests of his big real estate donors in mind to build real estate developments in 
open spaces which I would like to preserve.” 
The State Senate race in District 39 houses a race between incumbent State Senator  Toni  
Atkins and Republican challenger Linda Blankenship.
State Senator Toni Atkins has been serving the 39th district since 2016. She currently 
serves as the State Senate President Pro Tempore and sits upon the Rules committee for 
both the Assembly and the Senate. 
“COVID-19 has exacerbated what was an already-critical need for more affordable housing 
and more housing supply in our state,” Senator Atkins commented to The San Diego 
Union-Tribune “It is true that determinations around increasing density cannot wait for the 
state’s transportation issues to be resolved — these things can and should occur together — 
but we can’t allow the absence of finality on one issue to justify continued delay on the 
other.”10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
She added that she has authored two bills this year, SB 1120 and SB 995, that are part of a  
State Senate housing package with the goal of increasing housing supply and creating  
opportunities for homeowners. Due to the timing of when bills were presented, Senator  
Atkins plans on reintroducing them if re-elected.
A small business owner, Linda Blankenship is representing the Republican party on the  
platform of fiscal responsibility and freedom in faith, work, and personal safety. She received  
her party’s nomination as a write-in candidate.
“The escalation in the damage done by wildfires in the last decades can be directly attributed 
to two things,” Blankenship added to The San Diego Union-Tribune. “Yes, the climate is 
changing as it always has, resulting in increased lightning strikes and other environmental 
conditions. More impactful, though, have been the policy changes imposed on forest 
management either by legislation and/or regulation. Because there is more environmental 
volatility, we MUST be allowed to clear vulnerable properties of naturally occurring 
‘kindling.’”
Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
Superior Court
The Superior Court is seeking to fill a vacant seat, which would preside over criminal and 
civil cases in San Diego.
Tim Nader,  who received his J.D. from UC Berkeley, has been rated “well qualified” by the 
San Diego County Bar Association (SDCBA). Along with his rating, he also earned the 
endorsement of former President of the SDCBA Marvin Mizell as well as having 
endorsements from the Sierra Club and Nicole Capretz, the Tom Homann LGBTQ Law 
Association, Dr. J. Luke Wood, civil rights leaders, Bar leaders, UCSD Democrats, as well as 
former and current elected officials of both parties.
“I am a Deputy Attorney General for the State of California, formerly a prosecutor and 
currently a civil litigator,” Nader said to the UCSD Guardian.  “I am alarmed by what I see 
happening in Washington, and understand that racial discrimination, global warming and 
covid-19 aren’t hoaxes.  Judges at all levels should be supporting public safety, assuring 
fairness and due process, upholding equal protection of the law for all people in our country, 
and protecting our constitutional rights. I will fight any bias in our justice system and decide 
any cases before me on facts, evidence and the Constitution.”
Assistant US Attorney Paul Starita was a military judge while serving in the Marine Corp, and 
has been rated “exceptionally qualified” by the SDCBA. Mr. Starita has also received 
endorsements from multiple law enforcement groups such as the San Diego Deputy District 
Attorney’s office, San Diego Police Officers’ Association, Oceanside Police Officers 
Association, as the Pan Asian Lawyers of San Diego, Sycuan Band of Kumeyaay Nation, and 
more.
“I am seeking to become a Superior Court Judge because I want to continue to serve our 
community in the most impactful way possible.” Starita said. “My vast legal experience, 
consisting of prosecuting and defending both criminal and civil cases as well as serving as a 
judicial officer, makes me uniquely qualified to handle any matter presented to me in a fair 
and impartial manner. Further, I will work to eliminate bias in our courts and promote safety 
in our community. It would be an honor to have your vote.”
Both candidates have received a lengthy list of endorsements from individuals all. With 29 
Superior Court judges endorsing Paul Starita. Where Tim Nader has received various 
endorsements from judges as well as State Senators, State Assembly members, and City 
Councilmembers. Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
From Dana Point down into La Jolla, Congressional District 49 has had some close races in 
recent history. 
Incumbent Mike Levin worked as an attorney in Environmental and Energy regulatory 
compliance as well as government affairs before he took office. Currently he represents 
District 49 on the Veterans’ Affairs committee and the Natural Resources Committee. On 
the topic of climate change, Levin talked about growing up in Southern California and 
worrying about the planet for future generations, including his two boys.
“This isn’t just about saving our planet — it’s about creating good-paying jobs right here in 
America,” Levin said. “One of the biggest myths I hear is that we cannot combat climate 
change while also growing our economy. To the contrary, if we embrace science when it 
comes to the climate crisis and our environment, we will create the clean energy jobs of the 
future right here in our district.”
Republican challenger and businessman Brian Maryott is a certified financial planner who 
hopes to help grow the California economy if he takes office. Maryott’s platform also 
includes helping protect our environment and ensure healthcare remains within the private 
sphere. 
“The coronavirus pandemic has reminded me how woefully unprepared the government 
can be when asked to tackle a national problem,” he told The San Diego Union Tribune. 
“The private sector is the only reason we are able to acquire a sufficient amount of personal 
protective equipment (PPE), quickly develop effective therapeutics and track spread and 
outbreaks with innovative technology.”
Running along California’s Southern border is District 51, where incumbent 
Democrat Juan Vargas  is facing off against Republican challenger  Juan Hidalgo Jr. 
Both hope to improve jobs as well as education for those in their district.
Congressman Vargas previously served in the California State Assembly and State Senate  
before being elected to represent California in Congress. He received a bachelor’s degree in 
political science from the University of San Diego, then completing a masters from Fordham  Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
University and receiving his JD from Harvard Law school. Currently, Congressman Vargas 
sits upon the Financial Services and the Foreign Affairs Committee.
“We must pass comprehensive immigration reform and grant the DREAMERS the U.S. 
citizenship they deserve,” Vargas said to The San Diego Union-Tribune.  “Polls 
overwhelmingly show the American people support comprehensive immigration reform and 
both issues deserve to pass and become law.”
Sergeant Major Hidalgo served for 31 years in the Marine Corp where he reported to the  Joint 
Task Force, Guantanamo Bay, Cub, and other various duties. Sergeant Major Hidalgo  also has 
received various medals for service and commendations from the Navy and Marines.  Hidalgo 
has developed his platform around increasing jobs, education as well as public  safety. Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
Hidalgo commented to the Desert Review  that, “If the border is not important, I don’t know 
what is  … The reason that guy I am running against opposes [border control], is because they 
want an open border. But here’s the other problem, they fail to tell everybody. They are 
claiming [Republicans] don’t care about people. But, how about caring for the people who 
are paying  their paycheck?”
Congressman Scott Peters assumed office for the 52nd District in 2013. This District spans 
from Escondido into Del Mar and La Jolla. Before serving in the House of Representatives, 
Congressman Peters served with the Environmental Protection Agency and served as 
Counsel for the City of San Diego County and on San Diego City Council. 
Congressman Peters asserted that he ran for Congress to address the climate crisis as well 
as COVID-19 and rebuild our economy. He also laid out his plan forward in addressing 
climate change.
“We must 1) decarbonize our economic sectors: electricity, transportation, manufacturing, 
agriculture, buildings and aviation; 2) regulate damaging short-lived climate pollutants, 
especially methane; 3) impose a price on carbon; 4) invest in technological innovation for 
new fuels; and 5) develop carbon capture technologies. The U.S. must also engage and lead 
internationally,” Peters said.Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
Technology entrepreneur and businessman  Jim DeBello,  who graduated from Harvard  
with a bachelor’s degree  and a master in business administration also studying at the 
University of Singapore, he  currently holds five patents. His platform seeks to balance the 
federal budget as well as  expand the military and border protections. 
In an interview with the San Diego Union-Tribune , DeBello stated that economic recovery 
was at the top of his agenda, stating “We need businesses and schools to be both open and  
safe for our families. These goals are not mutually exclusive.”
DeBello also said, “Environmental alarmism delivers headlines, not solutions. Many  
proposals like the Green New Deal and others supported by my opponent are unrealistic 
and economically disastrous. Rather than playing the politics of climate, I am focused on 
practical, common sense solutions that reverse human impact. These include carbon  
capture technologies, bluetech biofuels and other market driven incentives.”Accessed: 10/26/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: California State Elections - UCSD Guardian
UCSD students will have the option to go to the voting station their colleges have set up.  
Those who are not on campus can find their closest polling place on the Secretary of State’s  
Website.  
If you don’t feel comfortable going to a polling place, you can drop off your ballot at a  
designated drop box. There have been some fraudulent ballot drop-boxes throughout  
California, be sure to check the  California Secretary of State’s office to ensure you are at a  
valid ballot drop-box.  You can also mail in your ballot, but it must be postmarked by  
election day.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Prop 22 provides contentious $200 million case study on CA initiative process - UCSD Guardian
 October 18, 2020  Jack Dorfman 
As the election draws near, the “Yes on Proposition 22” campaign is spending record 
amounts  of money to sway voters. The campaign’s spending is drawing questions about the 
power that money has on politics. 
Politics is all about words. Through social media, the press, and conversations with 
friends and family, voters are inundated with information that affects their day-to-day 
lives every election cycle. In the United States though, political opinions aren’t only 
expressed through written or spoken words. Thanks to Citizens United, money is also 
considered political speech. And no one has ever raised and spent more on a proposition 
across California than Uber, Lyft, DoorDash, and Instacart have this year.
After more than $184 million of funding from these four companies, a figure that 
surpasses the most money ever spent on a ballot measure in any state, Californians will 
decide whether or not to further regulate California’s gig economy with Proposition 22.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Prop 22 provides contentious $200 million case study on CA initiative process - UCSD Guardian
Prop 22,  an initiative placed on the ballot by a coalition of app-based driver and delivery 
platforms, exempts “app-based transportation and delivery companies from providing 
employee benefits to certain drivers.”
But beyond this description, everything else surrounding Prop 22 continues to foster debate  
among various stakeholders, politicians and media members.
The coalitions surrounding the initiative are diverse. Various chambers of commerce  support 
the “Yes on 22” side along with scattered local NAACP branches across the state. While Prop 
22 would not repeal AB 5, the landmark labor legislation regulating the classification of 
workers, it would nullify the portion that covers app-based transportation and delivery 
drivers.
On the flip side, national, state, and local elements of the Democratic party, including  
presidential nominee Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris, endorse the “No on 22”  
campaign. Importantly, labor unions and workers-rights groups are the staunchest backers of 
the “No on 22” campaign,  including divisions of  American Federation of State, County, and 
Municipal Employees (AFSCME), the American  Federation of Labor and Congress of 
Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), and groups that  represent minority workers in 
California.
Multiple organizations backing the two sides were reached for comment, without response.
Ultimately though, the lopsided fundraising from the “Yes on Prop 22” campaign skews the 
discourse surrounding the initiative. To try and square this, I talked to two state lawmakers, 
from opposite sides of the aisle, State Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher and 
Assemblyman Kevin Kiley, who are familiar with the historical context of the fight that has 
been raging around California’s gig economy over the past few years.
Both State Assemblywoman Gonzalez Fletcher and Assemblyman Kiley responded to requests 
for comment, expressing their views and the evidence that drives them, and addressing some 
of the more contentious points surrounding Prop 22.
Assemblywoman Gonzalez Fletcher represents California’s 80th District, which includes City 
Heights, National Heights, and Chula Vista. While in the Assembly, she supported workers 
and labor unions, earning a reputation that landed her squarely within the independent 
contractor-employee debate back in 2018. But following a landmark California Supreme Court 
ruling in the case of Dynamex Operations West, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles, 
Gonzalez Fletcher became even further entrenched within the California labor sphere.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Prop 22 provides contentious $200 million case study on CA initiative process - UCSD Guardian
This ruling had led to a tectonic shift in California’s labor laws, simplifying the previously  
complicated test for classifying workers. Dynamex had uprooted decades of common business  
practices, sending both employers and workers scrambling to adapt to the new law of the land  
regarding worker classification. Into this chaos, enter Assemblywoman Gonzalez Fletcher.
“In April 2018, a bunch of folks came to us, both on the employers’ side and the employees’  
side, both labor unions and worker advocates as well as employer associations and different  
industries,” she said in an interview with The UCSD Guardian. “They asked me to author a 
bill and I did… You know when business and labor both come to you and say, ‘Yes, we need  
something here’ you think, ‘Okay, I can do this, we can work together.’”
The Assemblywoman took this wide cross-section of support and, using the Dynamex ruling, 
authored AB 5, which, Gonzalez Fletcher says, “is truly just taking the [State] Supreme Court 
test and saying ‘Yes, this applies to everybody, except in these situations.’”
Fast forward to January 2020: AB 5 goes into effect for the first time in California, and while  
some industries make the changes and adjust workers from independent contractors to  
employees without issue, others push back, namely app-based transportation and food 
delivery  platforms.
Accessed: 10/26/2020 Prop 22 provides contentious $200 million case study on CA initiative process - UCSD Guardian
This pushback has not been exclusive to the companies it affects though, as it’s been seen  
across the California political sphere. Some, like long-time  LA Times political columnist  
George  Skelton, argue that “we’re at this point with Proposition 22 because  Gov. Gavin 
Newsom and the Democrat-dominated Legislature refused to […] negotiate a  compromise” 
due to discord among the companies and labor organizations on collective  bargaining and 
other issues.
State Assemblyman Kiley takes his frustration even further, pushing Prop 22 as one step on 
the path to repealing AB 5.  A committee led by Kiley  donated $275 to the Yes on 22 
campaign, making him  the only monetary backer that isn’t a major technology company or 
the California Republican  Party. 
“AB 5 … has caused unprecedented harm to workers, consumers, and small businesses,” Kiley  
said in a statement to The UCSD Guardian. “Prop. 22 is an important first step toward fully  
repealing AB 5 and restoring the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of independent 
workers throughout the state.”
Despite their intended messaging, another louder point rises above the advertising: the  
companies that are set to be regulated are attempting to regulate themselves. The Yes on 22  
campaign concedes certain  privileges that aren’t currently offered  to workers, including a 
“minimum earnings guarantee, and access to health care benefits and insurance against 
illnesses and injuries acquired on the job.” However, these companies still are working 
around providing full employee benefits in a way that benefits their bottom line.
By crafting their own initiative, the Yes on 22 campaign backers could essentially legislate 
regulations on their own industry. While Prop 22 would not repeal AB 5, it would practically 
keep drivers from coming under state regulations for the foreseeable future thanks to a 
particularly thorny portion of the initiative, the seventh-eighths vote in both state houses 
required to repeal Prop 22, that Skelton describes as “just bad government.” 
Ultimately, in both the Yes on 22 ad campaigns and Kiley’s statement, the focus is on the 
drivers and their potential loss of flexible wage-earning as independent contractors. But the 
broader economy and fiscal future of the state may be at play, as well as the power of the 
people and their representatives to adjust this initiative in the future. These storylines 
present important contrasts and options left out by the narrow view of the Yes on 22 
campaign.Accessed: 10/26/2020 Prop 22 provides contentious $200 million case study on CA initiative process - UCSD Guardian
Outside of their key messages, there are two main points that still are up for debate: the  
flexibility of workers with or without Prop 22 and the veracity of Uber’s and Lyft’s threats to  
leave California.
Skelton’s key issue centers around flexibility, and it’s actually driving him to lean Yes on 22. 
He “like[s] people being able to work independently when they want to,” which implies he 
doesn’t feel drivers will be able to have flexibility as employees without Prop 22.
Gonzalez Fletcher disagrees with the flexibility argument. 
“There’s nothing in California law that requires an employer to be inflexible with people’s 
work schedules,” she said. “In fact, if you have a salary job with Uber you have a very flexible  
schedule; they allow you to work when you want and from where[ver] you want. They offer 
the flexibility to their actual employees and yet somehow they suggest that being an employee 
will take away [drivers’] flexibility, and there’s nothing in law to suggest that.”
The key issue for other Yes on 22 supporters comes down to fears that these app-based  
platforms will leave the state or see their profitability suffer.
“We could see Uber and Lyft leave California all together, something they have already said  
they are willing to do. [And even] if they stay and the courts make them adhere to AB 5, you 
will see the number of driver jobs drop and the cost for riders increase,” a representative from 
Assemblyman Kiley’s office said in a statement, citing a report out of UCLA.
Once again, Gonzalez Fletcher feels these fears are overstated. “Other areas have imposed 
rules on [these companies] and they haven’t left. New York City imposed a minimum wage 
and they’re still there. Seattle just imposed a minimum wage, they’re going to stay there,” 
Gonzalez Fletcher said. “California is a quarter of their entire market, they’re not leaving 
California. It’s a great threat but if they did, there are two dozen companies ready to come in 
and fill that void. Where there is a demand there will be a supply.”
With Prop 22, the unprecedented fundraising of Uber, Lyft, DoorDash, and Instacart 
continues to keep voters from coming to information equally. And even with the one-
sidedness of this campaign, voters are still struggling to come to a decision. But however 
Californians end up voting, knowing both sides of the argument allows for a more informed 
decision. 
Photo courtesy of the Assembly Democrats.