In June 2019, weeks before 
Spring Quarter ended, former 
UC San Diego Associate Vice Chancellor of Health Sciences Jean 
Ford filed a wrongful termination 
lawsuit against Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla and the University of 
California Board of Regents. Ford’s lawsuit also alleges that Chancellor 
Khosla verbally harassed and 
discriminated against female employees during her time at UCSD.
However, due to the lawsuit 
being filed so close to the end of the school year, students feel that 
the weight of this incident was 
overshadowed by graduation and 
summer break. Most students are 
aware of the lawsuit’s existence, 
but for many, the specifics remain 
unknown.
This leaves many Tritons 
wondering: what are the details of the lawsuit against Chancellor Khosla?
According to a June 2019 
article from the San Diego Union-
Tribune, Ford was terminated 
from her position in 2018 due 
to her assistant completing an 
online class in her stead, giving 
her password to her assistant, 
and her own work considered 
by the university to be “less than 
satisfactory. ” However, Ford claims that her assistant took the course At a Cost-of-Living-Adjustment assembly 
that took place on Sun God Lawn on 
Feb. 26, graduate students, faculty, and 
undergraduate students gathered to address 
ways to support Academic Student Employees, 
as well as how the faculty and undergraduate 
students can support teaching assistants. 
Despite the arrests of UC Santa Cruz graduate 
students since the strike began on Feb. 10, the 
UC San Diego branch of COLA shared a strike poll via Google Form on Facebook to get a count 
of how many graduate students are willing to 
participate in a strike during Winter Quarter 
or in the present moment. “ Are you willing to 
participate in a full strike NOW? This would mean a full grading, teaching, researching, and 
working strike across the university with the 
aim of non-violently shutting down university operations, ” the Google Form question read. 
The form also asked if the teaching assistants 
are willing to participate in a rolling strike. The 
form closed Sunday night, March 1. 
 On Friday, Feb. 28, 54 graduate students 
were fired from their TA positions. However, UCSC United Auto Workers reports that the 
number is closer to 80. 
The Wednesday COLA assembly at UCSD 
took place in response to the wildcat strikes 
that are occurring at UCSC, which saw the 
arrests of at least 17 strikers so far. Four days after the UCSC wildcat strike began on Feb. 
10, University of California President Janet 
Napolitano released an open letter on Feb. 14 
via the UCSC website threatening to fire UCSC 
graduate TA ’s who have been withholding grades as part of the strike.
“Chancellor Larive has already proposed 
two measures to help graduate students: a 
$2,500 need-based housing fellowship; and for doctoral students a 5-year, funding program 
at the minimum support level of a 50 percent 
teaching assistantship,” Napolitano stated. 
“Holding undergraduate grades hostage and 
refusing to carry out contracted teaching 
responsibilities is the wrong way to go. ”
President Janet Napolitano released another 
statement on Feb. 21 stating she was willing to 
work with graduate students. 
“I have invited leaders of the UC Graduate 
and Professional Council to join me for a meeting to discuss issues of importance and 
impact to graduate students, including cost of 
living, housing, mental health, training and 
mentoring, career placement, and childcare, among others, ” the statement read. 
The graduate students at UCSC released 
a “Call to Action” letter on Friday, Feb. 28 in response to the employment terminations that 
occurred that day, which UCSD COLA shared 
onto their page.
“We are hereby calling for the strike to 
spread, into new quarters, with as far a reach as possible, to every UC campus, ” the letter read. 
“We are calling for a day of action on Monday, 
March 2, with marches and rallies on every 
campus!”
Several other campuses in the UC system 
have joined the UCSC strikes. According to 
the UCSD COLA strike poll form, “UC Santa Barbara [began] a full wildcat strike on Feb. 
27, and on the same day, UC Davis [began] a 
grading strike. ”
Towards the beginning of the Wednesday 
UCSD COLA assembly, graduate students, faculty, and undergraduate students met in 
small groups to discuss why they were there and 
what they hoped to learn or gain. A strike poll 
was taken towards the end of the meeting, in VOLUME 53, ISSUE 19  MONDA Y , MARCH 2, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CURIOUS TRITONS
Curious Tritons: What are the details of  the Khosla Lawsuit?
In remembrance: Black Winter event marks 10 years in February since the Compton Cookout. // Photo by Irvin Yang
By  madeline  leon   Senior Staff WriterUC SYSTEM
UCSD Cola Release Strike Polls in Wake of  UCSC FiringsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"At its core, the show’s 
utilization of strong, 
character-driven 
narratives allows its 
messages of healing 
to seep so incredibly 
deep..."
MODERN  SUST AINABILITY
YERBA  MATERETURNING  TO  OUR   ROOTS
ENERGY  DRINKS  ON  CAMPUSOpinion,  Page 5
FEATURES,  PAGE 6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"It seems as 
though, if a 
woman dared to 
enter the comedy 
scene, she had 
to be amazingly 
funny or she 
would be cast 
out.”TUESDAY
 H 66 L 49
THURSDAY
H 66 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 49
FRIDAY
H 64 L 51
NEIGHBORHOOD...........3
EMMA.............................9
PHILZ COFFEE..............12 
MARCH MADNESS.......15
MEN’S VOLLEYBALL....16Hanaa Moosavi
Women in Comedy
 PAGE 8The lawsuit alleges that former Associate VC Jean Ford was wrongfully terminated from her position.
BY daisy  scott
Editor-in-chiefTV REVIEW:
BOJACK HORSEMAN
A&E, page 8
See LAWSUIT,  page 3See COLA,  page 2
Triton’s AS 
Grievance Denied by 
Judicial Board
The Board found that AS Council ’s 
recent closed session did not violate 
the constitution.
A grievance filed against 
Associated Students of UC San 
Diego by Ella Chen, the editor-in-chief of The Triton, was unanimously denied by the Judicial Board in a 3-0 ruling on Feb. 19, 2020. The Judicial Board, which has no direct ties to A.S Council, found that A.S. Council did not violate its constitution when it held a closed session on Jan. 15.
The closed session, which 
featured an hour-long presentation on student mental health by University Centers Advisory 
Board Chair Joey Mendoza, was 
followed by a unanimous vote to approve language for a potential student mental health and Counseling And Psychological Services student fee referendum.
In her grievance, Chen argued 
that the closed session violated Section 8 of the A.S. Council Constitution, which states: “ All meetings of the Senate shall be open to the public except when dealing with matters of personnel, existing or anticipated litigation, license or permit determination, threat to public services or facilities, labor negotiations, investments, contracts, or real property negotiations. ”
Chen’s grievance also claims 
that the nature of the closed 
session violates the Brown Act, 
which states: “Matters concerning the appointment, employment, performance, compensation, sanctioning, or dismissal of employees, excluding elected and appointed officials. Matters concerning the sanctioning or dismissal of officials may be held in closed session with the consent of the person facing sanctions or dismissal. ”
In a follow-up editorial written 
by Triton Opinion Editor Kate Zegans and Managing Editor Ethan Edward Coston, the Triton Editorial Board claimed that the nature of the closed session leading to the vote should have been available to students because it was related to the potential allocation of student fees.
The Editorial Board also 
claimed that AS Vice President of Campus Affairs Melina Reynoso justified in an email to The Triton that the nature of the presentation fell within the realm of Section 8 and warranted a closed session.
Despite these claims, the 
Judicial Board, which is a neutral body that oversees and processes student complaints, found that ASUCSD had neither violated the 
ASUCSD Constitution nor the AS
BY  jacob  sutherland
News editor
See GRIEVANCE,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Did you know that Pad Thai is a 1000 calories? 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Andrew Ha
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Co-Editors 
Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Saida Hassan
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 which the majority of attendees 
raised their hands to vote if they 
would be prepared to strike the following week.
An online strike poll via 
Google Form has been shared on 
the UCSD COLA Facebook page. 
“ As our fellow graduate workers and allies at UC Santa Cruz enter their third week of a full strike, 
we must assess our willingness to 
act in solidarity and in pursuit of 
a COLA for all, ” the form states. 
Attendees of the Wednesday 
assembly discussed how 
undergraduate students can support their graduate TA ’s. One 
commenter during the open 
comment portion mentioned 
that a fight for a change in the 
cost of graduate housing can ripple into a decrease in the cost 
of on-campus undergraduate 
housing as well.
Second-year Ph.D. student in 
the ethnic studies department 
Muhammad Yousuf spoke at 
Wednesday’s assembly. “Cost-of-Living-Adjustment 
is a main, immediate short-
term goal, and the long-term goals are building a sustainable student worker movement on 
this campus, ” Yousuf told the UCSD Guardian. “ Also really 
important is talking to your parents or guardians or folks that pay tuition because if the people 
who are paying the big bucks 
reach out to the university and 
are like ‘hey why isn’t my TA 
getting paid’ or ‘why isn’t my 
child’s teacher getting paid, ’ that’s 
gonna put pressure on them as well. ” 
John Muir College senior 
Emily Kuchlbauer believes the 
COLA movement is important to 
undergraduate students as well. 
“The fact that [TA ’s] don’t 
make a living wage and are facing homelessness breaks my heart, 
and I think it’s a load of crap that the administration doesn’t care 
enough about their students to 
even pay them enough money to live on campus, ” Kuchlbauer said. “Undergrads experience this 
apathy as well from everything to parking, lack of resources, and tuition increases. ”
At the Wednesday assembly, 
faculty gathered and announced three pledges and ways faculty could support their graduate TA ’s in the event of a strike at UCSD. 
The first pledge is that the faculty 
would not grade assignments or 
submit grades in replacement of 
the TA work. The second pledge 
is that the faculty would not 
mark down TA ’s who cancel lecture sections to strike. The 
third pledge is that the faculty 
would incorporate the strike into 
their course lectures. 
“One of the things that faculty 
can do is get educated on the living and working conditions of 
the grad students that do most 
of their labor, and allow faculty to concentrate on things that are 
important to them, in addition to 
teaching and research, ” Associate History Professor Wendy Matsumara told the Guardian. 
“There are a lot of faculty who 
have already signed solidarity 
statements with the grad students 
who are supportive because they teach a lot of these issues in 
their classes, ranging from rent burden issues to the history of labor organizing to student 
movements. ” 
UCSD COLA has called for a 
march on Monday, March 2 at 12 
p.m. in front of the Silent Tree in 
an act of solidarity with the TA ’s 
who have been fired in UCSC. There will also be a teach-in on 
Wednesday, March 4 at 12 p.m. 
at the Ché Café.
Quarter to Semester System
The UC San Diego 
administration has started talks 
on changing the academic quarter system into a semester system.
Proponents of the change 
argue that this could reduce stress in students’ learning environment and align the University with 
many other schools throughout 
the country, including UC Berkeley and UC Merced. The 
school has also acknowledged that 
the change could better facilitate unit transfers of community 
college coursework, as a majority 
of these schools run on a semester system, and help students better align with summer internship 
schedules.
Many students have lamented 
that the quarter system’s ten-week schedule is too fast and leaves 
little room for students to catch up on missed coursework. However, other students have expressed that they prefer the quarter system because they are able to take more courses overall and not have to 
take any course for too long.
No substantive change has 
been made yet to move towards a semester system, but if the 
University were to continue on this route, they would likely need the approval of the Associated 
Students and the University of 
California Regents. A semester system for UCSD students would 
work on a 15-week schedule for 
the Fall and Winter/Spring terms with the option of a third session 
during the Summer. 
Study Abroad Cancelled due to 
Coronavirus Fears
Due to a rise in global fears 
of COVID-19, or commonly 
known as the Coronavirus, UCSD 
has canceled study abroad trips 
for students intending to go to China, Korea, and Italy. The US State Department increased the travel advisory to China to a level three on Jan. 27, and subsequently moved to make it level four on 
Jan. 31.
A level three travel advisory 
indicates that US citizens should avoid all nonessential travel to 
the country; level four indicates that people should not travel to the country at all. On Feb. 26, 
the State Department expanded 
the level three travel advisory to Korea and Italy as both countries 
have had some of the greatest 
numbers of coronavirus cases outside of China. 
Although five students 
intended to go to Korea and 11 to go to China, they will no longer be able to do so. Following 
the UC policy for travel abroad 
restrictions, the University of California Education Abroad 
Program has thus suspended trips 
to the aforementioned countries. 
World Bookmark Day
UCSD celebrated World Bookmark Day on Feb. 25, 2020 at Geisel Library. To recognize 
the influence of bookmarks on 
humanity for over 2,000 years, the school decided to hold the exhibit.
The exhibit displayed unique 
bookmarks that the library has collected over the years, including some non-traditional ones made 
of plastic or origami-styled.
On the day of the international 
holiday, Geisel Library also held an event for students to make 
Do-It-Yourself bookmarks. The events coordinator, Scott Paulson, 
hoped to get students to come out 
to the event as a way to destress from academics and to learn more about bookmarks. 
—  Andrew Ha
News Editor Neighborhood  notesNeighborhood Notes is a 
compilation of short blurbs on 
what’s happening on campus and 
throughout the San Diego area.Several faculty members announced 3 pledges that other faculty could do to support graduate students.
▶ COLA , from page 1
madeline  leon   m7leon@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Brown Act by holding its closed session.
“We find that due to the vague 
wording of the constitution, ASUCSD 
was not in violation of Section 8 since the matters discussed in the closed session had to do with members of personnel of UCSD Health, specifically their names and departments, ” the ruling read.
The Judicial Board went on to discuss 
that the ruling had to do specifically with the nature of the accusation being made in regards to Section 8 of the AS Constitution.
“ As today’s hearing only had to do with 
the accused violation of Section 8, we are bound by the words that are already in the existing constitution, ” the ruling read. “We recommend that ASUCSD specify the term ‘matters of personnel’ in Section 8 of the constitution, basing it off of the Brown Act and the ASUC’s constitution. ”
At the time of this article’s publication, 
no known further actions have been taken in regards to the grievance by either A.S. Council or The Triton’s staff members. Likewise, no information has been released as to whether or not there will be a fee referendum in regards to student mental health and CAPS in the upcoming Spring election.
without her knowledge, and that other 
university employees also share passwords 
among assistants. Between 2015 and 
the time of her termination, Ford raised 
approximately $300 million for UCSD. 
An ABC 10 News report from 
June 2019 mentions Ford’s claims that Chancellor Khosla’s attitude toward her 
became “increasingly hostile” over the 
course of those three years. Ford alleges 
instances when Chancellor Khosla 
expressed frustration at her high salary but did not make such comments to fellow 
similarly-paid male employees.
The Case Management Statement filed 
by Ford on Jan. 8 to the San Diego Superior 
Court further claims that “in December 
2015, Khosla promoted a younger, far-
less-qualified male to supervise Plaintiff [Ford]. After Plaintiff complained 
about the promotion and the disparity 
of treatment by Khosla to the women 
employees, Khosla specifically targeted 
Plaintiff for retaliation... ” 
The Union-Tribune also reported that 
the June lawsuit file detailed that “while 
Plaintiff [Ford] was at a work event with 
Khosla, she commented that her heels were hurting her feet. He responded that 
the only reason for her to wear heels was 
if she was wearing a skirt so people could 
see her ‘taut calves. ’ He then informed her 
that since she regularly wore pants, she 
shouldn’t bother with heels. ”
Ford further alleges in the lawsuit that Chancellor Khosla’s behavior toward fellow employees also consisted of gender-
based harassment and discrimination. 
The lawsuit’s allegations further claim 
that Chancellor Khosla treated female employees differently than males in 
meetings by speaking over them, and 
prioritized male donors’ concerns over 
those of female donors. Ford also alleges 
that five middle-aged women in particular 
repeatedly had to experience “daily abuse 
in the form of demeaning and humiliating comments” from fellow workers, including 
Chancellor Khosla. 
The UCSD Guardian referred to the 
“The Reply Memorandum of Points and 
Authorities in Support of Defendants 
the University of California and Pradeep 
K. Khosla’s Demurrer of Plaintiff Jean Ford’s First Amended Complaint. ” This 
document was filed to the San Diego 
Superior Court on Jan. 31 and outlines 
several arguments of the UC Regents’ and 
Chancellor Khosla’s defense. 
The UC Regents and Chancellor 
Khosla’s defense attorneys argue that 
Ford has no grounds for several of her 
lawsuit’s claims due to provisions in the California Workers’ Compensation Act, 
including her Intentional Infliction of 
Emotional Distress Claim. The defense 
attorneys also argue that due to the 
California Government Tort Claims Act, 
the UC Regents can not be held liable for 
Ford’s additional claims that she has faced “Intentional Interference of Prospective 
Economic Relations… and Defamation. ” 
The UC Regents and Chancellor 
Khosla’s attorneys have requested for “a 
demurrer without leave to amend” for these claims. If sustained, the claims will 
be dismissed and Ford will not be able to 
refile them.
The UCSD Guardian contacted 
Chancellor Khosla for comment. A 
representative from the university 
communications department responded on his behalf, stating, “The University does 
not comment on pending litigation. UC 
San Diego is committed to maintaining 
a workplace free from discrimination, 
retaliation or harassment of any kind… 
Discrimination based on gender or any 
other basis is a violation of university policy and contrary to UC San Diego’s 
values as a community. ” 
According to the Superior Court of 
California, San Diego Register of Actions, 
the lawsuit is ongoing and does not have 
a court date set at this time. The Case Management Statement filed by Ford states that the case will be prepared to go 
to trial by June 2020. While the statement does not list an exact price, it does indicate 
that Ford is suing for more than $25,000. 
As of Jan. 23, a jury has been requested by 
both parties.CLUB FUNDS
By Michi Sora
jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.org
Daisy  Scott   editor@ucsdguardian.orgJudicial Board: “We recommend that ASUCSD specify the term ‘matters of  personnel...’”
Khosla’s defense attorneys’ claim that Ford’s argued reasoning has no legal grounding.▶ GRIEVANCE , from page 1
▶ LAWSUIT , from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
The relief I felt a fter my last final of Fall Quarter remains unmatched. A fter 
spending countless hours in the library for months, with a mere two days o ff 
in between, I was beyond ready for winter break to begin. However, upon 
returning to campus for Winter Quarter, I still felt as though I needed more time to 
rest and recover, despite having had three weeks o ff. Since midterms can begin as early 
as Week 3 of the quarter, students don’t have much time to adjust and learn before being assessed which makes the quarter system feel like a fast lane to graduation. 
Last week, Elizabeth Simmons, the Executive Vice Chancellor of UC San Diego, 
confirmed rumors that UCSD may switch from the quarter system to the semester 
system in order to foster a less stressful environment on campus. Simmons explained that “no decision has been made [and] is anticipated that the process for such a transition would take time and require approval by the systemwide Academic Senate and UC Regents. ” 
Nonetheless, I believe that switching to a semester system would be worth the wait 
because of the numerous bene fits it offers students. The system is already favored by 
countless universities across America. UC Berkeley and UC Merced already operate 
on the semester system, not to mention that roughly 95 percent of all four-year 
universities in America have adopted it according to a study conducted by California Polytechnic State University. Many of these schools did so to relieve students from unnecessary stress and anxiety.   
Switching UCSD to a semester system would provide students more time to learn 
and absorb content, and allow them more time to care for their mental health, thus improving the overall wellbeing of students. In turn, utilizing the semester system would only increase the academic success of students. 
Due to the fast-paced nature of the quarter system, students typically find 
themselves focusing on information they believe they will be tested on. In turn, many are simply skipping over the rest of the material and thus not absorbing all the content intended. Transitioning UCSD to the semester system would provide students with the much needed time to learn and absorb course material, and in turn, would be better for their mental health by giving them more time to focus on self-care.  
Additionally, having more time to learn the content before midterms and final 
exams would provide students more time to adjust and prepare for their classes. The 
semester system consists of two 15-week periods, while the quarter system consists of three 10 week periods. According to experts from the University of Portland, the semester system allows incoming freshmen and transfer students an easier time adjusting to the rigor of college academic life
In a semester system, students will have time to focus on the handful of classes 
that they are taking rather than spreading themselves out thin with coursework, as they would be able to take a lighter and less condensed course load. This additional 
attention students would be able to give their academics will translate into a deeper understanding of the material and more time to engage with professors outside of class, as they would have the time to focus on deeper concepts rather than retention of information.
Furthermore, this relief of academic stress on students would translate to more 
time for students to take care of their mental health. Having five additional weeks 
of learning time would give students more freedom to plan their day so that they can get closer to achieving the ideal eight hours of sleep a night. This is because 
if professors teach the same material that they currently cram into 10 weeks into 15 weeks, they would have time to go over tougher concepts and answer student questions, preventing students from staying up all night trying to piece things 
together themselves. Seeing as there is a close correlation between sleep deprivation 
and declining mental health, this is extremely important.  Additionally, it would give students more time to practice proper self-care, as students would no longer have to pack every minute of the day with work and classes. 
Some may argue that the quarter system is superior because it gives students 
space in their schedules to retake classes or get ahead on their coursework. However, there are other ways to do so. If students weren’t as rushed as they are on the quarter system, fewer people would have to retake classes in the first place, as they would 
have the time to address questions they have about the material covered in lectures. 
Additionally, UCSD o ffers two Summer Sessions for those who may need to retake 
a class or get ahead. So rather than forcing the entire student body to quickly learn 
course material in 10 weeks, there must be a stronger emphasis on Summer Sessions as an option for students who want or need to take extra classes. 
If UCSD wants to ensure their students are well-equipped to succeed, its faculty 
and sta ff must consider the numerous bene fits of adopting the semester system for 
its students, taking into account the current rushed nature of classes on the quarter system in conjunction with the impact of having more time to learn the material on students.Down with the Quarter System, up with the Semester System 
By Zara Irshad // Sta ff Writer
With the California Primary just around the corner, many 
Tritons will face the questions of “Should I vote?” and “Who 
should I vote for?” While I find it questionable to tell you 
who to vote for, I firmly believe that yes, you should 
vote if you are eligible to do so, and yes, you should feel shame if you do not exercise your right to vote on March 3.
Primary Elections are known for lower voter 
turnout in comparison to general elections. Looking at California’s Assembly District 78, which includes the entire UC San Diego campus, 
only 111,988 people voted in the June primary, 
compared with 197,815 who voted in the general.
This type of disparity is generally expected. 
However, it is disappointing that 15 days before the June primary — the last day voter registration data is released before an election — 279,308 people were registered to vote. This means that of 
those registered, only 40 percent voted, and that number does not include folks who were eligible to register but did not.
I find this low turnout alarming, especially when the 
latest data shows that as of Jan. 3, 2020, 288,978 people were registered to vote in our Assembly District. Primaries exist to allow voters to choose who they want to represent their party in the General Election. With that in mind, if the turnout for these registered voters were higher than the previous election’s 40 percent, the candidates elected would be much more representative of what 
Tritons actually want.
But moving away from the numbers, we should vote, if 
for nothing else than the fact that we have the privilege to 
vote. Across the country, millions of people are ineligible 
to vote because of issues with citizenship, former or 
current incarceration statuses, or simply being turned 
away at the polls by those with malicious intentions. 
The latter occurred in Georgia in 2018 when the 
incumbent Secretary of State Brian Kemp stalled 
over 53,000 voter applications in an eff ort to win 
his gubernatorial bid.
We are so lucky to live in California, a state 
that goes the extra mile to maximize the number of eligible voters able to exercise their right to vote. Several counties here are currently testing 
out voting centers that would allow voters to 
drop o ff their ballots at convenient locations 
over the course of a couple of days, and California 
even allows same day voter registration. If you are 
eligible, there is no excuse not to vote.
At the end of the day, it is up to you who you decide 
to vote for. But as the Politically Correct Princess, I 
wholeheartedly urge you to show up to the ballot box. Voting 
is an integral part of our democracy, and in an era where marginalized 
groups face obstacles to participation from the political left and right, 
we must vote in solidarity with those who cannot.PC Princess: V ote, Bitch
By: Jacob Sutherland // News Editor
ART BY KYOKO DOWNEYART BY KYOKO DOWNEYOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Over the last century in America, economic inequality 
has continuously grown. Despite legislators’ e fforts at 
bridging the gap, many people feel the reality of life is not 
up to par with what they deserve. As a result, hundreds of thousands of Americans now live in their cars or on the streets, and millions more live in poverty with little more than a sliver of hope for upward mobility. In classrooms here at UC San Diego, professors wryly remind students that their generation will be one of the few that does 
worse than their parents and that our current lifestyles are 
unsustainable.
But amidst all of this, especially in California, is a desire 
amongst some legislators, activists, and citizens to curb economic inequalities and environmental degradation. In an attempt to reverse some of the wrongs that the privileged around the world have done to the environment we share, environmentalism, conservation, and sustainability have entered the common lexicon. As a result, politicians and citizens alike are addressing the importance of sustainable practices in solving both environmental and economic problems in the U.S.
The popularization of reusable water bottles, plastic 
bag taxes at grocery stores, the proliferation of paper 
straws, and rebates for water-saving landscaping and 
electric cars are just a sampling of the many di fferent ways 
that Californians and their government representatives have helped make an impact on their environment. Some of these policies are a result of advances in technology and the consequential drops in prices, like solar panels. But increasingly, environmentally-conscious trends are not coming out of technological progress. Instead, the sustainable practices we need are being drawn straight from the history books, as prohibitively-expensive reliance on technology is being replaced by innovation through reverting back to past practices.
Largely in urban areas with plenty of wealthy residents, 
local communities are pushing forward ideas that find 
their roots in past cultural norms. For example, dairy farms have begun moving away from the supermarket model, instead opting to have the consumer play a more active role in sustainability. Some companies are having customers bring their bottles back to local stores to be refilled to lower the environmental cost of producing new 
containers, while others literally have begun getting their milk from a dairy delivery man. The delivery truck driver, 
who also would walk up to the front porch and grab the empty bottles one night and deliver freshly-bottled milk in its place in the early 20th century, is making a comeback thanks to a new crop of conscious shoppers looking to limit food waste while also utilizing the home food delivery wave that is hitting the U.S.
There are also more impactful policies that are 
returning, namely localized public transit in dense urban 
areas. In Los Angeles, where General Motors ripped out 
the trolley systems that ran through downtown, making cars more of a necessity, the remaining public transit is woefully underutilized. As a notoriously congested city, public transportation ridership in Los Angeles is abysmal, in part because of the quality of the transit, but also because of stigmas against utilizing it. Now, LA Metro, the City Council, and LA County are pushing to put into place public transportation systems that link downtown with the suburbs at a cost of nearly $10 billion, in an attempt to limit the need for using a car to make it from one part of the city to another. If ridership really can increase into the millions as projected, this project could have a profound impact on a city that really seemed to shun public transit 
not-too-long ago. 
But are these policies really outgrowths of an increasingly 
progressive population, or are they just manifestations of 
economic inequality with a pretty sustainable green bow?
The problem is that residents making use of the 
milkman, electric cars, and solar panels tax breaks and rebates are not really the citizens who need the most economic relief. More o ften than not, people who 
know about these things and live in areas with these opportunities are wealthy enough to survive without these economic boosts.
That’s what needs to shi ft; American environmentalism 
must become less elitist and more accessible –– the sooner the better. The more people are made aware of the bene fits 
of shifting to past practices, and the more economically 
viable these options become, the more likely they are to adopt them. At the same time, these policies cannot simply reinforce existing inequalities. Those who care about 
equitable solutions need to come together and advocate for the voiceless, and that starts with public resources and awareness campaigns at the local level. The Downfalls of Modern Sustainability
By: Jack Dorfman // Sports Editor
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Students have a tendency to cram before a midterm or type up an 
essay the night before it’s due. Caffeine is the fuel for these late-night 
endeavors and academic binges. Students typically turn to a cup of coffee, but now, walking into any library or study room on campus, one is likely to see students holding an iconic yellow can or colored bottle. There is a challenger to coffee’s throne developing in the caffeine industry: yerba mate. 
Yerba mate is a plant that has caffeine and is used to create caffeinated 
drinks. The drink is produced by a process of brewing yerba mate leaves with water and then combining it with juice as an infusion to create a beverage that has a similar consistency to herbal tea. This plant 
is based in South America and the drink is very popular in the region, 
specifically in Paraguay, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. Orlando Yerba Mate is one of many companies that uses the name of the drink for a trademark in North America. The product was introduced into North America due to its popularity among caffeine drinkers. 
Guayakí, which is not Food and Drug Administration approved due 
to a lack of research, is one of the largest companies in the yerba mate industry, and it has an established presence on campus. The company has a variety of drinks ranging from a sparkling drink, a drink based on tea and herbs, “Terere” — which is either unsweetened or sweetened, and a drink that is branded as a typical energy drink in a can with a fusion of juice and tea. Yachak, another yerba mate company, entered the market with a drink that is also a juice and tea fusion. Yerbaé, another yerba mate company, has come out with a sparkling yerba mate drink to rival Guayakí’s sparkling drink. Within the most popular brands, there is a trend of featuring one of these three types of yerba mate drinks. All of these drinks stem from the yerba mate plant. 
A recent study conducted by 
Clinical Nutrition, the journal of The European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism, finds that 92 percent of college students consume caffeine in any form and that the most popular form is coffee. 79 percent of these students use caffeine as a method to stay awake. The study points to the large portion of caffeine consumers that are among college students.
Many students at UC San Diego view yerba mate as an alternative 
to coffee. One of these students is Thurgood Marshall College junior Joshua Noritake who still drinks a lot of coffee but is turning to yerba mate as an alternative to a typical energy drink. 
“I just see [yerba mate] a lot around the stores, ” Noritake said. “ Also, 
I see that it is a little better than energy drinks. It doesn’t have taurine or anything like that. ”Taurine increases the amount of lithium in a person’s body and 
this leads to health issues like poor kidney health. Apart from lacking taurine, yerba mate has no artificial sweeteners in the unsweetened versions and the caffeine comes from a natural source. 
Noritake proudly identifies as someone who is hooked on caffeine 
and consumes it on a daily basis. Although yerba mate isn’t a replacement for coffee in his eyes, he values it as an alternative that he 
is more comfortable with than other energy drinks. He attributes this 
uncontested branding as a driving force for its popularity.
 “Probably that it is like an energy drink, but it doesn’t have all of the 
bad stigma connected to energy drinks, ” Noritake said. “It still has all of 
the caffeine, but it is more appealing to college students. ”
Word about yerba mate is spreading and it is being talked about in 
everyday locations. Roger Revelle College sophomore Spencer Rivera 
heard about the product at a place where more people in San Diego go to.
“I was at the beach on a pretty nice day and some lifeguards were 
talking about this new drink called yerba mate. It sounded modern and cool, ” Rivera said. “The taste was great the first time and it had the right amount of caffeine. The bottle said that it was from Paraguay and that was pretty exotic. ”
UCSD’s Housing Dining Hospitality, and markets like Roger’s 
Market, John’s Market, and Goody’s Market all have yerba mate products in their stores. Other markets on campus that don’t take dining dollars, the General Store Co-op and Sunshine Market among 
them, have also entered the yerba mate game. 
Larry Shadgett has been the 
manager of Sunshine Market for 10 years. He remembers the early days of yerba mate at UCSD, when Sunshine would “only sell two cases a week. ” Guayakí used to have events in which they would give away the product, according to Shadgett. The events helped to establish its presence on campus as an alternative to other energy drinks. Sunshine 
Market currently carries the Guayakí yerba mate at $2.50 per can, the cheapest price for Guayakí on campus. Additionally, the store has an entire wall in the fridge dedicated to Guayakí products. This wall is usually empty by the end of day until the employees restock. Sunshine Market sells anywhere from 75 to 100 cases of yerba mate a week now and its rise is still a surprise for Shadgett because it didn’t seem to catch on at its beginning. He has vivid memories of it being untouched, but he expects it to rise going forward.  
The  Rise  of  Yerba  Mate
Students are drinking yerba mate to stay up for midterms and fi nals. Its popularity continues to 
rise and points to college students looking for other forms of ca ffeine.
By  nelson  espinal   staff writer
“Word about yerba 
mate is spreading and 
it is being talked about 
in everyday locations.”
See YERBA MATE,  page 7ART BY JESSICA NIART BY JESSICA NIFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 Shadgett’s perspective as a manager of the store shows how 
sudden the yerba mate craze developed on campus. This generation 
developed an attachment to the product that allowed for growth to happen suddenly. The curiosity of students is at a high point in college and it leads to an increase in the willingness to try new products. Prachi Shah, an associate professor of pediatrics at the University of Michigan, conducted a study about the effects of curiosity on the human mind and concluded that “the aspect of curiosity most strongly associated with higher academic achievement was the construct of 
‘shows eagerness to learn new things. ’” 
The study demonstrates that the most academically successful 
people that make it to college are curious. Students come to college 
with ambitions to discover things both academically and socially. All it takes for a new drink to be established is to align itself with a generation’s curiosity and the word-of-mouth effect is spread to similarly curious students.
In the last year, the results of Guayakí’s marketing campaign have 
paid huge dividends as highlighted in an article by BevNET Magazine, “ According to market research group IRI, the company saw bottled 
and canned tea sales rise 17.9% through August 11, climbing to over 
$41.7 million. ” Their popularity has led to competitors rising to claim a piece of the pie. Yachak was one of the sponsors of last year’s Sun God Festival and was giving out free drinks at the event. The college student consumer is targeted by Yachak due to the potential to have them hooked on its product early on and have a loyal customer. This makes college students the ideal audience to sponsor and brand itself to so it can create a generation of loyal consumers. 
It hasn’t only been UCSD that has felt the marketing from yerba 
mate companies to college students. Yerba mate has developed in other schools as well. UC Santa 
Barbara is another example of 
how students are gravitating to the marketing style as noted in an article from The Bottom Line, “To accommodate the crazed fans, the Arbor ‘gets a shipment of about 150 cases [1800 individual bottles] every week’ to completely replenish their stock. ” 
This trend of marketing directly 
to college students combined with the constant stream of ads highlights the increasing effectiveness that companies have by constantly displaying their products. Both trends wear out the new consumer and make them either buy the advertised item or, like in yerba mate’s case, hook students on a drink that the student relies on 
when a long night is ahead.
A group of students here at UCSD figured that they could make 
a cleaner version of yerba mate that could further expand upon the 
growth that was happening. Mi Mate is a company that began due to 
this group of students banding together to form a refined venture in 
the yerba mate industry.
The founders of Mi Mate are John Muir College senior Eddie 
Muallem, Sixth College senior Yaniv Shemesh, and Sixth College 
alumni Alan Luna who graduated last year. All three members 
jumped at the opportunity to create a product centered around “the idea of creating a healthier yerba brand that could stand as a challenge to conventional canned yerba, loaded as they are with sugar, preservatives, and artificial flavors, ” Luna told the UCSD Guardian. 
Each member studied different academic areas, which they use to 
help the business grow. Shemesh studies economics and is in charge of setting up connections to international supply. Luna majors in art studio and art history and is in charge of the creative and social side of the company. Muallem does the financial leg work for Mi Mate. As a whole, they use their skill sets gained from UCSD to handle different parts of the company. 
They are trying to tackle the yerba mate giants with a product that 
lacks the artificial sweeteners that make the good taste, but still has the caffeine that made it so popular. The three students ventured to Paraguay in order to further research what the product was and how it was grown.
“We wanted to properly understand the history and culture of 
yerba mate, so we scraped together some money and journeyed down to Paraguay: a vibrant yet obscure nation in the heartland of South America, and the home of the yerba mate tradition, ” Luna said. “The three of us spent three weeks on the road, from the bustling streets of Asunción to the preternatural quiet of the Alto Paraná, exploring and learning about yerba culture from the wonderfully kind people we encountered. ”
This yerba culture that he mentions is how highly the people in 
South America regard the beverage  as a drink that can help maintain good health. The high regard for the drink leads to it being shared among family members and friends. 
The students were interested in the unique effect that the caffeine 
derived from the yerba mate plant had. They found it to be a lot more tempered with a slow rush of energy when compared to coffee or Monster Energy. This kind of drink appeared to once be niche, but over the years its persistent presence on campus has led to its popularity rising significantly. 
“Yerba mate is unique in the sense that in spite of having as much 
caffeine as a coffee or a conventional energy drink, yerba mate is a jitter and crash-free energy experience, ” Luna told the UCSD Guardian. “This is thanks to the rich quantities of l-theobromine present in yerba mate, a vasodilator that opens up your arteries and allows your body to absorb the caffeine with ease and grace, unlike the system shock of coffee or energy drinks. ”
The product needed to differentiate itself from the other drinks, 
but Mi Mate is attempting to target the same demographic as most big brands: college students.
“We’re a pretty shoestring 
operation, so our marketing efforts have been more D.I.Y. and on the ground than anything, ” Luna said. “Whether it be our sampling around UCSD or selling products at warehouse punk shows, we think it’s human connection and word of mouth that’s sparked our initial success. ”
Mi Mate yerba mate is sold 
at all markets at UCSD, but the G-Store at the Old Student Center 
has been selling the product since it was released. Marshall College senior Tal Marom works at the G-Store and says that it started selling the drink due to the relationship it has with the founders of Mi Mate. Both of the stores center around being student-run small businesses, 
and the G-Store and Mi Mate’s main consumers arestudents. He 
attributed the introduction of Mi Mate and the overall explosion of yerba mate to it being branded as a cleaner form of caffeine consumption that is unsweetened and lacks the potent caffeine rush 
and crash. 
When walking into the G-Store, a sign on the fridge proudly 
promotes the lowest prices for Mi Mate yerba mate on campus. The 
efforts to make the product more accessible is the plan that has been 
used to establish yerba mate in the mainstream. The  pattern of 
marketing that Guayakí, Yachak, and now Mi Mate are using to inject yerba mate into the mainstream stems from a grassroots push to have college students try it. The marketing’s success is based on student bodies being constantly willing to try something new, especially if it’s 
cheap and has caffeine. 
Students’ curious natures allow for new potential trends to be 
established in the mainstream more often as they supply direct 
feedback via social media about a product, which can make its market rise rapidly. The current generation of students replaced energy drinks with yerba mate drinks as the alternative to coffee in a similar fashion that streaming music has replaced radio stations. As generations shift, curious people will become attached to alternative ways of doing things, which motivates people to innovate with the hope that the new way will catch on.
“This trend of marketing directly to 
college students combined with the 
constant stream of ads highlights 
the increasing effectiveness that 
companies have by constantly 
displaying their products.”▶ YERBA MATE , from page 6
NELSON  ESPINAL   nespinal@ucsd.edu
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui KitaA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
PHOTO COURTESY OF FOOSHPHOTO COURTESY OF FOOSH
It’s about time we stop letting men get away with shock comedy and bad penis jokes.
Comedy has always been seen as a man’s pastime. When 
people think of funny comedians, the first names they 
usually think of are John Mulaney, Bo Burnham, and Louis 
C.K. — all men. Not only this, but many of the prominent 
male figures in comedy are known for their offensive satire, 
mostly referring to harsh, unappealing stereotypes of women 
or offensive commentary on women. If you haven’t seen any 
of his skits already, Bill Burr does a wonderful impression of the comics I speak about in this article. Although there has 
recently been a shift toward equal representation of women 
and men in comedy, there are some women that believe the 
move toward equal representation will halt.
I have been active in the comedy scene for the past six 
years of my life. I have worked on different improv teams 
during high school and currently work with FOOSH, UC San Diego’s short-form team. Throughout the years, I have 
watched audience after audience idolize men who use shock 
humor and “slightly pushing it” racist and sexist jokes to 
maintain their image as the “funny guy. ” People would rave 
over their jokes, even if those men said something “slightly” 
offensive or off-putting — the majority of an audience would 
usually overlook the blatant disrespect and lack of humor and laugh along with others. 
On the opposite side of the coin, it always seemed like the 
women on improv teams would always be the first ones to 
give up their spot during practice or be the first ones harshly criticized for their work and ideas. It would even go as far 
as women taking a step back from participating in order to 
make more room for a man in the space. Not only this but, 
time-after-time, women would have to subject themselves 
to being the “butt” of a joke or the housewife of a straight-
man bit while the men would thrive on being the quirky and 
original characters.
The only way women would be recognized for the work 
they did was after weeks of hard work and enough publicity in shows to get their faces out. And even then, the harshest 
critics of women would be other women in their space, 
sometimes judging others because, one, women are taught 
to think more critically of femme comedy, and two, if a 
woman performs badly it usually is made to reflect the entire 
gender. It seems as though, if a woman dared to enter the comedy scene, she had to be amazingly funny or she would 
be cast out. Where men could be mediocre and still praised, 
women would have to be outstanding comedians only to 
still be overlooked or downplayed. The weight of constantly 
seeing this blatant discrimination in comedy made me feel 
marginalized in a space where I should not have pushing me 
to look for representation in different mediums: television, literature, and even “Saturday Night Live” when I was 
desperate. 
Shows like “Fleabag, ” “GLOW , ” “Russian Doll, ” or any 
comedy series starring or made by women, display that modern media does not need to rely on “humorous” 
stereotypes of women to make people laugh. These shows 
are just a few examples of breaking from the stereotype 
that the only way women can be funny is if they are ditzy 
or absentminded, demonstrating how there are other jokes 
to be made that are just as, if not more, humorous than the 
“toe-the-line” jokes men seem to find so near-and-dear to 
their hearts. Society should move from trying to “make the joke work” and desperately looking to find the angle that 
makes a sexist joke somewhat appropriate because there are 
a plethora of other jokes that can be made instead of the 
cheap caricature of a valley girl or the one-liner about how 
women use the bathroom.
Although more women have moved into the media 
platform and have taken the stage to show their own comedy expertise, individuals still remain that understand sexism 
to be legitimate comedy. There has been a major push in 
the media for equality of gender recognition in comedy; 
however, if there are still individuals that see an opportunity 
for a sexist joke and take it, there will still be inequality of 
representation whether it be on the big screen or a college 
stage.
— hanaa  moosa vi
Staff Writer
The final episodes of “BoJack Horseman” bring us careful closure to the painful and nonlinear nature of personal growth.
“But no matter how many starts I get, there’s always the same 
ending. Everything falls apart 
and I end up alone” (23:24 S6E11). W as this the same ending? Did everything fall apart, 
with BoJack alone? Regardless, the time has 
come for the end of the sad horse show. 
Since its 2014 premiere, “BoJack Horseman” has taken us along a tumultuous journey 
through very real societal issues. Over the 
past six years, “BoJack Horseman” has 
tackled the commodification of young pop 
stars, depression, abortion rights, addiction, 
and all-mighty capitalism in its modern 
American capacity, constructing vastly realistic and socially conscious scenes with its 
warped yet engaging set of anthropomorphic 
characters.
A cornerstone of “BoJack Horseman” 
has been its use of distinctively different 
animation styles to mirror the emotional 
unravelings of its main characters, and these last episodes were no different. Beginning 
with Diane Nguyen, BoJack’s ghostwriter-
turned-friend, we are taken into a storyboard-
esque sequence of unprocessed childhood 
trauma and a deeply personal fear of failure. As a character who has openly been through 
therapy and uses antidepressants, she is 
confronted with the experiences that have already been discussed in clinical settings. Although Diane is not the titular character, 
her personal growth continually exhibits the 
chaotic nonlinear nature of recovery with as 
much potency as BoJack’s own arc. When 
Diane is unable to use her own traumatic 
past to create the powerful memoir she 
always dreamed of, the show challenges the idea of having “useful trauma” and what it 
means for art to be valuable. The show never 
shies away from the mess of growing and 
existing through involuntary formative pain. 
Even in the heightened world of an animated 
television show, its experiences feel honest.
While their situations are unique, all 
characters hold an underlying sentiment of what human connection can be, and what it 
might deserve, in context of the self. During 
a particularly charged scene in Episode 14, 
we see Todd, Princess Carolyn, BoJack, 
and Diane in a crosscut sequence depicting 
each character amidst gutting interpersonal experiences. Diane’s voice narrates with a 
sigh, “But at some point, you start to think 
it’s you. Y ou’re the piece that doesn’t quite 
fit. And you spend so long with that feeling 
that the feeling becomes your home” (18:52 S6E14). At its core, the show’s utilization 
of strong, character-driven narratives allows 
its messages of healing to seep so incredibly deep into viewers’ emotional centers that you’re almost left wondering how a cartoon 
made you feel again.
And finally, onto BoJack Horseman, the 
star of the show, the star of a show within 
a show, and another show within a show 
after that. Whereas the first half of Season 
6 demonstrated seemingly vast strides in BoJack’s alcoholism, selfishness, and generally 
self-destructive behaviors, the second half of 
Season 6 serves as a reminder that the process 
of “moving on” is by no means a linear path. 
Although BoJack desires a fresh start in his 
new career as an acting professor at Wesleyan 
College, he remains tethered to his past mistakes through determined journalists, 
ex-friendships, and spotlighted complicity. 
Through a “20/20” style exposé, we are 
all confronted with BoJack’s inappropriate 
relationships with former co-star Sarah-
Lynn, an ex-friend’s daughter Penny Carson, 
former lover Princess Carolyn, and many other younger, female characters. BoJack is 
held accountable for his actions in a very 
public fashion, where “fresh starts” are myths 
people tell themselves to placate their guilt 
over their mistakes.
The final episodes of “BoJack Horseman” 
concretize consequences and achingly entrenched emotional turmoil. They are a concentrated but fitting whirlwind that culminates in closure metered by BoJack’s 
relationships to other characters. We come 
to an understanding that some will leave 
BoJack, and some just might stay. Many of 
the continuing jokes established in the first 
season are paralleled as markers of change at 
the chronological end of nonlinear healing. The “Hollywoo” sign becomes “Hollywoob”; 
BoJack finds honeydew to actually be 
pleasant; Princess Carolyn offers agent 
advice; and Diane has one final conversation 
with BoJack on the roof. “It’s funny, isn’t it? 
The things that matter. The truth is none 
of it matters and the truth is it all matters tremendously. It’s a wonder any of us get 
out of bed at all. And yet, we get out of bed” 
(16:54 S6E14). I have tremendous gratitude 
for “BoJack Horseman”: where animation 
captures people at their most human and 
where emotional validity, actionable morality, 
confusion, pain, living, healing, and more 
come to play.
—  MARINA  LEE 
Contributing Writer
TV   REVIEW
BOJACK  HORSEMAN:  SEASON  6BBOJACK  HORSEMAN:  SEASON  6BPHOTO COURTESY OF OH! MOVIESPHOTO COURTESY OF OH! MOVIES
Created by   Raphael Bob-Waksberg
Starring  Will Arnett, Amy Sedaris, Alison Brie, Aaron Paul, Paul F. Tompkins
Premiered  Jan. 31, 2020  on NetflixCa
Wome n in ComedyA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
SAVE THE DATE
MONDAY , MARCH 2
STUDENT CENTER COURTYARD • 3PM
UCAL.US/VOTEJane Austen meets Wes Anderson in Autumn de Wilde’s debut feature fi lm.
“Emma. ” is not so much a period piece and not 
so much a romance. Y es, the film does take place in 
Austen’s Regency era England and it is appropriately 
bookended by two weddings, but director Autumn de Wilde’s insightful comedy takes place in a world 
so highly stylized that it would probably be more 
appropriate to say it merely mirrors our world, rather than is. The viewer is immediately whisked away into the heart of the bizarre social etiquette that 
governs the isolated and wealthy. Red-robed school 
girls marching in lines to school, the intimate and weighty social proceedings of the local church, and the absurd headdresses adorning gossiping gentlewomen quickly feel as natural as anything else. The story never leaves the little town it begins in, and despite the sprawling countryside and swaths of servants 
who move through each of the great houses, there is 
intentional claustrophobia to seeing the same twenty-or-so faces of every local from an appropriate social 
standing at every gathering.
The story has been adapted countless times, from 
Gwenyth Paltroth’s period-appropriate take on the 
titular character in the 1990s’ version of the film, to 
the same decade’s classic high school reinterpretation 
in “Clueless. ” The story begins with a 20-year-old 
heiress, Emma Woodhouse (Anya Taylor-Joy). Having successfully arranged the marriage of her beloved 
governess to a local gentleman, Emma resolves to 
continue the fun of matchmaking her friends, whilst retaining her own power and security as a wealthy 
single woman. Harriet (Mia Goth), a naive schoolgirl 
with mysterious parentage, immediately captures Emma’s fancy, leading to a misinformed attempt to set 
her up with local clergyman Mr. Elton (Josh O’Connor). 
What results is a bizarre and enthralling love pentagon, constantly changing positions and affections as Emma’s attempts at manipulation repeatedly backfire. In a 
world of etiquette and subtleties, perhaps Emma isn’t 
quite the chessmaster she thought she was. 
The hierarchies of “Emma. ” are not just commented 
on — they are built into every aspect of the film. Heavily stylized and entirely purposeful, “Emma. ” often feels like it has been choreographed; from the 
seamless shots of dressing and preparing for social 
functions to Mr. Woodhouse’s (Bill Nighy) neurotic obsession with rearranging set pieces to avoid his fears of drafts and illness, the world bends perfectly to the 
upper class. The servants who often seem more like 
automatons than humans are no exception. They fetch 
materials back and forth when required, never react to the tomfoolery of their employers, and quickly turn 
their backs in-synch on displays they are not meant to 
witness. 
In another story, this might have been purely 
stylistic. The sets, servants included, are gorgeously furnished and make the film a joy to watch, but 
de Wilde’s take on “Emma. ” far oversteps romantic-comedy, veering heavily into satire. Coupled with Austen’s witty dialogue and the overall self-awareness 
of the film, the aestheticization of social hierarchy, 
while stunning, takes on an unmistakable and purposely absurd level. Even before we learn of her proclivity for matchmaking, Emma easily conducts the asinine clockwork of her estate and those surrounding it. However, it is her own lack of understanding of the world she manipulates — namely, that those she 
disregards as too ridiculous or beneath her are just as 
human as she is — that ultimately leads to her missteps and overall character arc.
The acting of the film is superb as well. Fans of “Sex 
Education” will recognize Connor Swindells playing a different sort-of a role as Robert Martin, Harriet’s quiet but swoon-worthy lower class suitor, and Tanya 
Reynolds as the obnoxious and holier-than-thou Mrs. 
Elton. “Game of Thrones” fans will likely also get a 
kick seeing Gemma Wheelan set down her sword as Emma’s mild-mannered governess. Character actor 
Nighy is hilarious as Emma’s neurotic father, and 
comedian Miranda Hart appears as an incredibly on the nose Mrs. Bates, Emma’s well meaningly absurd 
neighbor. Goth’s Harriet is a young and delightful one, 
forever wide-eyed and impressionable to all of Emma’s schemes. And of course, the titular character herself, 
Taylor-Joy, does an excellent job as Emma, combining 
careful scheming with a sheltered naivete. 
With stunning costuming, witty dialogue, and 
carefully intentioned stylization, there is very little to 
criticize this “Emma. ” on aside from perhaps being 
too faithful to its source material. This is rarely a bad thing, but de Wilde’s creative stylized interpretation 
unearthed such a deep well of potential, that would 
have been fun to see her pull even from it. In a world post-Greta Gerwig’s “Little Women, ” de Wilde’s 
“Emma. ” is certainly a step in the new tradition of 
transformative adaptations of the classics.
—  CHLOE  ESSer
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
Emma.Emma.PHOTO COURTESY OF VOXPHOTO COURTESY OF VOX
Director   Autumn de Wilde
Starring  Anya Taylor-Joy, Johnny Flynn, Mia Goth, Callum Turner
Release Date  Feb. 21, 2020
Rating  PGCA10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  2 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
by The Lifestyle Editors eeks & Previews PP      March
Teach-In, March 4
Are you interested in the Cost-of-
Living Adjustment strikes or looking 
to know more? Come by the Ché Café on campus to learn more about the political history of U C San Diego and the workings of a corporate university. This event is especially geared toward undergraduates, as there will also be information available on what this issue means for undergraduate students. 
Art After Hours, March 6
If you’ve been waiting for 
an excuse to check out 
more museums at Balboa 
Park, check out the Art 
After Hours event at the San Diego Museum of 
Art. For the event, the 
museum will stay open 
until 8 p.m. and have live 
music playing outside in the 
court. The best part, though, 
is that college students 
with an ID get free 
admission! You 
now have no 
excuse not to check this out. 
International 
Women’s Day 
Panel, March 8
This event, taking place 
on campus in the Roger 
Revelle College Conference 
Rooms, is a celebration in 
honor of International Women’s Day. There will be five women leaders featured on a panel with a reception to follow. Come to support all women and to leave feeling inspired! 
Mariachi Festival, March 8
Come out to Bayside Park in Chula 
Vista for a celebration of Mexican heritage through the arts. This festival features live mariachi music and traditional ballet folklórico dancing. Y ou can also check out a wide variety of vendors and great food. 
Resume Workshop: What Hiring 
Managers Want, March 10
Have you started your hunt for a 
summer job and realized your resume might need some help? Come to this workshop held at the Career Center to hear what exactly managers and recruiters are looking for and learn how to create a resume that perfectly highlights your skills. 
St. Patrick’s Day Parade and 
Festival, March 15
Y ou don’t need to be Irish to attend 
this event, but make sure you’re wearing green when you head to Balboa Park for the St. Patrick’s Day Festival! With free admission, watch the parade go by and stay for a flag raising ceremony afterward. Latino Film Festival, March 18
This event begins on the 18th and 
actually runs for 11 days, so there are plenty of chances to go. Held at the Fashion Valley Mall, there will be over 100 screenings of films portraying and celebrating the Latino experience and culture. Throughout the 11 days there will also be a fashion show, art exhibits, and live concerts. Funds from the festival will support youth education and outreach programs. 
Boba Festival, March 28
If you love boba, this event at the 
Taiwanese American Community Center might be the one for you! Come and sample up to ten different types of boba from local vendors and leave with a Boba Festival Limited Edition Memorabilia Collectable. Also, be sure to stick around for food, art, and entertainment.
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
New Week. New Goals. Time to Crush Them.
by Tori Anderson Contributing Writer
Once the weekend comes, I know I do not want to do anything aside 
from relaxing from all the stresses that came from the week prior.  I sit in 
my living room on a sunny but gloomy Sunday, not wanting to do anything but lay down and be a couch potato. However, subconsciously, I know I need to get up, clean, organize, and plan for the week ahead. If we want to ease stress and accomplish the week ahead we must sit down, plan, and check in with ourselves. 
Step 1: Start-of-the-Week Check-In
By physically creating a start-of-the-week check-in, it will help you 
visualize what you want to accomplish in the week and keep yourself accountable. You can write your check-in list in a journal, on a whiteboard, or in something else that you will see every morning or night! I constantly check my planner, so I personally write it there because it is a nice reminder, but I also write it in my journal because it helps me see what I have accomplished that day. First, begin with recognizing what your number one priority is for the week. Second, write down at least one thing you want to do less of, such as screen time. Third, create a goal that you want to do more of, such as cooking. Once you have recognized your 
goals, it is time to pay attention to your feelings. Fourth, write down how 
you want to feel throughout the  week. Then, you must establish how you will feel like that so finish this sentence: “To feel this way, I will ____. ” Lastly, if you get into a funk, you can remind yourself of what you wanted 
to accomplish for the week by finishing this sentence: “If I get stuck, I’ll 
remember ____. ” 
Step 2: Mood Tracker
As mentioned before, how you feel is essential to whether or not you 
accomplish your weekly goals. Creating a mood tracker can show what days tend to be a little tougher than the rest. Being able to visually see when you are having not-so-good days versus the happy days will bring to light what makes you happy or what brings you down. This will help with your next week’s check-in when you have to write down your steps two through four. I personally just started doing this in February and it made me realize how much I needed to remove some toxicity out of my life. While the past week has been rough, it has shown me that my other weeks have been great, which made me grateful and goes to show that there is light at the end of the tunnel. 
Step 3: 3 Things to Remember
The third tip is just a general thing to do and that is to remember your 
motivations for the week. It’s important to remember that life is more than just what is in front of us.  First, slow down and do not rush. Enjoy the little things and the process that comes along with this thing called life. Second, take a break to give thanks! Write out a list of what you’re grateful for. Third, give someone a compliment today. Show kindness by affirming those around you! While I am a positive and kind person, I used to struggle with not appreciating the little things in life because it would seem to not fit my future goals. I went through multiple periods of my life where I struggled to be appreciative of what was around me because I was in a funk, and that is when I started to do these three things. Every day, I 
try to accomplish these three things to remind me how far I’ve come and 
what I have in my life. It honestly has helped shape me as a person.
Step 4: Reset Habits
I want to end with resetting habits as the final tip because you not only 
have to recognize what you want to accomplish, but you have to align your mindset and your habits to be able to achieve those goals. Just like with your weekly check-in list, write down the following habits that you would like to recognize, reset, and execute through the following questions. You can try to reset these habits all at once or, just like the check-in, only tackle one habit or thing that you would like to do less of or change each week so 
you can fully commit yourself. By doing only one change each week, you 
are not overfilling your plate with too many tasks, which gives you a feeling of sustainability. So, write down your answers for the following: “Habit I want to change, ” “What it gives me, ” “What I can replace it with, ” and “So, I 
will… ” I try to do this every week, and while I may not be successful every 
week, at least I tried and it has helped reduce these bad habits. I do this for screen time on my phone or with cravings. I still mess up and that is okay because I will keep working on it and improving. 
Cutting out 15 minutes of your Sunday to sit down and align your 
mindset and goals for the week will truly help you achieve those goals. I started implementing these routines for about a little over a year now and they truly helped. I was letting life overwhelm me which led me into a funk. I wanted to get out of it but did not know how, so I started with little reminders of what I love about myself and what I am grateful for in life. Slowly but surely I started accomplishing these goals I created and became more confident in myself. With time and these routines and habits, I started to enforce these practices in my life, helping me get out of that funk and creating the stability that I needed. I stand by these habits and think they are beneficial to living a fruitful life because they have helped 
me cut out so much stress and anxieties from school and other worries. 
We are creating a more sustainable and healthy life for ourselves and we are in it together!12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  2 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
ucsd.turbovote.org
On Campus Polling Locations:
- The Village: Building 2 - Conference Room
- Mesa Nueva Graduate Housing: One Miramar 
  Street - The Lounge
- Price Center East Ballroom 
  (provisional polling location)
- UC San Diego will also have a mail-ballot  
  drop off location in Price Center Study Room 5- Revelle College: Conference Room C
- Muir College: Mariposa Room- Marshall College: Angela's Place- Warren College: The Courtroom- Roosevelt College: Middle Earth- Sixth College: Dogg HouseA Guide to Ordering at Philz
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
Philz Coffee, a coffee chain that started in San Francisco, 
has slowly made its way to Southern California over the last 
few years. I’m from the bay area, so I was ecstatic (no pun intended) when one opened up in our very own La Jolla Village Square. However, many friends I’ve brought in have been overwhelmed by the amount of choices or thrown off by the ordering style. 
Since Philz has been my coffee shop of choice since I 
was in high school, I’ve picked up some know-hows over the years. Read on to get my full tips on going through the Philz experience as a first-timer. 
How To Order
Ordering at Philz is different from other coffee shops, 
which can trip some people up. Here’s the main flow: Y ou walk in, sometimes wait in a line, then get called up to the bar by the barista who’s going to make your drink. Sidenote: If you bring your own mug, you can get a few cents off! 
Philz lets you customize your “cream” and “sweet” 
options any way you want without an extra charge. Cream options include cream, milk, vanilla soy milk, oat milk, or almond milk. I’m not too sure about sweetener options, but I know they have honey, sugar, and artificial sweeteners. 
Y ou can ask for cream and sweetener at four different 
levels: light, medium, regular, or extra. This is how an order might sound: “a Julie’s Ultimate, sweet and creamy with almond milk. ” If you don’t specify the type of sweetener or the type of cream, they’ll default to sugar and milk/cream. 
There’s also some shortcuts: “Straight up” means that 
you want your drink without any cream or sugar, and “Philz way” means that you want it medium cream, medium sweet. If you’re not sure how you’ d like your drink, medium is a good place to start, because you can always add more! My go-to is usually “sweet and creamy. ” 
After you order, you go to a separate window to pay 
and order any food. Philz is one of the only places I know that does the honesty system of paying; you could very well walk out without paying for your drink, but they trust that 
you won’t.
Finally, your barista will call your drink out when it’s 
ready, and they will always let you try your drink and allow 
you to make any adjustments before you leave so your cup is always perfect.What To Order
Philz has a lot of drinks on their menu, and it can 
be difficult to decide what to get! Coffee comes in light, medium, and dark blends — if you’re not sure what you like, keep in mind light blends are the most caffeinated! Read the “notes” underneath each blend to see which tastes you might like, and you can always ask your barista for a recommendation if you’re really stuck.
To help you out, here is a list of my most-frequented 
drinks and how I usually get them. (Note that you will not see the Mint Mojito on here — while it’s a cult favorite, I never really get it!)
Iced Ecstatic (Sweet & Creamy)
Possibly one of the most caffeinated drinks I’ve ever 
had; it’s great when you’ve only had four hours of sleep and really need to focus on your research paper that’s due at midnight. I drank this an embarrassing amount in high school, but I would not recommend it for people who are sensitive to caffeine.
Philharmonic (Sweet & Creamy)
I’m a big fan of cardamom, and I think the addition of 
this spice really makes this drink different, in a good way. Julie’s Ultimate (Sweet & Creamy) 
My go-to coffee order, and my favorite of the dark 
blends! I usually get this with vanilla soy or almond milk. 
Tesora (Sweet & Creamy)
A classic — if you’re not sure what to order, most people 
will recommend you to start here. There’s no major jarring notes, and it’s just a good cup of coffee overall. 
Chai (Sweet & Creamy with Vanilla Soy)
If you’re expecting the sweet, concentrated stuff you’ll 
get from other coffee shops, this is not it. Philz has a very fresh chai full of cinnamon and topped off with mint — you can even taste the spices at the bottom once you’ve finished your drink. 
Y erba Mate (Sweet with Honey) 
Slightly smoky and earthy. If you want something 
caffeinated that’s not coffee, Y erba Mate is your girl.
Honorable mention go to the Herbal Mint Tea, which 
tastes great iced, and the Philtered Soul. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF SCIENCE NEWSPHOTO COURTESY OF SCIENCE NEWSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
MOVIE: PARASITETHURSDAY, MARCH 5
PC THEATRE • 5pm & 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal drop-in group is designed to talk 
about topics relevant to Asian American students 
at UCSD in a supportive and problem-solving 
atmosphere. Issues such as career and academic success, family pressures, cultural identity, and relationships are common topics. Contact: Dr. Diana Quach, Ph.D. 858-5345-7710 or Diquach@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural Center
2pm
#METOOSTEM: A MISSION TO END 
SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN STEM - SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER, AUDITORIUM E -B212
Dr. BethAnn McLaughlin and Dr. Teresa Swanson 
of the MeTooSTEM nonprofit organization will give a public talk about sexual harassment in STEM. Students, faculty, staff and the general public are invited to attend. The event is hosted by Prof. Jane Willenbring, Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Safe space will follow from 3:30pm to 6:00pm where survivors can talk to the MeTooSTEM team.
5pm
SUPER (TACO ) TUESDAY - THE LOFT
Watch the the results of the 2020 primaries and 
elections LIVE while enjoying a Taco Bar!
5pm
FILM SCREENING: INVENTING 
TOMORROW - ATKINSON HALL 
AUDITORIUM, 9500 GILMAN DR LA JOLLA, CA 92093
The Arts and Community Engagement initiative at 
UC San Diego invites you to a documentary film screening and discussion with the filmmaker! Event is free and open to the public. Light refreshments provided prior to screening. Space is limited!
,
5am
OUTSIDE THE BOX FORUM - CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER, TRANQUILITY 
ROOM PRICE CENTER EAST, 2ND 
FLOOR
This informal group is a safe space for 
students, faculty, and staff of mixed/ multiracial/multiethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open and supportive, community atmosphere. This group is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Contact: Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or Cathompson@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural Center Contact: Cathompson@ucsd.edu 858-534-3987
5pm & 8pm
PARASITE - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
University Centers Presents: PARASITE Date: Thursday, March 5th TWO SHOWINGS ---Show 1--- Doors: 4:30PM Show: 5PM ---Show 2--- Doors: 7:30PM Show: 8PM Location: PC Theater FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID Parasite, after winning four academy awards, is now coming to us at Price Center Theater! "What started out as a comedy of manners has become a furious snarl of rage and his most arresting social satire yet." A comedic thriller that is packed with social commentary on modern day social hierarchies. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTUE3.03
THU3.05MON3.02
9am
ERC OUTREACH SAN DIEGO SAFARI 
PARK TRIP - SAN DIEGO SAFARI 
PARK
Were you thinking of going to the Safari Park but 
the tickets are too expensive? Don't worry we got you. ERC Outreach is going to the San Diego Safari Park. So get ready for an adventure and fun-filled Saturday with us!! Tickets are open only to ERC International students till February 22nd, after that all UCSD undergraduate students can purchase tickets until we are sold out! Tickets include bus ride to and from the Safari Park and entry ticket to the park. Pick up and drop off at Rupertus Lane!!
5pm
UCSD PROJECT RISHI - TALENT 
SHOW - UCSD PC THEATRE
We are very excited to host San Diego's Rising 
Stars in effort to bring together the San Diego community as well as raise awareness about our organization and goals. The talent show will run from 5-8 PM on Saturday, March 7, 2020. The show will be followed from 8-9 PM with a FREE delicious dinner catered from Royal India. Join us at San Diego Rising Stars to experience an exciting night highlighting many talented groups and individuals within the San Diego community and FREE entry, FREE henna tattoos, and FREE photobooth pictures! Contact: kspatil@ucsd.eduSAT3.07WED3.04
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS @ THE ZONE - 
THE ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the 
opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to 
incorporate state of the art technology for stress 
management! You'll learn strategies such as 
progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress 
as well as learn about some cool technology. 
We'll have free giveaways each week AND you 
can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! See you on Wednesdays! Week 2-10 Location: The Zone
5pm
UNTOLD STORIES: BLACK WOMEN 
& THE VOTE - PC THEATER
Join the Women's Center in honor of Women's 
Herstory Month as we screen two documentary 
films, "This Little Light of Mine: The Legacy of 
Fannie Lou Hamer" & "Dignity and Defiance: A Portrait of May Church Terrell," both directed by Emmy-award winning journalist, filmmaker, and writer Robin Hamilton. Following the screening, we will be hosting a discussion and 
Q&A with filmmaker Robin Hamilton.
6pm
TEA & PAINT NIGHT AT THE ZONE - 
THE ZONE IN PC PLAZA
The Zone's Late Night Series presents Tea & 
Paint: Neon Night! Stop by to enjoy an evening of Glow-in-the-Dark painting and loose-leaf tea at The Zone! This event is FREE and on a first come, first serve basis; all supplies and materials will be provided.9am
PARTNERSHIP SCHOOLS 
PROGRAM-INFO SESSION – TMC ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, ROOM 132
Interested in taking part in an educational 
internship? Join the Partnership Schools Program! The internship opportunity is open to all UC San Diego undergraduate students. Students can volunteer as either Tutors or Interns at local underserved schools in San Diego county! Develop civic duty skills while you receive a great experience working in a high school setting. For more information attend one of our upcoming info sessions.
4pm
DR. KATHLEEN RYOR - GUEST 
LECTURE ON ASIAN ART - VAF 366, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Dr. Kathleen Ryor, Tanaka Memorial Professor of 
International Understanding and Art History of Carleton College, will give a lecture on Botanical Illustrations or Garden Records? The Metamorphosis of the Flower Painting Genre in Late Ming China.
6pm
LAURA NIX - MFA ALUMNI GUEST 
LECTURE - VAF 306 PERFORMANCE 
SPACE, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Laura Nix’s short film, WALK RUN CHA-CHA, has 
been nominated for an Academy Award for Best 
Documentary Short Subject. Its streaming on New 
York Times Op-Docs. Her feature documentary INVENTING TOMORROW, about teenagers from around the globe tackling environmental issues through science, premiered in the US Competition at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival, followed by multiple film festivals worldwide, earning multiple awards including the Grand Jury Prize at Seattle International Film Festival.
FRI3.06
11am
GARDEN WORKSHOP SERIES - 
STUDENT CENTER GARDEN
University Centers presents: Garden Workshop 
Series! DATE: March 6TH TIME: 11AM LOCATION: Student Center Garden (located at the Student Center, below the LGBT Resource Center) FREE for UCSD Students w/ID University Centers invites you to join us for a monthly educational workshop series at the Student Center Garden! Come learn from expert gardeners about plant families, harvesting techniques, pest management, and much more! We look forward to learning with you! March's workshop will showcase the Amaranth family! Join us in the Student Center Garden to learn about different members of this family, such as spinach, beets, and quinoa! Snacks will be provided too!
7pm
FREQUENCY SHOWCASE: TREBLE 
IN PARADISE - STAGE ROOM: OLD 
STUDENT CENTER
Frequency: UCSD's only all-male A Cappella 
group is ready to show off all of their hard work this quarter! Come by to enjoy our style and sound before finals week comes crashing in! With the support of special guest "Acamazing" What could go wrong?Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAR 2 - MAR 8
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
LET’S ROCK!CLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1.  Football throw
5. Hurt9. Small planet
14. Spanish water
15. Toast spread
16. Coat part17. Rod’s partner18. Garden plots
19. Repent
20. Deep blue
22. Goes to24. Actor ____ Martin25. Nile city
27. “____ the Beautiful”
29. Urgent abbr.
33. Snaky curve36. Golden calf, e.g.37. Character
39. Doomed ship
41. Maintains
42. ____ card43. Singer ____ Clapton44. NY time zone45. Skirt bottoms46. Lit49. Seoul’s country50. Advances54. Very hot pepper58. Type style59. Living quarters60. Eve’s garden63. Example64. Combine65. Iowa crop66. Prophecy67. Stainless ____68. Flock mothers69. SnoutDOWN
1. France’s capital1. France’s capital
2. Go-between2. Go-between
3. Nappy leather3. Nappy leather
4. Spit4. Spit
5. Vagrant5. Vagrant
6. Pub brew6. Pub brew
7. Primary color7. Primary color
8. Tile picture8. Tile picture
9. Greek philosopher9. Greek philosopher
10. Past due10. Past due
11. On top of11. On top of
12. Take care of12. Take care of
13. Bullring shouts13. Bullring shouts
21. Zodiac sign21. Zodiac sign
23. Mass ____ (subways, e.g.)23. Mass ____ (subways, e.g.)
25. Gator’s relative25. Gator’s relative
26. Be unwell26. Be unwell
28. Book issue28. Book issue
29. Nibbled29. Nibbled
30. Positive30. Positive
31. Fine ____31. Fine ____
32. Annoying thing32. Annoying thing
33. Engrave33. Engrave
34. Beget34. Beget
35. Flower support35. Flower support
38. Climb38. Climb
40. Commercials40. Commercials
41. Opera song41. Opera song
43. Compass dir.43. Compass dir.
47. Athens’ country47. Athens’ country
48. Church official48. Church official
49. Prepare to pray49. Prepare to pray
51. Texas landmark51. Texas landmark
52. Goes up52. Goes up
53. Setting53. Setting
54. Picture takers, for short54. Picture takers, for short
55. Aid in crime55. Aid in crime
56. Time past56. Time past
57. Margin57. Margin
58. Lodges58. Lodges
61. ____ Jones Industrial Average61. ____ Jones Industrial Average
62. Poet’s “before”62. Poet’s “before”PART-TIME JOBS 
Summer Camp Counselors & Activity 
Instructors - Day camps all over California are now hiring camp coun -
selors and activity instructors for the 
summer months. Camps are seeking 
positive, nurturing role models to be a 
part of dynamic, motivated staff teams. Visit our website….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
House Housekeeper (Weekend Part-
time) - WanderJaunt is building the future of hospitality by bringing the 
consistency, reliability and service of tra -
ditional hotels into the short term rental 
industry. We provide seamless hospital -
ity experiences for our guests and end-to-end property management services for our partners….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Part-Time Executive / PR Assistant (Fin-
Tech Industry) - We are seeking a prom -
ising Part-Time Executive / PR Assistant 
for a start-up in the Fin-Tech Industry! 
A fervent interest in the field partnered 
with good writing and research skills are very important to us. If you’re also well-organized, confident, detailed, and an 
excellent communicator….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FULL-TIME JOBS
Project Manager-Multifamily, Residential 
Podium, Construction  - Based in beauti -
ful San Diego, CA, we are one of the top 
owner developers in the entire nation. Due to tremendous growth, we are cur -
rently looking to hire a high caliber 
Project Manager with very strong in 
the field and supervisory experience 
on Large Ground-Up Podium….  ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Hair Stylist Assistant  - Hello! cosmetol -
ogy license is required for this job, and 
a huge plus if you already have clients. 
I need help at the salon- mixing color, 
sweeping, washing and folding towels. 
Taking before and after pictures of cli -
ents. Posting on IG and FB. Responding to emails/texts. Rebooking….  ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationClient Services & Operations Dept 
Manager- Investment Advisor - Exciting opportunity to join a dynamic, growing 
Independent Investment Advisory Firm 
located in the Sorrento Valley area of San Diego.  We have a solid 25 year track record providing investment advisory, trust and accounting services. We are seeking a seasoned professional to over-see our Operations ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS
New 2020 Volvo XC40 T5 AWD - Nav 
System, Moonroof, Heated Leather 
interior, Power Liftgate, iPod/MP3 
Input, Panoramic Roof, HEATED FRONT SEATS & STEERING WHEEL, CHARCOAL, LEATHER SEATING SURFACES, DENIM 
BLUE METALLIC, WHEELS: 19 5-DOUBLE 
SPOKE BLACK DIAM... Back-Up Camera, 
All Wheel Drive, WHEELS: 19 5-DOUBLE SPOKE BLACK DIAMOND CUT ALLOY, Turbo Charged Engine….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
USED 2016 Volvo S60 4dr Sdn FWD - 
FUEL EFFICIENT 38 MILES-PER-GALLON Hwy/26 MILES-PER-GALLON City! Black Stone exterior and Off-Black interior, T5 Drive-E Premier trim. NAV, Sunroof, Heated Leather interior, Turbo, Compact disc player, Satellite Radio, iPod/MP3 Input, HEATED FRONT SEATS, BLACK STONE, OFF-BLACK….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 Ford Edge Red - Rear View 
Camera|Rear View Monitor In Dash|Steering Wheel Mounted Controls Voice Recognition Controls|Phone Voice Activated|Stability Control|Electronic Messaging Assistance With Read Function|Parking Sensors Rear|Security Remote Security Security system|Multi-Function Display|Phone Wireless Data ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
6
14
82
31
45
42
6
87
89
53
65
86
7
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
March is here, bringing 
springtime, warm weather, 
and, most importantly, college basketball playo ffs. The 81st 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament kicks 
off on March 19. Aptly named 
“March Madness,” the single-
elimination tournament features 7 rounds, 68 teams, 67 games, and some of the most unpredictable, upset- filled basketball games of 
the year. With over 9.2 quintillion — a quintillion is one followed by 18 zeros — possible outcomes, it’s almost impossible to project what will happen. But in de fiance 
of those odds, college hoops fans around the country take part in 
the annual tradition of filling 
out tournament brackets, hoping 
they selected the one perfect bracket out of the 9.2 quintillion.
Last year, 17.2 million 
March Madness brackets were submitted to ESPN’s Tournament Challenge for the 2019 NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament. A fter the first day of 
the tournament, which consisted of the first 16 games, 42,828 — 
0.25 percent of the total brackets submitted – were perfect. By the time the first round ended, which 
consisted of the first 32 games, 
there were only nine brackets left.
In the entire history of March 
Madness, no one has ever produced a perfect bracket. But, for all the basketball fans and bracketologists who are feeling lucky and trying to find that 
elusive one in 9.2 quintillion chance, here are some strategies for picking games this March. All of the following is based on 
historical tournament data from 
1985 to 2019.
 
Seeding
According to DePaul 
University math Professor Je ff 
Bergen, using seeds to pick teams improves the odds of picking a perfect bracket from one in 9.2 quintillion — 18 zeros — to about one in 128 billion — just nine zeros. This is how seeding 
works: The Sunday before March 
Madness begins, all 64 teams are ranked — based on their regular season and conference postseason performances — and then divided into four regions. Each team per region is given a seed based on how they were ranked, with the No. 1 seed going to the best team. Seed determines how the first round 
of the tournament is set up: the 1-seed plays the 16-seed, the 2-seed plays the 15-seed, and so on. Since 1985, higher seeds have won 71 percent of their tournament games. Though 
March Madness is known for upsets, in general, higher seeds beat lower seeds. The bigger 
the di fference in seed, the more 
likely it is for the higher seed to win. In matchups between the 1-seed and 16-seed teams — the largest possible seed di fference 
in the tournament — the 1-seed has won 99 percent of the time. However, as the gap gets smaller, the odds get closer and closer 
to a toss-up, though they still 
favor the higher seed slightly. In games where the seed di fference 
is two, the higher seed wins only 55 percent of the time; when the di fference is one, it drops 
to 54 percent. So, in general, it seems that the higher seed, in most matchups, is your best bet. But, despite all the statistics and math telling you that the higher seed usually wins, there are always exceptions. Who can 
forget, in 2018, when the 16-
seed University of Maryland, Baltimore County Retrievers took down 1-seed University of Virginia Cavaliers — which was ranked as the top team out of all 64 coming into the tournament — in the first round.
 
Mascots
There are 304 di fferent 
schools who have participated in the tournament since 1985. Each team’s mascot falls into one of the following categories: humans, animals, mythical creatures, weather — or elementals — and others. “Others” is where I put the ones who didn’t fit anywhere 
else, like Syracuse University’s Otto the Orange — a fruit — or Stanford University’s Cardinal — a color. The most common 
mascot is bulldogs, represented by 12 teams. By and far, the most successful type of mascot has been mythical creatures, with a 58.5-percent win rate. This is a bit 
skewed, considering this category includes the Duke University Blue Devils, who are five-time 
NCAA champions and 125–90 in tournament play. There is a 
lot of fighting among the animal 
teams. To conclude the ongoing debate, dogs are better than cats, with dog teams going 37–28 against cat teams — though cats are 17–14 against bears. Humans have a losing record against all the animals — ears, dogs, cats, 
and mythical creatures — except 
for birds. Humans are beating birds by a hair at 92–91. With all that, here is our de finitive mascot 
ranking, ordered from strongest to weakest: mythical creatures, dogs, cats, bears, humans, and birds.
 
Leave it to Chance
At a certain point, you realize 
that all these games are basically random, a 50-50 proposition, a coin toss. Maybe that’s the best way to pick games: a coin toss. To pick all 62 games, just flip a 
coin for each game: heads for the first team and tails for the second 
team. In a way, this seems like the most fitting way to predict 
such an unpredictable event. No real statistics can be expected to hold up to the scrutiny of a single game. Instead of trying to suss out a pattern from thousands of irregular data points, we should embrace the randomness with some randomness of our own. 
Also, this method is a lot easier 
than the two before. All you need to do is flip a coin – no 
spreadsheets or calculations.
 So, who do I think is going to 
win March Madness? Teams are not selected until March 15, but my best bet is the Blue Devils. Duke is a school with a strong basketball program, a legendary head coach, and it has done well at the tournament in the past. 
The Blue Devils come into the 
tournament as a high seed and a 
favorite to win. Then again, the 
team was good last year but it got knocked out in the quarter finals. 
Maybe the Cavaliers will repeat this year. Or maybe a newcomer like the San Diego State University Aztecs will take the title. Or maybe this will finally 
be the year a 16-seed gets to the final round. On second thought, 
let me flip some coins and I’ll get 
back to you.
Here’s How to Pick a Perfect 
March Madness Bracket
wesley  xiao   wex057@ucsd.eduComing o ff a 3-1 series win 
versus Sonoma State University, 
the No. 3 UC San Diego Tritons baseball team kept things rolling, sweeping the visiting San Francisco State University Gators with a 4–3 win on Friday, Feb. 28, and a pair of wins in the Saturday doubleheader. With the wins, UCSD moves to 14-3 on year, which includes an 8-3 conference record. 
While the Friday win 
proved tougher to snag, the doubleheader wins proved much easier. In game one, the Tritons 
were victorious by a score of 
10–7. A three-run eighth inning was ultimately the di fference in 
this one, as sophomore reliever Michael Mitchell recorded the win. 
In the final game of the series, 
UCSD completed the series sweep, winning 6–0, carried to the win by senior ace Brandon Weed who went the distance (7 innings) and limited the Gators to just 1 hit.
The Friday win set the tone 
for the rest of the series. In that one, the Tritons’ o ffense 
provided just enough to squeeze out the victory, riding on a solid performance from junior starting pitcher Cameron Leonard, who received heavy applause from the crowd upon his departure in the seventh inning. The Hemet High 
School product got the win and went 6 and two-thirds innings while giving up 3 runs on just 5 hits. 
Head coach Eric Newman had 
high praise for Leonard. “He was able to get through the lineup a few times by just commanding 
his fastball well and getting ahead, ” Newman said.
Leonard’s fastball induced a 
good deal of ground outs for the 
Tritons, including a double play that got the team out of a jam in the second inning, which helped him get deep into the ballgame. 
Reigning California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
MVP sophomore shortstop Shay 
Whitcomb flashed some power 
and put the Tritons ahead, 1–0, after a no-doubter to le ft-center 
field in the second inning. Junior designated hitter Anthony Luccetti and senior first baseman 
Blake Baumgartner both had a pair of hits and scored in the third inning a fter a key at-bat 
by redshirt junior catcher Aaron Kim. Kim sent the 10th pitch of the at-bat right back up the middle for a two-run single to put UCSD ahead 3–0. 
Sophomore utility man Ryan 
McNally also had a solid game notching 2 hits and making a heads up play in the sixth inning, extending a single into a double after the center fielder bobbled 
the ball in the out field. 
“He’s been really putting 
together great at-bats for us over the course of the last week and a half and I felt like this was going to be a good opportunity to get him in the lineup and help us out, ” Newman said. 
Despite a late scare from 
SFSU, who had a three-run rally in the seventh inning, UCSD and Mitchell shut down any chance at a Gator comeback a fter pitching 
back-to-back scoreless innings in the final 2 innings. Mitchell was 
fun to watch in the closing role, going 2 and one-third innings while only surrendering 1 hit and striking out 5 Gator batters. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs CSU San Marcos
vs Ball Stateat UC Santa BarbaraCCAA Tournament at RIMAC Arena UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
W Tennis
M Volleyball
W & M 
Basketball4PM1PM7PM
TIME TBD10/210/310/310/510/5
Tying a program record set 
in 1996, UC San Diego’s No. 6 
men’s volleyball team swept the UC Santa Cruz Banana Slugs in straight sets, 25–22, 25–19, 25–10, on Friday, Feb. 28 for their sixth win in a row. With the win, the Tritons improve to 13-3 on the season, entering a challenging stretch with five-
straight matches against ranked 
opponents.
UCSD entered Friday’s match 
coming o ff of two consecutive 
wins against the then No. 5 UC 
Irvine, its first and second ever 
Big West conference wins. 
“Part of our strength this year 
is how well we’re practicing — the fans come out and see how we’re doing in a match, but they’re not seeing what we’re doing Monday through Thursday, ” head coach 
Kevin Ring said. “We’re putting in a lot of work, and we’re going to need all that and then some. ”
The Tritons got o ff to a quick 
5–1 lead in the first set, capped off by an ace from junior outside 
hitter Wyatt Harrison. But the Banana Slugs tied it up a fter two 
Triton attack errors, both teams going back-and-forth seeking the upper hand. The home team 
would respond though. A fter a 
kill from Harrison, the Banana Slugs made four-straight attack errors on senior setter Connor Walbrecht’s serve, giving UCSD 
a 14–9 lead. 
The Banana Slugs, however, 
came right back, gaining 
momentum a fter making a 
miraculous recovery from a block, forcing sophomore outside hitter Charlie Siragusa into an 
attack error. With the set tied 20–
20, Siragusa followed a kill with a key block, and the Banana Slugs made two straight attack errors, giving the Tritons a match point 
that Siragusa converted 3 points 
later.
In the second set, the Tritons 
were up early with three quick kills from sophomore middle blocker Shane Benetz, followed by a block from redshirt freshman outside hitter Ryan Ka to put UCSD up 4–1. A few points later, Walbrecht fired 
up the crowd by absolutely smoking a weak Santa Cruz ball into Banana Slug territory. Soon after, Walbrecht set up Ka for a 
crosscourt kill from the le ft side 
of the net to give the Tritons 
further momentum going into a 
timeout. The Tritons kept their 
lead safe for the remainder of the set, and Ka squeezed the ball through the Santa Cruz block to end the set, 25–19. 
UCSD started o ff the third set 
with a block from sophomore opposite Berkeley Miesfeld, who followed that up a few points later with a towering spike on an assist from sophomore setter 
Blake Crisp. With the score 7–4, 
Harrison smashed a weak floater 
with his right hand on the first 
hit back across the net for a score. 
The Tritons put the match out of reach with an 11–1 run that had them up 21–8. Ka had an impressive showing during that run; he first made an athletic 
block high over the net that landed for a score, then scored two-straight points o ff of the 
Banana Slugs block attempts, putting the Tritons up 16–8. With the lead 23–10 near the end of the set, the Slugs made an attack 
error to give the Tritons a match 
point; then, embarrassingly, Santa Cruz made a rotation error to hand the Tritons the set, and the match. Harrison and Ka led the Tritons in kills, with nine each, and Walbrecht led the 
squad with 22 assists. 
This win ties the UCSD record 
for longest win streak, last set in 
a 1996 season-opening six-game stretch while still in Division 
III. The current streak included 
victories over ranked squads, 
Concordia University and UC Irvine, as well as a prestigious University of Southern California team.
“It’s a variety of things. 
Especially our starting group, we don’t have one guy who we set all the time – so we need to be a team that has a balanced o ffense, 
and when we’ve been at our best, we’ve been getting a balanced production out of that, ” Ring said of the team’s recent success. “It’s going to get pretty challenging, 
but we’re up for it. ”
The Tritons will finish out 
their season with a grueling 
March and April game schedule that includes matches against third-ranked UC Santa Barbara, No. 12 UCLA, No. 10 
Pennsylvania State University, 
top-ranked University of Hawaii, and fourth-ranked California State University, Long Beach. 
Tritons Tie Program Record with Sixth 
Straight Win Ha yden Wellbeloved   hwelbel@ucsd.edu 
PRA VEEN  NAIR  prnair@ucsd.eduBaseball Sweeps San Francisco State, 
Tied for First in CCAA
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS