VID-19: Viento Resident Alleges University Housed COVID-19 
Patients Alongside Residents Weeks Without Prior Notice to 
Residents
 April 6, 2020   Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
Sam Mitchell, a UC San Diego Ph.D. candidate and former resident of the Nuevo 
West Viento  building, alleged that his building was being used as isolation 
housing for students returning  from study abroad and those who may have come 
into contact with the virus as early as March  13. A general notice  for the 
university’s intention to utilize on campus housing for student isolation was made 
in March,  and is separate from the university’s announcement of its intention to 
lease a separate Nuevo East building to the county for potential  patient isolation .
An anonymous student confirmed with the UCSD Guardian at 1:20 p.m. on April 
6 that they were housed in the Viento building from March 13 through the 17 while 
they awaited the results of their COVID-19 test from Student Health Services.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here → Accessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Viento Resident Alleges University Housed COVID-19 Patients Alongside Residents Weeks Without Prior Notice to  
      Residents Mitchell, who had moved into the building on March 1 to live with his partner and 
11-year-old son, moved out of the Viento building on March 15. He claims that the
university had begun to  use the building for patient isolation without consulting
current residents.
“My child was in there,” Mitchell said in an interview with the Guardian. “We had 
bought a bunch of groceries and planned on doing the whole isolation thing … but 
my parental instincts said that he couldn’t stay there anymore.”
According to Mitchell, the university worked with Housing Dining Hospitality and 
the San Diego Police Department to move students into vacant apartments in the 
Viento building alongside current residents as early as March 13.
Mitchell made numerous attempts to reach out to both HDH, Student Health 
Services, and university officials for concrete answers as to what was going on and 
what would be done to protect current student residents in the building. 
He claimed that those he were able to get in contact with told him that the 
decision to house patients alongside residents would not put anyone’s health at 
risk and that he had nothing to worry about. One dean reportedly told him that 
the university’s priority was to protect the privacy of the patients, but gave no help 
in regards to current residents’ health.
“They were caught up in a lie already,” Mitchell said. “It seemed like they had 
planned this all along.”
As a result of the decision to use the building for patient isolation, Mitchell had no 
permanent place to live in San Diego, so he packed up his belongings with his 
partner and son and made the approximately 2,000-mile drive to his former home 
in Minneapolis while school was still in session. Mitchell said he even had to teach 
sections while driving through Arizona and Kansas.
Mitchell said that he has filed a grievance with the United Auto Workers union in 
regards to the situation, and will file a class-action lawsuit against the university if 
enough Viento residents agree to do so as well. Otherwise, Mitchell will try to 
reach a settlement with the university for damages on his own.Accessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Viento Resident Alleges University Housed COVID-19 Patients Alongside Residents Weeks Without Prior Notice to  
      Residents Mitchell stated that the university has yet to offer him and his family any 
compensation or  apology for the incident.
Graduate Student Association President Rachel Flanagan spoke to the Guardian about 
how the  organization has been working to address the allegations.
“The GSA received multiple reports from students concerned about HDH utilizing on-
campus Graduate and Family Housing units for quarantining possible COVID-19 
patients,” Flanagan  said. “We know that a small number of units in the new 
development of Nuevo West were  marked for the use by and in partnership with UC 
San Diego Health; no one anticipated their  first use would be for quarantining 
students. The GSA continues to pressure HDH and senior  campus leadership to better 
communicate with students, especially on issues that directly  impact their lives.”
The university responded to the Guardian to address that the reason the initial 
announcement of on campus student isolation housing did not include the intended 
location was due to student  privacy concerns.
“To maintain confidentiality, and to be compliant with federal law (see Notice of 
Privacy  Practices at  https://wellness.ucsd.edu/studenthealth/about/HIPAA/Pages/
default.aspx ), we are not  identifying isolated students nor their locations,” the April 1 
announcement read.
Housing Dining Hospitality had offered graduate housing residents the ability to 
cancel their rental agreements without penalty and a prorated reimbursement if they 
did so by March 29,  2020. However, the decision to use a Nuevo East building, which 
is composed entirely of graduate student and family housing, was announced three 
days after the no penalty cancellation date. The Nuevo East building will not house 
any student residents.
This article was updated to clarify the difference between Nuevo West and Nuevo 
East at 1pm.
This article was updated at 1:20pm to include that a student has reached out to the 
Guardian to confirm that they were housed in the Viento building while awaiting 
COVID-19 test results from March 13-17.Accessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Viento Resident Alleges University Housed COVID-19 Patients Alongside Residents Weeks Without Prior Notice to  
      Residents  This article was updated at 2pm to address that the university did in fact make a 
general  announcement about its intention to house students in isolation for COVID-19 
in March,  although the location was not given due to privacy concerns.
This article was updated at 2:40pm to clarify that the Nuevo East building leased by 
the County will not house student residents.
This article was updated at 9pm to include a statement from Graduate Student 
President Rachel Flanagan.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.Accessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Viento Resident Alleges University Housed COVID-19 Patients Alongside Residents Weeks Without Prior Notice to  
      Residents  Accessed: 5/29/2020 COVID-19: UCSD To Receive Over $34 Million in Federal Aid - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: UCSD To Receive Over $34 Million in Federal Aid
 April 10, 2020  Troy Tuquero 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here.
United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos announced on Thursday, April 9, 
that more than $6 billion dollars in emergency cash grants would be immediately 
distributed to colleges and universities for students affected by the COVID-19 
outbreak. This funding is a part of the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund 
authorized under the $2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act 
that was signed into law by President Donald Trump on March 27.
According to  information released by the Department of Education, UC San Diego is 
slated to receive $34,889,769 in aid. At least half of this aid must be allocated for 
emergency financial aid for students to purchase course materials and technology, as 
well as to be used for basic living expenses.Accessed: 5/29/2020 COVID-19: UCSD To Receive Over $34 Million in Federal Aid - UCSD Guardian
The CARES Act  also provides direct cash payments, expanded unemployment  benefits 
loans to small businesses, and support to health systems. These measures are meant to  
both combat the outbreak as well as mitigate the economic repercussions expected to 
occur as a  result of the pandemic.
In a March 27 statement,  UC President Janet Napolitano expressed her support for 
the CARES Act and touted  the relief that it would provide to health workers and UC 
students.
“The CARES Act provides much-needed fiscal relief and funding to our health centers 
treating COVID-19 patients so that they will be able to purchase additional masks, 
gloves and other  equipment desperately needed to protect the nurses, doctors and 
other medical professionals on  the frontlines of this fight,” the statement read. “The 
law will also help ensure that UC students  receive the necessary financial support to 
continue pursuing their education, while providing  our researchers additional 
resources to combat this virus by further exploring possible  treatments and a vaccine.”
UCSD is expected to receive the federal funding in the coming days. Students are 
encouraged to  follow the  guidelines of public  health officials to remain informed about 
the spread of COVID-19.
Photo by Mariyah Shad for the UCSD Guardian.Erica L. Green
@EricaLG
The Education Department released today how much each 
college and university will receive in stimulus $$$ to provide  
emergency grants to students. Here's the list: 
www2.ed.gov/about/offices/…
11:27 AM · Apr 9, 2020
155 138 people are Tweeting about this
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
2020 College Council Election Results
 April 11, 2020   Alicia Gunawan 
Throughout Week Two of Spring quarter, UC San Diego students cast their ballots in 
every college’s College Council election. With the results all tallied up Friday 
afternoon, below are  graphic representations of each Council’s final vote tallies .Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 5/29/2020 2020 College Council Election Results - UCSD Guardian
Graphics by Alicia Gunawan for the UCSD Guardian. Photo by Brendan Wilson for 
the UCSD Guardian. All results sourced from as.ucsd.edu.Accessed: 5/29/2020 Livestream Review: Mac DeMarco - UCSD Guardian
 April 12, 2020   Hector Arrieta 
Even in crazy times, Mac DeMarco finds ways to still be Mac DeMarco.
Except for essential workers, the entire world is —or should be— inside their homes 
in the wake  of COVID-19, and many people artists have had to cancel their shows 
and tours and are left with  nothing else to do except to try to pass the time. Several 
artists have used the quarantine as an  opportunity to perform on a live stream 
through social media platforms such as Instagram.  Such artists include Rex Orange 
County, Fashion Jackson, Swae Lee, and now, Mac DeMarco.  As a part of La 
Blogothèque’s newest series, “Stay Away Shows,” DeMarco held an online show  
through Instagram live on April 3, 2020.
DeMarco’s show seemingly came out of nowhere due to its very minimal advertising. 
La Blogothèque advertised the show around 7 a.m. PST, which would be around 4 
p.m. in CET. This could be considered an odd move since a lot of DeMarco’s fanbaseis in North America, and the time of advertising here on the west coast was a bit too 
early, potentially causing it to go  under the radar. Also, the only other two sources 
who advertised the performance were  DeMarco’s girlfriend Kiera McNally and the 
Mac DeMarco subreddit, since DeMarco no longer  has any personal social media 
pages. The show peaked at around 1,400 viewers, which is quite strange considering 
that La Blogothèque, McNally, and the subreddit have a combined total of  249,000 
followers. Since DeMarco only performed six songs for a 25-minute stream, by the  
time people found out about the show, it already probably  ended. A last strange 
tidbit to note is  the fact that the comments were turned off,  which was weird because 
the act before him, Soccer  Mommy, had hers on. However, that is not to say that 
having the comments turned off was a  bad thing. However, not having the 
comments did not detract from the intimate feeling of the  performance.
During the show, only DeMarco was in the frame, but his girlfriend was behind the 
camera and would applaud after every song; it felt like it was just the viewer and the 
couple in the room. Also, the decoration of the room added to the intimate feeling as 
it felt exclusively and genuinely DeMarco. Cardboard cutouts of Carrie Fisher in her 
slave Leia outfit, Darth Vader, Dean Martin, and Frank Sinatra, a Greenpeace flag, 
and some of his recording equipment provided the viewers with an authentic and 
genuine window into his personal space. Everything in the frame made it feel lived 
in. This sensation of hominess and intimacy was furthered by the sound of 
DeMarco’s gentle acoustic guitar and his soft voice. 
The first three songs were all unreleased originals and were very introspective on his 
personal connection with love. Lyrics like “Life could feel so good because I like her / 
I haven’t felt this way in a long time I do believe” on “I Like Her,” “How are you 
supposed to love her when you can’t look in the mirror? / Another empty bottle, 
don’t make anything clear out” on “You Made the Bed,” and “Told her that I loved 
her little early on /  What’s the use of crying, honey I’ve been fooled by love this way 
before” on “Fooled by Love” all demonstrate DeMarco’s reflection on the sensations 
of love he feels, the guilt he feels for possible false feelings, and the heartbreak of 
love.
The fourth song of his set was “Skyless Moon” from his latest album, “Here Comes 
the Cowboy.” The fifth song was a cover of Irving Berlin’s “Change Partners” which 
DeMarco sang “in the style of Frank Sinatra, butchered by Mac DeMarco.” This was 
the only song in the set in which he did not play his acoustic guitar but only sang 
over an instrumental. DeMarco was unsure of what the sixth and final song of his setAccessed: 5/29/2020 Livestream Review: Mac DeMarco - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 Livestream Review: Mac DeMarco - UCSD Guardian
in which he did not play his acoustic guitar but only sang over an instrumental. 
DeMarco was unsure of  what the sixth and final song of his set would be and 
eventually decided on “Still Together” from  his album “2” after he jokingly stated that 
he had ended every set with that song for 10 years.  Once the song ended, he stood up 
from his stool, walked to the camera, made a funny face, and  ended the live stream.   
I have yet to go to a Mac DeMarco concert. However, I have gone to several concerts 
before, and this felt different. It was the combination of his soft guitar, voice, and the 
overall atmosphere of  the room that transported me from my room to his, and made 
it an enjoyable performance to  watch.  Shows on live streams like DeMarco’s 
demonstrates how this medium helps provide a  connection between an artist and a 
fan. Through this medium, a fan can catch a further glimpse  of an artist’s personality 
through the decor of the room. A fan can also get the taste of what it  would be like to 
be in the same room as their favorite artist, just through a screen. Despite the  limited 
advertisement and short show, performances like DeMarco’s give me hope during the  
ongoing quarantine as positivity is needed in such difficult times.
Grade: A-
Date: April 3, 2020
Platform: Instagram Live
Image courtesy of NME.com.Accessed: 5/29/2020 Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD Guardian
Laura’s Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place
 April 12, 2020   Laura Hatanaka 
Arts & Entertainment writer Laura Hatanaka offers her favorite reads during this 
uncertain time.
My name is Laura Hatanaka, and I am a sixth college, fourth-year student studying 
Literatures in English. In my experience, social distancing, self-isolation, and 
sheltering-in-place mean  missing out on a lot of social experiences, opportunities, and 
plans. In an effort to gain  something from such a difficult time, I’ve found myself 
reading for pleasure more than usual as  a way to continue learning more about myself 
and the world around me. If you have the time  and resources, consider reading one of 
the following books*, each of which I believe offer a  modicum of comfort in these harsh 
and troubling times.
*Please take care to read the list of potential trigger warnings associated with some  of
these  books. Violence is a common theme in many of them; please ensure you are  safe
and informed
 before reading!  To learn about the strength of the choices you  make,
read:Accessed: 5/29/2020 Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD Guardian
Genre: Fictional Novel, Literary Classic
Trigger warnings: violence, rape
“East of Eden” is one of my all-time favorite books and is considered a literary 
classic for good  reason. Set in Salinas Valley in Central California, Steinbeck 
portrays the complex tapestry of  the Trask and Hamilton families from 1862 to 
1918. A philosophical, multi-generational  allegory, “East of Eden” is a 
breathtaking and exciting examination of the human condition,  illustrating the 
impact of fate versus free will. Its considerable length and constant oscillation  
between the mundane and violent as well as the wonderful and unthinkable 
demand both  concentration and dedication from readers, but reading it will 
undoubtedly change your life as it  changed mine.Accessed: 5/29/2020 Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD Guardian
Genre: Speculative Gothic Fiction
Trigger warnings: violence, slavery, rape, self-harm
I first read “Kindred” in a gothic literature course, LTEN 154, taught by Professor 
Kathryn Walkiewicz, and it quickly became one of my favorite books of all time. 
“Kindred” tells the  haunting story of Dana, a young black woman living in 1976, who 
is inexplicably thrown back in  time to a slave plantation in 1815. Butler is a master 
of historical fiction, unapologetically  confronting her audience with the lasting scars 
of slavery in the U.S. While I was initially drawn  in by the book’s fascinating 
premise, it quickly became one of the most terrifying books I’ve ever  read and is an 
example of enduring and overcoming unimaginable circumstances.Accessed: 5/29/2020
Genre: Victorian Novel
“Middlemarch” is another book that I read in a literature class, this time for a class 
with Professor Margaret Loose. George Eliot was actually a pseudonym for Mary Ann 
Evans, who wanted to prove that her writing could match and surpass that of her 
male peers; she was  ultimately very successful. Often considered the greatest novel 
of all time, “Middlemarch”  is a beautiful example of literary genius and the 
accomplishments of the written word. The book  tells primarily of Dorothea Brooks, 
an intelligent woman living in the early 1800s who, in an  effort to pursue her studies, 
finds herself unhappily married to a much older man. While many  Victorian novels 
are concerned with the journey to the eventual wedding, “Middlemarch”  instead 
takes interest in the intricate lives, choices, and circumstances of its compelling cast 
of characters after marriage.Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD Guardian
Genre: Surrealist Fiction
Trigger Warnings: violence, rape
Today, Murakami is an enormously famous contemporary author, popular for many 
of his  books, including “Kafka on the Shore,” “1Q84,” and “Norwegian Wood.” 
However, while I  enjoyed many of his works, “The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle” will 
always be my favorite. “The  Wind-Up Bird Chronicle” tells the story of Toru Okada’s 
search for his wife, who has gone  missing, and his experience discovering the 
hidden underbelly of Tokyo. With elements of  mystery, war, and sexuality, “The 
Wind-Up Bird Chronicle” portrays experiences of isolation  and loss with gripping 
and imaginative detail. Dreamy, halting, and visceral, reading this book  was a very 
intense experience, but one that I wholeheartedly enjoyed.Accessed: 5/29/2020
Genre: Adolescent Mystery Fiction
Most of the books I have recommended thus far are concerned with characters who 
face very  serious and difficult predicaments, as these narratives give me hope during 
difficult times.  However, you may also need something lighter to take your mind off 
the current COVID-19 climate. “The Mysterious Benedict Society” is my favorite 
adolescent book series of all time,  with a wonderfully enjoyable story and clever 
writing. The five-book series details the  experiences of Reynie, Sticky, Kate, and 
Constance, who are all extraordinary children with  memorable idiosyncrasies that 
aid them as they uncover mysteries together. It is truly a  remarkable series that is 
sure to keep you engrossed and at peace during these stressful and  potentially 
paralyzing times.
Here’s to your health and your physical, mental, and emotional well-being. These  
recommendations are purely meant to entertain and occupy you, if you have the time 
or resources to do so, so don’t feel pressured or stressed if you can’t muster the 
strength to read at  this time. It’s easy to feel pressured to be productive, but 
remember that it’s alright to take a  break to preserve your own strength during this 
time. 
Art courtesy of Allyson Cuna.
Laura's Book Recommendations for Sheltering in Place - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 Alas Poor Zoomer, I Knew Him Well - UCSD Guardian
Alas Poor Zoomer, I Knew Him Well
 April 12, 2020   Marina Lee 
I thought I used up all my wild theatre shenanigan currency. But I was wrong.  
I have had my fair, weird share of theatre experiences. I taught an actual theatre class
 
with friends for a month in high school while the administration desperately tried to 
find our ninth
 substitute teacher. As a counselor at a theatre camp, I once had to 
prevent the son of a local  teacher from trying to pierce his own nose onstage after he 
saw my nose piercing. Another time,  
I ended up in a small Northern California 
puppetry workshop performing “You’ve Got a Friend  in Me” in a dark room with 12 
sweaty strangers. I’ve played an Oompa Loompa, a member of  
the Addams Family, a 
ditzy Victorian-era fiancé, and a gigantic blueberry body double. I’ve sung  some 
songs, danced some dances, and accidentally thrown a fake beheaded velcro bird at 
my friend’s cello during a show. I’ve seen “Cats.” I thought I used up all my wild 
theatre shenanigan  currency. But I was wrong. Because none of these experiences 
prepared me for the undeniable  
awkwardness of a UC San Diego virtual Zoom 
breakout room improv session. As a double major who added theatre at the end of her second year, I am admittedly a 
little  behind on my theatre major requirements. Consequently, for Spring Quarter, I 
enrolled in an  acting class, a theatre history class, a playwriting class, and a sound 
design class. While virtual  class isn’t ideal, it works relatively well for three out of the  
four classes. However, one class  suffers noticeably more from this new format: acting 
class. As in, the class is usually based  almost entirely on in-person participation with  
the frequent inclusion of duo or group  performances as markers of progress. As in, a  
class solely designed for physical and emotional  presence and interaction. As in, the 
class where you don’t just discuss live theatre, but where  you are the live theatre.
While digital communication certainly isn’t new to the theatre world, completely 
remote theatre classes should be classified under an entirely separate realm. While  
vocal Skype lessons and the occasional recorded audition have been increasingly  
commonplace, they had end goals of live performances as a culmination of all the  
preparatory rehearsal work. Similarly, with a typical performing arts class, there is  
usually a final live performance as opposed to a written exam as a demonstration of  
improvement. Take any introductory theatre course here at UCSD, and you will likely  
be asked variations of the question, “What makes great theatre?” While there are 
plenty of different and beautiful responses to this question, you will undoubtedly hear  
responses akin to “It feels alive.” That feeling of liveliness, of something happening 
tangibly, currently, potently, is easily lost on a platform like Zoom, especially with the  
reality that there will be no live performance as the product of your rehearsal. There 
are lagging screens, lagging audio, spatial limitations, and clear barriers in connecting 
to both the people you’re performing with and the audience witnessing it. Instead of  
feeling limited by your commitment to a role, your rehearsal time, and integration of 
feedback, you instead feel limited by whatever space  “home” is, your access to the 
Internet, and the quality of your laptop, if you have access to one.
This is not to critique the class itself, but rather to reflect upon some of the impacts of  
remote learning on the performing arts. Theatre faculty continue to be incredibly kind, 
supportive, and accommodating as they make the virtual transition right along with us.  
It’s important to note that while we as students are of course impacted, so are the 
professors who have had to completely restructure their courses and configure a  
significantly interactive learning modality for the given circumstances. And as these  
circumstances evolve, so do the classes and their delivery. We must work with what we 
have and find new ways to exist in our favorite art forms.Accessed: 5/29/2020 Alas Poor Zoomer
, I Knew Him Well - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 Alas Poor Zoomer, I Knew Him Well - UCSD Guardian
Although the onslaught of cancelled performances and digital transitions may feel 
destructive  for the performing arts major, an unavoidable, I-guess-this-is-a-silver-
lining aspect is the  cementing of live, in-person theatre as an irreplaceable medium for 
human connection. Zoom does not feel the same, and quite honestly, makes me 
incredibly uncomfortable as I try to  perform to tiny jolty boxes on my Dell computer. 
However, it has helped me reflect on the  unique ethereal nature of theatre and why 
I’ve loved it since before I could retain memories.  Technology will grow, and we may 
integrate it into the art form in various ways, but theatre will,  at its core, hold power in 
its moment-to-moment essence.
Art courtesy of Yui Kita.Accessed: 5/29/2020 COVID-19: Oceanside and Coronado Last Two SD County Cities to Close Beaches in Response to Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 April  12, 2020 Troy Tuquero
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
The cities of Oceanside and Coronado announced the closures of all public beaches and 
water-based activities in response to the COVID-19 outbreak on Friday, April 3. The two 
coastal communities were the last in San Diego County to shut down their beaches in a 
bid to contain  the spread of the coronavirus and encourage social distancing.
According to the City of Oceanside’s Facebook page  the local government “determined 
that a full beach closure is necessary” to ensure compliance  with an April 3 addendum  
to a San Diego County health order that closed parking lots near beaches and parks.  The 
Strand was also ordered to be closed off for walking and driving except for
local residents.
to a San Diego County health order that closed parking lots near beaches and parks. The 
Strand
(https://patch.com/california/oceanside-camppendleton/oceanside-close-beaches-
only-
coronado-open-county) was also ordered to be closed off for walking and driving except 
for
local residents.
In Coronado, the City Council’s decision to shutter its beaches entirely was a reversal
(https://www.facebook.com/richardbaileymayorcoronado/videos/214563016476082/) 
of its
March 31 decision to allow beaches to remain open on weekdays. In an interview with 
KUSI
(https://www.kusi.com/latest-from-city-of-coronado-on-covid-19-pandemic-impact/),
Coronado Mayor Richard Bailey similarly said that the updated public health orders 
forced the
City Council to reconsider. In Coronado, the City Council’s decision to shutter its beaches entirely was a reversal of 
its March 31 decision to allow beaches to remain open on weekdays. In an interview with 
KUSI, Coronado Mayor Richard Bailey similarly said that the updated public health orders 
forced the  City Council to reconsider.
“We decided that it was [in the City of Coronado’s] best interest to shut down the beaches 
as well,” Bailey said. “As of this time, we are actually monitoring the beach [and] making 
sure there is proper signage out there so the public … [is] informed.”
The cities of San Diego, Del Mar, Carlsbad, Solana Beach, and Encinitas had earlier 
announced the closures of their public beaches on  March 23 in response to reports of 
public gatherings over the weekend.  These measures were preceded by a March 16 order 
from San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer that limited public gatherings and banned in-
house dining at restaurants.
“These are not actions we are taking lightly, but gatherings can spread this dangerous 
virus. The actions of a few can cost the lives of many,” Faulconer said in a press release. 
“People can still go outdoors, but please go outdoors close to home. This is about 
protecting each other.”
Matthew Ward, a Carlsbad resident and frequent surfer, expressed in an interview with 
The UCSD Guardian that he was frustrated by the beach closures.
“All I want to do is surf and I can’t even do that. I don’t understand why I can’t when there 
are people walking on the beach,” Ward said. “When I surf, I go out and come back in. I 
don’t stay out there or near other people, so I don’t know what the big deal is.”
At the time of publication, there have been over 1,750 confirmed coronavirus cases in San 
Diego County. Beaches are expected to remain closed until the end of the public health 
emergency, and those who disobey the rules can be fined up to $1,000 and charged with a 
misdemeanor.
Artwork by Susan Sun for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/29/2020 COVID-19: Oceanside and Coronado Last Two SD County Cities to Close Beaches in Response to Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020  How to Prevent the Spread of COVID -19 - UCSD Guardian  
 April 12, 2020   Annika Olives 
In the age of COVID-19,  it can be hard to determine what information  is accurate  
and reliable. The UCSD  Guardian  has compiled this list of best practices and 
prevention tips to aid readers    through these confusing times.  
COVID-19 is the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. According to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, the coronavirus is thought to spread mainly 
from person to person. When an infected person sneezes or coughs, respiratory 
droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or can be 
breathed into the lungs. 
It is important to note that much is still unknown about coronavirus and the way it 
spreads. Recent evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread from some who are 
asymptomatic, lacking symptoms, or pre-symptomatic, no symptoms yet. It is 
possible that people could contract COVID-19 from touching a contaminated 
surface or object, then touching their face. 
Because there is no vaccine, the best way to prevent getting sick is to avoid being
Accessed: 5/29/2020  How to Prevent the Spread of COVID -19 - UCSD Guardian  
exposed to the virus. 
Only Leave For Essential Activities 
If you are not an essential worker, stay home. You may leave the house for essential 
activities such as grocery shopping, necessary medical appointments, or dog 
walking. 
Wear A Cloth Mask 
The CDC now recommends wearing cloth masks or face coverings in public 
settings. This is especially important in areas where there is a high level of 
community-based transmission. Remember that wearing a mask does not replace 
hand washing or social distancing. Here’s how to make your own face covering.
Abide by Social Distancing 
If and when you do leave the house, stay at least six feet apart from those who do 
not live in your household. This is because the virus is thought to spread easily to 
people who are in close physical contact with an infected person, and there is 
recent evidence that the virus can spread from those who do not show any 
symptoms. 
Wash Hands for 20 Seconds 
Washing your hands with warm water for at least 20 seconds kills germs you may 
have picked up. Wash hands often, making sure to get between fingers and 
underneath fingernails, and wash hands immediately after going outside. You may 
also use an alcohol-based sanitizer, as long as it has at least 60 percent alcohol. 
Avoid Touching Your Face 
If you touch a contaminated surface and then touch your eyes, nose, or mouth, the 
pathogen may find its way into your body. Avoiding touching your face is good 
practice not just for COVID-19, but for other viruses as well. 
Sanitize High Touch Surfaces 
At least once a day, sanitize high-touch surfaces in your household, such as 
doorknobs, drawer pulls, light switches, remotes, and toilet and faucet handles, 
with a disinfectant. Also remember to wipe down any electronics, such as phones or 
keyboards. Accessed: 5/29/2020  
 How to Prevent the Spread of COVID-1 9 - UCSD Guardian 
Follow Good Respiratory Hygiene 
When you cough or sneeze, cover your mouth with a bent elbow or a tissue. Dispose 
of the used tissue immediately, then wash your hands. 
If you think you are ill with COVID-19, stay home. If possible, designate a specific 
"sick room" away from family members and roommates, and use a separate 
bathroom if available. Call your healthcare provider for the next steps.
If you develop any emergency warning signs, such as trouble breathing, get medical 
attention immediately. See this full checklist from the CDC for more information.
Centers For Disease Control and Prevention - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources
World Health Organization - Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Resources
Johns Hopkins - Coronavirus Resource Center
California State Government - Coronavirus (COVID-19) in California
San Diego County - Coronavirus Disease 2019 Resources
Art by Alex Liang  Accessed: 5/29/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Living with Anxiety During a Global Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 April 12, 2020  Annika Olives
Through my Instagram takeover this week, I offered followers a glimpse into my 
quarantined life: hours of doing work for my online classes, an introduction to my tea 
collection, and  snippets of my dog, who I quipped has been keeping my family and I 
sane throughout the last  few weeks. However, though all of my pictures, boomerangs, 
and videos were accurate  portrayals of how I’ve been spending my time, there was 
always one key player missing: my  anxiety. 
Anxiety finds a home
I discovered Zoe Sugg when I was around 13. Better known by her online alias, Zoella, 
she was a popular beauty and lifestyle YouTuber from Britain and quickly became 
one of my favorites for her chatty personality and upbeat manner. She felt relatable, 
like a friend or older sister, and I  respected and looked up to her as a role model a lot. 
However, there was one aspect of her life that I never understood at the time: Zoe was 
a long-time sufferer of anxiety. In one video, she discussed her excitement about a bigevent in London, and how she got all dressed up, got on the train, and walked to the 
venue — but once  she was there, she couldn’t bring herself to go inside because of her 
social anxiety. I remember  pausing the video at this point and thinking to myself: 
How could anxiety turn someone so  confident and well-loved into a shell of 
themselves? It was unimaginable to me. I had been born  a worrywart and definitely 
was prone to overthinking, but never had fear stopped me from  something that I 
really wanted to do.
My personal journey with anxiety began years later at the end of my first year at UC 
San Diego. There was a situation where I lost my trust in some people who were very 
close to me, and it hurt me more than I care to admit. I spent most of the summer 
trying to heal my wounds, and I returned to San Diego in the fall with heart 
palpitations and trembling hands. I was terrified to leave my apartment by myself in 
fear that I would run into the people who hurt me. One night, when I saw one of them 
after my friends encouraged me to watch a game, I ran back to my apartment with 
shaky knees and had a panic attack on my floor. It was one of the worst kinds, where 
you feel like the world is falling around you and it’s hard to breathe. 
With time and a lot of reflection, I was able to move on from that situation, but my 
anxiety has lingered, taking on different forms and different triggers. I often have 
anxiety about my brother, who has mental health battles of his own. I get anxious 
about my own health, and the fact that we’re in lockdown because of an infectious 
virus doesn’t help much. My anxiety also tends to manifest itself physically, and its 
most recent manifestation is nausea. I know I’m going to have an anxiety attack 
coming when I start to feel nauseous, and it’s debilitating because the feeling 
prevents me from wanting to do anything. 
Sheltering-in-place with a mental illness
I’ve been home since March 17, so I’ve been sheltering-in-place with my family for 
almost a month now. As someone who appreciates a routine, it has definitely taken 
some adjustments. In San Diego, I’d wake up, take the bus, have classes at certain 
times, fill my day with club meetings and studying with friends, and return to my 
apartment, where I’d do homework, cook dinner, or chat with my roommate. Now, 
there’s less of an external structure; while I do have synchronous lectures and online 
meetings, it’s sometimes hard to stay focused in online environments because it feels 
less tangible.
For me, physically walking to places and getting changes of scenery throughout theAccessed: 5/29/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Living with Anxiety During a Global Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/29/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Living with Anxiety During a Global Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
day helped  distract me and reduce my anxiety, but when you’re stuck within the same 
four walls for weeks,  it’s difficult to just ignore your own thoughts. I miss the physical 
act of going somewhere or the  feeling of being surrounded by other people — having 
myself as my own company sometimes  means I’m my own worst enemy. 
The lack of control over my anxiety is something that continues to haunt me. 
Seemingly without  reason, I can go from feeling fine one second to feeling intense 
dread the next. It hurts the most  when I feel like I’m having a good day — I’ve gotten 
out of bed at a decent time, I’ve had a  productive morning, I ate a nice breakfast — 
and then suddenly my fingers will start to tremble,
a dark cloud overtakes my mind, and a sour taste enters my mouth. I’ll feel everything 
at once —sadness, panic, fear — and it’s like my body is working against me. 
I work primarily at my desk in my room because that’s where I’m the most 
productive, but the  times when I’m anxious and alone are the worst. Even if I try to 
breathe or distract myself, my  thoughts still swirl and spin and try to make me believe 
in an alternate reality. Once I’ve fallen  down what I call the “pit of despair,” it’s hard 
to get myself out of it, and it’s a really lonely  experience.
Developing new coping mechanisms
My coping mechanisms at school were generally associated with changes in 
environment,
relying on my daily schedule for structure and talking with my friends. I don’t want to 
turn this into a “how I manage my anxiety” article, but I wouldn’t be a Lifestyle editor 
if I didn’t try to  sneak some tips in. 
For me, the most important thing I’ve been doing is staying in touch with my friends. 
It’s really easy to isolate yourself during this time, which I’ve definitely fallen victim 
to. I still have the  mentality that I don’t want to reach out to friends because I don’t 
want to bother them, but I’m  trying to change that because I know talking with people 
helps me a lot. 
There are one to two people I’ll always text on a daily basis, and I’ll regularly text my 
other friends to check in and ask how they’re doing. Setting up FaceTime or Zoom 
calls has also been nice because seeing people’s faces and expressions is a whole 
different experience from just hearing their voices through a phone. Accessed: 5/29/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Living with Anxiety During a Global Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Another thing I’ve been doing is keeping a routine as much as possible. When I wake 
up, I will  always wash my face, put my contacts in, and change my clothes — even if 
that just means  putting on another pair of sweatpants. I will also always make my bed 
to resist the temptation of  getting back into it. These physical changes do a lot to 
switch my mindset and get myself  mentally prepared for the day. Yes, some days I will 
choose to go back into bed after my 9:30  class, but for the most part, having a routine 
allows me to get some of that structure I miss from  being at school. 
Finally, I’ve been trying to get outside for fresh air at least once a day — in a way 
that’s quarantine-appropriate, of course. If I’m feeling particularly anxious, walking 
my dog or even  just sitting in my backyard serves as a welcome reset. Since I’m in my 
house all day, it’s  sometimes difficult to remember that there’s so much out there and 
so much beyond what we’re  experiencing now. 
Doing the best we can
Similar to what Lara and Jacob said in their Quarantine Chronicle columns, I wanted 
to make a disclaimer that I am grateful to have a roof over my head, food to eat, and a 
good living situation right now. I recognize my privilege at a time when others have to 
fight the disease at the front lines, worry about how to get dinner on the table, or live 
in unsafe homes. I simply wanted to share my experience as a person with anxiety 
before and after the pandemic began, and I hope my perspective is welcomed in the 
conversation. 
I’ve never openly written about mental health before, partly because admitting it to 
others means it’s a real issue for me, and partly because it’s a taboo in the culture that 
I come from. I definitely thought about writing something else for my column and 
explored all possible avenues: a list of my favorite quarantine activities, a cookbook of 
the best recipes I’ve discovered, or my feelings on having my senior year upended by 
COVID-19. But none of those ideas felt completely honest, and I also didn’t want to lie 
to myself. My experience in quarantine has been a time to bond with family, 
experiment with new recipes, and binge Netflix, but it has also often been an anxiety-
fueled mess. 
For those of you who are also quarantining with a mental illness, I see you. While 
there’s been a lot of talk on the Internet about using this newfound free time on 
professional development or starting new projects, it’s important to note that it’s also 
okay to be unproductive. We’re literally in the middle of a global pandemic that won’t Quarantine Chronicles: Living with Anxiety During a Global Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
end anytime soon, and you shouldn’t feel guilty  about not wanting to pursue a side 
hustle right now, if that’s not what you want. Take this time  to do things that are 
meaningful to you. For me, that means focusing on myself, spending time  with loved 
ones, and baking desserts to my heart’s desire. 
We’re all doing the best we can, and that’s enough. 
Art: Anxiety by Yui KitaAccessed: 5/29/2020Accessed: 5/29/2020 The Quarantine is Semi-Permanent; Your New Dog Should not be - UCSD Guardian
 April 12, 2020   Megan Cox
Amid the coronavirus quarantine, most U.S. animal shelters have noticed a drastic  
increase in dog adoptions,  with some sources predicting adoption  rates 
have increased as much as  700 percent.   At first glance, dog adoption at a time like 
this seems  mutually beneficial: Families get to fill their free time in quarantine with 
a dog and that same  dog gets a forever home in return. While this is likely the case in 
many households, the idealistic  attitude surrounding increased adoptions overlooks 
the dogs who will be abandoned once  quarantine ends. After the quarantine is lifted, 
many people will go back to their jobs and lives,  leaving their new shelter dogs at 
home or sadly back at the shelter, and dogs who have already  faced abandonment 
will risk facing it again. 
Shelter dogs are already returned at alarmingly high rates, which will only increase 
after the quarantine. It is known that one in 10 adopted pets are no longer  in their 
adoptive homes six months later, and there is no telling how much that number will 
rise because of pandemic adoptions.Accessed: 5/29/2020 The Quarantine is Semi-Permanent; Your New Dog Should not be - UCSD Guardian
It takes an immense amount of work to win the trust of a shelter dog due to their 
traumatic pasts and abandonment issues, and many new owners do not recognize 
the exceptional time  commitment it takes to overcome their pets’ trauma. While 
the past experiences of shelter  animals are largely unknown because annually six 
to eight million cats and dogs enter humane  shelters as strays,  many dogs in 
shelters have been previously subjected to abuse, neglect, and malnourishment,  
causing them to be innately distrustful of humans. According to a survey from the 
National Center for Biotechnology Information, 70 percent of adopted dogs 
display one or more behavioral problems because of their stressful pasts. Because 
many shelter dogs are traumatized before being adopted, they are more difficult to 
train than a dog from a breeder. This quarantine will be shorter than it takes to 
train and win the trust of a traumatized dog; when new owners realize that, they 
may be forced to return their new pet back to the shelter.
Adopting shelter dogs is not a bad thing. In fact, this spike in adoptions has likely 
helped many dogs find their forever homes with loving families. However, people 
need to understand the commitment and time it takes to raise a shelter dog rather 
than diving in with no information. Raising a shelter dog is a lot of time, love, and 
hard work, and that will be the same, pandemic or no pandemic. 
Last July, my family adopted a dog, Trixie, from an animal shelter. Before we 
adopted Trixie, she had been sent back to the shelter twice by previous owners. 
Trixie came to us with scars on her body and intense anxiety. After months of 
training and trust building, Trixie is finally comfortable at our house, around our 
family, and with other dogs. To this day, however, my family worries about leaving 
her alone because of her severe abandonment issues. My family’s experiences with 
Trixie are similar to those of shelter dog owners everywhere: Even after owning 
these dogs for a long time, they continue to require a lot of work, time, and 
sacrifice. 
Right now, people are at home with their pets, but if those people are not willing to 
make sacrifices to support their new shelter dogs after quarantine, they will fail as 
pet owners. I highly recommend willing and able people adopt a shelter dog 
because, when given serious consideration beforehand, adopting a shelter dog can 
be a highly rewarding experience for both pet and owner. These dogs deserve love, 
time, and commitment, even after this quarantine ends.
Artwork by Anthony Tran of the UCSD Guardian Art Department.Accessed: 5/29/2020 Bye Bye Bernie: Despite his Passion, Sanders is Out - UCSD Guardian
Bye Bye Bernie: Despite his Passion, Sanders is Out
 April 12, 2020   Max Davis 
Despite running a popular and enthusiastic grassroots campaign, Bernie Sanders 
eventually  withdrew from the Democratic primary. 
By Week 8 of Winter Quarter, the leadup to California’s March 3 primary saw Library 
Walk  covered in political chalk messages. An artfully lettered “Yang,” in reference to the 
former candidate Andrew Yang, adorned the path in front of Geisel Library. Messages 
encouraging  students to vote were scribbled every few yards. The campus was getting 
ready for an election. 
I never found a message on Library Walk in support of any candidate besides Yang or 
Bernie Sanders, and most of these advocated Sanders. A rainbow “Bernie” sat at the 
entrance of Geisel,  welcoming every single student who came to the library. Other pro-
Sanders drawings covered  Library Walk from end to end. One night on my walk home 
from Geisel, I passed by a group of  students drawing a chalk bird with Sanders’ face on 
it, above a message asking me to vote for  “Birdie” Sanders in the California primary. Sanders seemed to be a fan favorite on campus. The Facebook group “Tritons for Bernie” 
has just under 400 members; the Facebook group “Tritons for Biden” doesn’t exist. I 
have a rainbow Bernie Sanders sticker on my calculator, not because he was my 
candidate — full  disclosure, he wasn’t —, but because no other Democratic campaign 
had a student organization  on campus that passed out stickers! 
In exit polling of the California primary conducted by Edison Research, Sanders won 68 
percent of voters aged 18 to 24.  Elizabeth Warren, his closest competitor for that age 
group, won only 12 percent, and Joe Biden  won just five percent of voters aged 18 to 24. 
Many claim Sanders was the chosen candidate of young voters in the Democratic party, 
and the results from  the California primary only strengthen that argument. Young 
voters’ strong support for his  campaign certainly set Sanders apart from a Democratic 
field of candidates that struggled to  elicit enthusiasm from young people. 
Sanders also stood out from the field because of his liberal policies. Some of his plans, 
like introducing a wealth tax and establishing Medicare for All, draw a distinction from 
Biden’s plans, which take a less extreme approach to healthcare, and other issues like 
immigration. Sanders campaigned on the promise of a “political  revolution,” while 
Biden campaigned on a return to normalcy, a return to  the former status quo. The clear 
cut differences between Sanders and Biden both in policy and  tone raise the idea that 
this primary election was a contest between the passionate promise of  progress and 
change, versus a return to the status quo. In contrast to both of these candidates, 
President Donald Trump is campaigning on a continuation of his own version of the 
status quo, including his anti-immigration policies and sweeping tax cuts.  But because 
Trump currently faces no challengers for the Republican nomination, this article  focuses 
on Democratic politics. 
And of the Democratic field, Sanders certainly raised the most money, aside from those 
who were self funded. As of Feb. 29, Sanders raised over $98 million in small dollar 
donations -—nearly $65 million more than Biden, who raised just over $33 million from 
small donations. Small dollar donations are campaign contributions of less than $200, 
and indicate strong grassroots support — which is exactly why the Democratic National 
Committee used small dollar donations as a qualifier for the 2020 campaign debates. 
Sanders’s success with grassroots contributions shows that he excites people enough to 
not only vote for him, but to cut him a check as well.
Sanders’ online supporters are both enthusiastic and plentiful. His main subreddit, r/
SandersForPresident, which is run by supporters and has well over 500,000Bye Bye Bernie: Despite his Passion, Sanders is Out - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/29/2020Accessed: 5/29/2020 Bye Bye Bernie: Despite his Passion, Sanders is Out - UCSD Guardian
subscribers, fosters a community where Sanders fans  share everything from political 
opinions to selfies of them voting. On Twitter, many of his  followers don red rose 
emojis, a symbol of Democratic Socialism and Sanders’s governing  philosophy, in 
their bios. Across other platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, and Reddit,  Sanders’ 
fans use humor and memes to promote their candidate on a scale unattained by most  
other campaigns.  Of the other Democratic candidates, only  Yang’s #YangGang also 
has an extensive meme operation. Because memes are well liked by young people, 
Sanders’ meme operation could  help explain his unique popularity with the youth over 
other candidates. 
Some of Sanders’ online fans even garner negative attention for themselves and his 
campaign by harassing and bullying people opponents online. The term “Bernie Bro” 
was coined during the 2016 primary, and is now used as a catchall for toxic online 
behavior coming from sects of Sanders’ online base. During the primary, Bernie Bros 
drew condemnation from multiple candidates for their behavior, including Biden, 
Warren, and even Sanders himself.
With all the enthusiasm surrounding Sanders’ campaign, from young people, online 
supporters, and donors, many outlets, such as the statistical analysis website 
FiveThirtyEight, genuinely expected Sanders to win the primary. But despite 
commanding an early lead, coming in second in Iowa and winning the next two early 
voting states, New Hampshire and Nevada, Sanders’ path to the nomination is gone. 
Sanders dropped out of the presidential race last Wednesday, leaving Biden as the 
presumptive Democratic nominee. And Biden curated his success without much 
excitement from his supporters, online or otherwise; last weekend, an ABC and 
Washington Post poll  with a margin of sampling error of 3.5 percent, found that only 
24 percent of Biden’s supporters were “very enthusiastic” to vote for him, and 26 
percent of his supporters said they were “not at all” enthusiastic. It is puzzling to see a 
candidate with decidedly unenthusiastic support best a candidate so defined by 
enthusiasm. Sanders’ vocal fan base outraised Biden and overshadowed him online, 
but most democratic voters still went for Biden’s status quo. 
“It leaves me pretty somber to know that despite the passion behind his campaign, it 
wasn’t enough for the majority of the Democratic party.” Shawn Bowser, a Thurgood 
Marshall College freshman, and a staunch Sanders supporter, said. “Bernie Sanders 
has been an inspiration […] in my life since 2015.”
“Americans want someone to vote for, not someone to vote against,” Prothit Halder, aAccessed: 5/29/2020 Bye Bye Bernie: Despite his Passion, Sanders is Out - UCSD Guardian
Marshall freshman who supported Elizabeth Warren in the Democratic primary, 
said. Halder pointed to  Sanders’ popularity among younger folks as proof, arguing 
that “the status quo is not working,  and young people see that loud and clear.” Still, 
Halder critiqued Bernie Sanders, arguing that  democratic politics should not be 
“defined by a one man savior.” 
I won’t speculate as to why exactly Biden beat out Sanders. Many people much 
smarter than I am are trying to answer that question. But the disconnect between 
passion and political success is disheartening news  for progressive activism. 
Generation Z has an evident connection to activism — just look at  Greta Thunberg’s 
climate activism, or the March For Our Lives movement against gun violence.  But 
these movements have so far failed to generate comprehensive legislative change. 
Young people’s push for change comes out of necessity, because our lives, more than 
others, will  be affected by the decisions made today. Liberal teens and young adults 
are generally passionate  about issues like climate change, gun control, and  
reproductive rights because of the direct impact they have on our lives. Young 
people’s  enthusiastic activism, in the form of rallies, marches, walkouts, and the like, 
represents the  extent of power available to a generation not yet eligible to lead in an 
official capacity. I’m inspired by Gen Z’s commitment to improving the world, but I 
wonder, how will our generation  respond when presidential politics show that bold 
enthusiasm and grassroots support has twice  failed to match up against the appeal of 
the status quo? 
Art by Anthony Tran for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/29/2020 My Life Without Sports - UCSD Guardian
 April 12, 2020   Wesley Xiao 
Because of the COVID-19 outbreak, all major sports leagues have canceled or delayed 
their  seasons to protect the health of fans and players. As the world combats this 
pandemic, sports  fans like me are adjusting to this new sports-less normal.
Even with sports canceled or delayed, we are not totally bereft of sports content. NFL  
free agency has given us wild moments this offseason with tons of player movement, 
and it has been  a welcome distraction. For example, when I found out about the  
DeAndre Hopkins trade, for  one moment, I was able to forget about COVID-19, finals,  
and trying to figure out how I was  going to get back home. 
Because of the COVID-19 outbreak, all major sports leagues have canceled or delayed 
their seasons to protect the health of fans and players. As the world combats this  
pandemic, sports fans like me are adjusting to this new sports-less normal.
Even with sports canceled or delayed, we are not totally bereft of sports content. NFL  
free agency has given us wild moments this offseason with tons of player movement,  
and it has been a welcome distraction. For example, when I found out about theAccessed: 5/29/2020 My Life Without Sports - UCSD Guardian
DeAndre Hopkins trade, for  one moment, I was able to forget about COVID-19, finals, 
and trying to figure out how I was  going to get back home. 
Instead, I focused on Bill O’Brien and his ridiculous decision to trade away one of the 
best  wideouts in the league for an overpaid, oft-injured running back and a bag of 
peanuts. It was  great. It is also fun watching players doing improvised workouts on 
Twitter while they are also  stuck at home — my favorite is San Francisco ‘49ers 
fullback Kyle Juszczyk squatting tree  trunks in the snow.
That being said, I really do miss live games. Had everything gone on as normal, MLB 
would be a  month into their season, hockey would be getting ready for the playoffs, 
and we would be in the  quarterfinals of the UEFA Champions League. Begin cooped 
up at home with a lot of time on  my hands, I would love to have just one new game to 
take my mind off what is going on in the  world. I would like to say that with sports 
being canceled I would have more time for my other  hobbies, but who am I kidding; 
watching, reading, and writing about sports is my only hobby.
For the foreseeable future, sports will remain on hold. So, until sports are back, I 
hope you all stay safe and healthy. I, in the meantime, am going to try and find some 
new hobbies.
Photo Courtesy Harsimran Singh/ UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/1/2020 Asking Questions is the Answer - UCSD Guardian
A  April 12, 2020    Nelson Espinal  
UCSD student Alistar Gray reached the pinnacle of trivia by appearing on 
Jeopardy’s College Championship.
Alistar Gray, an Earl Warren College sophomore majoring in both computer science 
and linguistics, had always wanted to be on Jeopardy. He identified it as a life-long 
goal based on his  competitive nature. His journey to be selected as a contestant on 
Jeopardy began in his  childhood as trivia piqued his interest. He took his first step 
in an official setting, the self-identified “Trivia Nerd” joining a trivia-based 
competition called Quizbowl during his  sophomore year in high school due to its 
reputation of churning out Jeopardy players.
“A lot of Quizbowl players go on to compete on Jeopardy, partly because doing 
Quizbowl prepares you really well for the academic side of Jeopardy and partly 
because it’s the same kind of trivia person who does either [Quizbowl or Jeopardy],” 
Gray said in an interview with The UCSD Guardian. His love for trivia is not just from competition. He would have regular Jeopardy 
viewings with  his roommates during his first year at UC San Diego. He described the 
atmosphere during these  viewings as being “hype,” with him and his roommates 
shouting questions as the answers  flashed on the screen. Gray would always take a 
moment to think about how exciting being on  the show would be.
Watching Jeopardy helped him identify the traits good players have. “I’d say a 
good Jeopardy contestant has a broad range of knowledge, but more importantly is 
mentally prepared, quick  on the buzzer, and quick to figure things out,” he said.
The buildup of years dedicated to trivia, from his childhood to college, made Gray 
ready to give Jeopardy’s College Championship a shot. Jeopardy’s College 
Championship series features a tournament style in which there are quarterfinals, 
semifinals, and finals rather than having three random contestants compete only 
amongst themselves. The contestants are split up into groups of three and they face 
off individually. The winner of the quarterfinals automatically qualifies for the 
semifinals while second place ends up in the wildcard bracket. These wildcards face 
off to fill out the remaining bracket.
There is a difference between the type of questions that are asked in the College 
Championship when compared to the regular format of Jeopardy. Gray pointed out 
that there were pop culture questions that were more in tune with the younger 
generation rather than the “boomer-oriented” ones that are featured on the regular 
show. The episode that he was on had a category based around Drake, one of the 
biggest artists alive, as a means to adapt to current pop culture trends.
Following the decision to apply, Gray now had to start the actual process. The 
application, which opened up this past November, featured a 50-question test based 
around 50 different categories in a trivia style. Applicants have 15 seconds to answer 
each question. There were 18,000 other applicants. His score was good enough for 
him to move onto the next facet of the selection process: an in-person audition in Los 
Angeles that featured 500 other college students.
After completing the process, he waited for the call. It came during a lecture, but his 
phone was in his backpack. He heard the buzzing of a phone, but it was unidentifiable 
among the hundreds of potentially buzzing backpacks in the lecture hall.
“After class, I took my phone out and saw the area code was 310, which people on theAccessed: 6/1/2020 Asking Questions is the Answer - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/1/2020 Asking Questions is the Answer - UCSD Guardian
the Jeopardy  subreddit had said was Culver City, where they called you from, and I 
got very excited; after a  few rounds of trading voicemails, I finally got through to 
them and they confirmed it,” Gray  said. “I got very excited again and a little freaked 
out about peaking in sophomore year of  college.”
Even after taking part in the show, he still can’t pinpoint what factor led to him 
being picked as  a contestant on the show. The nature of the selection process is 
based around drawing questions  that are more suited for each person’s acumen. 
There is a lot of unknown going into each part of  the process that generates a rush of 
adrenaline. He figures that there is a blend of both his  knowledge and his natural 
excitement for trivia.
“Honestly, I have no idea why they chose me in particular because I don’t think I 
have a personality for TV at all,” Gray said. “If anything, it was probably being all 
smiles and positivity  all the time and that was genuine — it was a dream come true 
for the whole process and I loved  it. And I think I know a good amount of things, so 
that probably helped too.”
Once it settled in that he was going to be on the show, he pivoted into light training 
for the  show. He didn’t train or study like someone would expect for a content-
heavy competition. Gray  already had confidence in how well he had retained 
information from the Quizbowl and other  rabbit holes that he had discovered on 
Wikipedia. Apart from previously acquired knowledge,  he studied the college show 
more in depth. 
“I watched even more of the show, especially past college tournaments, trying to 
figure out what  they tended to ask about,” Gray said. “So I did my best to prepare, 
but really you have no idea  what’s going to come up, and the best you can do is 
prepare your mentality and hope.”
The competition took place in early February, as out-of-state contestants flew in, 
while Gray  and the contestant from University of Southern California were driven to 
the hotel since they  were close to the studio. He recalled what that first meeting at 
the hotel was like.
“We instantly bonded,” he said.“Somehow, even in such a high-stakes environment 
where we were competing directly against each other, being a bunch of nerds in the 
same situation brought us together really closely — we came up with lots of in-jokesAccessed: 6/1/2020 Asking Questions is the Answer - UCSD Guardian
and everything.”
This friendliness carried over after the show was recorded as well. There were a couple 
of group  chats that were formed after the show. The connecting thread among the 
contestants is centered  around the fact that they were contractually obligated to not 
talk about the results with anyone  except amongst themselves.
“But my favorite part of the whole thing was definitely the people and how close we all 
got,” Gray said. “Taping the game goes by at just about the same speed as when it airs, 
which is  blindingly fast in the moment — so many hours of preparation and 
anticipation go into just a  moment of playing.”
The competitive nature that should theoretically arrive from a contest was never 
present. There  was going to be a winner and the rest were not going to win, but one 
couldn’t tell from their  interactions with each other. They didn’t show a strong desire 
to stand out by any means, a  quality that got them into their schools and drives their 
current desire to beat grading curves, as  the contestants knew that anyone could be on 
the stage. Gray revealed the secret that allowed  for a friendly environment: the 
answers are all based around knowledge that most contestants  know. 
“A little secret about Jeopardy is that most of the contestants know most of the 
answers, so being the first to buzz in is the most important thing separating players a 
lot of the time,” he  said. “This is especially true in the college tournament. I’d say 80 
percent of college contestants  know 80 percent of the answers, conservatively.” 
The episode of Jeopardy aired April 8th, 2020 on ABC. It is currently available on 
any streaming service that records live TV.
Graphic by Kalo Grimsby  for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/1/2020 Dana White and the UFC Refuse to Tap Out - UCSD Guardian
 April 12, 2020   Praveen Nair
Brooklyn. A casino south of Fresno. A private island in international waters. While 
every other  major sport has shuttered for the foreseeable future, UFC President Dana 
White searched for  anywhere he could hold a fight — coronavirus be damned. Yet in 
the midst of an international  pandemic that threatens many thousands of lives, 
White’s flippancy in desperately trying to  skirt necessary social distancing 
regulations has been profoundly disappointing to see from the  de facto leader of a $4 
billion fighting empire.
UFC 249, the next edition of the UFC’s flagship event, had been scheduled for April 
18 in Barclays Center in Brooklyn and featured a long-awaited matchup — which had 
been delayed  four times before — between the top two lightweight fighters in the 
world: the champion,  Russian Khabib Nurmagomedov, and his top challenger, 
American Tony Ferguson. But as cases  of COVID-19 stacked up in New York last 
month, the New York State Athletic Commission  refused to allow the fight to go on; 
soon after, due to restrictions on international travel,  Nurmagomedov pulled out of 
the fight. That should’ve been the end of the story for UFC 249 —any public health 
official would recommend that, even without a crowd, the event would be ill-advised. But, then again, White is about the direct opposite of a public health official.
White’s next escapade involved holding the fight at the Tachi Palace Casino Resort, 
around 40 miles south of Fresno. Crucially, the resort is on tribal lands, so it does not 
have to obey either the California State Athletic Commission or the state’s stay-at-
home order. Needless to say, the plan was full of holes. There is only one top-level 
trauma hospital near the resort, all the way in Fresno; a hospital spokesperson told 
the New York Times that the UFC had not contacted them about emergency care for 
fighters. Furthermore, the plan required that the large number of people needed to 
run a UFC event fly across the country to run the fight, another significant safety risk. 
The event even drew condemnation from California Senator Dianne Feinstein. 
“This event would involve dozens of individuals flying to California and driving to a 
casino for a purpose no one can honestly claim is essential,” Feinstein said. “… At 
best this event ties up medical resources and sends a message that shelter-in-place 
orders can be flouted. At worst, participants and support staff could carry the virus 
back to their home communities and increase its spread.”
Thankfully, with just nine days to go before the fight, cooler heads prevailed. 
California Governor Gavin Newsom reportedly called executives at Disney — whose 
subsidiary, ESPN, has a $1.5 billion deal with the UFC to air fights, including UFC 
249 — to pressure the UFC to call off the fight. So, that’s it for White’s quixotic 
attempts to hold unsafe, unsanctioned cash grab MMA fights, right?
Nope. White’s newest scheme is for the UFC to hold events on a private island — the 
working title is “Fight Island” — to skirt international travel regulations, with 
infrastructure being built with the aim of starting fights in mid-May. Sure, “Fight 
Island” does have a “Mortal Kombat”-esque thrill to it and the world is starved for 
sports, but if the outskirts of Fresno are too far from a good hospital, then an island is 
many orders of magnitude worse — not to mention the possible coronavirus 
transmission risk and wasted resources. But, as of now, plans for the island continue, 
and White, ever the promoter, is already bragging that “we’ll be back first.” 
White seems to cast himself as the ultimate showman, looking at a bleak world and 
declaring that the show must go on. But White doesn’t seem to understand that 
COVID-19 is real, fatal, and much, much bigger than the UFC. Just hours before UFC 
249 was called off, fighter Rose Namajunas’s manager announced that she would  
withdraw from the event. The reason? Two of her family members had passed awayAccessed: 6/1/2020 Dana White and the UFC Refuse to Tap Out - UCSD GuardianDana White and the UFC Refuse to Tap Out - UCSD Guardian
due to the coronavirus. That is the world we’re living in today, and only time will tell 
if White will join us in it. Accessed: 6/1/2020