San Diego County increased 
the minimum wage to $13 an hour 
on Wednesday, Jan. 1, 2020 in concurrence with the state-wide raise. Starting in 2017, California has been increasing the minimum wage with the end goal of $15 being reached by 2023.
California Assemblywoman 
Lorena Gonzalez, who has been an advocate for worker protections, spoke to the San Diego Union-Tribune regarding why there was the initial need for a higher minimum wage. 
“Right now, businesses are 
reporting high economic growth 
and those at the top are wealthier 
than they’ve ever been, ” Gonzalez said. “The wealth gap is growing. We have to look at how we are compensating people and to ensure that people can make a living. Minimum wage just doesn’t do that. ”
According to Assemblywoman 
Gonzalez, an increase in minimum wage will allow families who are earning that amount to be able to live more comfortably. But with a 
growing economy, she’s expecting 
more of an increase when it comes to minimum wage in the future.
Gonzalez’s bases this on a UC Beginning in March 2020, the United States Census Bureau will begin its survey of everyone who lives in the U.S. Recently, 
there have been many myths and misinformation floating around about the Census. In an effort to ensure that everyone is counted and feels safe being counted, the UCSD Guardian has partnered with the 2020 Census to answer some of the most pressing student-related questions regarding the nationwide count.
What is the Census?
The United States Census is the decennial 
constitutionally mandated count of everyone who resides in the country for the majority of the calendar year. Conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, a nonpartisan government agency, the census counts the population of everyone who lives in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the five U.S. territories.
Through the results of the count, a number of 
goods and services are reallocated based on where people live, including the distribution of $675 billion in federal funding, as well as the allocation of federal representatives and the redistricting of federal and state legislative districts.
What questions are asked on the Census?
Only seven questions are asked through the 
Census. They will be in regards to the following categories:
- How many people are living or staying at your 
home on April 1, 2020.
- Whether your home is owned or rented.- The sex of each person in your home.- The age of each person in your home.- The race of each person in your home.- About whether a person in your home is of 
Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin.
- The relationship of each person in your home.- The Census Bureau will never ask for 
information in regards to your social security number, your bank or credit card numbers. Likewise, the Bureau will never ask any information on behalf of a political party, and it will never try to solicit you for money or donations.
When will the Census take place?
The Census will begin in the middle of March 
2020, with invitations to participate online or by paper questionnaire being sent out beginning March 12. Reminder letters will be sent out in the middle of the month. If no one in your household responds to the census, further reminders will be sent throughout the remainder of March and April, with in-person follow-ups beginning in mid-April. 
If I am not a US citizen, do I participate in the 
Census?
If your primary residence for the majority of 
the calendar year is in the United States, then you do participate in the 2020 Census count regardless of whether or not you are a U.S. citizen.
Will my citizenship be asked?
The Census Bureau does not ask any questions 
about citizenship. No questions in regards to nationality, citizenship, or legal status to be in the United States is ever asked.
As an on-campus student, what is considered VOLUME 53, ISSUE 11  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 6, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC SYSTEM
Minimum Wage in California Increases from $12 to $13 an Hour
San Diego celebrates Wonderfront Music & Arts Festival by the sea // Photo by Hannah Rosenberg
By  jacob  sutherland    News EditorNATION
Debunking the Misconceptions about the 2020 CensusPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Anxiety about DACA 
or undocumented 
status can also 
create a roadblock 
to a student’s 
ability to succeed 
professionally."
YOU  (SEASON  TWO)
NEW  YEAR  RESOLUTIONSA  DATE  FROM  HELL
DON'T  PRESSURE  YOURSELFA&E,  PAGE  8
LIFESTYLE ,   Page  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"There were no 
attempts to sugar 
coat any expressed 
criticism, and the 
topics were nichely 
centered around 
criticizing the campus 
climate as a whole and 
condemning Gupta’s 
actions."TUESDAY
 H 66 L 50
THURSDAY
H 60 L 49
WEDNESDAY
H 61 L 52
FRIDAY
H 62 L 49
A$AP FERG....................8
STAR WARS.....................9
JANUARY PEEKS............10 
RESOLUTIONS................11
TRITON TIMEOUT...........16Jacob Sutherland
 Compton Cookout
 PAGE 5This comes as a step toward California’s goal of $15 an hour by 2023,  allowing people to live more comfortably.
BY  Sepand  rouz
Contributing WriterOPINION: UC AND 
DREAMER STUDENTS
Opinion, page 4
See WAGE,  page 3
Everything You 
Need to Know 
About the Primary
The March 3rd election will be 
a part of the broader “Super 
Tuesday” vote across the countr y.
Answers to a number of student related questions about the national head count (En español en la página 2)There are less than 60 days 
until students at UC San Diego 
once again turn out to vote in the 2020 California Primary on Tuesday, March 3. Here is your guide to the elections on the ballot, how to register to vote, the voting process, and more.
Primary elections are the 
process where voters indicate their preferences for a candidate nominee, who then moves on to a general election. California has a top-two primary system, a type of election where all candidates are listed on the same ballot. The 
top two candidates who receive 
the most votes, regardless of their partisan affiliations, advance to the general election. The 2016 Senate primary notably saw two Democrats, Kamala Harris and Loretta Sanchez, move on to the general election. 
This year’s primary will be 
held on March 3, 2020 and polls will be open from 7 a.m to 8 p.m. Local races on the ballot include open seat races for Mayor of San Diego and City Council District 1, which encompasses UC San Diego. California as a whole will have state and federal elections for all 80 State Assembly seats, 20 of the 40 State Senate seats, and all 53 United States Representatives. California Proposition 13, which addresses the School and College Facilities Bond, will be the only initiative on the ballot.
In September 2017, Governor 
Jerry Brown signed a bill to move up California’s primary elections in 2020 to March to increase the influence of the state in the presidential nominating process. 
California’s primary will be on 
Super Tuesday, the Tuesday when the largest number of states and 
territories hold a presidential 
primary or caucus.
Much of the attention is 
currently upon the Democratic Party’s presidential primaries. The latest polling averages in California indicate a continuing tight race between former Vice President Joe Biden at 22 percent, Senator Bernie Sanders at 20 percent, and Senator Elizabeth Warren at 16 percent as of Jan. 3, 2020.
The Democratic Party, 
the Libertarian Party, and the American Independent Party will be allowing voters who have listed their political affiliation as “no party preference” to vote in their respective presidential primaries. The Republican Party, the Peace and Freedom Party and the Green Party will require ELECTION
BY  troy  tuquero
Senior Staff Writer
See VOTE,  page 3See COUNT,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Sometimes you 
gotta work with people you don’t like.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Colleen Conradi
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor-in-Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
Students who live on or off campus should account for themselves where they predominantly live and sleep.
▶ COUNT , from page 1
my counted residence?
All university students who 
live on campus should count 
themselves at their on-campus residence where they live and sleep most of the time. Likewise, off-campus students should count themselves wherever they live and sleep most of the time. University 
students, regardless of where they 
are originally from or their country 
of citizenship, should be counted at 
the residence where they live and sleep most of the time.
Are my responses confidential?
All responses given to the 
Census Bureau are confidential and protected by federal law. Responses will only be used for statistical purposes, and cannot be used against an individual in any 
way.
Under Title 13 of the U.S. Code, 
responses cannot be released to 
anyone, including law enforcement agencies.
Title 44 of the U.S. Code does 
permit the National Archives and Records Administration to release census records only after 72 years for historical research. That means that for the 2020 count, this can only happen starting in the year 2092. 
All Census Bureau staff take 
a lifetime oath to protect the 
personal information collected in 
the count. Any violation will result in a penalty of up to $250,000 as well as up to five years in prison.
For further questions, comments, 
or concerns, residents are encouraged to visit 2020census.gov or call 301-763-4636 for any general questions.Empezando en marzo de 
2020, La Oficina del Censo va a comenzar su encuesta de todos los que llaman a hogar a los Estados Unidos. Recientemente, habían muchos mitos y desinformación del Censo. En un esfuerzo por 
asegurar que todos sean contados 
y se sientan seguros al ser contados, el UCSD Guardian se ha asociado con el Censo 2020 para contestar algunas preguntas relacionado con el estudiante en lo que respecta al conteo nacional.
¿Qué es el Censo?
El Censo de los EE. UU. es 
la cuenta decenal de mandato constitucional de todos los que residen en el país para la mayoría del año calendario. Llevada a cabo por La Oficina del Censo, una agencia gubernamental no partidista, el censo cuenta el población de cada persona que viva el todos los 50 estados, el Distrito de Columbia, y los cinco territorios estado de EE. UU.
A través de los resultados de 
esta cuenta, se reasignarán varios bienes y servicios basado en donde vive la gente, incluyendo la distribución de $675 mil millones en fundidos federales, así como la asignación de representantes federales y la redistribución de distritos de distritos legislativos federales y estatales¿Qué preguntas se hacen en el 
Censo?
Solo se hacen siete preguntas a 
través del Censo. Se referirán a las siguientes categorías:
- ¿Cuántas personas viven o 
se se quedan en su casa en abril 1, 2020?
- Si su casa es propiedad 
alquilada.
- El sexo de cada persona en 
su hogar.
- La edad de cada persona en 
su hogar.
- La raza de cada persona en 
su hogar.
- Acerca de si una persona en 
su hogar es de origen hispano, 
latino o español.
- La relación de cada persona 
en su hogar.
La Oficina del Censo nunca 
le pedirá información sobre su 
número de seguro social, o sus números del banco o tarjeta de crédito. También, el bureau nunca le pedirá información en nombre de un partido político, y nunca intentará solicitarle dinero o donaciones. 
¿Cuándo se realizará el Censo?
El Censos comenzará en el 
medio de marzo de 2020, con invitaciones de participar por internet o por cuestionario en papel enviadas a partir del día 12. Se enviarán cartas de recordatorio a mediados de mes. Si nadie en su hogar responde al censo, se enviarán más recordatorios durante el resto de marzo y abril, y el seguimiento en persona comenzará a mediados de abril.
Si no soy ciudadano 
estadounidense, ¿participo en 
el Censo?
Si su residencia principal 
durante la mayor parte del año calendario es en el EE. 
UU, entonces usted participa 
en el conteo del Censo 2020 independientemente de si es ciudadano estadounidense o no.
¿Se me pedirá mi ciudadanía?
La Oficina del Censo no hace 
preguntas sobre la ciudadanía. 
Nunca se hacen preguntas con 
respecto a la nacionalidad, ciudadanía o estado legal para estar en el EE. UU..
Como estudiante en el campus, 
¿qué se considera mi residencia 
contada?
Cada estudiante universitario 
que vive en el campus debe contarse en su residencia del campus donde viven y duermen la mayor parte del tiempo. Igualmente, estudiantes fuera del campus debe contarse donde viven y duermen la mayor parte del tiempo. Estudiantes universitarios, independientemente de su origen o su país de origen, deberían ser contados en la residencia donde viven y duermen la mayor parte del tiempo. ¿Son confidenciales mis 
respuestas?
Cada respuesta dada a 
la Oficina del Censo están confidenciales y protegidos por el ley federal. Las respuestas solo se usarán con fines estadísticos y no se pueden usar contra un individuo de ninguna manera. 
Según el Título 13 del Código 
de EE. UU., las respuestas no se pueden divulgar a nadie, incluidas las agencias policiales.
El Título 44 del Código 
de EE. UU. permite que la Administración Nacional de Archivos y Registros publique registros del censo solo después 
de 72 años para la investigación 
histórica. Eso significa que para el conteo de 2020, esto solo puede suceder a partir del año 2092.
Todo el personal de la Oficina 
del Censo hace un juramento de por vida para proteger la información personal recopilada en el recuento. Cualquier violación resultará en una multa de hasta $ 250,000, así como hasta cinco años en prisión.
Para más preguntas, 
comentarios o inquietudes, se alienta a los residentes a visitar 2020census.gov o llamar al 301-763-4636 para cualquier pregunta general.
BY Jacob  sutherland
News EditorNACIÓN
Desacreditando los Mitos en Torno al Censo 2020 (Una Traducción del Artículo Principal)
Respuestas a una serie de preguntas relacionadas con los estudiantes sobre el recuento nacional.
jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.org
jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.orgBerkeley study which shows that 2.6 
million Californians will need a higher minimum wage in the future.
Several employers have already set 
their hourly wages above the minimum, with companies like Costco and Amazon setting theirs to $15 an hour, $2 above the state required minimum.
For UC San Diego, this means that the 
wages for Housing Dining Hospitality employees have increased as well. HDH 
promises to match the minimum wage 
of San Diego County, and because of the increase to the minimum wage, students and other staff will get their wages increased from $12 to $13 an hour. 
Other jobs around campus will 
also raise their wages in regards to the minimum wage increase if the previous wage was $12 in 2019.
The $15 wage is planned to be 
California’s target minimum wage by 2023 for businesses which have less than 25 employees, and 2022 for businesses that employ 26 or more employees. The topic of raising the minimum wage has been a popular topic of discussion between democratic candidates for the upcoming 2020 presidential election. 
Democratic Presidential Candidate 
and former Vice President Joe Biden stated on Twitter that Americans should be promised a $15 minimum wage at the very least.
“Companies continue to squeeze every 
last penny out of workers, making it harder and harder for Americans to make ends meet. ” Biden stated. “It’s way past time we make a $15 minimum wage the law of the land. ”
Other candidates stand with Biden’s 
case that pushes towards a $15 minimum for all workers in the U.S.
Twenty states have already followed suit 
and are increasing their minimum wage in 2020. According to KTLA, states such as Alaska, California, Illinois, and other states are raising their minimum wage and expected to see more productivity from that.
This is important for families who 
are working for minimum wage: having more money in their income. But some argue that there would be a possibility that there will be jobs lost from the minimum wage increase. A study done by the Congressional Budget Office says that 1.3 million workers may lose their jobs if the minimum wage is increased.  
The federal minimum wage has yet 
to be changed from the current $7.25 an hour, but several states will continue to make reforms towards higher wages in the coming years.
voters to be registered with their party in order to vote on one of their respective ballots.
In order to be eligible to register to 
vote in California, you must be a United States citizen; a resident of California, 18 years of age or older on the day of the next election; not imprisoned or on parole for a felony conviction; and not found mentally incompetent by a court. You may only be registered to vote at 
one home address.
You can register to vote online on the 
California Secretary of State’s website. 
You may also register through mail by the postmark deadline of Feb. 18, 2020, or you are able to conditionally register and vote at your local county elections office after the 15-day voter registration deadline. College students are allowed to register using their college address. 
Registered voters may also request 
to vote by mail instead of going to the polls on Election Day. The vote-by-mail ballot request must arrive at the county elections office by Feb. 25, 2020 to ensure that the ballot arrives before the election.
According to the San Diego County 
Registrar of Voters, vote-by-mail voters will receive their ballots anywhere between 29 and 7 days before Election Day. You may return your voted ballot by mailing it to your county elections official, returning it in person to a polling place or the office of your county elections official, dropping your ballot into one of your county’s ballot drop boxes, or authorizing someone to return the ballot on your behalf.
In past elections, the Student 
Organized Voter Access Committee at UCSD has provided polling locations for on-campus students at each college. On-campus polling locations for the 
2020 Primary are currently undecided 
and will be updated at a later date.
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
YOUR NAME
By Michi Sora
HDH workers will also see an increase to $13 an hour if  previously paid at original minimum.
College students are allowed to register using either their on-campus or off-campus address.▶ WAGE , from page 1
▶ VOTE , from page 1Sepand  Rouz   srouz@ucsd,edu
TROY  Tuquero   ttuquero@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
By: Geena Roberts //  Opinion EditorUC System Needs to Provide More Readily Available 
Resources for Undocumented Student’s Needs
The character of America has sadly changed over 
the course of the last decade. Hate crimes are at an all-time high. There is a humanitarian 
crisis at our southern border. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has staged covert militant-like raids. The Trump administration formally ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. And in 2019 the existing program application fee was raised to over $800. These conditions distress many Americans. More importantly, however, they intimately impact the emotional, financial, and academic wellbeing of University of California “Dreamers” , students who currently receive deferred action, other undocumented students, and their friends and family. 
When the Trump administration ended DACA in 
2017, the UC Board of Regents put their money and values where their mouths were and took the Trump administration to Court to protect recipients. However, while the UC Regents fight for the program in Washington, D.C, many undocumented students on UC campuses continue to not receive mental health resources, feel isolated, and face physical barriers to accessing resources. The UC Regents, and UC San Diego should not only fight for “Dreamers” and other undocumented students’ ability to succeed in the Courts and on Capital Hill, but should 
do more to alleviate these obstacles students contend with 
on our campuses. 
Imagine that you are a DACA recipient or an 
otherwise undocumented student. Y ou have the same academic, social, and professional obligations and goals of a typical student. Then there’s more: a constant barrage of uncertainty that comes with your immigration status. For example, if you contemplate the potential permanent ending of the administrative program, you must consider deportation to a country long foreign to you. Y ou also may worry about the financial and professional implications of your immigration status, like affording DACA ’s legal fees and worry about how to pay for college if you do not qualify. Then, on top of it all, campus mental health resources that might be able to help are booked for the rest of the quarter. These stressors are just the surface of the anxieties that sit on the shoulders of “Dreamers” and other undocumented students on UC campuses and beyond. The size of these stressors varies depending on a student’s immigration status and eligibility for deferrance programs , their economic class, and more. However, the impact of these statuses decisively adds anxiety to students’ lives. 
Being a DACA recipient or undocumented person 
inelgible for the program, especially now, often means having to cope with high levels of stress in addition to other taxing responsibilities. Such a chronic stressor in turn can wreak havoc on one’s mental health. Recent studies from UC Berkeley, for example, have shown that chronic stress makes people more susceptible to developing mental illness. Fear of discrimination based on status also has a negative impact on mental health. Whether or not this stress manifests in mental illness, the increased anxiety of being undocumented can make learning more difficult. As one “Dreamer” at UCSD expressed, it can be difficult to focus on school work when you’re constantly worried about how to pay for the legal fees the program entails, whether you’re going to be able to graduate, and how your family will fair if you are unable to work legally. 
Anxiety about DACA or undocumented status can 
also create a roadblock to a student’s ability to succeed professionally. Many “Dreamers” experience anxiety around being asked about their work status now or in the uncertain future. This stressor comes in addition to economic insecurities; as of right now many recipients must contend with the uncertainty of whether they will be able to work in the United States legally in three years. Simulataneously, undocumented students are unable to legally work and navigate that reality. 
With all that in mind, it is easy to understand how 
such chronic stressors can damage an undocumented student’s mental health. Y et, mental health resources for 
“Dreamers” and other undocumented students at UCSD 
and many other UC campuses fail to rise to the occasion. On UC campuses, students find mental health resources more strained than ever. UC reports demonstrate that the UC system recognizes this fact as well but have not been quick enough in remedying the problem. Tangibly, this strain means that undocumented students and dreamers may not get access to necessary mental health resources to combat the aforementioned obstacles. The burden on mental health resources is especially detrimental for undocumented students ineligble for DACA because they are more unlikely to qualify for health insurance. Thus, they are forced to rely on campus resources. If the UC Regents want to better support undocumented students and “Dreamers, ” they should invest more in campus mental health resources. 
Another way that UCSD and other college campuses 
can better support dreamers and undocumented students is by providing them with increased campus resources to help build community. According to studies and DACA recipients and undocumented students themselves, another key challenge these students face is isolation. College age students in general report high levels of loneliness. Recipients and other undocumented students likely deal with this general feeling of loneliness that other college students undergo. However, they also feel isolated from peers and campus professionals because of the pressure to keep their status secret. As Professor Jean Calterone Williams of California State Polytechnic University San Luis Obispo describes “hiding the fact that they are unauthorized is an everyday reality and the substance of an enduring isolation for many students” . 
At UCSD specifically, the Raza Resource Centro 
and Undocumented Student Services both organize events to help undocumented students and families of undocumented people build community on campus. However, these few communal programs are almost always built around advocacy and social justice, something not all of these students may be passionate about. With greater funding, these resources centers could create different kinds of opportunities for undocumented students and recipients to meet similarly situated students. One way to do this could be for the Undocumented Student Services to model other resources centers’ use of weekly collectives. 
Coversely, some undocumented students may avoid 
campus resources, like legal assistance because they have to physically visit the location. At UCSD, for example, to meet with staff at the Undocumented Student Services Center you must visit the location, at least for your first meeting. It is unclear how ironclad this rule is. However, uncertainty about this requirement may bar students from utilizing undocumented student services. 
Undocumented students who have disclosed their status 
to me have not wanted their immigration status made public to others including friends, roommates, and significant others. Given that, it’s not hard to imagine why these students may hesitate to enter a building that marks them as undocumented to the rest of campus. Recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids at workplaces known to hire undocumented people have only undergirded this fear. 
This is something that UC campuses can work 
quickly to remedy. Expanding online resources, for example, would offer a greater level of anonymity and comfortability to undocumented students nervous to enter the physical location. Skype appointments with an Undocumented Student Services Immigration Attorney are one possibility. Of course, a more immediate solution to this problem is the UC system, and all of us, continuing to work to create safer, more friendly campuses for undocumented students and recipients. But for now, Undocumented Student Services must meet students, and the political climate, where they are. 
The UC system has pioneered many of the policies 
and resources that support undocumented students and DACA recipients. But undocumented students and “Dreamers” are still struggling on our campuses. The UC system, and all of us, can do more.
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
Lara  Sanli
features@ucsdguardian.org
Ask any alumni or faculty members who were on campus in Winter 
Quarter 2010 to write down a list of the most impactful events of the past decade, and you’ll likely find one common answer: the Compton 
Cookout. The Compton Cookout was a racist party held by several members from UC San Diego fraternities on Feb. 15, 2010 which advertised itself as allowing students to “experience the various elements of life in the ghetto” and ultimately playing on African American stereotypes. Following the Compton Cookout, a series of student and faculty protests, racially charged events, and the defunding of student media took place in what became known as Black Winter, leading to a substantive overhaul in the way diversity, equity, and inclusion would be handled by the UCSD administration.
As with any noteworthy event, significant coverage was given to the series 
of events by a number of news media outlets, including the UCSD Guardian. Because the paper is funded entirely through ad revenue, it was unaffected by the student media defunding, allowing the publication of both objective accounts and firsthand opinions during this time period. Throughout Winter Quarter 2010, the 
Guardian published a total of 36 pieces on or related to Black Winter: 12 news 
articles, six editorials, one feature, three guest commentaries, and 14 letters to the editor.
With the 10-year anniversary of Black Winter in full swing, we wanted to take 
a moment to categorically analyze the coverage of the events to provide context for many of the current university institutions utilized by students and faculty a decade later.
News
Coverage of the Compton Cookout began on Thursday, Feb. 18, 2010, three 
days after the Facebook event was published. “Party Foul - Offended Students and Administration Respond to Racially Themed Frat Cookout, ” details how, following the Monday night party, a Campus Black Forum was held for students and supporters to discuss the issue and come up with solutions as well as to address the controversial student publication in the Koala, a publication infamous for producing harsh satire at the expense of marginalized students. Conversely, students and faculty emailed then Chancellor Marye Anne Fox and Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Penny Rue to express their concerns.
Throughout the article, it was made clear that the majority of students, faculty, 
and fraternity members were all against the Cookout. However, most were also wary about punishing the students due to the event falling under the protections of the First Amendment.
“Council Condemns Racist Party, Supports Free Speech, ” was a straightforward 
recount of that week’s A.S. Council meeting, which included discussions on the Cookout and various proposals to address on-campus diversity and free speech protections.
Following this initial issue, many accounts of the events were published as they 
occurred. No news article on any of the events was published in the Feb. 22 issue, as then News Editor Angela Chen wrote a feature titled “Campus Reacts to Racial Slur, ” which recounts the various opinions on all that had happened in the week following the Cookout.
The Guardian reported on Thursday, Feb. 25 about the student and faculty 
walkout of the University-led teach-in held on Feb. 24 after the event was perceived by many attendees to only put a bandaid on the overall problem. This led to protesting students and faculty holding their own counter teach-in on the Triton Steps, which would become one of the defining moments of Black Winter. It was also reported in this issue that then A.S. President Utsav Gupta had suspended funding for all student publications in an effort to prevent the publication of any further hate-filled articles until the Council could create a better system for allocating student media funds. This led to members of these 
media outlets threatening to take legal action, as well as the American Civil 
Liberties Union denouncing the suspension as a violation of free speech.
One of the most impactful events reported on during Black Winter was the 
six-hour student occupation of the Chancellor’s Complex to demand that the university address the Black Student Union at UCSD’s letter of demands. It was also reported in the March 1 issue that student and faculty activists from UCLA and UC Irvine held their own demonstrations in support of the UCSD student protesters.
In the March 4 issue, various points of view were expressed on the campus 
media defund with some students supporting the move, while others argued that it was a roundabout way to defund the Koala for consistently publishing content targeted against minority students. In the same issue, it was reported that a Ku Klux Klan hood was hung on the Dr. Seuss statue outside Geisel Library, marking the fourth racially charged on-campus incident that quarter.
In the final Guardian issue for Winter 2010, it was reported that the BSU and 
UCSD administration had reached an agreement to work together to address the structural problems like a lack of education on diversity and limited student resources that had led to the Cookout, achieving some of the demands outlined 
in the BSU’s letter. Some actions resulting from this include the Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion undergraduate requirement, the creation of several student resource centers, and the permanent installation of the Chicano Legacy Mural. Additionally, student press funds were restored by the A.S. Council after only being suspended for a couple weeks.
While the news coverage was comprehensive, not everything made the cut. 
There was no objective report on the noose being found in Geisel Library in February, although it was addressed in a guest commentary piece. Likewise, public denouncements of the Cookout and on-campus racism by many faculty members, student leaders, and departments were seldom mentioned.
That being said, with an issue as complex as Black Winter, objectivity is always 
the primary goal. Many of the aforementioned events not covered may not have been available to the writers, as I first learned about these events through the book “ Another University is Possible, ” which was published well after Black Winter had come to a close by a handful of UCSD professors.
Editorials
Throughout Black Winter, the Guardian’s editorial board, which at the time 
included Editor-in-Chief Simone Wilson, Managing Editors Alyssa Bereznak and Reza Farazmand, News Editors Hayley Bisceglia-Martin and Angela Chen, and 
Opinion Editor Trevor Cox, published six pieces.
The first editorial, which came out three days after the initial Cookout, does 
not come to any concrete solutions for changing campus climate. Instead, the 
board argues that the use of racially sensitive humor, while considered free speech, should not be used at all for the sake of being a decent person. The board notes that the Cookout party organizers, Koala writers, and others who use this type of humor should, at the very least, “grow the balls to defend [their] humor, face to face, to someone who’s not feeling it so much. ”
In the Feb. 22 editorial titled “Stopping the Presses Won’t Heal the Hurt, ” 
the board criticizes Gupta’s funding freeze, arguing that while the Koala’s SRTV broadcast was offensive, it would have been a better decision to allow student dialogue to happen on the issue through the various student publications rather than to attempt to censure one by defunding them all.
In a Feb. 25 editorial, the board considers the BSU’s list of demands, 
determining that while all are good-intentioned, some are not fiscally feasible. Instead, the board agrees that a better approach to promoting an accepting campus is to make it truly diverse by changing the admissions process to allow more students from underrepresented backgrounds to attend. In the following  
Remembering  the  Compton 
Cookout:  Anal yzing  Our  
Coverage
As the 2010s come to an end, we review the celebration and expansion of gender equity and ask what can be in store for 
2020 and beyond.
By  jacob  sutherland    News Editor
Students protest the existence of the Compton Cookout in the weeks after.
See COOKOUT,  page 6PHOTO COURTESY OF SAN DIEGO READERPHOTO COURTESY OF SAN DIEGO READER6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
issue, the board calls on the student body to drop a perceived apathy toward 
racism in favor of looking inward to address one’s own biases.
In a March 4 piece titled “Under Frozen Funds, Divided We Stand, ” the board 
condemns Gupta’s decision to freeze student media funding, arguing that it only 
serves to hurt smaller publications as the Koala continued to publish regardless of having access to A.S. funds.
In the final editorial, “The Melt Is on, Don’t Stop the Heat, ” the board scathingly 
criticizes the forum held by the A.S. Council with many student media members and concerned students to fully address once and for all the state of campus publication funds, with one secondary headline titled “It’s Time to Break out of the Free-Speech Circle Jerk. ”
These editorials showed a lot of personality in the prose of the board. There 
were no attempts to sugar coat any expressed criticism, and the topics were nichely centered around criticizing the campus climate as a whole and condemning Gupta’s actions. That being said, since the Guardian does not receive A.S. funding and was thus not affected by the funding freeze, the 
opportunity to provide an opinion not rooted 
in an attempt to “fight back” or to “get revenge” allowed the board the opportunity to express their opinions on the matter as individuals removed from the events.
Features
The only feature published about Black 
Winter during Winter 2010, titled “When Liberties Collide - Campus Reacts to Racial Slur, ” was written by then News Editor Angela Chen. Written in the objective news style, Chen’s extensive Feb. 22 article was divided into eight distinct sections.
Chen begins with a brief recount of then Koala Newspaper Editor Kris 
Gregorian’s broadcasted use of the N-word and Gupta’s student media fund freeze before diving into the “Party Feud” section of her piece. Here, Chen writes about how the initial Cookout was created by Pi Kappa Alpha member Elliot Van Nostrand, and how both PIKE and the Interfraternity Council had publicly condemned the party.
In “The N-Word, ” Chen switches gears to give a lengthy description of the 
actions that took place on SRTV’s Feb. 18 broadcast. Around 7:30 p.m, then John Muir College junior Y elena Akopian interviewed three students who had been planning a party similar to the Cookout, which was followed by the regularly scheduled 10 p.m. Koala broadcast where Gregorian said the infamous phrase “ungrateful [n-words]” on live television. The next morning, about 200 students led by the BSU held a protest in the A.S. Forum in Price Center to hold a two-hour conference in response to the broadcast.
The next two sections, “SRTV Shutdown” and “Big Freeze, ” give a detailed 
account of Gupta’s decision to first revoke SRTV’s charter and to suspend all 
student media funding. Discussions on the merits of these actions and the effects this would have on smaller student publications were held by interviewed students.
“Cruel Intentions?” has three short interviews: Gregorian claims that his 
broadcast was done in an effort to “raise the debate, ” then Sixth College senior 
Mike Randazzo discusses an event he planned called “Compton Cookout Deux: Equal Rights, ” and then Earl Warren College senior Lisa Vilitz talks about her Facebook page “UCSD Students Outraged That People Are Outraged About the Compton Cookout. ” Randazzo explains that his event was being held “to show that UCSD is not a racist place, ” and Vilitz claims that the people who liked her Facebook page were not racist.
The section “My Rights Vs. Y ours” offers a variety of opinions on on-campus 
free speech, with one shared by then Thurgood Marshall College freshman and BSU member Grant White stating, “I’m not stating that [those who make hateful comments] don’t have the right to free speech, but where’s my right to be protected from that?”
Chen concludes her piece with “Council Response” and “ Administrative 
Action, ” which recount a potential A.S. resolution on campus diversity and the university’s investigation into the Cookout planners, respectively.
This feature stands out amongst all the pieces published during Black Winter 
because of the objective lens Chen gave to the topic. Had a follow-up feature been written at the end of the quarter once more of the events that had happened, writing it in a similar tone would have aided in dispeling any misinformation floating around, as this piece did for everything that had happened a week after the Cookout.
Guest Commentary
The opinion pieces written by members of the UCSD community outside 
offered the most variety in opinion out of any other section of content. The three pieces, which recounted a student’s perspective about on-campus racism, an 
anonymous letter from the student who had 
left the noose in Geisel library, and an op-ed by 
several former Koala editors, highlighted the variety of opinions that were held by students and faculty alike throughout Black Winter.
In the Feb. 25 article “Systemic Racism 
is Revealed in ‘Cookout’ Aftermath, ” then Thurgood Marshall College sophomore 
Vernesha Potts calls on her fellow students to 
support the BSU’s demands to combat racism once and for all. In discussing the Cookout, Potts writes that “… the invitation and party itself was a mockery of low socio-economic 
status and a degradation of Black women. Imitation is a form of flattery and respect … but mockery is intended to be offensive, and shows an ignorant lack of respect for the subjects one is portraying. ”
Potts offers the perspective of a black woman living on a campus that has proven 
to harbor hostile views toward her personal identity. This sort of perspective is often unfortunately vilified by those either in support of or on the fence about the Cookout, but this specific op-ed was written in such a tone as to appeal to an audience who may not have been friendly to the BSU’s demands at first glance.
Monday, March 1 saw the shocking letter from an anonymous student who had 
put a noose in Geisel. The student stated that she had been suspended following the incident. She writes that the noose was not meant as an act of racial violence — she and her friends had found a piece of rope and played around with it, ultimately tying it into a noose. She had hung it on her desk and forgotten to take it down. Upon hearing reports of the noose being found, she called campus police to explain what happened. The anonymous student concludes her letter by saying that she hopes this confession clears up any misinformation, and apologizes for any emotional distress she may have caused. 
This firsthand account reflects the campus climate at the time. Had this 
incident occurred during any other quarter, it most likely would have either gone unreported or had been dismissed by the administration as a simple prank. Context for any situation matters, and this student added another layer to the chaotic day-by-day events of the quarter.
In the final op-ed titled “Former Koala Editors: We Will Win This Fight, ” five 
former Koala editors from the previous decade used a very “holier-than-thou” tone to discuss Gupta’s defunding of student media. They argue that the A.S. Council will ultimately lose the student media defunding battle, even going so far as to threaten legal action against the council. In true Koala fashion, the editors conclude their article by calling out the council, stating that, “We are smarter then you. We are slicker then you. We are quicker then you. We are definitely funnier then you… ”
Student protests were widespread and encompassed the entirety of campus.PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHN IM & MG ABUGANPHOTO COURTESY OF JOHN IM & MG ABUGAN
See COOKOUT,  page 8▶ COOKOUT , from page 5
“There were no attempts to sugar 
coat any expressed criticism, 
and the topics were nichely 
centered around criticizing the 
campus climate as a whole and 
condemning Gupta’ s actions.”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your Winter Quarter 
U-Pass today! Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.
Valid January 1 through 
March 25, 2020.
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui KitaWhat the white or white-passing Koala editors failed to address in their 
article is that, while there is no denying that their speech was protected 
under the First Amendment, there are still real world consequences for using such hate-filled rhetoric that cannot be defended under the umbrella of free speech which reach far beyond the brief defunding of a student organization.
Letters to the Editor
Letters to the Editor made up the plurality of articles published 
throughout Black Winter. A wider variety of opinions were given on the 
events, from then Marshall College freshman Jusneet Beasley dismissing 
the outrage over the Cookout by saying “Grow up, UCSD, ” to 2008 UCSD alumna Mindy Kim suggesting that the noose could have been planted by 
a member of the BSU to then Eleanor Roosevelt College junior James Jee 
saying that the history of African American oppression in the United States justifies the BSU’s demands.
Like the three guest commentaries and the feature, the 14 letters reflect 
just how divided the campus was on just how big an issue racism on campus was in 2010, and whether the campus even harbored any racism. The one common theme apparent in these opinions is that freedom of speech is important, if in no other way than the mere fact that these students were expressing this right by submitting their letters in the first place.The ‘Cookout’ 10 Y ears Later
As we are on the cusp of the 10-year anniversary for the Compton 
Cookout and Black Winter, I implore you to take this opportunity for some timely reflection, both for yourself and for the UCSD community around you. Has the campus climate changed over the past 10 years since UCSD began to take a serious look at the way it interacts with maintaining a diverse student body? Y ou would be hard pressed to find anyone who would say no, but that does not mean that this campus is perfect. Acts of racism and xenophobia have continued to occur — in Fall 2019 swastikas were found to have been drawn on buildings in Muir. Likewise, the number of African 
American students on campus has remained relatively stagnant. In the 
2009-2010 school year, only 1.3 percent of students identified as African American. In the 2018-2019 school year, that percentage was only 2.7 
percent, an increase but a marginal one at best. Hate-filled actions aside, as 
the new decade dawns, if there is anything to take away from Black Winter, it is that even the smallest amount of empathy goes a long way. Before making a racist joke or questioning why on earth the university would make you take a course on diversity, equity, and inclusion, take a moment to step back and question how your actions will affect others. If we all agreed to do this, a more diverse, empathic, and welcoming campus would begin to appear, and the memories of pain evoked from the Compton Cookout will once and for all serve as inspiration to move forward toward a campus that is more accepting of all.▶ COOKOUT , from page 6
Jacob  Sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.orgA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
A match made in hell, Joe Goldberg and Love Quinn take the spotlight in season 2 of “Y ou. ” A captivating, attentive performance by A$AP Ferg left fans with one message: Always Strive And Prosper.
Penn Badgley returns as Joe Goldberg, 
a skilled stalker and serial killer, in the second season of “Y ou” on Netflix, and 
for returning viewers of this psychological 
thriller, this is bad news for whoever decides 
to get involved with him. Set in Los Angeles, season two of “Y ou” begins with Joe Goldberg stealing the identity of Will Bettelheim in an effort to reset his life after murdering his former girlfriend Guinevere Beck (Elizabeth Lail) in the previous season. Despite his 
efforts, Joe is unable to relax, as he is in 
hot pursuit by Candace (Ambyr Childers), another ex-girlfriend who narrowly escaped a similar fate to Beck. Settling for a job as a bookstand clerk in Anavrin, a hip grocery store, Joe eventually falls in love with Love 
Quinn (Victoria Pedretti), a seemingly 
well-meaning chef and produce manager of Anavrin. 
While fans of the show may be expecting 
the season to play through similarly to the last one — Joe stalks girl, girl hurts Joe, 
Joe kills girl and “logics” his way out of 
blame — season two is a rollercoaster of shocking moments and plot twists. From Joe losing a finger to a maniacal conspiracy theorist to the religious use of throat-slitting as a method of murder, this season is shows 
significantly more gore (maybe even a little 
too much), in line with many of Netflix’s other originals. Perhaps the biggest twist of all is that Joe’s love interest Love is an equally insane stalker who murders Delilah Alves (Carmela Zumbado) to be with Joe. 
Season two also takes time to paint a much 
more complex picture of Joe than season one. His illogical and frankly terrifying actions, like breaking into people’s houses or holding people captive in his soundproofed storage unit, are tempered by the numerous flashbacks to Joe’s troubled childhood, his 
humorous yet caring interactions with angsty 
teenager Ellie Alves (Jenna Ortega), Delilah’s younger sister, and his genuine attempts to change his predatory ways. To be clear, Joe is absolutely not someone to be admired or imitated, but the show nevertheless succeeds 
in packaging Joe as a sympathetic character 
and keeps the audience rooting for him — at least, until he comes up with his next psychotic idea.
The improvement in character complexity 
extends beyond Joe, as the show’s writers 
have done a much better job fleshing out 
every supporting character’s personality and flaws as well. One of the central messages of the show seems to be that it’s too simplistic to think of people as having a polished, public persona and a more intimate, personal persona for family and friends; everyone 
also has an even more raw, unfiltered, and 
— sometimes — darker persona they rarely reveal to anyone. It’s these brief, “third persona” moments each character has that makes it difficult to fully sympathize with anyone after finishing the season. 
If stalker thrillers aren’t your cup of 
tea, season two of “Y ou” is also filled with social commentary about the darker side influencer culture and Hollywood fame. Whether it’s celebrities getting away with sexual assault, young aspiring actors crashing 
from unrealistic expectations, or the irony of 
the immense pressure to appear “authentic” on social media, you can bet “Y ou” calls it out loud and proud. Fitting with its criticisms of glitz and glam, “You” also refrains from portraying LA as some sunny paradise, 
choosing instead to show LA as the hazy, 
stuffy city that most SoCal people know it for. 
Season two of “Y ou” ends with Joe and 
Love moving into a cookie-cutter cul-de-sac, ready to start their perfectly imperfect family next to a neighbor that Joe appears prepared to confront. While the show isn’t going to 
win awards anytime soon, season two is a 
solid continuation from the previous season, and it’s clear that the show’s writers are going for a more nuanced psychological thriller instead of recycling the same storyline as they easily could have done. One can only 
guess what Joe is going to do in the next 
season, but until then, it might be best to take some tips from the show and private all your social media accounts. 
—  Steven  zhou 
Senior Staff WriterThere was an undeniable level of energy 
from the moment I entered the House 
of Blues on the night of Dec. 1. The 
venue’s size, the proximity of the stage, even 
the attentiveness of the staff created a sense 
of closeness and intimacy between everyone 
in attendance. The audience was bathed in 
a calming blue light, softening the edges of 
the fiercely dedicated fans awaiting the start 
of the show, which luckily allowed me to slip 
to the front of the crowd with ease. Now at 
the barricade, I chatted with eager audience 
members about the upcoming performance. 
Even the security guards chimed in, adding 
to our discussion of which songs we were 
most excited to see.
Like most of his fans, I first discovered 
A$AP Ferg through his role as a member of the A$AP Mob. He made his musical debut 
alongside longtime friend A$AP Rocky, the 
late A$AP Y ams, and several other well-
known rappers. The indisputable elements of 
camaraderie and brotherhood that appear in 
their music have clearly served as inspiration 
throughout Ferg’s solo career and were 
effortlessly reflected in his performance. 
The high energy of the crowd was 
unwavering as the first opening artist began his set. Madeintyo, also referred to as Tokyo, 
was one with the audience as he performed 
numerous hits, including “Uber Everywhere. ” 
The piece was rapidly popularized upon 
its release in 2016, kickstarting Tokyo’s 
career. He also included a performance of 
“Skateboard P,” a song in which the rapper 
pays tribute to Pharell Williams for his 
notoriously extravagant taste in jewelry. 
The first sprightly performer was followed 
by Bas, a Sudanese French-American rapper 
and member of J. Cole’s Dreamville Records. 
The artist had a heavy stage presence, offering 
to the audience not only a captivating set, but 
also a glimpse at what was to come with the 
arrival of A$AP Ferg. Bas teased his fans by 
performing parts of the song “Boca Raton, ” 
on which Ferg is featured, suggesting the 
possibility that the two would perform the 
piece in its entirety as the night progressed, 
only further heightening the sense of 
anticipation that filled the room. 
From the second A$AP Ferg walked 
on stage, there was an instant sense of connection between the performer and his 
fans. Throughout his set, Ferg continuously 
called out to the crowd, expressing his love for them, and even brought one lucky attendee onto the stage as he performed the 
song “Mattress REMIX. ” Ferg was effortlessly 
successful in having every member of his 
massive crowd fully engaged. The audience 
remained in an indisputable state of 
adoration and devotion of the artist, proved 
by the numerous bras that were launched 
at the stage by female fans. As he began his 
well known piece “Wigs (ft. City Girls & 
ANTHA), ” I even caught a glimpse of several 
brightly-colored wigs being waved around in 
the crowd. 
The sense of engagement and inclusivity 
created by Ferg was not limited solely to himself and his audience, however. The 
rapper called on opening artists Madeintyo 
and Bas to return to the stage and perform 
the tracks they had worked on together. Of 
the many concerts I’ve been to, I have never 
experienced an artist so loyal and inclusive 
of his openers. The three rappers fed off 
each other’s high levels of energy as they 
performed “Ned Flanders” as well as the rest 
of “Boca Raton. ” The artists’ display on stage 
appeared to be nothing more than three close 
friends simply having fun together.
As A$AP Ferg began to wrap up his 
set, he ensured nearly every single audience member that they were seen and appreciated. 
He pointed out countless individuals, yelling 
“you in the red shirt” or “you with the blue 
hair in the balcony, ” followed by an “I love 
you, ” or “I see you. ” For his performance of 
“Work REMIX, ” arguably one of his most 
famous pieces, Ferg employed one of the 
bartops as a makeshift stage so that he could 
perform more closely with those towards 
the back of the venue, ensuring the best 
experience for everyone in attendance. “Work 
REMIX” acts as yet another example of Ferg’s 
loyalty and respect for other members of 
the hip-hop industry. In the song, he pays 
homage to rappers Jim Jones, A$AP Rocky, 
and Schoolboy Q. He ended the night by 
jumping into the media pit, signing shirts 
and offering hugs to estatic devotees.
After paying one last tribute to the late 
A$AP Y ams, Ferg called out for the last time, 
“I love you, San Diego, ” and exited the stage, 
concluding one of the most intimate, close-
knit performances I have had the opportunity 
of experiencing .
—  Camila  MORALES 
Contributing Writer
TV   REVIEW
YOU  (Season  Two)YOU  (Season  Two)PHOTO COURTESY OF HARPER’S BAZAARPHOTO COURTESY OF HARPER’S BAZAARPHOTO BY HARSIMRAN SINGHPHOTO BY HARSIMRAN SINGH
Created by   Bill Hader & Alec Berg
Starring  Bill Hader, Stephen Root, Henry Winkler, Sarah Goldberg
Airing   Sundays at 10:30 PM on HBOCa-
Location  The House of Blues
Concert Date   Dec. 1, 2019CACONCERT   REVIEW
A$AP  FERGA$AP  FERGA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
UCAL.US/REGISTER
Play The Game That
   Will Change Your Life...
at UL TRAZONE
...
...
RANKED AMONG
IN USA
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  619.221.0100
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •   San Diego, CA 92110
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
20% OFF Your Event!UCSD 
Greeks / Student Orgs:
#ultrazonesd
“COLLEGE 
  NIGHT” 
Thursday —
3rd Game FREE
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
COLLEGE 
” 
3rd Game FREE
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
LATE NIGHT
at the ZONE 
Fri & Sat • 10:30pm to Midnight
$6.50 per Game
Gaps in “ The Rise of Skywalker’s” storytelling are made up for with friendship and weird little aliens.
Despite the lights and fights, the battles of epic 
proportions, and the prophecies and mysticism, the 
best moments in “The Rise of Skywalker” are the 
small ones. A quick joke, a bright new world, and a moment of tension or love between our heroes are the moments that 
define the heart that has attracted so many fans to “Star 
W ars. ” It’s in identifying this line between old and new, big 
and small, and epic and irreverent that every “Star W ars” creator has struggled to find since the infamous prequels and 
subsequent sequels. As the trilogy directorship moved from 
J.J. Abrams to Rian Johnson to Abrams yet again, fans looked 
to this final film to finally bring them what they wanted by 
bridging the gap between interpretations. But “The Rise of 
Skywalker” ultimately does not leave the viewer with some 
brilliant overarching plot; instead, its strengths lie in much needed character moments and conclusions that make sense 
emotionally, if not quite logically.
As was Abrams’s style in “The Force Awakens, ” “The Rise 
of Skywalker” plays out the aesthetics of the original trilogy 
in the bright new worlds, small and silly aliens, and themes of 
mercy, redemption, and self-sacrifice. But this takes a divisive 
turn as Abrams recycles more literal elements from the original trilogy — notably the antagonist, Emperor Palpatine, 
who makes a completely unexplained return from the dead 
in this film. 
Jumping into the plot, Palpatine’s return seems like a 
fortuitous event for the increasingly powerful First Order, 
who recently lost their head Sith Lord and replaced him 
with angsty upstart Kylo Ren (Adam Driver). The weakened 
Resistance is understandably troubled, so our heroes, Rey 
(Daisy Ridley), Finn (John Boyega), and Poe (Oscar Isaac), embark on a fetch quest to find Palpatine and stop him. Meanwhile, Rey must learn to master her own Jedi powers 
and handle her strengthening force connection with Kylo, 
who despite his recent promotion to “bad guy supreme” is 
more torn between light and dark than ever before. 
The film has a lot going for it, and its first half is probably 
one of the most enjoyable setups of any Star W ars film. Rey, 
Finn, and Poe’s little journey across the galaxy allows them much needed bonding time after spending “The Last Jedi” off 
on individual journeys. This exploration of their friendship 
provides a crucial sense of what our heroes are really fighting 
for: each other. Likewise, despite his complicated relationship 
with the lore established by “The Last Jedi, ” Abrams does not 
back down from exploring the complicated dynamic between 
Rey and Kylo Ren. The often unwitting Force connection the two established in “The Last Jedi” is played to its full potential 
as both characters take advantage of their insight into the 
other in increasingly clever ways. “The Rise of Skywalker” 
really feels like the first film to make the effort to explore 
Kylo’s wishy-washy relationship with the dark side, finally 
giving the audience a more developed view on a complex 
character.
The film’s flaws stem from a conflicted relationship with 
the previous material. What we learn of the Force and this galaxy far, far away seems to stand very shakily on what we 
already knew of this world, quickly adding in new functions 
for the Force that had never been touched on in the eight 
previous films. These new developments didn’t need to feel as 
shoehorned in if only the groundwork had been laid in earlier 
films. Unfortunately, while Johnson and Abrams’s additions 
to the trilogy do somewhat result in the culmination of more nuanced and varied themes for the story as a whole, they result in a confusing round-robin style narrative that easily 
could have been solved by some earlier communication.
Ultimately, “The Rise of Skywalker’s” greatest problems 
are the same ones that have plagued the sequel films since 
their development: the lack of an overall vision for the 
trilogy, the fear of upsetting fans who will be disappointed in 
material not too closely laid in the original foundations of the franchise, and the futility of simply resurrecting the conflict 
of the original trilogy. As an audience, we’re savvy enough to 
know this new trilogy was created for pure financial reasons, 
but from a storytelling standpoint, the viewer still must 
wonder: what is this trilogy trying to say? What does it add 
to the “Star W ars’” story? This question seems emblematized 
by Rey’s own journey to find her place in the world, especially when her dubious origins are juxtaposed with antagonist 
Kylo Ren’s as a Skywalker descendant with the moral anguish 
of his grandfather. Perhaps when we understand the new face 
of “Star Wars, ” we will understand what it has become.
But this question is the unfortunate victim of backtracking 
to the development made in “The Last Jedi. ” While it 
ultimately manages to stick the landing by the end, a flawed second half of the film still leaves the answer unsatisfying. But 
perhaps this isn’t so surprising. Perhaps this film, much like 
Rey, also doesn’t know what its place should be within the 
world of “Star Wars. ”
—  CHLOE  ESSER 
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
Star  Wars:  The  Rise  of  SkywalkerStar  Wars:  The  Rise  of  SkywalkerPHOTO COURTESY OF EMPIREONLINE.COMPHOTO COURTESY OF EMPIREONLINE.COM
Director   J.J. Abrams
Starring  Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Adam Driver
Release Date  Dec. 20, 2019
Rating  PG-13CB10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  6 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor eeks & Previews PP      
Welcome to the new decade, Tritons! 
Now that we’ve all posted our new year 
flicks and thought of just about every iteration of “2020 vision” as our captions (guilty), let’s check out what fun events San Diego has planned for this month. 
Get into the wintery spirit at Poway’s 
Winter Festival! Build a snowman, sled down the hill, roast some marshmallows, and spin on the skating rink on Jan. 10 
and 11. Various food vendors will also 
be present to satisfy any cravings, 
including hot chocolate. 
To beer or not to beer? The 
10th annual San Diego Beer 
Fest is returning to Liberty 
Station on Jan. 11! The price 
for general admission is 
a little steep at $45, but a 
ticket grants you access to 
unlimited tastings of over 
150 local and international 
craft beers. Enjoy music from cover bands, play 
lawn games, and peruse the food truck offerings as 
you drink. 
UC Socially Dead? 
Combat the stereotype 
by heading to RIMAC on Jan. 16 for Spirit Night! Enjoy some appetizers at Hops and Salt and pick up a complimentary ticket to cheer on the women’s and men’s basketball teams against Stanislaus State. 
Catch some chill vibes at Pechanga 
Arena with Boomshaka Festival on Jan. 
18. The line-up features the best in reggae and hip-hop with headliners like island-rooted Iration and “Insane in the Brain” Cypress Hill. Festival-goers can also sip on craft beers and cocktails, enjoy local food, and shop for handcrafted artisan items while they jam out. 
Celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King 
with a parade along the Embarcadero 
on Jan. 19 . There will be floats, bands, 
drill teams, and more who will march to honor MLK’s legacy. 
San Diego Restaurant Week is back 
from Jan. 19 to Jan. 26! Choose a fixed price menu from over 180 restaurants located all over the San Diego area — and with fast casual eateries, cafes, and bakeries now included, there’s something for everyone. This is a favorite event of mine as it’s allowed me to try really good local food at a fraction of the cost. Choices in La Jolla include a brunch at Great Maple for $20, lunch at Puesto for $15, or dinner at Whisknladle for $50. 
Philz Coffee La Jolla is having a Poetry 
Night ! Enjoy good coffee, free food 
samples, and some spoken word on Jan. 25. If you’re a poet, get there early to sign up on the sheet! 
Winter is a great time to go tidepooling 
in San Diego! The best dates this month are from Jan. 8 to Jan. 12 and Jan. 20 
to Jan. 26 in the afternoon. Take your friends down to the beach and see what 
you can find — but, as always, respect 
the plants and animals you see and their homes! JanuaryLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
JanuaryNew Year’s Resolutions: No Pressure
by Natalie Duprey Staff Writer
It’s a new year and decade, 
so naturally, everyone around 
me and on social media are talking about their new year resolutions. I usually don’t have a resolution because I know my procrastination habits well enough to understand that it 
would be futile. So, I decided 
to go through the three most common resolutions I’ve seen and attempted in the past and offer advice on how not to get burnt out.
Getting in Shape
While getting in shape is a 
valiant cause with many great long term benefits, I personally think it gets abandoned 
the quickest because of the 
expectation for immediate results. All great things take time, so be sure to set realistic 
short term goals to achieve your 
resolution of long term health benefits. I also recommend finding a way to workout that’s not at the gym in January, because it is extremely crowded and can be nerve racking for my fellow introverts. I personally like using trails and my more athletic friends like going on runs with a partner to hold each other accountable. But if there isn’t a workout buddy readily available, try hiking for a scenic reward at the end of your workout. There 
also is the diet aspect of getting 
in shape that is not my strong suit. I’m in a loving relationship with french fries and they will always be in my life. Even if I did have the ‘perfect diet, ’ I still wouldn’t recommend it because every person has a different relationship with food and has different fitness goals; however, I do suggest visiting a nutritionist to help set you up with the right meal plan and following cooking 
lessons online to try new recipes.
New Hobby/Breaking a Bad 
Habit
While I personally love trying 
new things, I do understand 
the hesitation to be out of your comfort zone. Be sure to remind yourself of the end goal of the experience and why it’s important to you. You 
can also share the experience 
with a friend to bring you two closer together too. In regards to breaking bad habits, I highly 
suggest positive reinforcement. 
Treat yourself every time you get a little bit better at curbing that bad habit. I’m personally still working on it and understand its easier said than done. 
Improve Mental Health
The biggest thing I’ve learned 
in the past year is that taking care of yourself should always be a priority. I am still learning, but the best thing I’ve benefited from has been reaching out to people in times of need. I often lose 
myself in the stress of school, 
but reaching out to old friends and family is a new constant that has been helping me improve my own well being. I also suggest finding a new self-care routine that helps you in times of stress. Lately I have been a big fan of playing random background noises while studying and when I need a break, closing my eyes and tuning in to that environment. It takes me away from whatever is stressing me out at the moment but not enough to distract me while I am studying. I also love going outside to take a break, because I always feel better breathing fresh air.
While I can’t guarantee 
that this will help you keep your resolutions, I do hope it encourages you to keep trying. Keep in mind, I’m not an expert and this is simply a compilation of advice I’ve received and things I do to help me. I wish you the best of luck in 2020, but if those resolutions fall through, know you are not alone.
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF MERCURY NEWSILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF MERCURY NEWS12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  6 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
Lowering the Stakes of Your New Year’s Resolutions
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
Welcome to 2020: a new year 
and new decade. This time of year 
is always fresh and exciting as we come out of our holiday season stupor; it’s back to business, but not just business as usual. It’s a brand new year, which means resolutions are abound: The 
gyms are packed, Instagram and 
Facebook feeds are full of our friends’ proclamations of great change, and the pressure is on to come up with new goals of your own. For some, this cultural tradition functions as a perfect motivator. For others, it supplies feelings of overwhelm, anxiety, and low self-esteem. If you are someone who relates to the latter 
of the two, know that you’re not 
alone in that. 
Instead of letting yourself 
get caught up in the New 
Year’s frenzy, remember that 
resolutions are not required of you. It is not a law that you need to commit to dropping “x” amount of pounds before spring break or start meal prepping for the rest of your life. New Year’s resolutions seem to imply that we are missing something or we’re somehow less than, unless we change something about ourselves. Having goals for yourself is great, but don’t feel like you need to make a bunch of big changes simply because 
we made it another year around 
the sun! 
If you do have resolutions for 
this year, reduce the pressure of them by making sure they are solely for yourself. Let it be something that you want and not something you feel you need to do because everyone else is doing it! Try not to let your social media be the boss of you. And if you do find yourself reading other 
people’s resolutions or seeing the 
progress they’ve made, don’t get caught up in comparisons. You are on your own track and it might look different from others’ , but that’s okay. Just because it’s January doesn’t mean all this change needs to happen now. If you have a goal for yourself, but you end up not feeling ready to really start until April, August, or even December, that’s just fine! Do things at your own pace and let yourself take pride in the big 
and little wins this year. 
Whether you’ve set big goals 
and resolutions or you’re not 
quite there yet, whatever you do, let this be the year of you. You don’t need to make big changes just so you can get feedback from social media. You don’t need to try a crazy new diet or spend all hours at the gym. You don’t need to push yourself because a silly tradition tells you to. For now, focus on the smaller, non-consequential things that will 
make you feel good. Drink more 
water this year! Dye your hair that color you’ve always wanted to try. Watch more sunsets at the beach. Try a new sport. Join a new club. Whatever it is that makes you feel good, do more of it in 2020! Give yourself time, patience, and self compassion this year. Change will happen at whatever speed it needs to. Resolutions or not, however you want this year to go is completely up to you. Take back that power 
that New Y ear’s traditions have 
over us all and make this year whatever you want it to be! 
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF THE DAILY MEALILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF THE DAILY MEALCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
CEDRIC BURNSIDEJANUARY 8 • 8pm
The Loft
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal drop-in group is designed to talk 
about topics relevant to Asian American students 
at UCSD in a supportive and problem-solving 
atmosphere. Issues such as career and academic success, family pressures, cultural identity, and relationships are common topics. Contact: Dr. Diana Quach, Ph.D. 858-5345-7710 or Diquach@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural Center.  Contact: diquach@ucsd.edu 858-0534-7710
3:30pm
COMING OUT GROUP - WOMEN'S 
CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
The Coming Out group is a place to meet and gain support while discussing your sexual and/ or gender Identities in a confidential setting. This group is for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, straight, or questioning folks who are coming out, considering coming out or may already be out. Topics are determined by group participants and can include stress, fear, anxiety, loneliness, family/ cultural issues, excitement and celebration with regard coming out. The group is open to new members the first 3 meetings of each quarter and then closes to maintain safe space. Contact: Cathompson@ucsd.edu 8585343987
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(10am
EDUCATIONCORPS OPEN HOUSE - 
PRICE CENTER EAST (LEVEL 3 )
Interested in tutoring K-12 students in the San 
Diego community? Then stop by our open house on January 9th, anytime between 10:00 am to 2:00 pm across the CSI One Stop desk located in Price Center East, Level 3. Here you will be able to learn how to apply to be a tutor, learn more about EducationCorps and our mission! All majors are welcome and no teacher/tutoring experience is required! Contact: educationcorps@ucsd.edu
5pm
OUTSIDE THE BOX FORUM - CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER, TRANQUILITY 
ROOM PRICE CENTER EAST, 2ND 
FLOOR
This informal group is a safe space for students, 
faculty, and staff of mixed/ multiracial/multiethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open and supportive, community atmosphere. This group is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Contact: Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or Cathompson@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural CenterContact: Cathompson@ucsd.edu 858-534-3987
6:30pm
ONCE UPON A TIME IN 
HOLLYWOOD - PRICE CENTER THEATER
University Centers Presents: Once Upon a Time in 
Hollywood Doors: 6:30PM Show: 7:00PM FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID Whether you're a huge Tarantino film fan or you just want to see what all the hype is about, come watch Once Upon a Time in Hollywood for FREE at Price Center Theater. TUE1.07
THU1.09MON1.06
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provided! 
Location: The Zone Contact: Diquach@ucsd.edu 
858-534-7710
12pm
WINTER 2020 AIP INTERNSHIP 
COURSE: COMPLEX SYSTEMS 
RESEARCH METHODS- ONLINE 
INSTRUCTION AND IN-PERSON 
RESEARCH PROJECT
Many of the problems facing the world today are 
embedded in complex systems. The multiple 
interacting components of complex systems 
make studying these problems challenging. 
Students participating in this blend coursework 
and research program will engage in coursework 
to learn the theory and skills needed to apply to a 
research question under the supervision of 
faculty affiliated with the Qualcomm Institute. 
Students will work on different research 
questions in interdisciplinary teams throughout 
this two quarter internship experience. Contact: 
qi-seminarseries@eng.ucsd.edu
SUN1.12WED1.08
2pm
SRC SEMINAR SERIES: CAMPUS 
GREEN BUILDING POLICY AND GUIDELINES - SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE CENTER
Stop by the SRC on Wednesday, January 8th 
from 2 - 3 PM to hear from Walt Kanzler, the Senior Director of Design at UC San Diego Design & Development Services, as he talks about green building policy and guidelines here at UC San Diego. Contact: chdonald@ucsd.edu
8pm
CEDRIC BURNSIDE - THE LOFT
Cedric Burnsidegrandson of legendary R.L. 
Burnside and son of drummer Calbin 
Jacksonhas been playing music all his life. 
This six-time winner of the prestigious Blues 
Music Awards Drummer of the Year (201017) 
is widely regarded as one of the best 
drummers in the world and has begun to make a name for himself as a traditional 
blues guitarist as well. Burnsides approach 
to the Blues has a rumbling style and is a 
hypnotic musical form of chugging rhythms, snap neck drum licks, and singing that is 
filled with raw, cutting rhythms. His latest 
album, Benton County Relic, brings the blues 
alive for a new generation of fans weaned on the likes of White Stripes and the Black Keys. 
Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
SAT1.11
9am
DESIGNATHON 2020 - SOC SCI 
BLDG & GREAT HALL
| Designathon 2020: Tactical Urbanism for 
Safer Streets | Young Planners Society is collaborating with Urban Studies and Planning and Transportation Services to host this year's Designathon! The 2020 TACTICAL URBANISM DESIGNATHON from January 11th to 12th will address areas on the UC San Diego campus that have become unsafe for pedestrians and micro-mobility users due to vehicle speed, behavior, and/or volume. Designathon teams, consisting of 3-7 participants, will be supported by professional mentors in creating rapid prototypes of tactical urbanism interventions designed to reduce risk. They will have the unique opportunity to evaluate and implement these interventions following the event. Projects will incorporate elements of placemaking, multimodal transportation, public health and safety, technology, and innovation, ensuring a holistic and immediate approach to the conditions we face on campus today. - Contact: s1kato@ucsd.edu
11am
BIRCH AQUARIUM'S 
TURTLEVERSARY! - BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Shell-ebrate Our Loggerhead Seaturtle's Fifth 
Anniversary at Birch Aquarium! Her story of survival and perseverance has inspired thousands of guests and millions of people around the world! We are celebrating our Loggerheads fifth anniversary at Birch Aquarium with a sea turtle-filled weekend of crafts, sea turtle science, and family-friendly activities. Included with admission. Contact: aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu 8585343474
Website: 
https://aquarium.ucsd.edu/experiences/events/turtleversary9am
DESIGNATHON 2020 - SOC SCI 
BLDG & GREAT HALL
| Designathon 2020: Tactical Urbanism for 
Safer Streets | Young Planners Society is collaborating with Urban Studies and Planning and Transportation Services to host this year's Designathon! The 2020 TACTICAL URBANISM DESIGNATHON from January 11th to 12th will address areas on the UC San Diego campus that have become unsafe for pedestrians and micro-mobility users due to vehicle speed, behavior, and/or volume. Designathon teams, consisting of 3-7 participants, will be supported by professional mentors in creating rapid prototypes of tactical urbanism interventions designed to reduce risk. They will have the unique opportunity to evaluate and implement these interventions following the event. Projects will incorporate elements of placemaking, multimodal transportation, public health and safety, technology, and innovation, ensuring a holistic and immediate approach to the conditions we face on campus today. - Contact: s1kato@ucsd.edu
11am
BIRCH AQUARIUM'S 
TURTLEVERSARY! - BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Shell-ebrate Our Loggerhead Seaturtle's Fifth 
Anniversary at Birch Aquarium! Her story of survival and perseverance has inspired thousands of guests and millions of people around the world! We are celebrating our Loggerheads fifth anniversary at Birch Aquarium with a sea turtle-filled weekend of crafts, sea turtle science, and family-friendly activities. Included with admission. Contact: aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu 8585343474
Website: 
https://aquarium.ucsd.edu/experiences/events/turtleversaryTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
JAN 6 - JAN 12
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
TEAMWORK in 2020CLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Depth charges, slangily
8. Brief suits15. Garland was one
16. Not smart
17. Cocktail party item: Var.
18. Nixon policy19. Salon items21. Hush-hush org.
22. Mideast gp. since 1964
23. It’s expected
24. Follows26. Photographer’s choice28. Off to one side
29. Post-storm creation
31. Really tired
33. Wear (away)34. Blowup: Abbr.35. Almost made it home
39. Gismos
43. Hit the road
44. Hits usually get them46. Lose it47. German 101 word48. Collar49. “Lord, is __?”: Matthew50. Oriental neighbor57. Not right at all?58. Decontaminate59. Satan60. Less likely to stay up61. Eyeball parts62. Counts onDOWN
1. Mounts2. Extends a visit3. Try it
4. Plagiarize
5. Old apple application
6. Grandson of Germanicus7. Piece of cookware8. &%$#^$ unit
9. “Got it!”
10. 1992 U.S. Open champ
11. Don Juan’s mother12. Spare target, maybe13. Without money changing hands
14. Steams
20. RN’s forte
25. Didn’t lose a game26. Mom overseas27. Mint ‘n Creme snacks
28. Wastelands
30. Content opening
32. “Wheel of Fortune” buy35. Cheerleader, at times36. Be granted37. Occupy38. Swings39. Fiasco40. Negatively charged41. Computer records42. Web browsers45. Irreg.51. Sub builder52. Robust53. “Peter Pan” dog54. Holm oak55. Act of faith?56. Tool with teethINTERNSHIPS
Entry Level Teacher (K-12) - As a Teach 
For America Corps Member, you will have 
the privileged and unique opportunity 
to inspire and impact the education of young children by serving in a full-time salaried teacher in a low-income 
community within the US. Each year, 
thousands of diverse leaders across the 
country, from Graduating College Seniors across all majors to….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Sales Development Representative 
- We’re currently seeking a Sales 
Development Associate to join our rapidly growing company in Boston. We’re looking for a sales-driven person 
that is entrepreneurial and is looking 
for an opportunity to grow and make 
real impact. You will be responsible for lead generation, business development and user base growth. This is a a super 
exciting role for….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Sales & Marketing Manager - This is 
your stepping stone to becoming a core 
component of a fast-growing startup! This role will teach you how to launch a product and what it takes to run your 
own business. After which you’ll have the 
opportunity to travel and take Hooked 
to additional cities or join our core team  ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
BIKES
Raleign road bike, Tthule car carrier, 
clips, stand, cover - Raleigh road bike, 
Thule car carrier, clips, stand and cover 
- all mint condition! $1200.00 OBO (cash 
only). I bought it in fall 2013 and road it 
very little in spring 2014 in MN before 
moving to SD fall 2014. It has not been 
ridden….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Gray Fisher 1999 Joshua F2 Mountain 
Bike - 1999 Gary Fisher Joshua F2 
Mountain Bike for sale. Aluminum frame 
insanely light approx 28.0 pounds, Front 
and Rear suspension, 26” Tires. With 
amazing spider-webbed blue and black custom paint job. Overall this bike is in well over superb condition. This bike 
would cost you….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationShimano Ultegra 6500 Group & Rolf 
Vector  - converting road bike to fixie. selling take off parts. MAKE FAIR OFFER... 
not looking to give parts away..could 
always just toss them in garage storage 
bin...so no low ball ridiculous offers 
Shimano Ultegra….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information 
CARS
2016 Lincoln Navigator L Select 4x2 select 4dr SUV - 2016LINCOLNNavigator LSelect848532,889Black VelvetEbony w/Premium Leather Low Back Bucket 
SeatsCARFAX 1 owner and buyback 
guarantee!! Gets Great Gas Mileage: 
twenty MILES-PER-GALLON Hwy... Priced below KBB Retail!!! The price is the only thing that’s been discounted 
on this functional….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information2013 Buick Enclave Convenience 4dr SUV 
- Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean 
youll never have to haggle and you 
can concentrate on finding the right 
car for you. We stand behind each and 
every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT and 
MN; 90-Day in MA, NY, and NJ). See 
our store for written information, and 
visit….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
2013 Toyota Highlander Limited 4dr SUV 
- Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean 
youll never have to haggle and you can 
concentrate on finding the right car for 
you. We stand behind each and every 
pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited 
Warranty (60-Day….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!5
26
7
2
943
5 48
93
5
4
23
91
62
6
1
8
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
OFFICE
CONTESTTRITON SPIRIT WEEK
2020DECORATION
APPLY NOW at as.ucsd.edu/contestTr i t o n  S p i r i t  We e k i s  J a n u a r y 1 3 -1 7,  2 0 2 0 !
Celebrate by decorating your o ffice to win
up to $250 in prizes for your department.
Judging will take place on January 15-17, 2020.  Office 
Decorations will be judged based on creativity, T riton Spirit, 
and how they communicate the purpose of the department. Each department will be notiﬁed the date when judging will take place. The winners will be notiﬁed by email.
REGISTER BY JAN 8  TO RECEIVE
A FREE $15 UC SAN DIEGO
BOOKSTORE GIFT CARD!Prize money to be used at UCSD Catering, UCSD Marketplace, or at the UCSD Bookstore.
DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, JANUARY 101st Prize - $250
2nd Prize - $1503rd Prize - $100As most of the student body 
hunkered down to begin studying 
for final exams, the UC San Diego 
women’s basketball team le ft 
for the beach. The Tritons spent 
the end of November in Hawaii, splitting a set of back-to-back games with a win against No. 11 Minnesota State Moorhead. 
After the team returned from 
Hawaii, the majority of the student body began packing up their things and prepared to head home. Once again, the women’s 
basketball team stayed behind, wrapping up the academic quarter with a 64–47 blowout home win over the visiting California State University, Chico Wildcats in front of the Winter Whiteout crowd at RIMAC Arena before setting out on a slate of five 
conference games over winter break that would prove tricky for the Tritons. 
The Tritons went 3–2 over the 
course of their academic break, playing three of the five games 
at home. In the home games, the team went 2–1, including their first win of 2020 on Saturday, 
Jan. 4 against the California State University, East Bay Pioneers in a 70–58 romp. The Pioneers had 
no answer for the Triton’s leading scorer, sophomore guard Julia Macabuhay, who scored a career-high 26 points in the win. 
While the win in the last game 
of the break should help bring the team into the new quarter with some momentum, it also serves to soften the sting of some of the 
losses from the break, especially the 69–61 overtime loss to rival California State Polytechnic University, Pomona on the road back on Dec. 22. 
Now 9–4 on the season and 5–3 
in California Collegiate Athletic Association competition, UCSD finds itself in a four-way tie 
for third place in the CCAA. The Tritons will be presented 
with two chances to break the tie over their next two games against a pair of 5–3 opponents in the California State University, Stanislaus Warriors and the California State University, Humboldt Lumberjacks. This will 
be the first time UCSD takes on 
either of these CCAA opponents this season.
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKANPHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 6, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Loyola Chicago
@ Stanislaus State@ Stanislaus StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball7PM
5:30PM7:30PM1/91/91/9
As a 2000 baby, my formative 
years came during the 2010s 
decade. My time in middle school, high school, and my first year and a half of college 
all came during the last decade, and my relationship with my environment was completely fluid throughout each of these 
distinct periods. 
Learning on the fly, I spent 
the 2010s figuring out how I 
wanted to continue my life. For me, especially the early 2010s version of me, trying to think about my future meant thinking 
almost exclusively about sports. 
In middle school, I was playing baseball almost every day a fter 
school. 
I’ d spend Thanksgiving break 
and Memorial Day weekend playing and literally every weekday practicing, either on my own or with my team. My parents toted me and my gear around, and I loved having a routine and friends I became close with, but most of all I loved baseball itself. When I wasn’t playing, I’ d be talking to my friends at school about it or going to see a Los Angeles Dodgers game with my family. 
The majority of my friends 
in middle school came from baseball. My best friends from old teams that had gone to different elementary schools joined up for middle school, and through baseball we added some new friends to a group that still plans on hanging out in 2020. 
Without baseball, my 
leadership and teamwork skills would probably not exist, and as an especially shy teenager, I certainly would’ve had a tough time making friends without the forced introductions that being on a team provides.
Sports mattered outside 
baseball too. Before school I had a group of friends I’ d play basketball with, and at lunch I had 
another group I’ d play football 
with. During P .E., I’ d run the mile as fast as possible to get to the ball 
first and secure a court for my 
friends. Sports really tied together 
all the groups in my life, and it 
provided me fun, organization, and friendship bonds that still prove tough to break, even with time and distance.
As positive as my relationship 
with sports was over those middle school years, that changed momentarily heading into high school. All summer long, I worked out with my high school team, trying desperately to make the team myself. When I got cut a fter the first tryout, the 
pain of rejection and failure hit me like a truck. I stopped playing for a year, instead umpiring games at my local recreational league. I missed the game, but I also felt hurt by it, like the game of baseball itself had rejected me and not just a coach. 
The pain didn’t last long 
though. By failing to make the team, I got to spend more of my after-school time with the friends 
I’ d made in middle school and new friends in high school. Their 
presence upli fted me, especially 
because many of them were in the same situation as I was in. From then on, sports didn’t consume my a fter-school time every 
weekday and weekend as it had 
in middle school. Now, I could 
choose when I wanted to play. 
Naturally, I still played almost 
whenever I could, but it didn’t have to be in an uber-competitive 
environment anymore. I brought 
together a few groups of friends to play flag football every 
Saturday. I put more e ffort into 
building a fantasy baseball league for me and nine friends. Most importantly, I started delving into sports journalism.
By my sophomore year in high 
school, I was working on the school newspaper and helping produce broadcasts for our sports teams. The friends I made 
there introduced a whole new set of social skills and personal development, and I began to expand my relationship with sports into the middle ground between playing and watching sports that is reporting on and analyzing them.
Through the newspaper and 
especially through broadcasting, I felt like I was doing something important, something that other people actually cared about. Student-athletes loved seeing their names in the newspaper and parents in the stands loved having the link to the broadcasts so that their friends and family who couldn’t make it to the game could still show their support. 
That motivation has continued 
to drive me and my sports coverage through my first two 
years of college. Even if UC 
San Diego isn’t a sports-driven 
campus, I get to continue to 
compete myself via intramurals, 
but more importantly, I get to work to cover coaches and student-athletes that are not in the spotlight despite all of the work they put into representing the school. In doing so, I become more connected to the campus myself.
Triton 
Timeout
A decade of 
perspective: 
Reviewing how 
my relationship 
with sports 
changed over the 
2010sWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduCapping o ff a five-game win 
streak, the No. 6 UC San Diego men’s basketball team came back from a 16-point first-half de ficit 
to defeat the California State University, East Bay Pioneers 76–73. The win li fted the Tritons 
to 13–1 overall and 7–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, despite missing their captain and leading scorer, senior center Chris Hansen, for the last six contests. To make up for the missing Hansen, senior forward Scott Everman dropped 21 points in what was his biggest game of 
the season. 
The Tritons were blindsided 
early on; just five minutes into the 
game, they faced a 15–2 de ficit. 
But after a 20–10 run to close 
out the half, UCSD found itself 
down only three points entering halftime. 
In the second half, the Tritons 
didn’t lead until seven minutes in, after an Everman fast-break 
layup pushed the score up to 45–44. The lead evaporated though 
after a pair of Pioneer three-
pointers, and the Tritons trailed 55–53 with over nine minutes left  
in the game. 
Redshirt junior guard Mikey 
Howell (who became just the fifth Triton to reach 300 career 
assists during this game) took over, scoring the game’s next six points to give the Tritons a four-point lead with eight minutes remaining. 
UCSD grew its lead to 10 with 
just three minutes to go, but CSUEB responded with a late 12–3 run, capped o ff by a three-
pointer from guard Trent Warren that brought the teams within one point with just 12 seconds on the clock. With the game on the line, redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts hit both free throws with four seconds remaining to close the game out. Two Tritons finished with double-doubles: Howell, with 14 points and 11 assists, and junior forward Marek Sullivan, with 12 points and 11 rebounds, the junior transfer who has been Hansen’s replacement in the starting lineup.
Saturday’s match was preceded 
by four straight double-digit 
wins over CCAA opponents, 
beginning with a Dec. 17th matchup at California State University, Dominguez Hills. Coming o ff the first loss of 
the season, junior guard Gabe Hadley put on a clinic, making six of eight three-pointers and scoring a game-high 22 o ff the 
bench. UCSD shot a scorching 61.5 percent from three, and they never trailed on their way to an 84–65 win.
Two nights later against 
Sonoma State University, the Tritons dominated the first half, 
up 49–29 a fter a 23–7 run to 
close out the period. The early 
effort was led by 18 first-half 
points from redshirt senior guard Christian Oshita. In the second, Sonoma State never got within single digits, as the Tritons cruised to an 84–69 win. UCSD was once again led by Hadley, as he made five three-pointers on 
his way to a game-high 19 points; Mikey Howell added 8 points, 9 assists, and 6 rebounds.
On Dec. 22, UCSD started off slow against the California 
State Polytechnic University, Pomona Broncos; Hadley, the highest-scoring Triton in the last two contests, finished scoreless. 
The first half was a low-scoring 
and even a ffair, and the Tritons 
entered halft ime trailing 27–
24. But in the second half, the Tritons took the lead on an Oshita three-pointer with nine and a half minutes remaining and never trailed again, winning 66–56. Tyrell Roberts’ 19 points, as well as a 17-point, 10-rebound double-double from Oshita, led the Tritons to victory.
The Tritons returned to face 
last-place California State University, Monterey Bay on Jan. 2. Once again, the Tritons never trailed, riding 19 first-half 
points from Oshita to a 52–34 halftime lead. UCSD spent the 
entire second half with a double-digit lead, on its way to a 94–72 rout. Oshita led the team with 27 points, and Howell was all over the stat sheet, scoring 11 along with 10 assists and eight rebounds.
The Tritons play their next 
two games on the road against California State University, Stanislaus and Humboldt State University, looking to remain atop the CCAA and keep their win streak alive.
Tritons Win Fifth Straight Game 
After 16-Point Comeback
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS