Accessed: 7/6/2020 Submission: We Will Not 'Return to Earn' - UCSD Guardian
Submission: We Will Not ‘Return to Earn’
 July 4, 2020   Guest Writer 
This submission discusses the faults of the UC system in meeting the needs of its students  
and staff , and is courtesy of the United Students Against Sweatshops (USAS Local 94) .
The University of California announced layoffs to 200 campus workers at UC San Diego 
and UC Riverside. Reports have estimated that this number will soon expand to 3,000 
campus workers across all of the UC campuses. The UC system has a choice to either make 
massive cuts to its students and workers or use a small portion of its endowment and 
capital reserves to prevent these austerity measures. The UC system has upwards of $10 
billion it can use in the short-term to cover all COVID-19 related costs and maintain a safe 
environment for its students and workers. However, it continually fabricates its image of 
being “poor” to manufacture the “need” to lay off workers, increase tuition and class sizes, 
and cut resource centers. It is clear that the UC system has more than enough money on 
hand to avoid all of these austerity measures but does not prioritize the community. 
Furthermore, UC San Diego has consistently refused to accommodate the needs of students 
undergoing extreme stress under COVID-19 as well as Black students, staff, and faculty  
members who face state-sanctioned violence at the hands of police across the country.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 7/6/2020 Submission: We Will Not 'Return to Earn' - UCSD Guardian
UCSD also shows  minimal care for students and workers as it implements the Return to 
Learn Program (R2L  which proposes a partial and gradual return to campus with monthly 
COVID-19 testing. This program volunteers us all as test subjects to draw money in from our 
overpriced on-campus  housing. UCSD needs to do better for it is the lives of Black and 
brown students and workers  at stake. 
The American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees 3299 (AFSCME 3299  
is a labor union representing 27,000 service and patient care workers across all of the UC  
campuses and hospitals. They are the frontline workers who are keeping us safe while being  
denied personal protective equipment for themselves. They are also the workers who have  
fought for racial and gender equality by winning the right to insource 10,000 privatized UC  
workers. However, these “heroes”, as the UC system ironically calls them, are among the 
first to face massive layoffs. Since June 24, eight workers of color have already been set for  
termination at UC Hastings due to “budget cuts,” and the UC system has also threatened a
$500,000 cut  to undocumented student resource centers. These  initial cuts are a sign of 
what is to come: massive layoffs of up to 3,000 workers, increased  tuition and class sizes, 
and cuts to student resources. AFSCME 3299 understands that the UC  system fabricates 
images of artificial scarcity to justify these austerity measures, which is why  the union has 
dug into the reality of just how much liquid cash this $40 billion enterprise has  on hand. 
According to AFSCME 3299’s research presentation , the UC system has over $5 billion in 
excess capital liquidity reserves, an additional $5.2 billion in unrestricted endowment funds, 
and it has already liquidated $2 billion in excess capital reserves. This means that the UC 
system has over $10 billion readily available to support campus communities before even 
accessing any loans. AFSCME 3299 uses this information to say that while it fights for 
increased state funding for students and workers, the UC system must make use of their 
endowment and reserves to avoid all austerity measures at UC campuses. 
With the recent anti-Black violence and the fact that we are in the midst of a global 
pandemic, it is Black, indigenous, and other students and workers of color who are most 
impacted by UCSD’s weak responses and poor decision making. UCSD curates an image that 
absolves itself from accountability by leveraging the diversity of Black students and workers 
while denying them basic rights and care. In May, the university published an article that 
praised itself after QS World Rankings ranked UCSD the sixth best public university in the 
nation for “diversity, employability, and internationalization.”  Amidst the university’s long 
legacy of invalidating and harming Black students as well as its current implementation of 
the Return to Learn campaign, this statement is a slap in the face. UCSD has failed to 
provide the support that Black students need. When Black students requested lenient 
grading options the university responded with a vague email that absolved  itself from anyAccessed: 7/6/2020 Submission: We Will Not 'Return to Earn' - UCSD Guardian
responsibility. The email did not present concrete solutions that show how  UCSD is listening 
to Black students, but instead contained a hackneyed message of its
“commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion.” UCSD’s meager response demonstrates  
how it does not prioritize Black students and only cares about itself when it boosts its image  
as a university. Recently, the Black Student Union at UCSD sent out a list of official 
demands directed  to the university to respond to by July 15, which included sections 
addressing anti-Black racism on campus and actions the university can take to address 
safety, wellbeing,  recruitment, and retention of Black students as well as measures to defund 
UCPD. Though there has been an initial response  from the “Cabinet”,  according to the BSU, 
there has yet to be an official response or action from UCSD.  
Furthermore, UCSD’s disregard for students, staff, and faculty doesn’t end there. The  
experimental Return to Learn Program endangers students, staff, and faculty to COVID-19.  
These decisions were made without the consultation of students, faculty, and labor unions, 
or news of a vaccine for COVID-19. In a webinar on June 26 organized by a group of 
concerned  students, staff, and faculty members titled “Perspectives on Return to Learn,” 
many attendees expressed their concerns about the future of their health and those around 
them. Additionally, academic student employees and non-tenured faculty from the 
University Council-American Federation of Teachers Local 2034 and United Automobile 
Workers 2865 expressed their lack of choice to return to campus since they are already 
under stress surrounding secure employment. It is unacceptable that UCSD is willing to risk 
students’ and workers’ exposure to COVID-19 to make up for their so-called lost revenue. 
The university praises itself for its “employability,” yet continues to dispose of workers and 
put their health on the line. This is further seen in how UCSD hospitals continuously failed 
to distribute PPE  for all its workers and how Housing Dining Hospitality student workers 
were furloughed even though students reported that they were promised to be given hours 
during Spring Quarter 2020. 
The Return to Learn Program is not about quality education but rather about recuperating 
the money that students spend on housing. UCSD has the resources it needs to maintain the 
safety and financial stability for its students and workers without pushing them to return 
prematurely. 
We must push the UC system to meet the demands of The Council of UC Faculty 
Associations, affiliated unions, and allied student groups which include access to child care, 
pay continuation, deprivatizing student housing, and student debt forgiveness as well as to 
push for our own needs for reduced tuition, smaller class sizes, access to counseling and  
expanding resource centers. The first test of our strength comes when layoff protections forAccessed: 7/6/2020 Submission: We Will Not 'Return to Earn' - UCSD Guardian
the workers who maintain our  access to a safe and equitable education end on July 1. Now 
is not the time to minimize our  demands, but rather the moment we define the UC 
experience for the next several years. Join  us and other allied student groups across the UC 
system for a “Student-Worker Week of  Action” happening July 6 to July  10. 
USAS Local 94 is a student organization that flights alongside labor unions for justice 
and equality.
Photo by Nathan Dumlao on Unsplash