VOLUME 53, ISSUE 20  MONDA Y , MARCH 9, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Millions of Americans exercised their 
right to vote on Super Tuesday, which was held on March 3, 2020. 14 
states and American Samoa held primaries and caucuses to elect party nominees for various positions ranging from school board members all the way up to the President. Over a third of the Democratic delegates were available to be claimed by the presidential nominees California and Texas have the largest number of delegates, with 415 and 228 respectively. 
This was California’s first time participating 
in Super Tuesday. Traditionally, California’s primaries have been in June. However, in an attempt to make the California primary more influential for the rest of the country, former Governor Jerry Brown signed a bill in 2017 to move the primaries to March.
Presidential Primaries
Super Tuesday was one of the most important days for the upcoming 2020 Presidential Election. Former Vice President Joe Biden rose to the top of the Democratic field, winning in 10 states throughout the East Coast and the South. Senator Bernie Sanders won in four states, including California. As of March 8, Biden has secured himself with a total of 664 delegates and Sanders with 573.  
The past week has been a successful week 
for Biden, as the democratic field has narrowed in his favor. Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar, 
and Mike Bloomberg have all dropped out of 
the race and endorsed Biden in an attempt to unify the moderate wing of the Democratic party. Elizabeth Warren — who ran on a more leftist platform like Sanders — dropped out of the race shortly after Super Tuesday on March 5 and has yet to endorse anyone. 
While Biden and Sanders still have a long way 
ahead of them to reach the 1,991 Democratic delegates required to win the nomination, many 
The Driver Era performance during Rock ‘N Roosevelt 2020 at UCSD // Photo by Howard Chang
By  Niloufar Shahbandi    Contributing WriterELECTIONS
The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to the Super Tuesday ResultsUSUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _SECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Here, the argument 
broke o ff while the 
couple’s hostage audience 
remained silent, in shock 
of this impropriety on 
display — a private 
exchange made public."
LGBT  RESOURCE  CENTER
Resources  on  campus
Opinion,  Page 5
VERBATIM
"To make 
academic 
advising a truly 
helpful resource 
to students, 
major structural 
changes need to 
occur.”
Ranjani Shankar
Academic Advising
 PAGE 6A TALK WITH 
CLAUDIA RANKLE
A&E, page 8
See PRIMARY ,  page 2
“Chasing Einstein” 
Inspires Tritons to 
Explore Dark Matter
The event included a viewing of 
a dark matter documentary and a 
panel discussion.
The Arthur C. Clarke Center 
for Human Imagination at UC 
San Diego held the “Chasing 
Einstein” event, which featured a 
documentary of the same name and a panel discussion on current scientific research on the topic of dark matter on Monday, March 2.
The term dark matter is used to 
describe an invisible particle which does not interact with light but 
accounts for about 85 percent of 
the universe. While Albert Einstein did not predict the presence of dark matter himself, his theory of relativity could help explain some observations which suggest the existence of dark matter. However, dark matter has not yet been 
detected, and some scientists have 
dedicated their lives chasing and looking for it. 
The film, which debuted in fall 
2019, was produced by Steve Brown, a filmmaker who studied physics as an undergraduate student. The 
movie followed several leading 
physicists, including Elena Aprile, James Beacham, and twins Erik and Herman Verlinde and focused on the human side to their research on dark matter.
The producer Brown spoke on 
the intersection of his passions for filmmaking and science during the panel discussion. 
“Filmmaking is kind of like an 
unlimited license to pursue your CAMPUS
BY  Zhuoying Lin
Staff Writer
See EINSTEIN,  page 3
At the UCSD Guardian, our 
editorial board believes that proper 
compensation is a necessity for 
the graduate students whose work is invaluable to the daily function 
of this university. These graduate 
students are fundamental to the operation of this world-class 
academic and research institution. 
Graduate students at UC San Diego and across the UC system need 
and deserve the ability to sustain 
themselves, something which our current system does not enable. 
We stand in support of a Cost-of-
Living Adjustment and support our graduate students in their upcoming 
demonstrations. More information 
can be found at ucsdcola.net
by The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board
Daisy Scott, Editor-in-Chief
Ranjani Shankar, Managing Editor
Geena Roberts, Opinion Editor
Jacob Sutherland, News Editor PHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHERPHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHER2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Chicken tenders.
Thank you, Rani and Chloe! <3
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Andrew Ha
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Co-Editors 
Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Saida Hassan
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
own curiosity...and science is one 
thing I always care about, ” Brown 
said, “This grand human pursuit 
of truth is something I have cared 
about ever since I was a little kid. ”
The event put on the portion of 
the film that included the XENON Dark Matter Experiment, which 
was designed and led by scientist 
Elena Aprile, a UCSD’s Margaret Burbidge Visiting Professor at UCSD and a professor of Physics at Columbia University.For the experiment, Aprile and 
her team designed a chamber filled with liquid xenon, an element 
which allows any particle that 
interacts with it to emit signals in 
terms of light and charge. These 
signals allow researchers to detect 
this energy using photomultiplier 
tubes, or PMT, and identify the 
interacting particles. The advantage of using liquid xenon is that the highly purified liquid minimizes the interference and better separates the signal from dark matter from 
any other substances with similar 
signals. 
Responding to an audience 
member’s comment on a scene in 
the film that depicted the failure of 
the signal detection instrument to 
locate dark matter, Aprile remained 
optimistic for future experiments.
“We didn’t fail yet, ” Aprile 
said. “We are searching … it was 
depressing in that moment, but you get up very quickly … and I keep finding because you believe in what 
you [are] doing … as Beacham said 
in the [movie], the only failure is 
[to] stop searching. ” 
The researchers at UCSD 
continue to cooperate with Aprile and work on the calibration and 
data analysis for the experiment. 
More information can be found on 
http://xenon1t.org/. UC San Diego Counseling 
and Psychological Services 
has recently created new 
programs to provide students with more opportunities for mental 
health service. The office will 
now have longer weekday hours 
and will increase the accessibility of meetings by having online 
appointments, single-counseling 
sessions, and informal drop-in 
conversations. 
Starting in February, CAPS 
hours have been expanded to 
be from 8:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. CAPS has also hired new clinical social 
workers and plans to hire new 
psychologists and psychiatrists. 
CAPS is looking to hire people 
that will help promote diversity and 
LGBTQ services. 
“Under my direction, 
Elizabeth Simmons, executive vice chancellor; Alysson Satterlund, 
vice chancellor for student affairs; 
and Patty Maysent, UC San Diego Health CEO have unified their 
teams to develop new programs 
that are making significant 
inroads into mental health issues, ” 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla said in 
a statement to the UCSD Guardian. 
“They continue to adjust and expand these programs, entering 
into new partnerships with off-
campus mental health providers 
and advocating at the UC system 
and state levels to invest additional resources for expanding and 
deepening services. ”
One of these new services is 
single counseling sessions, where 
students will be able to meet with 
counselors to talk about general 
college stressors. These short term sessions will help students manage college life and be better prepared for challenges they may face in 
their academic and extracurricular 
career. 
“These students are not in a 
state of crisis, but time might be 
of essence for their peace of mind 
as we confront the vicissitudes of every event that touch our lives 
that require a moment of reflection, 
problem solving, and decision 
making, ” a university representative 
said to the Guardian. “Research has 
clearly demonstrated that clients 
get the most benefit from mental 
health services in the first few sessions. ”
Modeling off of faculty 
office hours, CAPS’s Let’s Talk 
program will allow students to 
learn more about its services and 
understand what it’s like to speak 
to a psychologist. These informal sessions will take place at rotating 
locations on campus each week. 
CAPS administrators hope that 
having these embedded counselors in colleges and community 
centers will promote accessibility 
and destigmatize mental health 
concerns.
CAPS will also now have video 
appointments for students who 
may not be able to visit the formal office, like commuters or those 
with busy work schedules. These 
video appointments will improve 
CAPS’ “tele” mental health services 
to better connect students with psychotherapists.
“Currently we are piloting 
with video appointments offered 
during normal business hours; 
however, our hope is to expand 
this to potentially non-traditional 
work hours, ” the representative said. “For our initial pilot testing, there are designated psychologists and a psychiatrist who have 
volunteered to do Video Visits, but 
our expectation is that all CAPS 
staff will offer this as an option. ”
As of March, CAPS has hired 
one full time Clinical Social Worker 
and one per diem. By Spring Quarter, CAPS hopes to increase its 
staff with six psychologists and one 
per diem psychiatrist. These new 
workers will be hired on criteria 
that will best cater to the needs of 
students of color and those in the 
LGBTQ community. If all vacant 
positions are filled, the patient to psychologist ratio will be 1:1,239.
“ Are they multicultural? 
Are they bilingual? Training 
and demonstrated experience 
working with specific student 
populations identified in need of 
specialized care and expertise, ” the representative said. “CAPS operates 
from a self-assessment culture 
whereby we identify future staffing 
characteristics that complement our existing team of mental health 
professionals and clinical support 
administration. The Post-Doctoral 
Residents and the Wellness Peer 
Educators play a crucial role in 
enhancing CAPS diversity too. ”
In addition to these programs, 
CAPS administrators stress that the entire university will need to 
work together to promote mental 
wellbeing. CAPS aims to get 
more students to participate in its services through its increasing use 
of technology to provide care, like 
iFlorish, video appointments, or 
Live Health Online. However, as 
CAPS expands, it will need more 
financial support to pay for new 
programs. 
“CAPS funding allocations are 95 percent for staff salaries and 5 percent for operation, ” 
the representative said. “Current 
funding needs to be augmented 
to reach the 1:1,000 staff-to-
student ratio standard from the 
International Accreditation of 
Counseling Services, to bring homeostasis into the system by 
eliminating gaps between demand 
for services and CAPS capacity, thus 
facilitating access in a consistent 
manner through times of student 
body growth. While the student 
body has grown by 30 percent, the 
demand for services at CAPS has grown by 90 percent, creating a 
disparity. ”
Thus, the CAPS expansion has 
been followed by the introduction 
of a new referendum to increase 
funding for the new services 
through students’ fees. Recently passed by Associated Students 
to appear on the 2020 election 
ballot, the referendum would 
charge students $20.71 starting in Fall Quarter 2020. The fee would 
increase each subsequent year. 
Seventy-one percent of the fee 
would go to funding personnel 
and programs for CAPS while the 
other 29 percent would go towards 
financial aid to students. The referendum would also create the 
Student Mental Health Advisory 
Committee to oversee funding 
allocations from the proposed fee. 
Students will get to decide whether or not to institute this fee when they 
vote in AS elections this spring.UCSD
CAPS Expands Services with Staff and Hour Increases Ahead of  Referendum
The on-campus resource hopes to provide better access to its services for all students with these changes, including online appointments.
Einstein’s Theory of  Relativity could help to explain observations of  the presence of  dark matter.
▶ EINSTEIN , from page 1
Zhuoying  lin   zhl509@ucsd.orgANDREW  HA  news@ucsguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
PERSUASION
By Michi Sora
democratic voters are beginning to take 
into consideration which candidate would be more “electable” against President Donald Trump. 
Mayoral Race
The City of San Diego mayoral race 
narrowed down to two candidates for the November general election, with Todd Gloria winning 40 percent of the vote, followed by Republican Scott Sherman. 
Gloria has served two terms on 
the city council, representing the 78th district in the California State Assembly since 2016, and worked as the interim mayor following Bob Filner’s resignation. If elected, San Diego would become the nation’s largest city to elect an openly gay man as mayor.
Sherman — who beat Democrat 
Barbara Bry for second place on Tuesday — has been a representative for Council District 7 since 2012 and previously owned a small insurance business. 
Both Gloria and Sherman prioritize 
homelessness in their campaigns, offering solutions to end the homelessness crisis in San Diego. Gloria also focuses on battling climate change 
and investing in public transit. Sherman 
emphasizes providing affordable housing and public safety. 
Proposition 13
Californians voted against 
Proposition 13, which would have provided $15 billion in bonds to California’s schools, including $2 billion for the UC system. The Proposition, which needed a simple majority to pass, lost with 56 percent voting against it. 
Proposition 13 was the only statewide 
measure on the ballot this election cycle. The funds from the Proposition would have been used to renovate aging educational facilities throughout the state. 
The Proposition was endorsed 
by a number of important figures, 
including Governor Gavin Newsom 
and the University of California Student Association to update buildings across all UC campuses to meet safety standards. 
“The UC has a lot of buildings that 
need to be renovated, torn down and rebuilt, and retrofitted so that they can be safe. But they basically don’t have money to do it themselves.” UCSA President Varsha Sarveshwar said previously in an article by the UCSD Guardian.
The failure to pass Prop 13 marked 
the first time voters rejected an educational facilities bond in more than 20 years. Many local measures that would have given bonds to schools in 
Chula Vista, Cajon Valley, Lakeside, 
Poway, and Escondido Union School Districts also did not get enough votes to pass.  
US Representative for 49th 
Congressional District 
With only two candidates running for the 49th Congressional District’s representative seat, both Democratic incumbent Mike Levin and Republican challenger Bryan Marryott have moved on to the general election, with Levin winning 57 percent of the vote.  
UC San Diego is part of CA-49, along 
with Carlsbad, Encinitas, Oceanside, Vista, and a small portion of Orange County. CA-49 recently switched from a Republican district to a Democratic one after the 2018 midterms with Levin’s win 
being viewed as a part of the nationwide 
“Blue Wave. ” 
According to Levin’s website, 
his platform is centered around environmental protection, preventing gun violence, equal treatment for the LGBTQ community, and advocating for better access to healthcare. 
Maryott, who is a financial planner 
and a businessman, has focused his campaign’s attention on protecting the district’s beaches and environment, “making the border safer and secure for all, ” tax reform to lower tax brackets, and controlling the national debt. 
The November elections will be a 
tight race between Maryott and Levin and will determine whether CA-49 will 
remain a Democratic district or revert 
back to a Republican one.
The CA-49 November Election is slated to be a tight race between Levin and Maryott.
▶ GRIEVANCE , from page 1
nilouf ar  shahbandi    n1shahba@ucsd.edu
GOOD  LUCK  ON  FINALS!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
It wasn’t always this way, or at least it didn’t seem 
like it had to be. As a freshman entering UC 
San Diego in 2016, closeted-up until that point 
and starved for a ffirmative relationships with other 
LGBTQ people, I desperately wanted to love the 
LGBT Resource Center. I still remember on Week 0, 
breaking away from my very heterosexual suitemates 
to knock on the door of the nearly deserted resource center. It seemed nice; they had a library full of LGBT 
books and more student organizations than I knew 
what to do with. For me, and for the many freshmen, 
who came to college looking for that world they had 
so often heard whispers of, The Gay Community, 
this seemed like the place to be. 
The honeymoon period doesn’t last for most 
though. Although most people I know quickly 
realized they weren’t comfortable at the center, 
the reasons can be di fficult to put into words. The 
first complaint is usually the aesthetic: “It just 
didn’t feel like a place for people like me, ” a pretty 
common sentiment, which is frankly bizarre for an 
organization with the expressed purpose of giving LGBT students a place to feel safe. And certainly, 
safety does seem like it would be the first word to 
come to mind in the brightly colored, so ft edges 
of Steven Universe posters and other cute, though 
frankly childish, memorabilia. However, the 
infantilizing environment can become o ff-putting to 
a lot of students with di fferent tastes or for those who 
are looking for a slightly more adult environment to 
find resources and community. While some people 
can find their home within the LGBT Resource 
Center’s comforting decor, many more become quickly disillusioned as they realize that everything 
about the Center is built with a very speci fic type of 
person in mind. 
If the inaccessibility was limited to aesthetics 
subtleties, that might be one thing. But the speci ficity 
of the LGBT Resource Center is a symptom of its bizarre identity politics and inter-community 
gatekeeping masked by a faux-positivity. For many 
who stay involved longer than a few months, the environment can quickly move from slightly o ff-
putting to downright hostile. For others, that realization can come much sooner. When Earl 
Warren College junior Sierra La Pat was a freshman 
in the OASIS Summer Bridge Program at UCSD, 
she was, like I had been my first year, eager to find 
a community and naturally turned to the LGBT Resource Center. These hopes were shattered when 
acenter intern, who was introducing the center, made 
disparaging comments about lesbians, and later 
claimed that those who identi fied as gay “centered 
on privileged, white, gay men whose only concern was assimilating through marriage” while people 
who identi fied as queer were “more inclusive and 
intersectional. ” The situation shook La Pat, who is a 
lesbian, and while she initially went to file a report 
to the O ffice for Prevention of Harassment and 
Discrimination, she stopped, thinking “Who was going to take this seriously? I’m accusing the LGBT 
Resource Center of being homophobic. ” 
Incidents like these aren’t one-o ff interactions, 
either. In late 2017, Thurgood Marshall College 
junior, Isa Elfers, started the UCSD Lesbian 
Collective in an attempt to build a community with 
other gay women. A fter initial attempts to a ffiliate 
the club with the LGBT Resource Center, the center issued criticism that they didn’t feel that a lesbian 
organization would be inclusive of men, and a fter 
some back-and-forth on this topic, requested that Elfers step down from her position. It should 
probably be noted that, while this sounds similar to situations where transphobes will try to disclude 
trans women from women’s spaces by calling 
them men, this was not the case here. The center’s 
concerns were fully about men feeling included in a lesbian-oriented club. This seemed like an especially 
bizarre double standard, given that the Lesbian Collective was far from the only identity-oriented club affiliated with the LGBT Resource Center; the 
center had long hosted clubs focused on bisexual and pansexual identity, asexuality, aromanticism, 
and notably, the gender-based Men’s Relationship Forum. Yet somehow, women-oriented groups were 
where they chose to draw the line. 
Things continued to spiral from there. In 2018, I 
got a text from one of the last of my friends who was 
still an active visitor to the center, warning me and 
a group of other gay women that two interns in the 
center had been loudly discussing their distrust of 
lesbians. When a lesbian who frequented the center had asked them to stop, they were ignored, and the 
center director, Shaun Travers, who witnessed the 
interaction, told them to sort the matter out amongst 
themselves. It was an unfortunate incident followed 
by an even more disappointing reaction from the 
staff meant to fight homophobia on campus, but an 
incident that had surprised almost no one. I hadn’t 
quite realized until then that every experience of 
erasure and isolation I had felt in my time trying 
to find a community with LGBTRC, from strained 
conversations with club leaders, to protest when I requested that an intern not call me “a queer, ” 
seemed to be leading up to this realization: this 
resource center, as badly as I had needed it, was not the inclusive space it pretended to be. 
I really don’t believe that the LGBT Resource 
Center has malicious intent. Rather, I think they 
do such a good job of catering to the fraction of the 
community that is able to make a home there, that 
it’s easy to forget those that don’t. On the other hand, 
they’re not ignorant of these issues. Over the years, 
people I know have sent in critiques of the clique-
ish, single-mindedness of the Center, and yet this problem remains unaddressed.
I genuinely do believe that the LGBT Resource 
Center wants what’s best for gay students on campus. 
However, their method of getting there is simply not 
effective when they create a hostile environment 
for so many of UCSD’s LGBTQ students. Maybe in a world where Sixth College has been named and we finally have that Target in Price Center, they 
will get there. In the meantime, I’ll be looking for a community elsewhere.The LGBTRC Needs to Change 
By: Chloe Esser // A & E Editor
Our graduate students are deeply valued members of our university community, 
who make vital contributions to the educational and scholarly mission of UC San 
Diego. Sustaining a strong graduate program underpins our intellectual identity and is crucial to maintaining our position as a leading research university.  
As you may be aware, some graduate students on our campus and across the UC 
system have been participating in solidarity events in support of the wildcat strike at UC Santa Cruz and asking for increased cost-of-living support for Teaching Assistants across the system.
UC San Diego has long been pursuing strategies to address funding and housing 
concerns for all of our graduate students, including those serving as TA ’s. To recruit an exceptionally talented and diverse cohort of graduate students each year, we provide the strongest possible support packages and continually enhance the quality of student life.
Over the last decade, UC San Diego has both increased the size of its graduate 
programs and disproportionately increased its investment in graduate funding, even as state support for the university has declined. Today, the campus provides $41,000,000 more in annual graduate funding than it did in 2009-10; in addition, faculty research grants and other external sources now o ffer $42M more in annual 
graduate support than ten years ago. University funding for graduate students has increased by 82%, including a 70% increase in TA funding and an 88% increase in fellowship funding.
To comprehensively address the quality of life for graduate students, UC San 
Diego has been focused on increasing both on-campus housing and financial aid packages. Specifically,UC San Diego has been aggressively building more graduate student housing. By fall 2020, we will have nearly doubled our graduate housing to 5,300 beds at a significant discount relative to comparable housing available on the private market. Since our housing is on campus, it will also eliminate lengthy, expensive commutes for students. This increased housing inventory will allow us to 
offer multi-year housing guarantees to all incoming graduate students.
Our financial aid reform will also soon guarantee a five-year financial aid package 
(including external sources of support) to every incoming PhD student and a three-year package to every incoming MFA student. The comprehensive financial aid 
package, over the 9-month academic year, (for every PhD and MFA student within the guaranteed support period) will include: full academic-year tuition, fees and health insurance (including access to mental health services), and a stipend at least equivalent to what a 50% UC TA-ship appointment pays. 
The terms of Teaching Assistant contracts (including their stipends) are 
negotiated entirely at the systemwide level through the UC Office of the President. These contracts are represented by a multi-year collective bargaining agreement, 
which was mutually negotiated and remains in
effect until June, 2022. Individual campuses like UC San Diego do not have 
authority to alter or renegotiate the terms of an existing system-wide labor contract. Moreover, these contracts do not represent our many graduate students who are supported by fellowships, research assistantships, external funding, or other means.
Our graduate students represent the future of the academy — and we are 
committed to ensuring a bright future for graduate education at UC San Diego.Letter to the Editor: Supporting UC San Diego Graduate Students
  By: Elizabeth H. Simmons and James Antony// Executive Vice Chancellor and Dean, Graduate DivisionPHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHERPHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHEROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 11am-4pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-5pm
Friday: 1 pm-4pmWINTER 2020
Visit our Facebook page
/tritonoutﬁttersI was talking to a graduate student about their 
experience asking for letters of recommendation and she 
asked me, “Do you have some kind of academic counselor 
who knows you well and has observed your academic 
career?” Her question hit me hard because only then 
did I realize that there were no faculty or sta ff members 
at UC San Diego who knew or understood my academic 
journey and the struggles I overcame throughout it. This 
would have been the role of my academic advisor, if I had had one. Instead, I have several academic advisors 
who only super ficially know me and my academic 
history, and try to give me advice that usually turns out to be unhelpful. In addition to this impersonalization, the 
academic counseling experience at UCSD is unnecessarily 
divided which only adds more complexity to this process 
and wastes more of students’ time and energy. To make 
academic advising a truly helpful resource to students, 
major structural changes need to occur.
First off, having a separate academic counseling o ffice 
for each major and minor we choose, along with one for 
our colleges is ridiculous — it involves too many people 
and locations of o ffices to navigate and choose from when 
looking for answers related to our academic plans. For example, these o ffices are o ften located on di fferent corners 
of campus. Travelling to all of these locations to figure 
out your academic career is an ordeal that is essentially 
impracticable considering the limited hours each o ffice 
is open. Additionally, students o ften ask questions to 
the wrong o ffice just to be redirected to another o ffice. 
This wastes their limited time a fter either waiting for 
a futile response from the Virtual Advising Center or 
making an unnecessary trip to the speci fic advising o ffice 
between their already busy schedules. Not knowing which academic advising questions to ask which o ffice adds a 
lot more confusion to the already convoluted process of academic planning.
Another negative aspect of academic advising is the 
holds that advising o ffices often have over classes that 
fulfill more than one requirement across departments. 
A hold is when an o ffice locks in and holds a class that fulfills one of its own requirements. When you want the 
class to count toward another department’s requirement, you need to ask the first department to release the hold it 
has over the class and then contact the other department to pick up and use that class. This process is not at all 
straightforward as it could be as it requires several follow-
up questions between di fferent advising o ffices which 
simply wastes more time. Academic advising also doesn’t 
serve the purpose that its name suggests. This is because 
students generally do not go to academic counseling for 
advice on what classes to take. Consequently, choosing 
classes and planning schedules are generally done by 
students themselves. While some may prefer to go 
through the process of choosing classes and planning 
their academic journeys independently, others may need 
additional guidance, especially if they are undecided 
about their major or career path. Therefore, without this 
guidance from academic advisors, students make major life decisions like choosing their undergraduate major and 
their future career path without help and advice.
Moreover, when students do go to academic counseling 
for advice, the counselor spends almost half of the sessions 
very limited time looking at other counselors’ advice, their 
plans and previous versions of the degree audit. Given that 
every student has a unique academic history and future 
goals, this system does not allow a counselor to be well-
versed enough to provide a student as an individual further 
academic advice.  Simply put, an academic counselor 
looking at your academic history for five minutes of your 
15-minute session cannot know you well enough to know what steps students should take, especially when making 
tough decisions about your major, minor, and speci fic 
general education requirements. 
To address the problems listed above, the university 
should do a complete restructuring of the academic advising process. At the beginning of their college career, 
each student should be assigned one counselor to help 
them navigate their entire academic journey, including 
GE, major, and minor requirements. These individual 
counselors could have complete access to their students’ degree audits, allowing them to fix any and all issues 
that occur with their speci fic students’ audits. While 
some counselors would be assigned a certain number of students, there could also be counselors who are not 
assigned any students at all. They would be responsible 
for answering general questions that wouldn’t need to go 
to the speci fic counselor, both through V AC and through 
walk-in hours. This system would centralize the process of 
academic advising, cause less confusion among students, 
and allow academic advisors to understand students’ 
backgrounds well and act as an e ffective resource for them. 
An additional bene fit this system has is that it would allow 
students to develop a relationship with their academic 
advisor, just like with a professor. This would give students 
the opportunity to ask a sta ff member who has seen them 
grow academically for a letter of recommendation and 
mentorship.
Some may argue that this new plan for academic 
advising would cost too much to implement, especially 
with the large amount of counselors that may need to 
be hired to realize it. However, due to the large number 
of academic counselors that already exist between the 
different colleges and academic departments, no major 
hiring would need to occur to establish this system. Thus, 
implementation would only entail some re-training and 
restructuring of the existing counselors. The re-training 
would also not be expensive as the counselors would already be trained for their previous advising positions.
UCSD administration must change the current 
academic counseling system because of its ine ffectiveness, 
inefficiency, and general unworkability. Overhauling 
the system to provide individual academic advisors and 
eliminate major, minor, and college speci fic advising will 
require e ffort to coordinate and establish. However, the 
long-term bene fits for students would far outweigh the 
short-term costs. Life might be like a box of chocolates, but your advising o ffice shouldn’t be. UCSD Must Adapt Academic Counseling
By: Ranjani Shankar // Managing Editor6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
 FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Currently, Sean Compas is a teaching assistant and a third-year 
doctoral student at UC San Diego’s department of literature, where his 
research falls in the fields of disability studies and queer theory. In fact, for nearly his entire career, Compas has kept a noticeable commitment to social justice issues. It should then come as no surprise to learn that Compas graduated from UCSD in 2006 as an undergraduate political science major from Thurgood Marshall College, a residential college 
distinguished by its dedication to justice and social responsibility. Per 
the Marshall general education requirement, Compas enrolled in the Dimensions of Culture program, called “DOC” for short. 
The DOC course sequence improves the writing skills of Marshall 
students while teaching U.S. history through the lens of social justice. Compas said he was drawn to DOC as an undergraduate in part by the course’s unique and progressive method of teaching history. “The material in DOC is counter-hegemonic; it often offers a voice or a narrative that’s not traditionally included in mainstream histories or mainstream narratives, ” Compas said. “So for me, I really enjoyed DOC. ”
The exploratory nature of the course also helped Compas learn 
about a variety of academic fields. “It’s a brief look at deep topics, and so often times we only spend a week on queer justice, or a week on disability rights, when in fact one could spend an entire quarter or year on such topics, ” Compas said, describing DOC as “a survey course. ”
The DOC program influenced Compas’s self-awareness and sense of 
identity. “We’re all composed of these intersectional identities as people, that are very complex, but not all of our identities are visible, right?” Compas said. “Not all of our identities are necessarily evident to people as we make our way through the world, as we interact with people. ”He pointed to sexual orientation and (dis)ability as two obvious factors of identity that can often be “invisible. ” In light of this, Compas praised DOC for providing “an opportunity and a challenge to [...] rethink one’s positionality in the world. ”
Compas’s passion for DOC as an undergraduate student preceded 
a still-unfolding career marked by a passion for both social justice and academia. After graduating from UCSD in 2006, Compas’s first job expressed this interest; he moved to San Francisco to work for the Human Rights Campaign, a nonprofit organization committed to LGBTQ advocacy. 
At the time, the HRC’s main objective was fighting for greater 
expansion of rights and protections for LGBTQ people.  In California, marriage equality became legal in 2008. Anticipating pushback from anti-LGBTQ groups over this monumental achievement, HRC worked to keep the newly awarded rights legal. Proposition 8 was a ballot initiative in California that would add a line to the California Constitution stating that “Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California. ” In addition to being emotionally harmful and cruel, Proposition 8 threatened same-sex couples’ access to the systemic benefits of marriage, such as tax deductions. To help 
HRC continue the winning streak and fight Proposition 8, Compas 
worked in fundraising, selling memberships, and soliciting donations aimed at defeating anti-LGBTQ ballot initiatives.  
In 2008, the economy crashed, and Compas left the HRC to return 
to school. In November, Proposition 8 passed and became law in California, which was a step back for LGBTQ rights. The courts eventually struck it down in 2010. 
Despite leaving the HRC to go back to school, Compas’s fight 
against Proposition 8 continued to influence his work, as did his clear passion for social justice. His leap back into academia brought him to New Hampshire for the cultural studies master’s program at Dartmouth College, where his research focused on ballot propositions like Proposition 8.
“There were propositions and amendments appearing all over voter 
ballots across the U.S., and I was really interested in the way that visibility could influence people’s voting practices. ” Compas said. His theory was that the differences in visibility of certain identities affect the electoral outcomes of ballot propositions like Proposition 8. How 
does the visibility of identities affect related legislation? Do “invisible” identities face a greater challenge in securing respect and justice under the law?
“I was interested in the ways that 
if more people could see, or register, these different aspects of one’s identity, how that might impact the way people vote, ” Compas said. “What does it mean to have to constantly come out as queer, as gay, as lesbian, as trans, or as disabled? 
And what that means as opposed to having other aspects of your identity maybe being more visible. ” 
After completing his graduate studies, Compas decided to actively 
apply his skills and beliefs by becoming a lawyer. “I had applied to law school, and I basically got waitlisted or rejected from every place I applied, ” he said.
With his plans for law school sidelined, Compas moved to 
Washington, D.C. in 2010, living with friends while he looked for work. Sean  Compas and  his  Path  from 
Student  to  Teacher
Sean Compas’s career embodies the defi ning values of his alma mater, Th urgood Marshall 
College.
By  Max Davis    Contributing Writer
“Compas’ s passion for DOC 
as an undergraduate student 
preceded a still unfolding career 
marked by a passion for both 
social justice and academia. ”
See COMPAS,  page 7ART BY MAX DAVISART BY MAX DAVISFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Eventually, Compas started working at the Association of American 
Medical Colleges, a nonprofit organization with the goal of improving medical education and providing more equitable healthcare.  His first project at the AAMC was with MedEdPORTAL, an online peer-reviewed journal that allows medical school faculty to submit works for publication. 
Compas never lost his commitment to social justice, however, and 
while at the AAMC, he began to work on a project geared toward improving the healthcare experiences of LGBTQ patients. “The average medical student only had about four hours of training on how to interact with LGBT patients over the course of four years, so we identified a gap within medical education, ” Compas said. “The AAMC put together a best practices anthology of resources on what medical students, residents, and physicians needed to be doing. This anthology consisted of what current institutions — medical schools and teaching hospitals — were doing right. This anthology served as 
guidance for teaching hospitals and medical schools that needed to 
address this gap. It served as an opportunity to learn from their peer institutions and implement some of these in the classroom setting whether they were team-based learning activities, TBLs, problem-based learning activities, PBLs, or other pedagogical approaches. In short, medical schools needed to make sure that all patients are cared for, and that doctors, physicians, and residents are asking the right questions. ” 
While working at the AAMC, Compas also represented the 
organization in providing policy recommendations to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Compas said that his role was to advise Kathleen Sebelius, the former U..S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, on “federal guidelines for addressing and providing care for LGBT patients. ”
“That was really a highlight of 
my career there, ” Compas said, recalling his time in the district and the opportunity to actually shape institutional positions on LGBTQ issues. 
After leaving the AAMC, 
Compas transitioned to the field of public health and international development, joining the Population Council, an international, nonprofit, non-governmental organization that focuses specifically on HIV , AIDS, reproductive health, poverty, gender, and youth issues. The Population Council works to address a number of global health issues, including helping people around the world get access to HIV prevention, treatments, and care. At the Population Council, Compas assumed the role of HIV and AIDS program coordinator, in which he co-managed the HIV and AIDS program portfolio.
“I oversaw all of our country directors around the world for the HIV 
program, and I helped with reporting, making sure all the deadlines to our donors, like USAID, CDC, the UNFP , were all met on time, ” Compas said. “I conducted qualitative data analysis for key informant interviews for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation’s DREAMS award in Kenya and Zambia, and I oversaw the entire Institutional Review Board, IRB, process for the HIV program, in addition to 
grant writing and monitoring the progress toward programmatic and budgetary goals for the HIV [and] AIDS portfolio. ”
Compas continued to maintain an eye for justice while working 
as the HIV and AIDS program coordinator. “ Although I moved from 
medical education to public health and international development, I think there was still a correlation between the way that we can view what populations are vulnerable within healthcare settings or having access to things like HIV prevention or care and treatment, support, family planning, contraceptions, or abortion, ” he said.
During his time at the Population Council, Compas became 
discouraged by the lack of advancement opportunities for people without doctoral degrees and decided to pursue his own doctorate. “ At this time I was also kind of getting exhausted of the grind in D.C. and the incoming administration, ” he added, alluding to the famously high-stress work environment.
Compas left Washington, D.C. in 2017 and returned to UCSD to 
pursue his doctorate. He is currently in his third year in the cultural 
studies section of the literature department. Compas decided to 
return to UCSD to work on his doctorate because of his connection to the area and the community, but he was also pulled back home by the DOC program. 
“[I’ve] always wanted to teach, too, and so when I applied here, and 
got in, I was so excited [...] What sealed the deal was the opportunity to teach in DOC, ” he said. “I didn’t want to teach in the other programs, so when I got the acceptance to teach in DOC I kind of knew that was going to be it for me. ”
His return to DOC is unsurprising in the full context of his 
present career. The topics that define the DOC program, such as (dis)ability, gender, race, class, and sexual orientation, have shown up in his  own work and research repeatedly. His current research at 
UCSD follows the same thread and also includes elements from his research at Dartmouth. “I’m still interested in the idea of sight as the primary conduit of senses, ” he said. “Oftentimes, what we see we perceive as true, right?” Compas argued that our trust in sight and the accuracy of our interpretations may be misplaced. We assume that our perceptions of others’ identities are accurate and definitive, but this isn’t often 
the case. “We’re all familiar with the blue parking permit that depicts a person in a wheelchair to sort of signify  disability, ” Compas said, “despite the fact that disability rarely conforms to such standards. We have this fantasy of trying to easily idenity others. Or perceive disability as knowable or an unchanging category as Disability Studies scholar Ellen Samuels would say. We use the rather  flawed binary perceptions of others to determine and categorize their identity. ” 
Compas argued that this misplaced trust in sight affects the way 
we approach different social issues. “I think that because we rely so much on what we see, [I’m] interested in the ways that people actually experience blindness [towards these issues], ” Compas said. “Not actual blindness, but how we might experience a lack of true understanding, of seeing something or someone or a situation. ” In our approach to identity, politics, and even day to day interactions, Compas raised the 
question, “What is it that we’re not seeing?” 
“Compas decided to return back 
to UCSD to work on his doctorate 
because of his connection to the 
area and the community, but he 
was also pulled back home by the 
DOC program.”▶ Compas , from page 6
Max  Da visL   m4davis@ucsd
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kita
A&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Reggaeton and Latin trap took over the Latin American 
music market in the late 2010s, and many Latino/Latina artists have helped the genre cross over into the U.S. At 
the forefront of this movement stands Bad Bunny. With his unique fashion taste, deep baritone voice, and uncompromising sound, Bad Bunny burst onto the scene in 2016. Despite only releasing singles for two years, he built a massive following by collaborating with many of Reggaeton’s biggest stars. While many of the songs 
on Bad Bunny’s previous album “X100PRE” — pronounced “Por 
Siempre” — were good, they weren’t exceptional. Even though Bad Bunny played with a variety of genres like synth-pop and pop-punk, “X100PRE” felt like it didn’t reach its full potential. But on 
“YHLQMDLG, ” an acronym for “Y o hago lo que me da la gana” 
or “I do what I want, ” sees Bad Bunny push reggaeton in a new direction. He experiments with reggae and rock among a variety of other genres, without losing sight of his reggaeton roots. This album is where Bad Bunny seems to find his footing. 
Immediately, Bad Bunny subverts expectations with the first 
track, “Si Veo a Tu Mamá. ” On this track, Bad Bunny sings about missing his ex, despite acting like he’s over her. He thinks about running into her mom and asking how she’s doing. The track trades 
in the traditional dembow rhythm for an 8-bit backing reminiscent 
of what one might hear coming from a Game Boy or a Commodore 64. The song reaches its climax during the bridge, when Bad Bunny sings out that he’s going out with the boys and forgetting about his ex for the night. This crescendo is filled with hope that things will 
eventually get better and he’ll move on, and when paired with the 
unique backing instrumentals it makes for a very satisfying listen.
Another standout moment on the album is the end of the 
seventh track, “Soliá. ” Bad Bunny brings some Daft Punk-inspired vocals that complement the cadence of the song really well. On 
“Hablamos Mañana, ” Bad Bunny continues to experiment with 
rock, bringing a very punk breakdown to the end of what is otherwise a reggaeton song. “Safaera” is sure to become the party song of the year, with an infectious beat meant to inspire perreo, 
the sensual dancing that is often paired with reggaeton and Latin 
trap. The beats and tempos switch multiple times throughout the song, each segment faster and more dance-inspiring than the last. The song features Jowell & Randy and Ñengo Flow, who are both reggaeton stars of generations past. The inclusion of these three 
gives the song the feeling of an old-school reggaeton track; bringing 
together the pounding rhythms and flows of the old school and the sweeter melodies modern reggaeton has become known for.These appearances by Jowell & Randy, Ñengo Flow, and Daddy Y ankee, 
who appears on “La Santa, ” acknowledge Bad Bunny’s legitimacy 
in the genre. While “YHLQMDLG” holds many gems, it’s not a perfect 
album. Songs such as “Ignorantes” and “Vete” feel formulaic, lacking the unique melodies and instrumentals that make tracks like “ A Tu 
Merced” and “Si Veo a Tu Mamá” so enjoyable to listen to. These 
songs aren’t necessarily bad, but they pale in comparison to the rest of the tracks on the album. “Vete” features a conventional trap beat over which Bad Bunny raps about kicking his ex out of his life. “Ignorantes” feels commercial and overly-sentimental at times, with 
autotune-drenched ad-libs and trite lyricism from Sech, a fellow 
reggaeton singer hailing from Panama. 
Despite these lows, “YHLQMDLG” demonstrates how much 
Bad Bunny has grown in just two years. What were glimpses of 
promising genre-bending in “X100PRE” come to full fruition on 
“YHLQMDLG, ” but Bad Bunny still remains close to his reggaeton roots. In a genre that is quickly becoming oversaturated, El Conejo Malo has found a way to re-think what it can be, further solidifying his status as a pillar of reggaeton.
—  Elias  Roman
 Staff Writer
YHLQMDLG
by  BAD  BUNNY
Release Date  February 29, 2020ALBUM   REVIEW
B+
Bad Bunny returns with “YHLQMDLG, ” the long-anticipated follow-up to his 2018 debut album, “X100PRE.Claudia Rankine gives a poet’s insight into the nature of conversation.
What is in a conversation? For renowned poet and scholar Claudia Rankine, this 
communicative exchange involves a reorientation of space, as well as the affective relations between those involved. These mundane exchanges that we make and 
observe in everyday conversation do not take place in a vacuum, but rather, are informed by political unconsciousness and the complex matrices of power that organize our social worlds. 
Rankine was invited as a keynote speaker on Feb. 28 by UC San Diego’s Black Studies 
Project, an initiative for interdisciplinary academic exchange in the fields of African American and African diaspora studies. After being introduced onstage by Professor and BSP Director Dayo Gore, Rankine announces that she is not going to read about racial imaginaries as she had been invited to do, but nevermind — we are in the hands of a master. She instead chose to read excerpts from her upcoming book, “Just Us: An American Conversation. ” Rankine outlined her work in this way: a conversation takes place, she transcribes the contents of this exchange and relays them to both a therapist and fact-checker, and finally, she collects her findings, sends them to their respective interlocutor, and asks, “did we have this conversation?”
The first conversation took place at an airport, which Rankine — citing an essay published 
last July in which she interrogates white men on a plane about white privilege — jokingly 
identified as a recurring milieu in her work. While standing in line, she overheard a loud 
argument between an older straight white couple, punctuated by the man’s question, “ Are you stupid?” Here, the argument broke off while the couple’s hostage audience remained silent, in shock of this impropriety on display — a private exchange made public. For Rankine, the questions here are plentiful: Had everyone in this space just witnessed this violent act of beratement? Did this man really just call his presumed partner, a grown woman, stupid? What are the conditions of possibility for this man’s hubris to invite a group of strangers to take part in this spectacle of his aggression?   
A second conversation took place between Rankine and a friend. This friend, who is a 
black mother, told Rankine of how her four-year-old child was removed from his classroom for what his white teacher described as “violent” behavior. Rankine pauses here. She invites us to think of this discursive moment and the ascription of violence to a black child. He is only four years old. The friend was on the phone with her son’s teacher, interrogating the grounds upon which her son was removed from his classroom. In justifying herself, the white teacher began to cry. Why must she defend herself against the fact of violence that she has committed against this child? What did the tears coming from a white woman signify at this moment?
Rankine relates this project to a larger question which addresses the ways in which 
conversations involving white people and the confrontation of whiteness are so often disrupted — and thereby recircuited in the course of its dialogue — by a refusal of fact by the parties involved. Rankine asks how we can move past the simple naming of social and political phenomena to materially reckon with whiteness when that first naming must be contested by parties unwilling to accept its truth. This is a theorization of the everyday, the suffusion of a national politic into the communicative pathways we share with friends and strangers, over the phone, and in transit; however, Rankine doesn’t have all the answers — she admits doubt in her own claims to truth, hence the fact-checker. And I recognize in my own writing of this article an immense loss in the truth of things through my forgetting of what was said specifically at this event. Limited by what I remember, having made the mistake of not taking notes, I can only relay what my memory and its interpretation of Rankine’s words — further 
mediated by following conversations with others and their interpretations — allows. 
During the following Q&A, Rankine stated that nothing she is saying is anything new. 
She locates her work within a genealogy of foundational black thought, found in the works of 
Toni Morrison, Audre Lorde, James Baldwin, and countless others. Rankine’s words invite us to think of an academic terrain unmoored from positivist accumulation and the intellectual quest to create something new, in which the modern university is so deeply entrenched. This is not just humility, but an urge to engage in a practice of respecting those who came before us and looking for answers in what has already been said.
—  justin  nguyen
Senior Staff Writer
A Talk with Claudia Rankin: 
“The Racial Imaginary at Work in Poetry and the 
Visual Arts”
The UCSD Guardian is excited to collaborate with Paramount Pictures to host a raffle for VIP tickets 
to an early screening of The Quiet Place Part II! These seats are secured through the venue, and you will be able to enter the theater first. The showing will be shown on March 16 at 7:00 PM at AMC Mission Valley. To enter the raffle, follow the instructions through tinyurl.com/ucsdquietplace and submit by Friday the 13th!A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Seven days a week, morning to night, through traffic, detours
and construction zones, our dedicated team of T riton T ransit 
and Mobility drivers, along with MTS and NCTD drivers, 
help meet the campus community’s commuting needs.
T ransportation Services extends special thanks to our 
250+ drivers who ensure that their fellow T ritons get where 
they need to go safely and on time.
BE SURE TO THANK YOUR DRIVERS!
National T ransit Driver Appreciation Day 
March 18
Bad Bunny returns with “YHLQMDLG, ” the long-anticipated follow-up to his 2018 debut album, “X100PRE.10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  9 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
XOXO, GUARDIAN GURL - An Advice Column
Dear Supalonely,
I’m sorry you feel like you’re going to be lonely over spring 
break! That’s not a fun feeling, and I definitely understand where 
you’re coming from. However, the one trick to combating loneliness or potential FOMO is keeping yourself busy with other things. You said you’re going home to see your family — are there things you can plan to do with them? Are there any projects you’ve been putting off, like working on an art piece, polishing up your website, or redoing your room? Make a list of things you want to accomplish by the end of break — if that list is literally just a bunch of TV shows and movies you want to watch, that works too! Try to make the most of bring at home — go to all your favorite spots like your favorite coffee shop or the best lookout spot — and think of it as a time to rest and reset instead of a time to stress. You can even ask your friends to Facetime you when they do hang out, so you won’t 
feel unincluded. 
A week passes by pretty quick, so I’m sure you’ll be back at school 
and with your friends in no time! Hope this helps. 
xoxo, guardian girl
“xoxo guardian gurl” is the UCSD Guardian’s newest advice column. 
Use the form at tinyurl.com/ask-guardian-gurl to ask guardian gurl for advice on whatever UCSD life has thrown at you!
Dear Guardian Gurl,
I’m a first year and I’m going home for 
spring break to see my family. I don’t have 
very many friends from high school and a lot of them aren’t going to be in town anyway. 
I’m worried about feeling lonely and having FOMO the whole week while all my college friends are hanging out with each other. What 
should I do?From,
Supalonely Spring BreakART BY ANTHONY TRANART BY ANTHONY TRANLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
A Rooftop of Relaxation
by Hannah Rosenberg Contributing Writer
Picture this: You’re walking on Girard Avenue in 
Downtown La Jolla when you stumble across a glass door 
that leads to a steep staircase with seemingly no end. You decide to walk in because you just can’t walk away without an answer to the mystery. After climbing several flights of stairs, you begin to see golden sunlight filtering in through a doorway which motivates you to keep pushing on to the top. You step through the doorway 
to a true hidden gem of La Jolla that few UC San Diego 
students seem to know about since laptops with lecture slides and Google Docs with class notes can rarely be seen on any given day. As you take a 360 degree look around you, you wonder where this rooftop cafe has been your whole life. 
With fairy garden vibes, Trilogy Sanctuary is a one-
stop-shop with a plant-based cafe, a full schedule of fitness classes including Instagram trendy aerial yoga, a boutique, and both indoor and outdoor seating options that include a futon couch big enough to pile on you and 
all your foodie friends. 
I first discovered this hideout thanks to my visiting 
aunt who learned of it through an internet search when 
scoping the area for a good dinner spot on a warm April 
2018 night. Upon stepping onto the rooftop, we turned 
our heads, locked eyes, and squealed with excitement. After the initial shock of feeling like the Lewis and Clark of vegan food in La Jolla, we quickly became encapsulated by the aerial silks performance happening on the circus-ready, fairy-light-lit deck outside. We eventually made our way inside to order when Keri, the server, greeted us like long-time friends. My first pick dish, the Radical Ravioli, was sold out due to a shortage of pesto, which prompted a revisit of the menu and another dose of choice overload as I took one look at the expansive menu that infinitely spans the wall, causing me to ask the people next in line to skip ahead due to needing extra time to make up my mind. Before the end of dinner that night, Aunt Jill decided she couldn’t leave San Diego 
without a second visit that included the Radical Ravioli 
and Transcendent Brownie, so she promptly extended her hotel by one night.
Regardless of whether you are in the mood for sweet 
or savory, the Trilogy Cafe menu has got you covered. Trilogy’s Mac n Cheeze, award-winning Two Perfect Tacos, and the Lavish chocolate hazelnut crepes are among some of their most popular dishes. Loyal regulars often face the classic debate that is deciding to order their past favorites versus branching out into the territory of the new; however, Trilogy-goers can rest assured knowing that none of the menu options will disappoint. It is frequently noted how this cafe attracts and pleases all audiences, regardless of their dietary preferences, vegans and non-vegans alike. 
If you become my friend you can bet our friendship 
won’t surpass a couple of months before I inevitably drag you to this place that I consider my secret hideout. Over the past two years since this great discovery, I have taken friends and practically every family member, including my grandma, to Trilogy Sanctuary. As our food is delivered and they take their first bites, I make sure to watch their heart-eye-emoji reactions to these culinary creations that will appear if you Google “culinary innovation. ” 
While prices fall on the high end of a college student 
budget, usually ranging from $11 to $15 per dish, not including their more budget-friendly Soup Of The Day option, the stunning sunset view, bimonthly open mics, and San Diego Circus Collective performances, as well as Earth Day celebrations and more create the ideal campus getaway.
PHOTO COURTESY OF PINTERESTPHOTO COURTESY OF PINTEREST12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  9 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Spring Break in San Diego
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
W e’re almost there! Spring break is so close to being in our 
grasp. If you’re thinking of staying in San Diego for the break, 
take some time in between study sessions to think about what you’ d like to do to relax and have some fun! If you’re not sure where to start, check out some of these places to kick start your break:
Sunset Cliffs Sea Caves
Take a walk around Sunset Cliffs Natural Park and check 
out the “open ceiling sea cave. ” Before you decide to check it out, be sure to check that the ocean is at low or negative tide because otherwise, the caves will be full of water! This sea cave has an open ceiling that stands at around 40 feet high and 40 feet wide. There is also an opening with a high arch that looks out to the sea and makes a great photo spot. 
La Jolla Zip Zoom Zip Lines 
If you’re looking for some adventure over break, check out 
these zip lines! This is located at the foothills of the Palomar 
Mountain Range and is the longest zip line tour in California. 
Y ou’ll spend about 2.5 hours zipping from line to line over a beautiful canyon view! 
Point Loma Lighthouse
If you like history and great views, you’ve got to get yourself 
to the Point Loma Lighthouse. There you can tour the inside of the lighthouse, visit the small museum/gift shop, and learn about the history behind the making of this landmark. Additionally, it has another great view of San Diego! 
Whale Watching
Between December and April, there are lots of tours 
available to go whale watching on the water. Take the chance to spend a few hours out at sea and keep your eyes open for some gray whales and lots of dolphins! 
Belmont Park
For those who have ever been to the Santa Cruz Beach 
Boardwalk, Belmont Park is a lot like this! Located in Mission Bay, there are lots of rides to go on, including the famous wooden roller coaster, the Giant Dipper, as well as a Tiki-themed round of mini-golf. There are also lots of options for food and beach access, so you’ll never have a dull moment.
PHOTO COURTESY OF LA JOLLA MOMPHOTO COURTESY OF LA JOLLA MOMCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ASCE PRESENTS: AYOKAYFRIDAY, MARCH 13
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org3pm
CAPS SELF -CARE STRATEGIES 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, 
MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to balance your personal and 
academic life at UCSD? Dr. Andy Nguyen and a Wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help 
you achieve wellness! Topics will include: 
self-care, stress management, mindfulness, self- 
compassion, and effective communication. Location: Student Health Services, Murray's Place 
Week 2-10 Tuesday's
4pm
STRESS-FREE ZONE AT BIOMEDICAL 
LIBRARY BUILDING - BIOMEDICAL LIBRARY BUILDING, EVENTS ROOM (FLOOR 1)
Take a break from studying and exams and stop 
by the Events Room on the 1st Floor of Biomedical Library Building. De-stress activities like board games, kinetic sand, coloring sheets, and more will be available along with free blue books and scantrons. Fill out a survey to be entered in a raffle for a fun prize! Visit the lib.ucsd.edu/de-stress for more de-stress activities offered throughout the quarter in the Library. Good luck on finals and have a relaxing break! Know of other items youd like us to offer? Wed love to hear your ideas. Send questions, comments, and suggestions to LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu. Contact: LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu Website: https://lib.ucsd.edu/visit/de-stress.html
, 1pm
30TH ANNUAL URBAN EXPO - 
PRICE CENTER, BALLROOMS A&B
The Expo is a unique event that brings together 
students, faculty, staff, and the San Diego community to celebrate the research capstone projects of Urban Studies & Planning and Real Estate & Development graduating students
4pm
STRESS-FREE ZONE AT 
BIOMEDICAL LIBRARY BUILDING - 
BIOMEDICAL LIBRARY BUILDING, 
EVENTS ROOM (FLOOR 1)
Take a break from studying and exams and stop 
by the Events Room on the 1st Floor of Biomedical Library Building. De-stress activities like board games, kinetic sand, coloring sheets, and more will be available along with free blue books and scantrons. Fill out a survey to be entered in a raffle for a fun prize! Visit the lib.ucsd.edu/de-stress for more de-stress activities offered throughout the quarter in the Library. Good luck on finals and have a relaxing break! Know of other items youd like us to offer? Wed love to hear your ideas. Send questions, comments, and suggestions to LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. TUE3.10
THU3.12MON3.09 WED3.11
1pm
PARTNERSHIP SCHOOLS PROGRAM 
- INFO SESSION - TMC ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, RM 132
Interested in taking part in an educational 
internship? Join the Partnership Schools Program! The internship opportunity is open to all UC San Diego undergraduate students. Students can volunteer as either Tutors or Interns at local underserved schools in San Diego county! Develop civic duty skills while you receive a great experience working in a high school setting. For more information attend one of our upcoming info sessions. Contact: partnershipschools@ucsd.edu (858) 534-4004
12pm
SAN DIEGO PRIDE: VOLUNTEERING 
3-6-5 - BEAR ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
Learn about the history, context, and current 
needs of the non-profit San Diego Pride. Find out 
about the services San Diego Pride offers 
year-round and how you can take part in supporting this organization. Presented by Benjamin Mendoza, Community Programs Advisor, Associated Students
12pm
WOMEN OF THE WORLD PANEL 
AND ART GALLERY - UCSD WOMEN'S CENTER
In honor of International Women's Day, the 
Outreach Coordinators and the Women's Center are hosting a "Women of the World" Panel and Art Gallery to highlight the differences of women in cultures represented on our UCSD campus. We are looking for students and staff from a variety of states/countries to serve as panelists! Panelists will have the opportunity to discuss women in their home states/countries in relation to education, family dynamics, employment, healthcare, etc. We are also accepting submissions for ARTWORKS in any form (painting, photo, crafts, etc), that celebrate women around the world! If selected, your piece will be on display at our showcase in the Women's Center! Please sign up here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScEnYWBl6RQjxNasTqRRxgPAJsD-loLXlk076It7wVu0A5FRA/viewform
2pm
HONORS OPEN STUDIOS - 201B 
MANDEVILLE CENTER
The Undergraduate Studio Honors Program of the 
Visual Arts Dept. will be opening their doors to the public on March 11th. Each year top students are selected by the faculty to join the Honors Program. This event will display the newest artworks made by this select group in recent months. The works on view display a wide breadth of mediums and concepts and as a whole demonstrates a dynamic group of young artists with distinct voices. The included artists are: Lucy Bell, Jose Benitez, Michael Kalisz, Tula Oliver, Xiaoyu Ren, Lisa Resendiz, Pengbin Sun, Leslye Villaseor, Megan Winegar, and Yan Yu.
6pm
TV DINNER: TONI MORRISON - THE 
LOFT
documentary, The Pieces I Am, about author Toni 
Morrison at The Loft. This artful and intimate meditation on the legendary storyteller examines her life, her works, and the powerful themes she has confronted throughout her literary career. Attendees will be entered into a raffle to win a Toni Morrison book! Event: 6PM Location: The Loft FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM 
- WOMEN'S CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
Starting week 2, join CAPS and the LGBT 
Resource Center for conversations about our experiences as gay men. This forum addresses relationships, sexual health, community building, and more! We meet during weeks 2-10( excluding holiday) in the Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters on, in the Women's Center Small Group Room. Come join us! Contact : Dr. Greg Koch, Psy.D. 858-534-3585 gkoch@ucsd.edu
6pm
NJIDEKA AKUNYILI CROSBY GUEST 
LECTURE - VAF 306 PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Akunyili Crosby was born in Enugu, Nigeria in 
1983 and currently lives and works in Los 
Angeles. She was a participant in La Biennale di 
Venezia, 58th International Art Exhibition, May You Live In Interesting Times, curated by Ralph Rugoff (11 May - 24 November 2019). Recent solo exhibitions include Njideka Akunyili Crosby: The Beautyful Ones", The National Portrait Gallery, London (2018-19) and Counterparts, Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, TX (2018-19), Baltimore Museum of Art, MD (2017-18). She is the recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Art from Swarthmore College in 2019, a 2017 MacArthur Fellowship and was awarded Financial Times' Women of the Year in 2016.
7:30pm
THE BACHELOR FINALE - THE LOFT
Pilot Pete's journey to love is about to close... who will he choose as his co-pilot? Come and find out at the LIVE viewing party at the Loft! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu FRI3.13
11:30am
TAU BETA PIE DAY 2020 - EBU2 
COURTYARD
Come to Tau Beta Pi's annual Pi Day celebration on 
Friday, March 13th. We will have free pizza and pie to celebrate the famed dessert, greek letter, and mathematical constant! There will also be a variety of pi(e)-themed events including piatas, an eating contest, and a pie-drop at 3:14. https://tbp.ucsd.edu
12pm
CAREERS IN STUDENT AFFAIRS CLUB 
BROWN BAG LUNCH - PC WEST 
GREEN TABLE ROOM
Are you involved on campus and want to learn how 
to make a career out of it? Come join the Careers in Student Affairs Club for a Brown Bag Lunch. We will be inviting students and professional staff from all around campus to bring their lunch and get to know one another. Desserts and lemonade will be provided  xContact: kpianalt@ucsd.edu
HAUNTED HOUSE DESIGN 
COMPETITION - N/A (EVERYTHING IS 
ONLINE)
TEA @ UCSD is hosting our first Haunted House 
Design competition! This consists of three challenges that correspond to the planning process of creating a haunted house. By entering, it's a fun opportunity to learn firsthand about the creative and technical process and storytelling behind the scenes of themed experiences. The prompt will be released after sign-ups close. All students are welcome to participate! No experience required!
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: AYOKAY - PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Stressed about finals? Join ASCE for a free concert 
and remember: Finals are gonna be ayokay!Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAR 9 - MAR 15
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SCHOOL STUFFCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. “Ave ____”
6. Harvest10. Singer ____ Collins
14. Serving perfectly
15. 60 minutes
16. Impolite17. Pebble18. Inseparable friends (2 wds.)
20. FDR’s successor
21. Mislay
23. Artists’ stands24. Faction25. Chip in
26. Pastors
30. Pipe parts
34. Reluctant35. Pelvic bone37. ____ versus Wade
38. Move upward
39. Courtroom event
41. Cawing bird42. Fetch43. ____ Diego44. On land46. School assignment49. Offered in response51. Obligation53. At no time, in verse54. Boot part57. Airborne toy58. Touch lightly61. Symbolize63. ____ Witherspoon of “Legally 
Blonde”
65. Prayer word66. Birch or spruce67. Consumer68. Head gestures69. Origin70. Nighttime visionDOWN
1. Prepare potatoes2. Behaves3. Wild disorder
4. Tavern
5. Eternal
6. Morally pure7. Part8. Absent
9. Primp
10. Established in advance
11. Very large12. Revered person13. Minus
19. Darn it!
22. Groups of eight
24. Father25. Korea’s locale26. Homer Simpson’s wife
27. Climbing vines
28. Homes for birds
29. Horned animal, for short31. Blooper32. Roger ____ (007 actor)33. Did needlework36. Neptune, e.g.40. Risqué41. “Moonstruck” actress45. Guided47. Decorates48. Santa’s time50. Joined52. Exams54. Mideast country55. Disney clownfish56. Went quickly57. Leg part58. Singer ____ Seeger59. On the ocean60. Duration62. Browning’s “before”64. Jug handleFULL-TIME JOBS 
Roofing Accounting Manager - A roofing 
company in East San Diego is looking for an experienced Construction Accounting Manager to join their team. This candidate will be responsible for full cycle account -
ing, AR, AP , payroll and contract manage-ment. Must have advanced GAAP knowl -
edge and 5+ years of related experience. This is an excellent….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Chief Financial Officer  - As a key mem -
ber of our executive management team, 
you will report to the Chief Executive Officer and assume a strategic role in the overall management of the firm. You will have the day-to-day responsibility of planning, implementing, managing and controlling all financial-related activities. This includes direct responsibility for accounting, finance, risk management, contracts….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Administrative Assistant/ Data Entry Clerk 
- Nexiya is a nationwide talent acquisi-tion and project management company servicing utility and telecom industries with its corporate office located in San Diego, California. Join Nexiya today to become part of an elite team of experts in the utilities and telecommunication….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
PART-TIME JOBS 
Summer Camp Counselors & Activity Instructors - Day camps all over California are now hiring camp counselors and activ -
ity instructors for the summer months. Camps are seeking positive, nurturing role models to be a part of dynamic, motivat -
ed staff teams.Visit our….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Guest Experience Associate - The Guest 
Experience Associate for the Legacy Center reports to the Guest Services Supervisor and is based out of the Morris Cerullo Legacy Center in San Diego, CA. This position is responsible for creat -
ing and maintaining a welcoming envi -
ronment and rewarding experience for guests. The guest experience includes a variety of activities in and adjacent to the Legacy Center….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationPart-time Telehealth Therapist LCSW, LMFT, LPCC, Licensed Psychologist - Epiphany Counseling, Consulting and 
Treatment Services provides quality indi -
vidual, couples and group therapy. We 
have been servicing children, teens and adults since 2015. Our headquarters are located in San Pedro, CA. We are cur -
rently looking for licensed therapist to provide online professional counseling and psychotherapy to those facing men-tal health….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
MONGOOSE “RAID” BMX FREESTYLE Bike  - MONGOOSE “RAID” BMX FREESTYLE Bike almost NEW, This is a bike that any BMX RIDER would Enjoy ! This Bike is BAD TO THE BONE ! it comes equipped with Pro Style Frame, four X TRICK Steel FOOT PEGS, 20” MAGS no more spokes to adjust or tighten, Sealed self lubricat -
ing bearings, Dual Hand Brakes, 360 Full Rotation Handle Bars, FREE SPIN REAR 
GEAR, Monster Grip Traction Pedals….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2007 Ducati Superbike - 2007 Ducati 
1098S Tricolore Superbike. 780 mis on it. CELEBRATION OF ITALIAN STYLE For 2007 only, the 1098 S is also available in 
an additional special ‘Tricolore’ version 
(red, white and green, the colours of the Italian national flag). The Ducati ‘Tricolore’  tradition began in 1985 with the stunning 750 F1….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Gary Fisher 1999 Joshua F2 Mountain Bike 
- 1999 Gary Fisher Joshua F2 Mountain Bike for sale. Aluminum frame insane -
ly light approx 28.0 pounds, Front and 
Rear suspension, 26” Tires. With amazing 
spider-webbed blue and black custom paint job. Overall this bike is in well over superb condition. This bike would cost 
you $1,799.99 Brand-new. I’m only ask-
ing….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!5
26
7
2
943
5 48
93
5
4
23
91
62
6
1
8
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
TRITON
DINE
6pmMARCH 16PC BALLROOM WEST
BRING YOUR OWN
REUSABLE PLATES/
FOOD COINTAINERS!
FREE FOOD, SNACKS &
STUDY MATERIALSEnding a program-record-
tying six-game win streak, UC 
San Diego’s men’s volleyball team suffered consecutive four-set 
losses against No. 3 UC Santa Barbara, 22–25, 25–23, 25–21, 
25–16, and No. 12 UCLA, 25–16, 
23–25, 25–19, 21–25. The losses 
drop the Tritons to 13–5 on the season, and they face a tough conference schedule to wrap up the season.
UCSD entered UCSB’s 
Thunderdome on Friday as 
underdogs — the Gauchos had been near the top of the rankings all season — but the Tritons were on a roll a fter an undefeated 
February. That momentum 
followed the Tritons right into the first set, as a pair of service 
aces by junior outside hitter Wyatt Harrison helped UCSD 
to an early 5–1 lead. But the 
Gauchos took the lead soon a fter 
with a 7–2 run that had them up 10–9 midway through the set. Both squads would remain within 3 points for the rest of the set. But with a scant 21–20 lead for UCSD, junior opposite Collin Shannon followed a key block by junior outside hitter Kyle McCauley with an ace; a couple of points later, Shannon finished 
off a kill to take the set, 25–22, 
for the Tritons.
The second set began at a 
similarly hard-fought pace, and after a 7–2 run midway through 
the set, the Tritons were up by 4. Although UCSD was able to hold this lead until late in the set, with the score 20–16, the Gauchos scored 6 straight points, 
including 4 Triton errors, to take 
a 22–20 lead. Despite kills from 
McCauley and Harrison, UCSB’s 
momentum led to a 25–23 set victory to tie the match.
In the third set, the Tritons 
came out early with a 9–3 lead on three separate 3–0 runs, but that lead quickly dissolved as another 6–0 UCSB run halfway through the set had the Gauchos up 14–12. Although the Tritons came back to tie it, UCSB was able to keep them just at bay and wrapped up another comeback set victory with a 4–1 run to end it 25–21. 
After losing two straight 
sets in which they had led by 
significant margins, the Tritons 
couldn’t match the Gauchos’ 
attack in the fourth, falling behind 8–2 early behind 4 errors. But unlike the UCSD leads in the last 2 sets, the UCSB lead only kept growing, as 4 consecutive kills by Gaucho setter Randy DeWeese extended the margin to 10. With a signi ficant cushion, 
the Gauchos closed out the match with their third straight set, 25–16. In the loss, the Tritons were led by McCauley, with 18 kills, and senior setter Connor 
Walbrecht with 34 assists. UCSD 
notched a measly 0.0787 hitting percentage in the last three sets — even making just 5 kills to 6 errors in the final period.
The Tritons were in Westwood 
the next evening to face UCLA, 
whom the Tritons took down in 
straight sets on Jan. 17 for their 
highest-ranked win in seven 
years. Perhaps seeking revenge, the Bruins came out hot, scoring 5 of the first 6 points — aided by 
4 Triton errors. The Tritons tried 
to claw their way out of the hole, but throughout the entire set, they were never able to string 2 points in a row — every UCSD point was followed by 1 from UCLA. The Bruins’ lead reached 
a maximum of 9 points at the end of the set, as a service error from sophomore outside hitter Charlie Siragusa ended the set 25–16. 
The second set started out 
much more evenly, as Harrison 
and McCauley got into stride and 
kept pace with the Bruin attack. But neither team would get more than 2 points away from each other until 3 straight UCSD points late in the set gave the Tritons a 23–20 lead. Although the Bruins responded by closing the lead to 24–23, UCSD sophomore middle blocker Shane Benetz finished 
off the set with a kill. The third 
set was similarly tense, as once again, neither team could gain much of an advantage until deep in the set. But this time it was 
the Bruins who would emerge 
from the mire, as a kill, an ace, and a pair of massive blocks on McCauley gave UCLA the last 4 points of the set, which they took 25–19.
In the fourth set, the Bruins 
eked out the smallest of leads, starting up 4–2, and kept a lead 
of either 1 or 2 for the majority 
of the set, all as the Tritons failed to make a run to close the small gap. A McCauley kill and a bad set from UCLA had the Tritons within one, 21–20, but the Bruins responded with a pair of blocks to extend the lead to 3; soon after, a UCLA ace sealed the set 
for the Bruins, 25–21. McCauley and Walbrecht once again led the Tritons with 14 kills and 35 assists, respectively; the Tritons were out-blocked, 12–3, and ended with a hitting percentage of .202 to the Bruins’ .427. 
The two losses have stunted 
the Tritons’ momentum at a time they need it most — a fter 
a date with No. 8 Pennsylvania State University on March 11 at RIMAC Arena, UCSD will have 16 days of rest before traveling to Honolulu to take on No. 1 University of Hawai’i in a pair of matches on March 27 and 28 that both start at a late 9:00 p.m. Pacific time. 
pra veen  nair   prnair@ucsd.edu Tritons’ Streak Snapped at Six, Back-to-
Back Losses at UCSB and UCLA
PHOTO COURTESY OF ELLIE WANGPHOTO COURTESY OF ELLIE WANG16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at CSU San Bernardino
at Azusa Pacificvs Penn StateNCAA Tournament UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
W Tennis
M Volleyball
W & M 
Basketball1PM
2:30PM
7PM
TBD3/103/123/113/13
This week the UC San Diego 
women’s basketball team launched 
its postseason run by winning the 
2020 California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Tournament, taking 
down California State University, San Marcos 73–62 to take home the 
title. 
UCSD came into the 
tournament ranked as the second-
seed. Though UCSD was tied with 
the first-seed CSU San Marcos for 
the best record in the conference, it lost the tiebreaker since it lost both regular-season outings against San Marcos. Nonetheless, based on its strong regular season, UCSD came into the tournament as a strong favorite to take the conference title.
To reach the finals, UCSD took 
on California State University, Stanislaus in the semi final. A fter 
going down early, the Tritons recovered and put together a strong first half. While the W arriors 
managed to sink a little less than a third of their shots, the Tritons were almost at 50 percent when shooting. UCSD closed out the second quarter with a comfortable 39–26 lead. 
However, despite going into 
halftime with a comfortable 
13-point lead, during the second half, the game seemed to swing in favor of Stanislaus State. By the end of the third quarter, the W arriors were able to overcome the 13-point 
deficit to take a 46–43 lead. A fter 
a crisp first half, UCSD’s play got 
noticeably sloppier coming out 
of halftime, as the team allowed 
Stanislaus State to go on a 20–4 run. 
But by the fourth quarter, 
the Tritons returned to form. Off sophomore guard Julia 
Macabuhay’s steal, senior guard Sydney Sharp’s triple put UCSD back on top 52–49. The Tritons 
defense did not allow a single point until late in the 4th quarter, 
at which point the game was well 
in hand. They also exploded on 
offense, shaking o ff their lackluster 
performance the previous quarter, knocking down 10-of-12 field goals 
and going 6-for-7 from outside the arc. UCSD closed out the game in dominant fashion, playing shutdown defense and aggressive offense, winning 73–53. 
After the game, head coach 
Heidi V anDerveer was quick to laud the team for their e ffort. “Y ou 
are not going to lose [a game] in a quarter. The turning point came 
when [the team] huddled up and said ‘the five of us together can get 
whatever it is done’ and they did. We’ve got winners on our team and women that compete, ” VanDerveer said.
With the victory over Stanislaus 
State, the Tritons advanced to the final round of the CCAA 
tournament for a regular-season finale rematch against CSUSM. 
Coming into the tournament, San Marcos was seen as the biggest obstacle in UCSD’s path to becoming repeat conference champions. The Cougars came 
in as the only team ranked higher than UCSD in the conference. The Tritons lost both their 
regular-season matchups with the Cougars: a close 69–63 game in late November and a disappointing 75–57 loss to end their regular season just one week earlier.
The Tritons got o ff to a fast start 
in the final round of the tournament. 
In the opening quarter, UCSD was 60 percent shooting and 2-for-3 from the three-point line. The 
second quarter, however, was all 
about defense. UCSD was limited 
to just 11 points a fter scoring 20 
in the previous quarter. Despite the limited scoring in the second quarter, UCSD went into the locker 
room at hal ftime still holding onto 
a close 31–27 lead.
In the game against Stanislaus 
State, UCSD, a fter a slow quarter, 
was able to shake it o ff and 
dominate the following quarter. 
UCSD did just that in this game too. A fter a slow second quarter, 
the Tritons came out of hal ftime 
hot. UCSD put up 21 points each in the third and fourth quarters. Macabuhay took over on o ffense 
in the second half, knocking down four floaters from mid-range in 
front of the basket and four buckets from the 3-point line. Though San 
Marcos did put up a fight, going 
almost shot-for-shot with the Tritons in the fourth quarter, UCSD had accumulated a lead that was too much to overcome. The Tritons 
won 73–62 and were crowned CCAA champions.
“In the first game [against Cal 
State San Marcos] we were playing a lot of young people — new faces in di fferent [positions] — in 
November and I don’t think we were ready for the moment a week ago, ” VanDerveer said.
However, V anDerveer was 
grateful those losses occurred earlier because it showed the team’s weaknesses and allowed the team to work on those de ficiencies so they 
did not show up in big moments.
Turner was awarded tournament 
MVP a fter the game. Turner, the 
team’s second-leading scorer, had a spectacular postseason performance, recording a triple-double — 10 points, 10 rebounds, and 10 assists — in the second round against Stanislaus State and double double —13 points and 13 rebounds — in the final round 
against San Marcos. Though Turner 
was excited about the award, she was quick to shi ft attention away 
from herself and give credit to the 
team.
Turner said, “It was my 
teammates. Without them, I would not be where I am at. ”
Along with the CCAA 
championship crown, the Tritons 
also secured an automatic bid into the NCAA Division-II Women’s Basketball Tournament.
The first three rounds of the 
national tournament kick o ff on 
March 13 and run till March 18. 
Twenty-one. That’s how many 
games the UC San Diego men’s basketball team had won in a row heading into the California Collegiate Athletic Association tournament championship against the rival California State Polytechnic University Pomona Broncos on Saturday, March 7, at RIMAC Arena. Without their most 
physically-imposing star, redshirt senior center Chris Hansen, the 
Tritons had overcome the odds in 21 straight games heading into the final CCAA tournament game in 
program history.
Redshirt sophomore guard 
Tyrell Roberts dropped 45 points on 10-for-12 shooting from 3-point land to lead his team to the CCAA Tournament final on 
Friday night. But on Saturday night the tournament MVP went zero-
for-5 from the field in the first half, 
finishing with 14 points. 
But as is characteristic of these 
Tritons under head coach Eric 
Olen, a balanced o ffensive attack 
is what got the job done, and in the team’s 76–62 win, which marks 22 in a row, that balance shone through. 
Even though senior forward 
Scott Everman injured his le ft 
hamstring just 4 minutes into the first half, UCSD’s depth led to dominance on both ends of the floor 
en route to a fourth-straight CCAA title. Five di fferent players scored 10 
or more points for the Tritons, but perhaps none were more critical to the win than Hansen. 
Despite missing 15 games with 
a foot injury, Hansen picked up the slack caused by Everman’s early departure for UCSD, logging nearly 
20 minutes and finishing with 10 
points and 7 rebounds in the win. 
“We’re excited to have Chris 
[Hansen] back, ” Olen said a fter 
the game. “He gives us a presence 
inside. It’s nice to have that versatility to play a little bigger when we need to. ”
In the first half, that interior 
presence certainly helped. Along with junior forward Hugh Baxter, who netted all 8 of his points in the first half, Hansen and the Tritons 
kept the length of the Broncos at bay even without the 6-foot-7-inch presence of Everman. 
UCSD flashed both its speed 
and skill in transition in the first 
half to overcome a 4-for-16 half from behind the arc. Junior forward Marek Sullivan collected 3 steals to go along with 6 points, a fine 
representation of the active hands of the Tritons, who outscored the Broncos 18–0 in the first half on 
points scored o ff turnovers, of which Cal Poly Pomona had 13. Heading into hal ftime, UCSD led 
34–28. 
Beginning the half with a 
bang, Broncos senior guard William Christmas, an All-CCAA tournament selection, immediately drove and scored with the le ft hand 
on Sullivan, shaving the de ficit to 3 
points right away. Christmas, who 
contributed just 5 points in the first half for the Broncos, added 7 
points over the first 4 minutes of 
the second half, but his defensive 
assignment Roberts would not allow the game to stay close for long. Over the course of the next 3 minutes, the conference MVP hit three straight 3-pointers, ending his drought from beyond the arc and helping the Tritons jump out to a 45–33 lead. 
“The first one was contested, 
and once that went in, no rim, I was like alright, that feels right, ” Roberts said. “That was it from there. ”
And that really was it from that 
point on. Christmas, who led all scorers on the night with 16 points, continued to battle, following up a 3 from Broncos sophomore forward Finn Eckhardt with a layup of his own to put Cal Poly Pomona at a 5–0 run, forcing a UCSD timeout. 
Following the stoppage, Sullivan 
flew in from the corner for a signature one-handed slam and after a technical on the Broncos 
head coach Greg Kamansky and a 4-point play from junior guard Gabe Hadley, UCSD was back up by 14 points with the score at 58–44.
“It comes down to getting shots 
up [even] outside of practice, just getting reps in, ” Hadley said postgame. “We do a good job of 
moving the ball and when you see it coming around, you got to get 
ready to knock it down when you get a chance. ”
From then on, nothing seemed 
to be able to slow down the Tritons. After another one-handed dunk 
from Sullivan put UCSD up 60–44, the Broncos had plenty of chances to hit from beyond the arc to make things interesting, but the shots refused to fall. A fter going 4-for-7 
from 3-point range in the first half, 
Cal Poly Pomona made another four 3-pointers in the second half, but they needed twice as many shots to do so. 
Even without 3-point success, 
the Broncos showed flashes of 
what makes them such a dangerous team. Senior forward Justin Y oung backed Baxter down late in the second half and dunked over him to cut the de ficit to 12 points, and 
junior guard BJ Standley, an All-CCAA Tournament selection, hit a runner to bring the score back to 64–54. But a contested three by Roberts over a 6-foot-7-inch Y oung put the nail in the co ffin. 
A few minutes later, Roberts 
spun through three defenders guarding and pressing him in the backcourt before he found a slashing Hansen for a reverse layup, putting UCSD up 71–56 and firmly 
placing the win out of reach for Cal 
Poly Pomona. 
With the win, the Tritons have 
a lengthy winning streak and 
will likely host the NCAA West Regional Tournament this coming week, but that shouldn’t get in the way of the team’s focus. 
“Our team does a good job of 
locking into each game, ” Roberts said.
Next week, the Broncos will 
likely return to RIMAC Arena in 
the West region as a top-4 seed, 
with their eyes on the team that just knocked them o ff to take 
the CCAA title, but for now, the Tritons, coaches, players, and team managers alike, will get to relish in their victory and begin shopping for a frame for their little slice of the net.
wesley  xiao   wex057@ucsd.edu 
jack  trent  dorfman   sports@ucsdguardian.orgWomen’s Basketball Takes Second-Straight CCAA Title
Men’s Basketball Cuts Through Pomona, 
Cuts Down Net in CCAA Tournament Win
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS