Accessed: 7/17/2020 Open Letter: UCSD Executives Must Do More to Support Temporarily Fired HDH Staf
f - UCSD Guardian
 July 17, 2020  Guest Writer
This letter was written by a UCSD grad student who wishes to remain anonymous.
 Dear Chancellor Khosla and others,
As I began crafting this letter, I reread the last few sentences of an official correspondence 
from the Office of the Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer to us, the UC San Diego  
community, which I received on June 25. You noted that we have gone through a lot in the 
last 14 weeks of the pandemic, that we are tired, that we have given much of ourselves, andTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  
pandemic, click hereAccessed: 7/17/2020 Open Letter: UCSD Executives Must Do More to Support T
emporarily Fired HDH Staff - UCSD Guardian
that each of us is remarkable. For your acknowledgement of us, I thank you.
I write this letter as one of us,  a proud member of the UCSD community. 
The email stated that “we rose to meet these difficult circumstances, found existing 
solutions  when possible, and innovated in multiple and broad areas nearly every step of the 
way.” 
However, I cannot help but wonder if “we” can truly stand up to such a claim when just a 
few days before this email, the administration announced mass firings of the Housing 
Dining Hospitality staff. Is it true that all other ways had been exhausted, that no existing 
solutions  could be applied, and innovations to save people’s livelihoods were in short 
supply, and thus  “we” have to leave a part of us behind? As a formidable institution of 
intellect and status, how  did “we” fail our dedicated HDH staff in this critical moment?
The administration has provided a reason for the “how.” As per the email, HDH is a “self-
supporting department operating without any federal, state or tuition funding,” and the  
pandemic has forced widespread cancellation of summer housing and dining activities. 
Thus, there was nothing UCSD could have done. Without summer activities, the firings 
became  inevitable – as inevitable as the third domino to fall after the second and the first. 
AND without support and under force, things fall. Physics dictates so. Economics dictates 
so. Sadly, leadership dictates so.
But it did not have to be so. I write to respectfully ask you, the executives and the other 
high-paid, distinguished personnel, starting with the Office of the Chancellor and Office of 
the Vice  Chancellor, to take a voluntary pay cut of 50 percent until the campus is back and 
financially stable to keep as many HDH staff on the payroll as possible. 
This is not an emotionally charged, irrationally proposed, or enviously driven request. I  
understand the uncomfortable position in which this would place you. I understand the  
dilemma between being generous and self-conserving, between being moral and practical.  
Still, I am pleading equally to your logic and your heart.
First, let us break down the number. To the best of my knowledge, among staff and faculty 
whose names are shown on their respective “Meet the Team” sites and who appear to have 
worked full time in 2018, the 2018 median wage of top HDH staff, including executives,  
chefs, and seasoned administrative employees, was about $55,500, many of whom holdAccessed: 7/17/2020 Open Letter: UCSD Executives Must Do More to Support T
emporarily Fired HDH Staff - UCSD Guardian
advanced degrees in their fields. This number is considerably lower for service workers;  
based on a search for “FOOD SVC WORKER”, and the UCSD Title and Pay data, it does 
not appear that their 2018 median income is much more than $40,000. In contrast, the 
2018  median income of those in the Office of the Chancellor is about $354,000. It is not 
hard to see the gap. And in this very moment of crisis and uncertainty, it is high time we 
minded the  gap.
Yet, it is not the mere mathematical difference between these two numerical figures I 
would  like to talk about. Hidden behind that difference is the implication of social and 
economic safety nets. Those with lower incomes have thinner cushions to fall back on 
and in most cases, barely none at all. Studies from the Federal Reserves and reputable 
think tanks have shown that the four out of 10 Americans could not afford a $400 
emergency expense, and 40  percent of households lack basic savings and are too “liquid 
asset poor” to weather the storm.  Compared to those who have had the fortune to earn 
and accumulate, I wonder who would  have a demonstrably worse time to maneuver the 
ups and downs of this crisis, and who may  walk dangerously closer to the line of 
poverty?   
It is true that workers may have access to unemployment assistance but there are more 
than just wages that our staff risk losing as a result of this firing, and some may have 
long-term consequences. Take educational benefits for example. As people may wish to 
go back to  school during episodes of economic instability, it makes no sense that UCSD 
should deprive  our own staff of the chance to better themselves academically and to 
position themselves for  future growth. Next, in a very possible scenario that COVID-19 
will last well into Fall Quarter,  the temporary firing may last longer than the three to 
months UCSD has anticipated. This  means the staff risk health coverage lapse in a 
raging pandemic, which would be a recipe for  disaster. As you can see, the dominoes 
may keep falling, and the consequences will not stop  at a few months out of work. By 
firing HDH employees this summer, UCSD will perpetuate  the cycle of pushing people 
further down the opportunity queue and keep them further away  from recovery, let 
alone from getting ahead.
The next argument is the risk you would personally take when giving up half of your 
income until at least Fall Quarter 2020. I am aware of how expenses are generally 
structured around  incomes and how one’s standard of living may be starkly different 
than the rest. This is  rightfully the American dream each of us is striving toward — to 
have two chickens in the pot  and two cars in the garage is deserving, inspiring, as well as 
conducive to the promotion of social mobility and prosperity. Though, may I pleaseAccessed: 7/17/2020 Open Letter: UCSD Executives Must Do More to Support T
emporarily Fired HDH Staff - UCSD Guardian
bring up again the notion of “liquid  asset” aforementioned, and I shall take the liberty to 
expect the leaders of UCSD to have a  strong sense of financial intelligence when handling 
your own personal finances so that you  already have the resources necessary to wait out 
these rainy days. 
I am not ignorant of the fact that high-paid positions come with responsibilities and years 
of experience and training. Nonetheless, COVID-19 has forced us to reevaluate our sense 
of contributions to a society struggling to function in crisis mode — who among us, if not 
the housing and dining staff, would justly claim to be essential? Not me. I have been 
working from home since March. And sometimes when I run through the empty campus 
to break the  monotony of a day, random thoughts cross my mind as I pass the social 
distancing signs I do  not put out, the trash cans I do not empty, or the crunchy leaves not 
awaiting my hands to  rake. I ponder the irony between the named and the nameless: how 
a regular student like me  who would know your names but most likely has not met you 
and will never talk to you  during our entire time at UCSD. But a regular student like me 
surely has met a HDH  employee, has talked to a HDH employee, and has been helped by 
an HDH employee whose  name we may or may not bother to ask. COVID-19 has made us 
face the often glossed-over  fact that essential jobs do not always equate to the highest 
paid jobs, and high paid jobs do  not always equate to the most essential jobs. 
Oh, yes, diversity, too. We cannot  fail to acknowledge the conflicting philosophy between 
the repeated pledges to diversity and equality on campus and the one short-and-sweet 
goodbye  to hundreds of workers, many of whom are of minority backgrounds. A 
GoFundMe campaign  by UCSD staff to  raise funds for fired staff mentions that most of 
the workers are Latino/a/x. I am also concerned for numerous workers with disabilities 
that I have seen working around campus  before the pandemic. Are they fired, too?
Next comes logistics. I have heard the debate that it is not possible to transfer the salary 
from one person to another and that the  initial 10 percent cut you pledged is more 
symbolic than pragmatic. But UCSD has  already systematically encouraged and made it 
logistically possible for people to donate their  leaves or sick days to those in need — we 
did this during the 2017-18 wildfires. If a non-liquid  form of benefits such as sick days 
can be transferred, surely we can think of some way to  transfer salaries (hint: innovation 
time). Another solution is to set up a fund into which the  50 percent amount can be 
deposited as individual donations, from which benefactors may  also enjoy tax breaks and 
which also works with how HDH is financially independent from UCSD. This way, the 
symbolic act becomes real, meaningful, and reflective of ethical and effective leadership.Accessed: 7/17/2020 Open Letter: UCSD Executives Must Do More to Support T
emporarily Fired HDH Staff - UCSD Guardian
As I call on you now to share the cushions with those less fortunate, I hope you see how 
your decisions today will impact lives for the better, or the worse, in the midst of critical 
events  that define a generation. I hope that for once the teasingly ambiguous line in 
those mass  emails announcing the promotion or retirement of high-post personnels, you 
know, that “under their leadership, the University/Department saw an X percent 
increase in something  something positive” line, can truly and proudly imply a causal 
relationship, or at least some  direct correlation, over some mere coincidence so 
fortuitous it might upset those of us  mathematically correct folks. 
Be the leader we look up at you to be.
With thoughts and regards,
One of us
Photo by  Austin Kehmeier on UnsplashAccessed: 7/31/2020 CALPIRG Pushes Young Voter Registration with New Voters Project - UCSD Guardian
  July 18, 2020    Daisy Scott
The California Public Interest Research Group has launched its 2020 New Voters Project in an 
effort to register young and  first-time voters before the November election. This campaign is a 
part of the larger, nonpartisan  Student PIRGS New  Voters Project, which incorporates campus 
groups across the  country.  
CALPIRG  is a nonprofit, student-composed organization that aims to research, educate, and 
lobby for the California state  government to address social issues. It derives its funding from 
University of California student fees given on a voluntary  basis. Examples of past years’ 
campaigns include efforts to save bees, decrease tuition rates, and participation in the 2018  
New Voters Project. According to the CALPIRG website, the  2018 campaign led to the 
registration of more than 6,000 new voters. 
The UCSD Guardian spoke with Veronika Michels, UC San Diego’s CALPIRG campus organizer,  
to discuss the overall goal of this year’s project.
to discuss the overall goal  of this year’s project.  Accessed: 7/31/2020 CALPIRG Pushes Young V
oter Registration with New Voters Project - UCSD Guardian
“Our topline goal that guides all of our work is helping young people vote,” Michels said. “It’s 
in our name, but we especially  want to help new voters navigate the often confusing process 
and long term become lifelong civically engaged members of  society. Young people have been 
at the forefront of social movements throughout history and are still advocating for issues  that 
they care about, all around the country.”
At the time of this article’s publication, CALPIRG has registered 4,000 new student voters. 
According to Michels, the New  Voters Project aims to register 6,000 additional voters by Nov.  
3, and to send out thousands of “Get out the Vote”  reminders leading up to election day.  
Individuals receive these text and email reminders by  pledging to vote online. The  2020 pledge 
has added the condition of asking students “to vote safely” due to the COVID-19 pandemic,  
suggesting they  register to vote online and request mail or absentee ballots if their state allows  
it.
These virtual reminders have been a part of the New Voters Project for a number of years, but  
their relevance takes on a  new role in 2020. Traditionally, CALPIRG reaches students at UCSD  
by maintaining an active campus presence, including  in-person class announcements and 
taking part in tabling and flyering on Library Walk. However, amidst campus closures,  current 
volunteers are forced to utilize predominantly online forms of outreach. This summer and fall, 
CALPIRG is  attempting to reach students by attending Zoom classes, collaborating with  
professors and student organizations to spread  the word, and asking interns to make sure their  
friends pledge to vote online.  
“This is definitely a major concern, but we’re adapting,” Michels said. “A major challenge is  
reaching brand new students,  especially transfers and freshmen, most of whom have never 
even stepped foot on the UCSD campus but will join us in Fall.  This year they’re missing out on 
the opportunity to be part of an in-person campus community, move-in-day registration,  and 
other activities, which is why it is especially important that our campus administrators are also  
involved with giving  students the ability to reach their peers on this issue, wherever possible.”
The UCSD Guardian spoke with Ally Lawler, a fourth year student in Roger Revelle College, 
about her role as a remote  CALPIRG intern this year.
“Many of CALPIRG’s outreach methods take place in person and COVID has led the  
organization to adapt to remote  approaches, such as class announcements in Zoom Lectures,” 
Lawler said. “We are still dedicated to building strong  relationships with students and  
providing a platform for them to pursue their political passions and flourish as self  advocates.”Drew Avolese, a UC Santa Barbara alumnus, also shared his experiences as an intern.
“In terms of outreach, we use phone and text banking to contact individuals to ask them to 
pledge to vote this November,  which can help them get information on voting and letting 
elected officials know that young people will have a big role in  the upcoming election,” Avolese 
said. “We are also contacting Student Organizations from UCSB and UCSD and  coordinating 
with them to get out the vote and take our pledge… One of the main reasons I joined was also 
because of the  pandemic and knowing that the organization would have a more difficult time 
getting young voters registered.”
Currently, there are more than 300 UC student interns working for the New Voters Project, 
with 40 being UCSD students.  These interns are unpaid, instead being given the option to 
gain course credits in exchange for their work as long as they  have a faculty member from 
their university to sponsor them. According to Michels, the internship itself also acts as a  
weekly class that teaches students about topics like the history of student activism and 
campaign strategy.
“My internship with CALPIRG’s NVP is great because it also acts as a class to teach its 
members about political activism and how to develop the skills to either further our abilities 
in political work or even how to be [a] proper political citizen,” Avolese said. “On one of [our] 
workdays, we all read an article on political activism and have a discussion in smaller groups 
about how that can help us with the New Voters Project. It taught me that activism is 
something that has to be developed, and not just a heroic action that one spontaneously 
takes.”
Neither Avolese nor Lawler are receiving course credits for their internship. 
“I joined CALPIRG because I am determined to shift the tide in voter turnout rates in this 
country,” Lawler explained. “The youth must make their political presence known, their 
values respected and their issues addressed. As the largest and most diverse group of potential 
voters, we must be a political voice for ourselves and the individuals who do not have the 
ability to directly vote. My encouragement is to express yourself and submit your ballot.”
The 2020 New Voters Project will conclude on Nov. 3, but the Student PIRGS New Voters 
Project will continue into the 2022 election season. 
Image courtesy of CALPIRG.CALPIRG Pushes Young Voter Registration with New Voters Project - UCSD Guardian