Accessed: 5/22/2020 Disreguardian: Horoscopes For the Week of March 29 - UCSD Guardian
Disreguardian: Horoscopes For the Week of March 29
 March 30, 2020  Jack Dorfman
With April coming up in a hurry and Mercury falling out of retrograde, it seems like 
now is as  good a time as any to help you all out with a fresh batch of horoscopes.
Aries | March 21 to April 19
You’re related to the God of War for gosh sakes and Mars is half in shadow right 
now. Be more aggressive in achieving your goals! Think “What would Ares do?”
Taurus | April 20 to May 20
Like I said, Mercury is no longer in retrograde. Also, you will find yourself 
heartbroken soon. 
Gemini | May 21 to June 20
April showers bring May flowers, so plan on going flower-watching. On second 
thought, you  don’t seem like the type to respect the flowers’ sovereignty, so maybe 
just google some pretty  pictures instead. 
Cancer | June 21 to July 22
The weather always seems to heat up right around now.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click hereLeo | July 23 to Aug. 22
His name is Leo and he dances on the sand. Keep going on those solo trips to the 
beach, chief, there are good things in store for you there on your journey to self-
love. Or maybe it was the  desert…
Virgo | Aug. 23 to Sept. 22
You will be happy and filled to the brim with good vibes and joy, especially if you 
were lucky  enough to be born on Aug. 25.
Libra | Sept. 23 to Oct. 22
Zebra. That’s all that rhymes with Libra. If you can think of anything else shoot me 
an email. Stripes don’t work on you, though, so don’t try that. Please. 
Scorpio | Oct. 23 to Nov. 21
You’ve been really toxic lately. Some might say you’ve been venomous, or even just 
downright poisonous. 
Sagittarius | Nov. 22 to Dec. 21
Neptune is spinning sideways, so consider rewatching some rom coms. You’ll be 
surprised to find that they still make you feel lonely. 
Capricorn | Dec. 22 to Jan. 19
Stop taking shortcuts. Double knot those laces and quit jaywalking. It’ll help you in 
the long run.  
Aquarius | Jan. 20 to Feb. 18
Wait for Pluto to be reinstated as a planet before you make any big life decisions or 
take any risks. 
Pisces | Feb. 19 to March 20
I have a feeling you might want to own a fish. Don’t buy a beta, though, you need 
to portray yourself as more of an alpha. Maybe get a lionfish. 
Editor’s Note: The Disreguardian is satirical and is published annually for The 
Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Lifestyle will resume publishing normal content 
next week.Accessed: 5/22/2020 Disreguardian: Horoscopes For the Week of March 29 - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/22/2020 DisreGuardian: Middle-Aged Man Leaves 20-Year Relationship for Younger, Hotter Franchise - UCSD Guardian
DisreGuardian: Middle-Aged Man Leaves 20-Year
Relationship for Younger, Hotter Franchise
 March 30, 2020  Praveen Nair
Photo Courtesy Wikimedia Commons
After 20 successful years in a loving relationship with the New England Patriots, 
quarterback  Tom Brady kissed his wife (and son) goodbye, heading off to the 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers for, in his words, “a team that’ll let me do whatever I damn 
well please.” 
Brady spoke glowingly of his new organization: “They do stuff for me that the 
Patriots never would — I can stay up until 10 o’clock on a weekday; they’ve 
promised to delete their texts after they deflate my footballs, and I don’t have to 
worry about Coach Belichick slashing my tires  whenever we lose.”
Like many wealthy retirees, Brady headed to Florida in the hopes of reviving 
something that  had in fact been irretrievably lost years ago — but his arrival is still 
heralded by the eager Tampa  Bay fans, who call it the biggest catch for the area 
since the Church of Scientology settled in  Clearwater. The decision was baffling to many, who could not understand why Brady would 
choose Tampa, of all places, to end his career. Head coach Bruce Arians told 
reporters, “You know, we’ve  actually won a Super Bowl more recently than the 
Cowboys or the 49ers,” a statement that  Politifact rated “technically true, but 
kind of pathetic that he’d bring it up.”
The Buccaneers had long been unsatisfied with their prior quarterback, Jameis 
Winston, who led both the NFL and the local Publix seafood section in 
interceptions. In a twist indicative of his tenure, Winston’s first and last passes as 
a Buccaneer were both interceptions returned for touchdowns; in fact, it’s 
possible that Brady’s pick-six against the Titans that eliminated the Patriots from 
the playoffs was an homage to Winston, foreshadowing his eventual free-agency
decision.
But Brady was ultimately lured by the notion of retiring in Florida. “This place 
came highly recommended by [Patriots owner] Robert Kraft, who comes down 
here all the time,” Brady said. “Rob Gronkowski also tells me that he’s having a 
lot of fun in Florida, and I’m excited to do ‘fun’ for the first time in decades — I 
used to love it when I was a boy.”
As of press time, Brady was getting acquainted with his new teammates in Tampa 
Bay, who nervously wondered who would inform Brady that they were probably 
going to go 8–8.
Editor’s Note: The DisreGuardian is satirical and is published annually for The 
Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Sports will resume publishing normal content next 
week.DisreGuardian: Middle-Aged Man Leaves 20-Year Relationship for Younger, Hotter Franchise - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/22/2020Accessed: 5/22/2020 Spring Quarter List of Departments and Programs Allowing P/NP Grading Options - UCSD Guardian
Spring Quarter List of Departments and Programs Allowing
P/NP Grading Options
 March 30, 2020  Ranjani Shankar
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here .
The UC San Diego Academic Senate issued a campus-wide notice  on March 23, 
2020 stating  that the Senate Council is allowing departments, programs, and 
colleges to let students take  major, minor or general education requirement 
courses with the pass/no pass grading option in  the Spring 2020 quarter. This 
exception is one among many changes implemented for the  quarter in light of 
the coronavirus pandemic.
Due to “too much variation across disciplines, degrees, and student needs,” the 
Council is not  mandating a uniform policy for the entire university. Instead, 
departments and colleges have  been left to decide whether or not they will 
excuse students from taking requirement courses for  a letter grade.
Based on information published on UCSD websites and emails received by the 
UCSD Guardian staff, the following departments and programs have announced 
that they are allowing major  and minor courses to be taken with the pass/no 
pass grading option:that they are allowing major  and minor courses to be taken with the pass/no 
pass grading option:
•Biological Sciences (email sent)
•Chemistry and Biochemistry (email sent)
•Cognitive Science (found here)
•Communication (found here )
•Computer Science and Engineering (found here)
•Data Science (found here)
•Economics (email sent)Accessed: 5/22/2020 Spring Quarter List of Departments and Programs Allowing P/NP Grading Options - UCSD Guardian
•Maximum of 4 courses
•Education Studies (email sent)
•Electrical and Computer Engineering (found here)
•Global Health (email sent)
•Only major and minor elective courses
•Allowed for majors only
•Courses taken with the pass/no pass grading option must be petitioned
to count toward the major•International Studies Program (email sent)
•Linguistics (email sent)
•Literature (email sent)
•Math (found here)
•Making of the Modern World (email sent)
•Muir College Writing Program (email sent)
•Philosophy (email sent)
•Physics (found here)
•Political Science (email sent)
•Psychology (found here)
•A maximum of 2 upper-division courses and PSYC 60
•Public Health (found here)
•Scripps Institution of Oceanography (email sent)
•All majors
•Required lower division, required upper division, and upper division
elective courses
•Sociology (email sent)
•Urban Studies and Planning (email sent and found here)
•Visual Arts (found here)
•Warren College Writing Program (found here)Accessed: 5/22/2020 Spring Quarter List of Departments and Programs Allowing P/NP Grading Options - UCSD Guardian
This list will be updated as the Guardian receives more information. Despite the 
exception given for Spring Quarter, many departments and programs are advising 
students to consider taking major courses for a letter grade because the pass/no 
pass grading option may have an effect on financial aid, future courses that will need 
prerequisites, pre-med requirements, graduate school admissions, etc. Students 
with questions related to grading options are encouraged to contact their college and 
department or program advisors at vac.ucsd.edu .
Photo by James Song for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/26/2020 COVID-19: Vacant UCSD Dorms to House COVID-19 Patients - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: Vacant UCSD Dorms to House COVID-19 
Paties
 March 31, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
An undisclosed vacant dorm building at UC San Diego will be used to house 
COVID-19 patients, according to San Diego County Supervisor Nathan Fletcher in 
an NBC 7 article. The specific building and date of opening have  yet to be 
determined, although Fletcher anticipates the selected dorm will house between 
200-250 patients. However, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla released a campus wide 
statement  on April 1 stating that the one Nuevo East  building would be used to 
provide 340 rooms for “‘step-down’ and low-level cases of COVID-19.”
While UCSD had announced in a March 24 campus wide update  their intention to 
create  isolation housing for students starting April 1, 2020, the only notice for on 
campus housing to  be used was done by UCSD Health Chief Information Officer Dr. 
Christopher Longhurst on  public radio on March 21, although concrete details as to 
whether or not  the housing plan would come to fruition had not been made public.
According to the article, the dorm will be used for COVID-19 patients who are notsick enough  to be in a hospital, but who are still too sick to return home.
San Diego County health officials will need to secure a number of medical supplies, 
as well as figure out the logistics behind the patient housing before any dorms will 
be open for operation. No date has been selected, although Fletcher suggests that 
the dorm will be operational in the “near future.”
While the UCSD administration has encouraged students to return home, a number 
of students remain in on campus housing. While no initial word had been given as 
to where the patients would be housed, an April 1 statement by Chancellor Khosla 
stated that San Diego County would be leasing one Nuevo East building to house 
350 low-risk COVID-19 patients.
Before Khosla’s statement was released, a representative from the Graduate Student 
Association reached out to the UCSD Guardian to state that several residents of the 
Viento Building in the Nuevo West complex believed that their building was being 
used for COVID-19 patient isolation, which resulted in many graduate student 
residents leaving the building. The university has not yet to responded to a request 
for comment to clarify where these patients will be housed.
As of Tuesday, March 31, the city of San Diego had a cumulative total of 734 cases of 
COVID-19, according to the San Diego Union-Tribune.
The UCSD Guardian has reached out to Nathan Fletcher and the UCSD 
Administration, and will continue to monitor this story as it develops.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.
This article was updated at 7:30 pm to reflect that the UCSD administration had 
previously announced their intention to create student isolation housing in dorms 
on March 24.
This article was updated at 12:30 pm to reflect that the UCSD Health Chief 
Information Officer had announced an intention for the university to house 
COVID-19 patients on campus.
This article was updated at 12:30 pm to reflect that according to a representative 
of the Graduate Student Association, graduate students in the Viento Building of 
This article was updated at 6:50 pm to include information from a notification sent 
out by Chancellor Khosla.Accessed: 5/26/2020 COVID-19: Vacant UCSD Dorms to House COVID-19 Patients - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
Nuevo West had reasons to believe that the building was being used for patient 
isolation.
This article was updated at 6:50 pm to include information from a notification 
sent out by Chancellor Khosla.COVID-19: Vacant UCSD Dorms to House COVID-19 Patients - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: My Very First Zoom God - UCSD Guardian
DisreGuardian: My Very First Zoom God
 March 31, 2020  Steven Zhou
UC Zoom Diego undergraduate Sasha D. Stansing recounts their very first 
Zoom God ever.
To comply with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommendations, 
Sun God was  renamed Zoom God for this year, and featured Spotify and Apple 
Music as headliners. As an 18-year-old, small-town kid from New England, I 
never thought I’d get the chance to have a real  concert experience, let alone one 
that starred my two favorite artists. Zoom God Festival was the  first concert 
festival that I have ever been to, and it was unlike anything I’ve ever witnessed 
in my life. 
I ran into some bumps in the beginning. First off, it took an incredibly long 
time to get into the  festival. I’ve heard in years past that Zoom God had fairly 
long lines, but even after logging in  right when the festival opened, I had to 
wait three more hours before the server finally opened  up. Once I got in, I took 
a spot as close to the presenter’s screen as possible and waited for Apple  
Music’s opening act.There weren’t too many people tuned in to Apple Music’s set, probably because 
they were  waiting for Spotify. It’s unfortunate, given how underground Apple 
Music is, because their  performance was anything but niche. While their sound 
quality could be improved upon, their  visuals were absolutely stunning. It was 
like I was watching a music video offline, except now it  was real-time.
Thankfully, the wait between Apple Music’s set and Spotify’s set wasn’t too 
long. There was a  surprise appearance from TikTok, but to be honest, it kind of 
felt like TikTok was just a bunch  of people doing the same dance to the same 
song over and over again. Everyone seemed to be  super hyped about K Camp’s 
“Lottery (Renegade)” or Doja Cat’s “Say So,” but every now and then, there 
were people with nice abs, lip-syncing to other songs. 
Once Spotify made its entrance though, the entire conference call went crazy. 
The people tuning in almost exceeded Zoom Pro’s maximum limit of 300 
attendees. Spotify played their “Daily Mix 1,” which was apparently “designed 
to provide familiar, comfortable music within each of the user’s top listening 
modes.” Since the set offered “nearly endless playback,” Spotify almost went 
over their allotted time. Not that anyone would have minded; everyone seemed 
to enjoy what they were hearing anyways. 
For the more analytical readers out there, I gave a review and rating for 
various aspects of Zoom God below: Accessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: My Very First Zoom God - UCSD Guardian
 enue: ★★★★★
Considering the amount of people, I was so impressed by how comfy and 
clean the venue was. I  especially loved all the pillows and blankets that were 
provided — I felt really snug. It helped  make the concert feel more intimate, 
like it was happening in my very own bedroom. 
Crowd engagement: ★★★☆☆
The concert was awesome, but the crowds were so pushy. This one person 
called Mom just  barged into me for some reason and started asking me why 
I wasn’t doing the dishes. Get a grip  girl! 
Also, I thought the crowds would be rowdier, but everyone just muted their 
microphones. Is this what people meant by the silent disco that happened 
last year?Accessed: 5/26/2020
 enue: ★★☆☆☆
The food was meh. It kind of tasted like everything was just microwaved 
for a few minutes. We didn’t have any hot dog buns, so I had to use a 
week-old tortilla. It was a weird combo, but it wasn’t that bad! Definitely 
wouldn’t eat it again though.
Security: ★★★☆☆
Didn’t have any complaints. Locking my door and entering my Zoom 
password only took about  30 seconds. I was just bummed out that the 
security doggos  that I heard so much about from last  year didn’t come 
back. But, once I saw a good pup hop onto the headliner’s lap, I felt at ease 
that campus security was still on top of things. And I’ve heard so much 
about people not being able  to sneak stuff into the venue, but I had no 
problem vaping in the middle of the show. I mean,  my smoke alarm went 
off, but nobody stopped me.
Performance quality: ★☆☆☆☆
The performances were very laggy compared to what people have told me 
about concerts in general. I just felt really disconnected from all the artists. 
Even though I was only a few inches away from the artists, I still felt like I 
couldn’t see them. So much for waiting by the stage from  the beginning.
OVERALL: ★★★☆☆DisreGuardian: My Very First Zoom God - UCSD Guardian
With Zoom God as my very first concert experience ever, I was blown away by 
how it barely met my expectations. Hopefully, A.S. Concert and Events will be 
able to top this performance next  year. 
Art by Alex Liang.
Editor’s Note: The DisreGuardian is a satire issue published annually for The 
UCSD Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Arts & Entertainment will continue 
publishing normal content  next week. ( A “Zoom God” is not actually happening, 
but it might’ve been cool if it did.) Accessed: 5/26/2020 10 Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD Guardian
10 Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining
 March 31, 2020   Hannah Rosenberg
Documentaries and docuseries can provide a glimpse into another’s world, and 
make you feel as  though you are immersed in their same environment  for a 
while. In a time like this, during the COVID-19 pandemic, escaping into a wealth 
of knowledge and the richness of lived experiences can serve as a great reminder 
of what exists beyond our own individual lives, and show us the stories that 
aren’t shared in mainstream everyday media. Listening to the raw stories of 
different experiences of those living on the same planet can show us the far 
reach of human potential through a film like “Olga,” or can ground humanity 
with the unfiltered tale of “The White Helmets,” and everything in between. As 
someone who has felt drawn to documentaries since I was as young as I can 
remember, I have acquired quite an extensive list of recommendations. They 
have changed my mindset, opened portals of curiosity, and some have 
dramatically changed how I live my life. Here are just 10 of my favorites to add 
to your quarantine to-watch list!
“Olga”
“Olga” is a short documentary about an elite Olympic-level Russian rhythmic 
gymnast turned dancer. It is a short watch, standing at just 11 minutes, but it is a powerful film nonetheless.  From being sent away to a training camp at the age of 
six, to surviving a kidnap, to becoming a leading industry dancer and 
choreographer, Olga Sokolova has a contagious level of inspiration and 
resilience. I might be biased since I was one of her first American students, but 
even so, I can objectively proclaim that this is a story worth watching. The film 
can be found here on Vimeo.
“Cheer”
If you haven’t yet heard about “Cheer,” now you have! This Netflix original 
docuseries takes  viewers through Navarro College’s competitive cheer program 
as the team prepares to battle for  their title at the National Cheerleaders 
Association Nationals in Daytona Beach, Florida. While,  in the past, 
cheerleading has been promoted as a sport that involves weightless cheers and is  
simply a sideline activity at football games, the close knit Navarro team 
members prove it is so much more than that. If you are like me a month ago and 
are hesitant to start the series — trust me — it gets good. There’s a reason why 
my coworkers, classmates, and friends are all still obsessing over it. 
“Chef’s Table”
This six-season, 30-episode Netflix docuseries is an art of its own. Each episode 
features a different top-tier chef within their cuisine, and takes a deep dive into 
the inspiration behind their culinary creations, with Season 4 exclusively 
focusing on the world of pastry. The drop-dead gorgeous cinematography alone 
is one reason to watch, but even more than that, “Chef’s Table” is bound to 
implore you to appreciate the details of food these professionals think about  
every moment of their day. By the end of your binge, you will feel as though you 
are qualified to be a restaurateur and food critic in your own city.
“Love and Bananas”
Unlike many wildlife documentaries that seem to drag on and reinforce how us 
humans are killing our own planet, “Love and Bananas” will leave you feeling 
hopeful and informed. Ashley Bell originally planned for a short trip to Thailand 
and Cambodia to meet Lek Clark, an elephant activist who Time Magazine 
named “Hero of Asia,” to shadow an elephant rescue. The trip turned into much 
more than that though, and the result earned a 94 percent on Rotten Tomatoes. I 
attended a screening and Q&A with Ashley in 2018, and this documentary still 
remains in the front of my mind. You can find it here on YouTube, as well as on 
Amazon Prime Video and Google Play.Accessed: 5/26/2020 10 Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
“The White Helmets”
With a shaky camera, this film follows “The White Helmets,” as they call  
themselves, a  volunteer rescue team of the Syrian Civil Defence that work and train 
across Syria and Turkey, saving lives in the wake of violence. If you still need a 
push to go ahead and watch, this doc took  home Best Documentary (Short Subject) 
at the 2017 Oscars. It is waiting for you on Netflix!
“Finding Vivian Maier”
In my freshman photography class, my TA introduced me to the work of Vivian  
Maier, a New  York nanny disguised as a French mystery lady. I only became more 
deeply intrigued when I  watched this documentary about the accidental discovery 
of Vivian’s street photography after  art collector John Maloof won a box of her 
negatives. This film is the investigation of Vivian’s  life behind her Rolleiflex camera 
lens, and it is so intriguing that you forget to eat. Netflix would  make me a happier 
subscriber if they added it back to their collection, but, in the meantime, go  watch 
it on Amazon.
“Three Identical Strangers”
This story reaches so far beyond crazy, and then only gets crazier. I had to remind 
myself only  about 100 times that I was watching a documentary, and not some 
fiction film by a writer with a  bold imagination. But alas, this story is indeed very 
real. It all started when Robert “Bobby” Shafran moved into his college dorm and 
students mistook him for his soon-to-be-discovered  identical twin brother, Eddy, 
who attended the same school the year before. The third unknown  triplet was 
identified and reunited when the story of the two brothers hit all major media  
outlets. The film explores the reason behind the triplet’s separation, an evil-
minded adoption  agency, and their unknowing partnership with a nature versus 
nurture project. An assistant  researcher and fellow La Jollan who was involved, 
Natasha Josefowitz, is even connected to UC  San Diego and was honored by the 
UCSD Health Sciences department in 2018. Snuggle up with  your dog, some 
popcorn, and find it here on Amazon .
“My Last Days”
This docuseries produced by “Jane the Virgin’s” Justin Baldoni has millions of hits 
both on the  internet and in the heart. Each episode tells the story of a person who  is 
terminally ill and  documents how they choose to live the remainder of their life, 
ranging from several years to just a couple weeks. Zach, Claire, Anthony, Miranda, 
and others have an outlook on life that people with a longer lasting clock have likely10 Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
never considered. If you need a mindset reboot, I’ve got  your back. Search for 
“My Last Days” on SoulPancake’s YouTube channel.
“Fire In Paradise”
The intimate interviews in this documentary are what make time stop and your 
jaw drop. While  the record-breaking Paradise “Camp Fire” unfolded in the fall of 
2018, I found myself wondering whether the individual stories of those who 
survived would be later told on camera.  This film was the answer to my question. 
The way in which this account of Nov. 8, when the fire  started, is packaged in a 
beautiful way to honor the people who didn’t make it as well as those  who did but 
who now live with the trauma. Stop reading and go find it on Netflix.
“Knock Down The House”
Who knew that U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, aka “AOC”, would 
become a  three-lettered household name? This documentary crew somehow 
smelled her future win even  though the odds weren’t in AOC’s favor when they 
began filming her grassroots campaign. After  all, she had a single nomination, 
which was from her brother. This film shows her unlikely  journey to the seat of 
New York’s 14th Congressional District in 2018. Regardless of your  political 
stance, the power of persistence and lived experience and the demonstration of 
the quote “you miss 100 percent of the shots you don’t take” is revealed strongly 
in this original Netflix documentary.
Art by Anthony Tran10 Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: 10 Songs To Sing While You W
ash Your Hands - UCSD Guardian
Disreguardian: 10 Songs To Sing While You Wash Your 
Hands
 April 1, 2020  Annika Olives
The pandemic has everyone and their mother reminding us to wash our hands 
for 20 seconds, meaning that “Happy Birthday” twice is reverberating in 
bathrooms across the country. If the  people you’re quarantining with are sick 
and tired of hearing the ABCs, here are ten snippets of  songs to add to your 
handwashing repertoire. 
For all my musical theatre lovers, hand-washing is just another 
excuse to belt out  a show stopping tune. Here’s “On My Own” from 
Les Mis — feel free to add more  dramatic pauses to make sure your 
hands are extra clean. 
“I love him
But when the night is over
He is gone
The river’s just a river
Without him
The world around me changes
The trees are bare and everywhereThe trees are bare and everywhere
The streets are full of strangers”
Can’t get enough of Lil Nas X? Now’s the perfect time to bring back 
“Old Town Road” 
“Yeah, I’m gonna take my horse to the old town road
I’m gonna ride ’til I can’t no more
I’m gonna take my horse to the old town road
I’m gonna ride ’til I can’t no more”
If you’ve been spending all your quarantine time on Tik Tok, Doja 
Cat’s “Say So” should be easy to recall — just be sure to sing it twice!
“Why don’t you say so?
Didn’t even notice, no punches left to roll with
You got to keep me focused, you want it, say so”
Feeling simpy? Lean into it with Sam Smith’s “Stay With Me” 
“Oh, won’t you stay with me?
‘Cause you’re all I need
This ain’t love, it’s clear to see
But darling, stay with me”
Those with kids or younger siblings will definitely be familiar with 
“Baby Shark” —two verses will take you right under 20 seconds
“Baby Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo doo
Baby Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo doo
Baby Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo doo
Baby Shark
Mommy Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo dooAccessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: 10 Songs To Sing While You Wash Your Hands - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: 10 Songs To Sing While You Wash Your Hands - UCSD Guardian
Mommy Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo doo
Mommy Shark
Doo doo, doo doo doo doo
Mommy Shark”
Throw it back to the 2000s with Natasha Bedingfield’s “Unwritten”
“Feel the rain on your skin
No one else can feel it for you
Only you can let it in
No one else, no one else
Can speak the words on your lips
Drench yourself in words unspoken
Live your life with arms wide open
Today is where your book begins
The rest is still unwritten”
The title of the TLC song may be “No Scrubs,” but your hands will 
be well scrubbed  once you finish this chorus 
“And no, I don’t want no scrub
A scrub is a guy that can’t get no love from me
Hanging out the passenger side of his best friend’s ride
Trying to holler at me
I don’t want no scrub
A scrub is a guy that can’t get no love from me
Hanging out the passenger side of his best friend’s ride
Trying to holler at me”
Everyone loves a Disney Channel classic, and what’s better than 
the iconic “Send It On,” featuring Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez, 
Demi Lovato, and the Jonas Brothers? 
“Send it on, on and on
Just one hand can heal another
Be a part, reach your heart
Just one spark starts a fire
With one little actionAccessed: 5/26/2020
The chain reaction will never stop
Make it strong
Shine a light, and send it on”
If you were more of a Nickelodeon kid, we’ve got one for you too. Try 
“Give It Up” from “Victorious”, because, in the famous words of 
Victoria Justice, “we can all sing.” 
“Give it up
You can’t win
‘Cause I know where you’ve been
Such a shame you don’t put up a fight
That’s a game that we play at the end of the night
It’s the same old story but you never get it right
Give it up”
And finally, if you’re having trouble remembering song lyrics, 
Usher’s “Yeah!” is  the song for you — just be sure to sing it twice!
“Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah”
Editor’s Note: The Disreguardian is satire published annually for The 
Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Lifestyle will resume publishing regular content 
next week.
Art by Susan SunDisreguardian: 10 Songs To Sing While You Wash Your Hands - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: Quaran-tunes - UCSD Guardian
DisreGuardian: Quaran-tunes
 April 1, 2020  Jahfreen Alam
Practicing social distancing like a good humanitarian? Taking other people’s 
lives into  consideration? We sure hope you are! Like every protagonist in a 
dystopian world without  toilet paper, you need a killer soundtrack. Here’s A&E’s 
top songs to listen to while you stay  inside, experience emotion again, and learn 
how to bake sourdough bread.
First comes your heart lighting up when their box lights up on Zoom, then comes 
a breakout room for two, until you know you’re ready for it … that first DM.
•1HHG<RX1RZ´E\/DG\$QWHEHOOXP
•³+H\7KHUH'HOLODK´E\3ODLQ:KLWH7¶V
•³.LVV0H7KUX7KH3KRQH´E\6RXOMD%R\IW6DPPLH
•³,Q0\'UHDPV´E\.DOL8FKLV
•“Haven’t Met You Yet” by Michael Bublé 
When UC Socially Dead turned into UC Social Distancing, you didn’t realize that•“In My Room” by Frank Ocean
•“Supalonely” by BENEE ft. Gus Dapperton
•“Bye Bye Bye” by NSYNC
•“See You Again” by Wiz Khalifa ft. Charlie Puth
• “Nobody” by Mitski Accessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: Quaran-tunes - UCSD Guardian
the peak of  your college social life would be breaking down in G—– instead of 
Zoom.
I don’t care if you’re going to be inside for the next few months — just buy  
Animal Crossing instead.
•“Help!” by The Beatles
•“Stop” by Spice Girls
•“Wait a Minute!” by Willow
•“You Need to Calm Down” by Taylor Swift
•“I Will Survive” by Gloria Gaynor 
Art by Anthony Tran.
Editor’s Note: The DisreGuardian is a satire issue published annually for The 
UCSD Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Arts & Entertainment will continue 
publishing normal content  next week. (However, you can find this playlist on 
our Spotify @ucsdtheeguardian, if you’re  interested.)Accessed: 5/26/2020 DISREGUARDIAN: News Editor’s Life in Shambles; Publishes Hit Piece on Self - UCSD Guardian
 April 1, 2020   Jacob Sutherland
UCSD Guardian News Editor Jacob Sutherland has allegedly had one too many 
mental breakdowns, according to Sutherland himself. This news comes after 
having spent two-and-a-half years too long at UC S– D—-.
Sutherland, a Thurgood Marshall senior who has served as the News Editor of the 
UCSD Guardian since Spring Quarter 2019, has had a college career that several 
sources close to the  editor would describe as “tumultuous at best.”
The source of Sutherland’s demise began before he ever stepped foot on campus, 
when he  allegedly began and ended an online relationship over summer 2017 with 
his first-year  roommate Jupiter Demono. According to Marcus Chan, Sutherland’s 
second-year roommate,  Sutherland and Demono did not speak for the entirety of 
the year aside from a drunken one  night stand. However, that was not the end of 
their relationship.
“I know that I’m one of his closest friends, but off the record, Jacob is a stupid 
bitch,” Chan said. “I was so happy after that first year was over because I thoughtit was the end of the whole  Jupiter saga, but at that point in time I could never 
even imagine how much more wild things  would become.”
According to Chan, Sutherland and Demono would eventually begin 
communicating throughout  their second year of school, with Sutherland allegedly 
giving Demono large sums of money after  he got into legal trouble during 
summer 2019. Chan said that Sutherland even suggested that  the two elope in Las 
Vegas to solve the problem, although no such thing ended up happening.
“Jacob has told me that he has since ceased all communications with Jupiter,” 
Chan said. “But even with the entire world on a coronavirus lockdown right now, 
it wouldn’t surprise me if the two somehow started up drama again.”
Sutherland has not had his problems limited to the realm of personal 
relationships. Allegedly, the news editor holds certain controversial views.
According to Geena Roberts, a Sixth College senior who serves as the Opinion 
Editor for the Guardian and allegedly is Sutherland’s “work husband,” 
Sutherland’s controversies are not too hard to find.
“Jacob writes a column for the Opinion section called ‘PC Princess,’ where he 
promotes a social justice framework for nuanced issues,” Roberts said. “That in 
and of itself is not a problem. However, what is controversial is the fact that Jacob 
stans problematic right wing figures like Meghan McCain, Trisha Paytas, and 
Azealia Banks.”
Sutherland is no stranger to criticism like this. Growing up gay in a 
predominantly conservative part of the country, Sutherland experienced a lot of 
hate for his lifestyle, which some argue contributed to his inability to make 
accurate life choices.
Patricia Sutherland, the news editor’s mother, agrees with this notion to an 
extent.
“It would make a lot of sense that any hate he may have experienced in high 
school could have contributed to his strange college choices,” Mrs. Sutherland 
said. “However, I would take whatever he may have told you about his childhood 
with a grain of salt. He likes to exaggerate a lot of his life story, and he by noAccessed: 5/26/2020 DISREGUARDIAN: News Editor’s Life in Shambles; Publishes Hit Piece on Self - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
means had a rough childhood, even growing up in the closet.”
Sutherland recently moved back to his hometown due to the COVID-19  
pandemic. Mrs. Sutherland told the Guardian that he has already begun to dive 
even further off of the deep end  since returning.
“Not even two days into quarantine, Jacob told me that he wanted to become a 
stripper to ‘make  them dolla dolla bills,’” Mrs. Sutherland said. “It’s moments like 
these where I have to look  myself in the mirror and ask ‘Where did I go wrong as 
a mother?’”
The news editor agreed to sit down with himself to address some of the  
allegations brought  forth by his peers.
“Would I describe myself as a problematic public figure? Most definitely,” 
Sutherland said.  “However, I do want to push back on the notion that I am a bad 
person. Was it wrong for me to  continually engage with Jupiter? Sure. Should I 
not be a Meghan McCain stan? You could make  an argument for that. But when it 
comes to being a friend to the OnlyFans community, a  supporter of the local and 
sustainable drug market, and an overall bad bitch, you would be hard  pressed to 
find anyone who would be against those morals.”
Despite these allegations, Sutherland believes that he is still fit to serve as news 
editor for the  Guardian.
“I believe that I am still fit to be a reporter because, at the end of the day, none of 
these  allegations can be proven,” Sutherland affirmed. “Furthermore, we as a 
nation find ourselves in  an era of fake news, so it’s important to check the validity 
of your sources. Given that you are  interviewing me for an issue of the  
‘Disreguardian,” all I have left to say is: ‘Happy April Fools.’”
Sutherland will continue to serve as news editor for the Guardian for the 
remainder of the  current academic year. Likewise, he encourages you to 
subscribe to his instagram at  @jacobsutherlandofficial .
Artwork by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.DISREGUARDIAN: News Editor’s Life in Shambles; Publishes Hit Piece on Self - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020  DISREGUARDIAN: Students Claim Taco Bell’s Discontinuation of Nacho Fries is “The Most Influential Thing to Happen 2020” - UCSD
 April 1, 2020  Megan Cox
Outrage broke out amongst UC S– D—- students after Taco Bell announced its 
discontinuation of Nacho Fries. 
Esther Thomas, Thurgood Marshall College junior, spoke on this discontinuation in 
an interview with the UCSD Guardian.
“I’ve been holding on through 2020,” Thomas said. “I held on through the wildfires 
in Australia, the floods in Indonesia, the potential war with Iran, the tragic death of 
Kobe Bryant, a contentious presidential election, the Taal Volcano eruption, the 
international quarantine due  to the coronavirus, but this Taco Bell thing is the last 
straw.”
Christian Mitchell, an Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman, commented on 
Thomas’s remarks.
“I don’t really know what all those other things Esther just talked about are, but I 
still really like  Nacho Fries,” Mitchell said. Guardian  San Diego-based priest Rob Girgich from First Life Baptist Church spoke on the 
effect of Taco  Bell’s announcement on locals.
“Our service attendance is dwindling. This Taco Bell thing is just causing 
people to lose faith. We are loyal and patient people, but that doesn’t mean we 
don’t have our limits,” Girgich said. “Taco Bell giveth, and Taco Bell taketh 
away.”
Father Girgich then threw his hands in the air, looked up at the sky, and yelled, 
“Why? Why do we have to be tested like this?” 
In 2005, the American public had a similar response to McDonald’s 
discontinuation of the McRib. Churches experienced a 64 percent dip in 
attendance with one church goer quoted saying, “Wafers and wine just don’t 
taste as good when you know you can’t have a McRib afterwards.”
The discontinuation of the McRib had massive pushback from the entire public 
with many people claiming it was “the most influential event of 2005.”
While 2005 was a tumultuous year for the world because of events like 
Hurricane Katrina, the London bombings, some of the deadliest tornados on 
record, and the bird flu pandemic, the Bush Administration appeased public 
complaints by making the McRib their number one priority.
In October 2005, President George W. Bush declared a National State of 
Emergency over the McRib. The crisis ended when McDonalds agreed to serve 
the dish seasonally.
Although the Trump administration has made no formal announcements, 
rumors have been circulating that Donald Trump may follow in Bush’s 
footsteps regarding the Nacho Fries, and that a National State of Emergency on 
the matter is imminent.
UCSD Psychology Professor, Sophea Te, conducted a poll regarding public 
opinion on the discontinuation. According to the poll, 72 percent of Americans 
oppose the discontinuation of Nacho Fries, 24 percent of Americans can see 
themselves ordering other items from Taco Bell, and 4 percent of people do not 
care because they currently cannot leave their houses to go get Taco Bell.Accessed: 5/26/2020  DISREGUARDIAN: Students Claim T aco Bell’s Discontinuation of Nacho Fries is “The Most Influential Thing to Happen 2020” - UCSD
 Guardian  Te conducted this poll as part of her research regarding the correlation between 
socioeconomics  and Nacho Fry opinions.
“My team’s findings are really quite extraordinary,” Te said. “According to our 
research, the  socioeconomic status of a person determines how deeply they care 
about trivial events in times  of crisis like these. To put it simply, the Earth was 
already on fire before Taco Bell’s  announcement. If you can’t see that, you grew up 
a privileged bitch.”
Scott Keeler, a Taco Bell employee and recent UCSD graduate, spoke to the 
Guardian about his  opinion about the contentious menu change.
“I am 26 years old, and I’m a graduate student in cognitive science,” Keeler said. 
“The economy  is so bad right now, so the job I had lined up at Microsoft after 
graduation fell through. I have$100,000 in student debt and no way to pay it, so 
now I’m working at a f*cking Taco Bell. So, frankly, I don’t give a shit about your 
Nacho Fries.”
Representatives from Taco Bell did not respond to numerous requests for 
comment on the  discontinuation of Nacho Fries.
Photo courtesy of Taco Bell. Guardian  Accessed: 5/26/2020  DISREGUARDIAN: Students Claim T aco Bell’s Discontinuation of Nacho Fries is “The Most Influential Thing to Happen 2020” - UCSDAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian ‘Submission’: Please Quarantine your Publication - UCSD Guardian
 April 1, 2020  Geena Roberts
The headline of this article was updated April 1st, 2020 at 10:08pm in response 
to public  feedback about a joke that failed to realize its human impact. This 
article is supposed to reflect  bizarre criticism the Guardian has received over the 
years.
Dear Editor, 
I’ve f*cking had it with you and the rest of the UCSD Guardian Staff. You embody, 
no, you exemplify the art of fake news. In order to prove to your readers that you 
are, in fact, left-wing  propagandists I have provided the following examples:
1.Not publishing Chancellor K—–’s email announcements and other business
press  releases as op-eds
This one really grinds my gears. Yep, that’s right folks. The Guardian refuses to 
run our Chancellor’s own emails to students about what is going on as opinion 
editorials. Op-ed’s do not  need opinions because these opinions are implicit. 
They also don’t need any more evidence  coming from K—– Thee Chancellorhimself. The Editors at the Guardian are just too busy  spouting #FakeNews and 
hating UC S– D—- to help our boy out. 
The same can be said for business press releases. The Guardian just hates 
capitalism so much it  can’t stand to support local businesses that aren’t 
dispensaries. Overwhelmingly positive  product reviews sponsored by the 
company and notifications about events going on are clearly  opinions, the 
Guardian just wants to see Bernie Sanders elected and the United States become 
the USSR. Accessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian ‘Submission’: Please Quarantine your Publication - UCSD Guardian
1. Proximity to Groundwork Books and Support of the COLA Strike
The Guardian office is awfully close to Groundworks books, the communist 
cavern on campus.  Coincidence? I think not. My sources tell me some of them 
buy books from there and even have  friends that work there. Thus, I’m sad to 
say, the Guardian, like all media, is a tool of Ukraine  trying to tear down what 
has made America great again. Given their refusal to publish opinion  editorials 
from businesses about their latest products, this should come as no surprise. As  
Supreme Leader Donald Trump often says, “Sad!”. 
Additionally, the Guardian’s support of the COLA strikes should make it 
obvious that they are,  in fact, fake news. Graduate students at UCSD live in La 
Jolla, California, one of the most  beautiful places in the world. My friend 
Henrietta, a graduate student at UCSD, told me she is  so grateful for the ocean 
view she gets from her 2002 Honda Civic every morning upon waking  up. Thus, 
all graduate students at UCSD who think they need affordable housing are 
wimps and  the Guardian is even more wimpy for supporting them.
1.The Opinion Column PC Princess
This column reeks of left-wing propaganda. Not only that. But its name is 
misleading. I was  originally lured into one of these articles thinking there was a 
girl I could call a stupid, ugly  bitch in the comments. WRONG. Turns out it’s a 
boy. BOYS CAN’T BE PRINCESSES. To teach  otherwise is to undo the bedrock 
of society: the role of men and women.
I don’t know what kind of world the Guardian lives in, especially the dark 
lessons taught by PC Princess, but Ben Shapiro showed me the right way to 
think. Ben Shapiro taught me that “When someone calls you a racist, sexist, 
bigot, homophobe because you happen to disagree with them about tax policy or 
same-sex marriage or abortion, that’s bullying. When someone slanders youAccessed: 5/26/2020
I don’t know what kind of world the Guardian lives in, especially the dark lessons 
taught by PC  Princess, but Ben Shapiro showed me the right way to think. Ben 
Shapiro taught me that “When  someone calls you a racist, sexist, bigot, homophobe 
because you happen to disagree with them  about tax policy or same-sex marriage or 
abortion, that’s bullying. When someone slanders you  because you happen to 
disagree with them about global warming or the government shutdown,  that’s 
bullying. When someone labels you a bad human being because they disagree with 
you,  they are bullying you. They are attacking your character without justification. 
That’s nasty. In  fact, it makes them nasty.”  
Don’t agree? That’s because you’re 
libtard snowflakes. #OWNED. 
1.Wanting more Mental Health Resources
Suck it up Zoomer. 
1.Coronavirus Coverage
Stop telling people to take action against the coronavirus on your social media 
accounts! The  coronavirus simply isn’t something you should worry about being that 
you are young, healthy,  and your spring break pictures provide great spank bank 
material. Besides, if you act  responsibly the economy will crash and the economy is 
more important than the lives of your  parents, grandparents, and friends with pre-
existing conditions. Additionally, the baby maker of  the guy who owns Hobby Lobby 
had a vision that stores should stay open, and that everything  would be fine. Case in  
point. 
Climax: 
Readers, hopefully I have convinced you of  the Guardian’s failure to be a “news” 
organization.  They are Fake News. Period. For the sake of everyone quarantine your 
publication. 
For REAL non-partisan news and opinions consider following the Koala, my 8chan 
account
P.S Also, where the f*ck is Coffee Shop Woes for Caffeine Deprived Hoes Part 2,
Coffee Shop economics through an intersectional lense?! It’s been six months.DisreGuardian ‘Submission’: Please Quarantine your Publication - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
Signed, 
SadIncel69
The Sixth College Racoons 
Donald J. Trump and Co. 
Chancellor Bhosla 
The National Review 
Eleanor Roosevelt College (Yes, we exist)
Editor’s Note: The DisreGuardian is satire published annually for the Guardian’s 
April Fool’s  issue. Opinion will resume publishing non-satire content next week.DisreGuardian ‘Submission’: Please Quarantine your Publication - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: A day in the Life of a Zoom Student - UCSD Guardian
DisreGuardian: A day in the Life of a Zoom Student
 April 1, 2020  Zara  Irshad
The “Glee” cover of “Don’t Stop Believing” has been your trusty alarm sound since 
eighth grade.  This morning was no different. You awake to the blaring vocals, 
ready to take on Spring  Quarter. As you turn on your phone to check the time,  
however, panic begins to stir in your  stomach. It’s 7:57 a.m., you are late for your 
first class. 
You snapped up, spotted an old hoodie laying at the foot of your bed and throw it 
on. 7:58. You lunge toward your nightstand, grab the brush you placed there the  
night before, and begin  quickly running the comb through your knotted hair. 7:59. 
You dart out of your room to grab  your laptop charger, and finally, plug in your 
laptop which was lying beside you on your bed.  You pull your blankets around you  
as you whip open the screen and click on the Zoom link your  professor had 
emailed the class prior. 8:00. You are just in time. As someone who can barely  
wake up at 8 a.m., using Zoom for classes is a blessing in disguise, every extra  
minute of sleep is  well appreciated.
Once your class ends, you decide it is time to get dressed, after all,  you have a full 
day of classes ahead of you. You reach into your closet to grab a fresh pair of  
sweatpants and a new hoodie, and head to get breakfast. Gone are the days ofwearing stiff, uncomfortable jeans; Zoom  University looks out for its students like 
no other. 
The dining hall you are at this morning doesn’t take dining dollars, or even Triton 
Cash. Then you even have to make your pancakes all by yourself. But at least there 
is no line. Once the  pancakes are ready, you sit down at the dining hall table to eat 
and Zoom into your next class.
Your professor has a strict no eating during discussion policy; the punishment for 
breaking it required the student to conduct a Zoom cooking lesson for the section 
on how to make whatever they were caught eating. So you make sure to lean out of 
the frame as you quietly eat the pancakes. Your eyes are darting back and forth 
between your food and your computer screen every few seconds, and you make 
sure to make your Zoom background an old selfie so that every time you lean out 
of frame the professor won’t notice. Someone should teach a class on the tips and 
tricks of Zoom; the strange platform has so much untapped potential, so many odd 
hacks. The most innovative learning tool since airpods were made. 
 You think you are doing a pretty good job of being discrete until your mother 
walks into the kitchen, unaware that you are on a Zoom call.
“Wow, when did you make pancakes?” your mother practically yells. You feel the 
eyes of your peers burning holes into you, you are mortified. You immediately 
mute your microphone and keep your head down for the rest of class.  
Once that nightmare is over, you have half an hour to kill before your last class, so 
you decide to spend it studying your favorite topic: TikTok. After about 15 minutes 
of scrolling, you come across a video on how to make whipped coffee; you are 
instantly struck with inspiration. You scour the kitchen for instant coffee, and after 
digging through about five different cupboards you find a small jar. Quarantine 
coffee has been hard to come by, so you have to get it right the first time; you study 
the video meticulously, grab some sugar, and begin combining the ingredients. 
After 20 minutes of mixing the coffee, you are left with a sore arm and delicious 
whipped coffee. The convenience of having online classes does wonders for your 
wallet; gone are the days of waiting in line to pay $5 for a latte.
All is well until you remember that you have a class. You lunge toward your laptop, 
yet again, and scramble to log on. You get to class five minutes late, iced coffee inAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: A day in the Life of a Zoom Student - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
hand. The fact that even  while quarantined at home, unable to go anywhere or do 
anything, you still manage to lose track  of time, brought on a new level of shame. 
If only there was a Zoom equivalent of sneaking in the  back of a lecture hall to 
avoid the shame of being late. The platform completely disregards the  feelings of 
latecomers, not to mention that it’s practically impossible to fall asleep on a call  
without someone noticing. 
Deprived of your midday nap, and exhausted, your final class of the day finally 
ends. You are  ready to relax. You put your headphones and begin your long 
commute home, leaving your  living room and trekking up the stairs to your 
bedroom. You change back into your nighttime  sweatpants and hoodie upon 
arrival, and take a much needed nap. DisreGuardian: A day in the Life of a Zoom Student - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: Hide-and-Go-Seek Club Freshman Sets School Record - UCSD Guardian
 April 1, 2020  Jack Dorfman
Photo Courtesy Mariyah Shad/UCSD Guardian
It’s been three weeks. He hasn’t gone to class because he hasn’t needed to. He’s had 
his food  delivered to him by friends outside the club. He’s slunk his way into 
bathrooms without being  found. He asked that his identity and location be kept 
secret. 
This freshman member of the UC S– D—- Hide-and-Go-Seek club is going on 2 full 
weeks  without being found.
“It started out as just another Wednesday,” the master hider said. “But after I spent 
the night  out under the stars I realized how I was in too deep to quit.”
Obviously, Hide-and-Go-Seek club rules dictate that our hider cannot disclose 
secrets about the  rules and regulations of the club, and why he could not simply 
forfeit and give up instead of  facing the cold, unforgiving La Jolla nights. But our 
master hider had no problem recounting his  thought process and his emotions 
from various moments across his stakeout.Accessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: Hide-and-Go-Seek Club Freshman Sets School Record - UCSD Guardian
After spending his first night outdoors, he had a friend secretly deliver him a 
blanket and jacket  along with other minimal supplies. Prepared to miss class the 
next day if need be, the master  hider’s phone began buzzing nonstop the next 
morning as his professors began canceling the  rest of their Week 10 in-person 
classes. That was all he needed to set his sights on the record.
“One night outdoors is not unheard of within our club, but an entire week would set 
the school record, so I decided to push on,” he said.
While he continued to receive supply drops from friends, other members of the 
Hide-and-Go-Seek club began to worry. Their reputations as seekers were being 
seriously tested by this freshman, especially because finding him was proving more 
difficult than normal.
“Part of the reason he’s been able to set this record so easily is that none of us 
remember who he is,” Sixth College sophomore and Team Captain Sean Dearden 
said. “We know we had a freshman join but we never really initiated him, he just 
kind of would show up to our events uninvited. Honestly, I don’t even remember 
what he looks like.”
Nonetheless, this mysterious freshman has managed to blow past the original 
record of one week set by Dearden earlier this year. With the new quarter set to 
begin, the master hider has not contacted the UCSD Guardian in a few days, in a 
planned effort to completely mask his location and identity. But do not fear, the 
freshman managed to access WebReg and ensure his place in four classes this 
upcoming quarter, and he’s still in good spirits. And with campus becoming 
increasingly quiet, his record is showing no signs of ending any time soon.
Editor’s Note: The DisreGuardian is satirical and is published annually for The 
Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Sports will resume publishing normal content next 
week.Accessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD Guardian
 April 1, 2020  Steven Zhou
By John O’Connor, 40-year-old white man (Steven Zhou)
For 2020’s DisreGuardian, 40-year-old white man John O’Connor tackles the 
problem of  white men feeling left behind due to demographic shifts in America. 
Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article written by UCSD student Steven 
Zhou for The  DisreGuardian, which are a series of articles published annually for 
The Guardian’s April  Fool’s issue. Features will resume publishing normal 
content next week. 
In 2020, Pew Research Center  determined that approximately one-tenth of the  
United States’ voting population will be composed of immigrants, the largest in 
national history. Workplaces that demand higher education are quickly becoming 
bastions of gender equality  as the gender gap for educational attainment closes. 
The 2018 midterm elections saw the election of a “rainbow wave” of LGBTQ  
politicians across the country. But as the country’s demographics begin to shift to a 
majority-minority status and U.S. citizens begin to  emphasize equal opportunity,certain segments of the country feel left behind. As white male  Peter 
Cvjetanovic puts it, “It feels like everyone in this country has just forgotten 
about me. One  second I could see myself everywhere. Now, the bathroom signs 
have other languages on them, there are people of color on every movie poster, 
and everyone around me keeps fawning over this Parasite and BTS crap. 
Something’s not white — I mean, right — here.”
My name is John O’Connor, a reporter for The Daily Skeptic, and although I’ve 
lived my life white-passing, I’m half-white half-Irish. I come from a unique 
place because I understand what it feels like to be both a minority and white in 
the U.S. I experience the difficulties of being stared at every few months, 
followed in the grocery store when I’m trying to shoplift, and stopped by the 
police when all I’m doing is going 90 in a school zone. I’ve seen the 
whitewashing of my people in movies, like when Irish icon Captain Mark 
McCluskey from “The Godfather” was portrayed by some random white guy. 
This has given me internalized racism as I can’t picture a scenario in which I 
find anyone other than white people attractive. 
With that, speaking from a half-white half-Irish perspective, I present this 
ethical dilemma: Is it right to try taking away the privilege white men have in 
U.S. society? 
This isn’t to say that I think white men are superior to other people. Again, 
being Irish, I completely understand the struggles minorities experience. But 
the rhetoric proponents of multiculturalism and tolerance use against white 
men in all aspects of life is hypocritical. Rhetoric like “down with the 
patriarchy,” “black lives matter,” and “all men are created equal” — while 
catchy and convenient — forget that this country was built by the minds of 
white people. This is a crucial fact because, as my high school history teacher 
from Tennessee taught me, ideology clearly outweighs labor when it comes to 
nation building.
Sometimes, I think about the direction the U.S. is going in and shudder. 
Imagine a vibrant, collaborative world where people, united by a common 
understanding of discrimination, actively work to understand each other’s 
differences. Imagine a world where people could love whoever they want and 
pursue whatever dreams they want without a group of people named John 
Smith threatening you with ostracization or violence. Imagine a world whereAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
laws that  pertained to your body or your choices are written by people who 
sympathize with your  circumstances rather than a panel of white men free from the 
influence of pesky hormones, race  tensions, or homophobia in their lives. 
If that sounds like a nightmare, then you’re not alone. 
Millions of angry, white men are resisting the changing demographics across the 
country. And despite my minority status as half-Irish, I stand by them. Never 
before in history has any  group of  people in the U.S. had to face the amount of 
hatred or obstacles that white people have had to  face in this country over the past 
few years. 
The white half of me often feels left behind these days, especially at the workplace. 
Take food, for example. Back in the good old days, I could expect every one of my 
male coworkers to bring  in a turkey sandwich packed by their dutiful wives. 
Things have changed now. One of my coworkers, Robert Smith, constantly 
complains about  how his wife no longer has the time to pack his lunch anymore 
after deciding to go back to  school and getting a master’s degree in finance.
“It’s a shame. We had a system,” Robert shared. “I go earn the money, pay the bills, 
and mow the lawn while she makes lunch for me, takes the kids to school for me, 
helps the kids with homework for me, does the laundry for me, cooks dinner for 
me, washes the dishes for me, comforts me, listens to me, and supports me. Then 
she suddenly decides that she wants to pursue her dream of working as a 
stockbroker. It’s so selfish of her.”
Today, surveys also show that food options at work are diversifying. Instead of 
appreciating the privilege of being able to work in America or enjoying the 
beautiful scent of bread, cold cuts, and mayonnaise, people are feeling emboldened 
by the increasing cultural diversity. The Hispanics are eating fresh seafood tacos, 
the lesbians are bringing granola salads, and the Asians have the audacity of 
bringing home-cooked wonton soup and sambusas into our break rooms. Foods 
like salted mashed potatoes, Big Macs, and microwave bagel bites that were 
previously the epitome of white culture are being ignored and swept aside for a 
more colorful, flavorful platter of options. “It honestly scares me to see these 
people eating their weird foods,” Ronald Wilson, who owns a kiosk selling fried 
sticks of butter, said.DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020
After interviewing hundreds of white men trying to get to the bottom of their inner 
fears, I started noticing more patterns with the concerns they had. Affirmative 
action regarding  admissions policies often came up. “Why should I be seen 
differently from a gay, black kid from  Mississippi?” current high school senior and 
prospective Harvard student Maxmillion Hampton  asked. “Just because my 
parents went to Harvard and can call in a few favors to get me a free pass doesn’t 
mean that everyone else deserves a free pass  too! There’s already too many Asians 
in the Ivy League anyways, and I know for a fact they don’t have to  work as hard as 
me to get in.” 
My nephew currently goes to the California Institute of Technology, a great school 
by all  regards. But one look at the demographic breakdown of the school shows  
that it is actively trying to recruit more women into STEM and has an 
astonishingly high  proportion of minorities. Why are we actively trying to correct 
the privileges white men like my  nephew and I have had for centuries? If women 
are supposed to be in the kitchen and Asians  are supposed to be in Asia, then why 
are we taking away admission spots from poor little rich  white boys like my 
nephew? I can’t even imagine the emotional toll my nephew would  experience if 
he had to go to Harvey Mudd, his second-choice school, all for the sake of  equality. 
Many white men also feel excluded from conversations in everyday life. The other 
day, I decided  to watch an episode of “RuPaul’s Drag Race” after it popped up on 
my recommended list, and I  couldn’t understand any of it. First of all, their 
accents were so feminine, and I generally have a  hard time understanding speech 
when it’s not delivered by a straight, Midwestern, emotionally  unavailable man. 
Second of all, I couldn’t get behind how these men could constantly switch  back 
and forth between female and male clothing. If I didn’t know any better, it almost 
felt like  gender was a social construct separate from the idea of biological sex and 
that people often fall  somewhere along a spectrum of what we as a society have 
defined as “masculine” and  “feminine” for some reason . But I never felt  like being 
a girl at any point of my life! The things these people were doing felt wrong. How  
could someone else have a different idea of who they are than what I’ve assigned 
them? Why are these men not following the gender stereotypes that I want to 
shoehorn them into?
Perhaps the most common complaint I heard from white men across the country 
though was about their voices being silenced through politically correct, or PC, 
culture. Thomas Yeager, a  student at UC S– D—-, believes, like many other white DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD Guardian
men, that, “Words like f*ggot—- and c*nt are just words! I swear, I can’t even 
make a joke at their expense anymore without someone getting all upset.” With 
the advent of the internet, people now have the ability to chastise these people 
despite the fact that they could very well be good people who are “not angry 
racists.” Yeager continued by saying, “I just want to be able to bully others 
without facing any consequences. Is that too much to ask from these PC 
princesses these days?”
Do we want a society where there is no clear ideal for people to strive toward? I 
have had black and Asian friends who have said they wish they were straight 
white men so they get further in life. Women have often told me they wish they 
were men so they could feel safe walking around at night. Without people like me 
deciding what is normal and what is not, who will Americans turn to for 
influence? 
And what are people like us going to do if people stop listening to what we say? If 
being white is no longer considered an advantage, then white men will be earning 
the same wages for the same work. We’ll be splitting the household chores with 
women equally. Worst of all, we won’t be able to feel like our opinions are the 
only ones taken seriously anymore. 
That’s a future I hope I and my fellow white brothers don’t live to see. A world 
where white men are somehow equal with the rest of the country is too unethical 
for the people who benefit most under the status quo. Hopefully, people like us 
can keep America great for the foreseeable future.
Signed, 
John O’Connor
Note from the writer:
I was inspired to write this article after seeing increasing reports of hate crimes 
against Asians in the United States. It’s quite shocking how quickly public 
perception of the Asian community has changed after seeing it gain cultural clout 
in recent times. The actions of many people in this country remind me that the 
road to our societal acceptance remains long.  Accessed: 5/26/2020
While this article tackles a heavy subject, I hope it encourages everyone to reflect 
upon their  own personal biases in general. The Asian experience in the United 
States shares similarities  with many other groups, and I’m hopeful we will find 
solidarity during these difficult times and  move towards a more inclusive future.
Graphic by Allyson Llacuna for The UCSD Guardian.DisreGuardian: The Ethical Problem of Taking Away My Superiority Over Others - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: Tips For Dating During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
Disreguardian: Tips For Dating During Quarantine
 April 1, 2020   Colleen Conradi
COVID-19 may perhaps be the biggest cockblock the modern world has ever 
known, single-handedly ending Tinder hookups for the foreseeable future. If 
you’re feeling lonely during  quarantine, we’ve compiled a list of tips for dating in 
the age of the pandemic.
Revamp Your Profile
There is literally no reason anymore to keep that blurry selfie you took five years 
ago on your  Hinge profile. With nothing to do but sit in your house all day, put 
on some real clothes, find a  room with a lot of light — or, venture out on a 
government-approved walk, if you so desire —and take some new pictures to 
impress your future matches.
Use Instagram Challenges To Your Advantage
Want a certain someone to notice you? If you’re feeling bold, tag them in the 
latest Instagram challenge so you’re 100 percent sure they’ll see your story. Who 
knows, maybe they’ll draw a fruit and tag you right back. Accessed: 5/26/2020 Disreguardian: Tips For Dating During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
TikTok Dance Your Way Into Their Heart
Just because we’re all isolating doesn’t mean you can’t still ask your crush out! 
Since you can’t  ask in person, don’t be lame and do it over text; make them a 
personalized TikTok. Create a new  dance or perfect a popular one (perhaps the 
“Say So” dance) to send to your crush. If you’re  lucky, they’ll duet you with a “yes”!
Take a Hint From the Hunger Games
This is your chance to channel your inner Peeta Mellark and perfect your bread 
making skills to impress your crush! If you can, we suggest baking the perfect loaf 
into a heart to show effort and  emotion. Unfortunately, since there is a six feet 
apart rule, you can either leave it on their doorstep or drive by their house and 
throw it to them out of your window. Whatever you decide, there’s no way your 
crush will resist you and your sourdough! 
Be Generous in More Ways Than One
If you want to do something truly memorable, you’re gonna wanna try this. Since 
we are in a time of toilet paper crisis, show your generous side by giving your crush 
a spare roll. However, this isn’t just a roll; find a skin-friendly marker and write 
them a message! You can be bold and ask them out, or if you’re already in a 
relationship, shake things up by writing a sweet or spicy message on each square! 
That way, they’ll always be thinking of you, even when they go number two. 
Go Old School With a Letter
Have spare stamps? Send your significant other some good ole snail mail. Break 
out your best cursive and use that stationary you haven’t touched since middle 
school to craft the perfect letter. Bonus points if you include some handwritten 
poetry about your undying love or newspaper clippings that remind you of them. 
Explore New Horizons
If you both have a Nintendo Switch, get that friend code and set up a time to play 
Animal Crossing: New Horizons. The multiplayer feature is a great setting for a 
first date, because there’s nothing more romantic than catching virtual bugs and 
fish. Tom Nook will be overjoyed to witness your budding romance. 
Editor’s Note: The Disreguardian is satire published annually for The Guardian’s 
April Fool’s issue. Lifestyle will resume publishing regular content next week.
Art by Anthony TranAccessed: 5/28/2020 COLA: UAW Brokers Deal with UC to Reinstate UCSC Workers Fired for COLA Strike - UCSD Guardian
 April 3, 2020  Andrew Ha
United Auto Workers Local 2865 announced that UC Santa Cruz gave student 
workers who  striked for the Cost-of-Living Adjustment the option of being 
reinstated as University of  California workers on March 30, 2020. According to the 
announcement, the UC system agreed  to allow strikers a “Last Chance Agreement” 
to return to work under the condition that they will  not take part in future 
unauthorized strikes and will submit any currently withheld grades.  
This agreement has come to light as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which 
threatens the  financial stability of many workers. Because they took part in the 
COLA strikes, many of the  over 80 fired graduate student workers do not currently 
have a source of income during the  California State-at-Home Order. In order to 
support them and ensure they have enough money to weather these  troubling 
times, UAW Local 2865 brokered a deal with the UC system to have them 
reinstated.
“In the context of a global pandemic and mass joblessness, we felt it was crucial todo everything  we could to preserve these jobs,” Kavitha Iyengar, President of 
UAW Local 2865, said in a statement sent to the UCSD Guardian. “And as Spring 
Quarter begins, we are pleased to have  positive news. Obviously, it is up to each 
affected individual to choose whether or not to be  reinstated, and we respect each 
person’s choice.” 
In the “Last Chance Agreement,” the UC system agreed that if previously fired 
students submit  currently withheld grades and agree to not be a part of any 
possible future unauthorized strikes,  they will get a Spring appointment as UC 
workers. Moreover, the UC system agreed to remove  all disciplines on file if the 
strikers come back to work for UCSC and follow the aforementioned stipulations. 
Earlier in March, UAW Local 2865 was also able to negotiate with the UC system
to reinstate health care to all UCSC strikers.Accessed: 5/28/2020 COLA: UAW Brokers Deal with UC to Reinstate UCSC Workers Fired for COLA Strike - UCSD Guardian
ON STRIKE!!!: #COLA 4 UCSC
@payusmoreucsc
UCSC admin did not respond to out counteroffer and went ahead 
with the firings. Over 80 strikers are out of a job in the midst of a 
pandemic, including disabled, immunocompromised, pregnant, 
international, and undocumented students. Now we need a 
#COLA more than ever! #UCSCstrike
196 1:11 PM - Apr 1, 2020
150 people are talking about this
“UCSC will allow these graduate students to continue working towards their 
advanced degrees,  and the university has ensured uninterrupted health 
insurance coverage by paying for their spring health insurance premiums,” 
UCSC Director of Media Relations Scott Hernandez-Jason said to the GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 COLA: UAW Brokers Deal with UC to Reinstate UCSC Workers Fired for COLA Strike - UCSD Guardian
“UCSC will allow these graduate students to continue working towards their 
advanced degrees,  and the university has ensured uninterrupted health insurance 
coverage by paying for their  spring health insurance premiums,” UCSC Director of 
Media Relations Scott Hernandez-Jason  said to the Guardian in an email. “The 
campus has no plans to reinstate the spring  appointments of academic student 
employees who at this point continue to withhold fall  quarter grade information.”
Although UCSC has denied that they provided any offer since their February 
update , sources inside  UAW Local 2865 said that Iyengar negotiated a deal with 
the university. According to the UCSC  COLA website, administrators informed 
fired student strikers that they could be reinstated late  March, but only gave them a 
24-hour window to accept the deal. This has led to only a few fired  strikers to
accept the deal while others have held back and provided a counter-offer.
According to COLA leaders, “the COLA movement will agree to collectively submit 
grades under  the following term: the removal of all disciplinary measures from 
student records; a guarantee  of full reinstatement for the spring quarter [and for 
future appointments]; that the  administration remove clause E [of the “Last Chance 
Agreement”]; a guarantee that this offer be  expanded to students who are 
withholding Winter Quarter grades; an expansion of the $2,500 housing 
supplement; [and] a written commitment to engage in bargaining with UAW 2865 
over a Cost of Living Adjustment.”
As explained in UCSC’s statement to the Guardian, about 97 percent of grades have 
now been  submitted for Fall Quarter 2019 and 95 percent for Winter Quarter 2020. 
Since the advent of  the COLA strikes, UCSC has created new programs in an 
attempt to address the housing crisis. 
“UC Santa Cruz leaders have made numerous good faith efforts to offer solutions 
and assist our graduate students, including a substantial allocation of new financial 
support, two temporary housing assistance programs for graduate students, and a 
joint working group to develop appropriate and sustainable graduate student 
support,” Hernandez-Jason said. “UC Santa Cruz is also working to build more 
student housing to further address the situation.”
While the UC system has filed multiple charges against UAW Local 2865, UAW 
Local 2865 has also submitted multiple Unfair Labor Practice charges against the 
UC system. Submitted to the Public Employment Relations Board, UAW Local 2865 
now awaits for a hearing scheduled in the summer.Accessed: 5/28/2020
“In the meantime, union leadership and membership are organizing towards the 
possibility of a  ULP strike while also evaluating all the options we have right now 
and how to best use our  power to take care of our coworkers and ourselves amid the 
pandemic,” Alli Carlisle, a UC San  Diego UAW Local 2865 Representative said.
In light of the COLA movement and the spread of COVID-19, UAW Local 2865 is 
now working with state-wide housing coalitions to lobby legislators to have rent-
freezes and to suspend all  rent and mortgage payments. 
Photo by Joshua Ben-Escher for the UCSD Guardian.COLA: UAW Brokers Deal with UC to Reinstate UCSC Workers Fired for COLA Strike - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Professor Susi on Entrepreneurship and Spirituality - UCSD Guardian
Professor Susi on Entrepreneurship and Spirituality
 April 5, 2020  Justin Cho
Professor Natalie Susi has had a beautiful journey through entrepreneurship and 
teaching.  Her experiences taught her about spirituality and her purpose on this 
planet: to give back  what she has learned.
It’s clear that there’s something special about professor Natalie Susi. She operates 
her Warren  Writing classroom with the intention of developing her students not 
only academically, but also  as thinkers and communicators. She uses her vast 
experience as a female entrepreneur to push  her students to reflect upon 
themselves, to connect the course material to successful behavior in  the business 
world, and even to invite a business acquaintance to speak to the class. She goes  the 
extra mile in her work simply because it’s her passion; it’s what the world compels 
her to do.
“I have been a teacher all my life,” Susi recalled. “When I say that, I mean I was a 
natural teacher. It’s what I’m meant to do on this planet. I started teaching, well, 
playing school when I  was five. I was an only child, and I would teach invisible 
students. That was like my playground  at my house. My favorite birthday gift was a 
blackboard that my mom got me because it was like  a real teacher.”Susi carried this dream with her while growing up and started teaching at a high 
school in her  hometown in Delaware right after graduating from college. She later 
moved to California to  earn a graduate degree in American literature at San Diego 
State University, where she would  eventually come to teach as well. However, in 
2009, budget cuts caused her to be laid off,  forcing her to find a new career. She 
decided to become an entrepreneur, building a company in  the alcoholic 
beverages industry. 
“I was drinking a margarita and I just sort of got this idea that I could make it 
better than it currently was,” Susi said, describing the beginning of her 
entrepreneurial journey after being laid off. “And this was in ‘08, so this was right 
before the skinny margarita craze hit the market. So it was good timing. ” 
Susi then founded Bare Organic Mixers, a company that produced natural, low-
calorie cocktail mixers for people who were trying to avoid drinking extra calories. 
She managed all aspects of the company, including hiring personnel, social 
networking, raising capital and finding investors. 
“I had always wanted to start a business because I wanted to understand what it 
was to run my own schedule and have money, like be able to have an opportunity 
to actually make money so I could teach because I wanted to and not because I 
had to,” Susi said. Much of these experiences were preparation for her true 
passion for teaching.
Susi attributes her success to her mentors, career guides that she believes every 
new entrepreneur should find as soon as possible.
“As Tony Robbins [a business coach and self-help writer] says, ‘[mentors] 
decompress decades into days.’” Susi said. These guides often voluntarily help you 
with anything from starting your business, growing it, or sometimes even 
something more personal or internal. In Susi’s own journey, she found her key 
mentors particularly crucial because she didn’t have many other sources of 
entrepreneurial wisdom; aside from her mentors, she was completely self-taught.
After six years in the beverages industry, Susi sold her company to Ultimate 
Superfoods, a leading natural foods company. She continued to work with Bare 
Organic Mixers in Los Angeles until she decided that it was time for a change. Accessed: 5/28/2020 Professor Susi on Entrepreneurship and Spirituality - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
“I woke up one day and realized this is really not making me happy, and I’m really 
not interested in doing this anymore,” Susi said. “I don’t care about this brand 
anymore. It was my baby. I’ve sent it off to college. I’ve done all I can do with it.” 
Through this entire adventure, Susi’s heart stayed in teaching, and it was something 
she found  that she desperately needed in her life. She eventually earned a teaching 
position at UC San  Diego where, after this intense journey of self-reflection and 
personal purpose, she ironically  was assigned to teach a class titled “The Pursuit of 
Happiness.” She now teaches Warren  Writing, a mandatory sequence of writing 
courses for students in Earl Warren College, and is a  personal development coach 
and business consultant outside of the classroom.
“Teaching allows me and forces me to live in the present moment … teaching forces 
you to live  in the present moment because if you’re a good teacher, you aspire to be 
an impactful teacher,”  Susi explained. “You have to be with your students. And if 
your mind and your soul is physically  present with them in the given moment, you’re 
with them … it causes me to be a better human,  basically. That’s why I love doing it.”.
Through her introspective experiences with entrepreneurship and teaching, Susi has 
developed  a variety of “spiritual” beliefs, and she attributes her Catholic upbringing 
to be the foundation of  these ideas. 
“So my spiritual belief is the law of cause and effect — that we are all one,” Susi said. 
“It’s the  idea that there’s absolutely something greater than us … so the spiritual 
belief is, you chose this  life, you chose this body, you chose these people before you 
came into this body … then you can  start to look at all the crappy things as lessons 
and be grateful for them instead of angry about  them. So for me, spirituality is all 
about shifting from a place of fear to love.”
Susi stated that her spirituality originated from a “great need for understanding.” 
Susi called  her parents “the most incredible people,” and described living in an 
Italian immigrant family that “passionately loved each other, but were passionately 
insecure about things too.” 
“They were constantly struggling with statements like, ‘this person could or would or 
should have done this thing, or if only we could have done that, you would have done 
this,’ Susi said. “A lot of living in the past and a lot of rehashing moments. I grew up 
as the mediator … I was sort of fascinated by what motivated people to be one way or 
the other.” Professor Susi on Entrepreneurship and Spirituality - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
Her family’s challenges with navigating the past are part of why she values teaching 
as a way to  live in the present.
These transformative experiences are what developed Susi into the teacher that she is 
today, focusing on not only academic material, but also on her student’s intellectual 
and personal  development.
“I would love for students to really get clear on why you’re doing what you’re doing 
here and  really ask yourself this question … consider the thing that you’re working 
towards,” Susi  advised. “Can I eat, sleep, breathe, dream, talk about it all the time? Or 
am I doing it as a means  to something else? Really consider it because we live in a 
world where it’s really okay to do what  you love to do every day, and it’s really 
possible.”
Photo courtesy of Natalie Susi .
Editor’s Note: This article was updated on 4/12/20 to provide additional 
commentary on Susi’s family.Professor Susi on Entrepreneurship and Spirituality - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Triton Day Held Virtually Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: Triton Day Held Virtually Amidst Pandemic
April 5, 2020  Daisy Scott
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information 
on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
UC San Diego held its annual Triton Day for accepted students for the first time as a 
wholly  virtual experience on April 4, 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
This move to an online platform followed Governor Gavin Newsom’s stay-at-home 
mandate for California residents. 
Triton Day is a campus-wide event held every Spring Quarter shortly after the release 
of acceptance letters to incoming students. Consisting of campus tours, presentations 
from each major’s department, and the chance to visit the six colleges’ residential and 
dining halls, this event allows potential future students to experience what life at 
UCSD looks like. 
The UCSD Guardian spoke with Wiley Bowen, an Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
who decided  to attend UCSD after their positive virtual Triton Day experience.
“It was mostly because of the chance that I got to see the atmosphere of campus,”Bowen said. “All of the different student orgs were lined up on Library Walk and 
every group seemed so  excited about what they were involved in, whether it was 
academic or purely for fun. It got me  excited for what my life could be once I came 
here.”
This year, Triton Day planners faced the unique challenge of providing a holistic 
overview of UCSD without letting prospective students step foot on campus. Adding 
to this challenge,  departments, programs, and colleges were given less than a month’s 
notice to transition their  programs to an online platform. 
The Guardian spoke with Katie Oberman, an ERC senior who participated in both 
live and pre-recorded panels regarding students’ questions about her college. 
“I was impressed with how different parts of campus and administration were able to  
collaborate quickly and efficiently to come up with new solutions,” Oberman said. 
“We only had  about a week and a half, but I think the university was still able to 
provide a good amount of  resources to admitted students. It definitely wasn’t the 
same as past Triton Days, but I’m glad  we were able to do at least something.”
Accepted students who originally registered for the in-person Triton Day were given 
the opportunity Saturday morning at 8 a.m. PST to join an introductory “live Triton 
Talk webinar” using their undergraduate admissions login. Additional live webinars 
continued to be hosted throughout the day on a range of topics pertaining to campus 
life.Accessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Triton Day Held Virtually Amidst Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 COVID-19: Triton Day Held Virtually Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Nicole Thompson and Gregory Thein hosting 
the Eleanor Roosevelt College  informational 
Instagram livestream.
A virtual Triton Day website also went live Saturday morning, offering a series of 
pre-recorded videos for students to view per  their convenience. Video topics 
include introductory statements from campus officials,  overviews of academic 
departments, and student life. Links to other websites with more specific  
information regarding financial aid and campus resources are listed after the 
videos. 
According to the UC San Diego News Center, this site will remain up and have 
additional content added to it throughout the month of April. 
A more informal platform for Triton Day interaction was provided via social media. 
Roger Revelle College posted an Instagram story that briefly outlined its college’s 
motto, photos of  campus life, and where students are able to ask further questions. 
Thurgood Marshall College  posted to its Facebook page a video tour of their 
residence halls so students could see inside  their future dorms. 
The Guardian sat in on ERC’s Instagram live-stream, which was hosted by students 
Nicole  Thompson, Chelsea Donald, Rosemina Bazeghi, and Gregory Thein. Over 
the course of the  stream, viewers were able to ask questions about ERC student lifesuch as “Is the writing  sequence as difficult as they say it is?”, “What are the dorms 
like?”, and “Is it cramped living in a  triple?” 
Thompson and Thein were able to answer these and other questions in real time, 
explaining the  Making of the Modern World sequence, and advising the purchase of 
space-saving containers  and to communicate effectively with roommates. They also 
offered more light-hearted  commentary on what it’s like to be an ERC student, joking 
about the college’s distance from the  rest of campus. 
A second virtual Triton Day will be held on May 9 for incoming UCSD transfer 
students. Readers interested in learning more about this upcoming event can visit 
transfertritonday.ucsd.edu once the site is live. COVID-19: Triton Day Held Virtually Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/28/2020Accessed: 5/28/2020 News You May Have Missed in the Blur of COVID-19 Stories - UCSD Guardian
News You May Have Missed in the Blur of COVID-19 Stories
 April 5, 2020  Madeline Leon
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
With many U.S. cities going on lockdown, the news has been flooded with an almost 
constant coronavirus updates. Here is a collection of just a few non-COVID-19 and 
positive coronavirus stories that may have gotten lost amidst the pandemic news. 
Researchers at UC San Diego have been working on a blood test that could identify 
early symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease.
UCSD Jacobs School of Engineering professor Sheng Zhong worked with the UCSD 
School of  Medicine Dr. Edward Koo on a study  that studied protein  and RNA  
production of the PHGDH gene, which is needed for brain development.  
According to the study, this analysis of exRNA in patients can help predict an 
indication of  Alzheimer’s Disease.Accessed: 5/28/2020 News You May Have Missed in the Blur of COVID-19 Stories - UCSD Guardian
“These data suggest the potential utilities of plasma exRNA levels for screening and 
longitudinal exRNA changes as a presymptomatic indication of sporadic AD,” the 
study states.
Although the study provided significant results, Zhong and Dr. Koo hope to work 
with Alzheimer’s groups in the future to verify the success of the blood test. 
“These data suggest the potential utilities of plasma exRNA levels for screening and 
longitudinal exRNA changes as a presymptomatic indication of sporadic AD,” the 
study states.
Although the study provided significant results, Zhong and Dr. Koo hope to work 
with Alzheimer’s groups in the future to verify the success of the blood test.
While the calls for social distancing and the shelter-in-place order have 
disproportionately left many homeless people without a stable place to stay, San 
Diego residents Aime Zamudio and Tasha Williams have been working on placing 
homeless folks in hotel rooms. 
“One person we’ve had in a hotel room since March 15th and he is experiencing 
homelessness and has leukemia and was going through the struggle of finding a 
place,” Zamudio told NBC San Diego.
Zamudio and Williams use donations from their gofundme project to house the 
homeless in hotel rooms. So far, they have raised almost $7,000. 
“We have been providing Hotel rooms by ourselves for people experiencing 
homelessness,” the gofundme description states. “We have a lot of Elders, People 
with Disabilities,  People with compromised immune systems, Families with babies 
who are being left out and forgotten. We can not just sit and wait.”
“I, Amie, do this work because my own father who was once wealthy, died alone on 
the streets homeless with Leukemia,” Zamudio stated in the gofundme description. 
On March 30, The San Diego Union-Tribune reported that for the first time in three 
weeks, temperatures hit 70 degrees in San Diego.Accessed: 5/28/2020
After a 66-degree day on Monday, San Diego residents saw the next day reaching 71 
degrees. 
While it is expected to rain during the week of April 6, it is expected to be sunny 
again on Friday, April 10, with a low of 57 degrees and a high of 65 degrees.News You May Have Missed in the Blur of COVID-19 Stories - UCSD Guardian
The biggest Supermoon of the year will be a “Pink” Supermoon, which NASA 
reports will be in full  on Tuesday, April 7 at 10:35 p.m.
Although the moon will not actually appear pink, its popular name stems from the 
pink creeping phlox that bloom in the springtime. 
The Farmers Almanac lists the many  names for the Pink Supermoon and other full 
moons that peak throughout the year, many of  them stemming from Native 
American names. Without naming the specific tribe of origin,  according to the 
Farmers Almanac,  more names for the Pink Moon are the Egg Moon, Sprouting 
Grass Moon, and Fish Moon. 
While the Supermoon will peak at 10:35 p.m. on Tuesday, viewers can also see the 
moon at sunrise and sunset. On Tuesday, the sun will rise at 6:28 a.m. and set at 
7:13 p.m. in San Diego.
California is planning on releasing 3,500 non-violent incarcerated people in 35  
prisons over the  next few weeks to curtail the spread of Coronavirus in 
compacted prisons.
According to the Los Angeles Times, these soon to be released inmates are in  
prison for non-violent crimes who would have originally been released within the  
next 60 days or less. Inmates incarcerated for sex offenses or domestic abuse are 
not eligible to be released. Those released will make the transition into parole.  
Many of the prisoners to be released are older and immunocompromised, so the 
state hopes that this will help to stop the spread of the disease, which has already 
infiltrated several prisons. 
According to the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation  
website, “As of March 30, 22 employees and four inmates have tested positive forAccessed: 5/28/2020
COVID-19.”
“He feels like he’s in a Nazi Germany death camp,” a daughter of a prisoner at the 
California Institute for Men in Chino told the LA Times. This particular individual’s 
father has an  autoimmune disorder and is currently unable to get bandages to cover 
up wounds. 
In addition to the early release of non-violent prisoners, the CDCR plans on 
enacting several  measures to improve the health and safety of those at prisons, such 
as “suspension of intake  from county jails,” mandatory screenings, and increasing 
social distancing by limiting the use of  common spaces. 
Artwork by Yui Kita for the UCSD Guardian.News You May Have Missed in the Blur of COVID-19 Stories - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Cooking During Eating Disorder Recovery - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Lara Sanli
Those who tuned in to my takeover of The UCSD Guardian’s Instagram story may 
have noticed  several posts of aesthetic, home-made meals. While I am by no means 
a chef, my roommate is  admittedly a huge foodie: She regularly watches Bon 
Appetit, follows celebrity chefs, and  bookmarks the latest recipes. Back in pre-
quarantine life, on the off-chance that she had enough  free time to actually cook, I 
would swoop by the kitchen and casually mooch off of whatever  delicacy she had 
made. It was the truth of our friendship that she was the one who cooked and I  was 
the one who ate. 
But with quarantine, things changed. I could no longer depend on Trader Joe’s 
conveniently pre-packaged (and perishable) salads, or wander over to Price Center 
for a quick bite between  classes. Whereas I used to get home from a long day of 
school and work around 9 p.m., lacking any energy or motivation to cook, I was 
suddenly home for normal meal hours. I now had to  plan out my meals in advance 
and responsibly calculate how long I could go before restocking  my non-
perishables. I’m slightly ashamed to say that quarantine is what finally motivated 
me to  join my roommate in the kitchen, but it’s true.Growing up, I had always resisted cooking, even when I got to college and became 
completely  responsible for feeding myself. Food caused me extreme anxiety. My 16-
year stint as a hardcore  ballerina contributed to binge eating disorder, which turned 
into bulimia nervosa, which then  devolved back into binge eating disorder. I hated 
anything having to do with preparing food, or  even allocating portions, because it 
involved a level of self-control I myself did not possess. I  either ate way too much or 
way too little. One extreme or the other — no in-between. 
My lack of self-control was ironic. The whole point of ballet is to teach discipline, 
commitment, and perseverance — qualities which, at least in the eyes of my peers, 
family, and friends — I seemed to embody. Everyday, I spent hours in front of the 
studio mirror, repeating the same exercises over and over, and focusing only on 
what I could do better. I forced my body into extreme, unnatural positions without 
caring if I hurt myself. I broke some toes, sprained my ankle, deteriorated my right 
hip flexor, and permanently deformed my feet. But I liked ballet, and I did it all 
without a second thought. I kept reminding myself that reward only came with hard 
work. And in ballet, “hard work” meant putting yourself through the extremes. 
Giving anything less than my all implied that I was just being lazy and 
unappreciative. A little bit of pain was completely normal.
The better I got at ballet, the higher I set my standards. I spent summers doing 
intensive training programs at different studios around the Bay Area and molded 
myself to meet each studio’s high expectations. My personal line between discipline 
and perfectionism, however, began to blur. If I fell out of a pirouette or failed to get 
my développé at anything less than a perfect 180 degrees, I punished myself after 
class by eating as much food as possible. I told myself that if I couldn’t fit in my 
leotard anymore, it was proof that I didn’t deserve to be a ballerina. I binged and 
gained 25 pounds. Soon enough, I actually didn’t fit in my leotard. I could no longer 
look at myself in the mirror. 
I thought I could repair my relationship with ballet by taking more relaxed dance 
classes in college, but once I got here, I still couldn’t break my association between 
punishment and the studio. After a lot of thinking, I traded my dance minor for a 
psychology minor and enrolled in a class called the “Psychology of Eating 
Disorders.” Although I know that learning about personal mental health struggles is 
not necessarily the healthiest thing for everyone, taking the class helped me process 
what I was personally going through. Accessed: 5/28/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Cooking During Eating Disorder Recovery - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
The class emphasized that eating disorders are stereotypically seen as an issue  
predominantly impacting young, white, heterosexual, middle-class females — as I 
happen to be— because white women are statistically more likely to seek and have 
access to treatment.  People of color and individuals in the LGBTQ community, on 
the other hand, often face unique barriers to accessing treatment and are less likely 
to report symptoms due to systemic issues such as cultural stigma and health care 
discrimination.  Cost of treatment and access to health insurance act as further 
economic obstacles. While  mainstream media may commonly depict eating 
disorders as being a “skinny white woman  issue,” eating disorders affect people of 
all races, sizes, genders, and socioeconomic backgrounds.  Learning about the scope 
and effects of different eating disorders from an empirical standpoint  helped me see 
that recovery was an achievable goal.
My eating disorder recovery finally began at the start of this school year, and I am 
glad to say  that I have made significant strides toward recovery since then. I was 
fortunate to receive  treatment, and everything was going smoothly, at least until 
COVID-19. 
Quarantine presents a myriad of unique challenges that affect everyone on different 
levels, some more so than others. I am extremely fortunate to not have the worries 
other students do  during this time. I still live in San Diego, I can still walk to the 
grocery store, and I can still  graduate on-track. I don’t take any of it for granted. 
When the stay-at-home order was announced, my roommate and I went to the 
grocery store  and stocked up on non-perishable foods. I started to panic. It seemed 
so stupid to worry about  my eating disorder amidst something as serious as a global 
pandemic.
But cooking with my roommate was a big deal for me. It was the first time I ever 
really allowed  myself to use a kitchen, or attempt to reclaim any sort of control over 
food. I had previously only  eaten pre-packaged foods so I wouldn’t lose control, 
binge, and then lapse. I was absolutely  terrified of making my own food because I 
knew I would feel anxiety, shame, and disgust once I inevitably over-ate. It was just 
easier to eat things that were already made.
It’s only been a few weeks, but I’m slowly and steadily learning how to reclaim 
control over food. My roommate is incredibly supportive and she constantly 
encourages me to involve myself in our cooking — sometimes she’ll politely remind Quarantine Chronicles: Cooking During Eating Disorder Recovery - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
me that someone needs to make the rice, or she’ll refuse to chop the veggies and 
lovingly force me to do it. We’ve been cooking foods that  remind us of family — her 
family is Persian, and my family is Turkish — and doing our best to  experiment 
with new cuisines. I’m learning how to view food as a source of nourishment 
instead  of as a means of hurting myself. 
As my colleague Jacob Sutherland wrote in his own piece  for the Quarantine 
Chronicles, this pandemic presents a unique opportunity to engage  in some self-
reflection. I’m lucky to even have access to food when so many people do not, and  
I’m lucky to be able to dedicate my time to putting energy into fixing my 
relationship with  myself. I realize that not everyone has the privilege of using this 
global pandemic to do the  same. 
I’m putting my energy into healing and re-assessing what I value and why. Now, 
whenever I cook, I remember that I have control over more of my life than I think. 
I breathe and remember that I am more than okay.  
Graphic by Angela Liang.Quarantine Chronicles: Cooking During Eating Disorder Recovery - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 PC Princess: San Diego Should Not Re-Open Its Beaches to Surfers Under Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
As I was in the middle of quarantine in between Zoom classes, I stumbled across an 
op-ed  titled: “How San Diego Can — and should — get surfers surfing again.”
Upon reading the piece and reflecting on the broader pandemic at hand, I was taken 
aback by the notion that the city should make an exception to its citywide beach 
closure only for surfers.
Granted, I myself have never surfed, although I do enjoy going to the beach. But as 
someone  who has had to join the nation in significantly altering my day-to-day 
routine, the notion that a  select group of individuals should be granted immunity 
from this statewide stay-at-home order  comes across as very privileged and short-
sighted.
For a bit of personal context, under this stay-at-home order, I have had to transition 
to taking all of my university courses entirely online, been unable to see any friends 
for the past month,  quit my job in the service industry, and been unable to partake 
in my favorite pastime of trying  out different local coffee shops. This has beenupsetting and uncomfortable, but I fully recognize  and understand the need for 
these changes to be made under the context of a global pandemic.
When looking at this situation beyond the personal level, it is clear that many have 
had to alter  their livelihoods to much more drastic degrees than simply skipping 
out on new coffee  experiences or being unable to catch some waves.
Doctors and nurses around the country are working around-the-clock to provide 
the best care they can with a dwindling supply of resources and an increasing 
number of patients. Many of these healthcare warriors have resorted to writing 
their wills, as their colleagues have passed away in the line of duty and they 
themselves do not know if they will make it to the following week.
Moreover, unemployment rates are reaching record highs, with many families that 
were already struggling worried about whether they will be able to put food on the 
table while out of work, let alone be able to stay safe and healthy if they take up one 
of the few jobs available in high-risk environments such as grocery stores and fast-
food restaurants.
To open up the beaches for surfers during this global pandemic when millions are 
struggling to a much greater extent than simply being unable to ride the waves flies 
directly in the face of the hard, life-threatening work being done by healthcare 
providers, food service employees, and sanitation workers to put a stop to this 
pandemic.
The main problem with opening up beaches to surfers is not a logistical one — 
although the thought of giving already overstretched city workers the task of 
monitoring the beaches to keep out non-surfers seems a waste of time and 
resources. Rather, an ethical problem arises when one believes that their right to 
their favorite pastime trumps others’ rights to stay safe and healthy during this 
pandemic.
“Social distancing” is more than maintaining a six-feet radius between yourself and 
those around you, although that general rule of thumb is a good place to start. The 
practice reflects a necessary mindset change of valuing the health and wellness of 
our neighbors above the temporary satisfaction we may feel from partaking in our 
favorite activities.Accessed: 5/28/2020 PC Princess: San Diego Should Not Re-Open Its Beaches to Surfers Under Quarantine - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
Despite the boredom we all feel now, there will be a day when the stay-at-home order 
no longer exists and we will once more engage in our favorite activities, whether that 
be surfing or trying  out new coffee shops. But that day will continue to remain far-off 
unless we all take one for the  team and stay at home for the time being.
Kindness, patience, and thoughtfulness are all important mantras to maintain during 
this tough  time. That being said, the most important way that we can follow these 
mantras is to check our  privilege when we can and to look out for those who are 
working hard to ensure that the nation  is safe and healthy.
Art by UCSD Guardian artist Kyoko Downey.PC Princess: San Diego Should Not Re-Open Its Beaches to Surfers Under Quarantine - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 As Sports Shut Down, Madden, Tram Racing, and Other Distractions Take Their Place - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Praveen Nair
Sports make up an industry worth tens-of-billions-of dollars in the United States 
alone, and a massive machine of media has arisen to meet the popular demand for 
sports content. So what  happens when that entire industry grinds to a halt? For the 
past month, as all of the world’s  major sports suspended play, the scramble of the 
sports media to satiate the appetite of hungry  sports fans has taken us in some 
interesting, and uniquely modern directions.
One avenue that many sports networks have taken to is the re-broadcasting of old 
sports games.  For example, on March 28, ESPN spent an entire day showing rare 
20-strikeout pitching  performances from its archive; ESPN has also been airing past
NBA Finals games featuring new  Hall of Famers Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett. In
some ways, it’s interesting to see some of  these old games, especially if you have a
sense of nostalgia about them, and if nothing else, the  changes in the ways in which
games are presented and played are also noteworthy. But on the  other hand, people
watch sports for the thrill of uncertainty and to find out how the story ends –if you
already know how a game ended, then what’s the point of spending three hours
watching  
it?
A more 21 -century way to fill viewers’ need to watch athletes compete are the 
multiple video game competitions that the NBA, NFL, and MLB put on, with players 
competing from the comfort of their homes. While the MLB and NFL put on fairlylow-key events with only a few  players participating, the NBA’s “2K20” tournament 
features 16 players, including a few All-Stars. To their credit, the tournaments 
provide some level of sports action and feature some of  the personalities we know 
and love, but at the end of the day, there really is no comparison  between real sports 
and a video game, no matter how good the graphics are. And what does it  mean that 
Derwin James can beat Tyreek Hill 52 –3 at “Madden”? I have absolutely no idea,  and 
neither do you.
Personally, my favorite alternative programming during this period has been the 
weird, unheard of sports from the fringes of society encapsulated in the single 
greatest recurring day of  sports broadcasting – ESPN’s “The Ocho,” inspired by a 
joke from the film “DodgeBall” where  the sport airs on a fictional ESPN 8. While 
“The Ocho” usually only airs on August 8th (8/8), a special edition aired on March
22, and it lived up to the hype. Bratwurst-eating competitions,  marble racing, cherry 
pit spitting, European tram racing: if you couldn’t name it, they aired it.
These competitions just prove that given a storyline approximating that of a sport, 
just about anything can appeal to the same emotional hole that sports fills. Yet 
there’s only so much cup stacking you can watch until you realize why nobody has 
ever heard of these sports before.
There are possibly months to go before any major leagues reopen for games, with the 
exception of the quasi-sport WWE, whose events without the raucous crowds have 
the energy of a particularly intense high school theater production, so we’re probably 
going to have to endure a lot more time without sports. And while this is just about 
the least important story in the world right now, the first gap in sports of this size 
since World War II will prove a fascinating footnote in the annals of sports history. Accessed: 5/28/2020 As Sports Shut Down, Madden, Tram Racing, and Other Distractions Take Their Place - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Initial Reactions to the new NFL CBA - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Hayden Wellbeloved
The NFL made major headlines recently when the NFL players voted to approve the 
owners’ proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement, which becomes effective after 
the 2020 calendar year and will last for 11 years. There are a plethora of things to 
break down ranging from an additional playoff spot, the owner’s option to expand 
the season to 17 games, and a slight  increase in minimum weekly checks for players. 
The vote passed by a narrow margin with 1,019  players voting “yes” and 959 players 
voting “no.” While it can be tough for both parties to come  out satisfied with a deal 
like this, it seems the owners got the best of this deal that will last  through the 2030 
season. 
One big change from the new CBA is the addition of a 17th game to the NFL regular 
season. The NFL also got rid of the 4th preseason game and it appears the regular 
season will now consist of  an 18-week schedule with 17 games as well as a bye. 
Implementing the 17th game into the new  CBA was something the owners claimed 
was a “non-negotiable” deal despite harsh feedback  from players. Another game on 
the schedule allows owners to increase profits through revenue,  ticket sales, etc., 
and the NFL gets to sell an additional game to broadcast networks. In  exchange, thetwo sides agreed to a slight increase in the revenue split for the players that will  be a 
one time spike in 2021 with the split increasing from 47 percent/53 percent to 48.5  
percent/51.5 percent. 
An extra regular-season game for players earns them an increase in salary, but at 
what cost?Every game NFL players take the field, they are putting their health at 
risk, and to add an additional game to the end of a long season without including 
another bye or rest time for  players only puts the players in a more dangerous 
situation. We may see more injuries and  player fatigue come playoff time as a result.
A second key change is the new expanded playoff format which will feature an odd 
seven teams from each conference. Under the new guidelines, only the top seeds 
from each conference will receive a bye while the other six teams would all play on 
Wildcard Weekend. There is noise that the NFL is simply adding this 7th playoff 
team to push for an 8th one down the road. This would make more sense in terms 
of seeding and formatting as this would allow for multiple first-round bye teams per 
conference. From the NFL and owners’ perspective, this is a no brainer. Playoff NFL 
games are already some of the most viewed TV programs all year long so why not 
add another one. However, the extra teams that make the playoffs due to the new 
spot may not even be a true playoff-caliber team. A lot of these teams that will be 
the new seventh seed will carry 8–8 or 9–7 records and they have those records for 
a reason — there is a sizable gap in talent over the other top seeding playoff teams. 
Yes, over the course of a decade there may be an upset or two, but in terms of 
watching quality playoff football, this makes matters worse. 
Some smaller issues worked out in the new CBA include relaxation on drug testing, 
an increase in minimum salaries and an increase in roster size from 46 to 48 on 
game days.  
Suspensions from marijuana have been terminated and now the drug testing period 
has been shortened from four months to just two weeks which will be during 
training camp. With the revenue split spike, players on minimum salaries, who 
account for nearly 60 percent of the NFL, will see a roughly 20 percent increase in 
pay. 
And now, teams can suit up 48 players each Sunday, leaving just five inactive 
players on the bench. This allows coaches to rotate and keep players fresh while 
employing more people in their gameplans. Accessed: 5/28/2020 Initial Reactions to the new NFL CBA - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
When I saw this new CBA passed as early as it did in early March, I was definitely a 
bit surprised. There was still one more year left on the previous collective 
bargaining agreement  and honestly, I was hoping the players would receive more 
benefits financially and for the  betterment of their health even if it meant holding 
out into part of the season. So what went  wrong? 
First off, in terms of voting, the bill passed at a vote of 1,019 to 959. If we’re talking 
deals that  run 11 years long, there needs to be a bigger consensus than a narrow 60 
person margin like the  bill had. Also, over 500 NFL players did not even vote on the 
bill. Some may be young and  satisfied with the money they’re getting already but 
this is an important situation that will affect  their peers and themselves even once 
their career is over. There are lasting effects of playing in  the NFL, why not try to 
add a lifetime healthcare clause in the bill? 
Another thing that surprised me was how the players didn’t leverage anything huge 
for themselves out of the deal despite the fact owners were shouting to all media 
outlets that the  17th game is a “non-negotiable” inclusion to the new CBA. The 
player association should have  also added a non-negotiable point from their side of 
the agreement as well. The owners need the  players just as much if not more than 
the players need them. 
Lastly, what shocked me the most was the fact that this new CBA will last 11 NFL 
seasons, until  2030, with no options for owners or players to opt-out. This means 
that the revenue increase  next year from 47 percent to 48.5 percent will stay 
constant for the remaining nine years and if  players continue to get injured with the 
extra games on the schedule there’s nothing the players  can do to change it. 
Only time will tell how this new CBA will fair, but reviewing the agreement now, it 
seems the  owners got just what they wanted in this deal and left the players out to 
dry. Initial Reactions to the new NFL CBA - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 COLA and COVID-19: COLA's Continued Importance in the age of a Global Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Pankhuri Kohli
Since the COVID-19 pandemic brought the world to a halt, it has overtaken 
headlines  everywhere. However, it is important to remember that the pandemic 
is not the only problem  facing society. Many of the problems from before the 
virus’s escalation continue to exist and  have been exacerbated by the additional 
challenges that a global health crisis poses. Major  victims of these additional 
challenges are the University of California graduate teaching  assistants and 
graduate student instructors. As the UC system transitions to online classes, TA’s  
and GSI’s need to assist professors in using technology, restructuring the 
curriculum, and supporting their students through the unique challenges of 
remote learning that the COVID-19  crisis brings. Yet, despite their ever-
increasing necessity in maintaining undergraduate  education quality, TAs and 
GSIs continue to be underpaid, threatening their livelihoods and the  
undergraduates that rely on them. As graduate workers’ living conditions 
increasingly affect  undergraduates’ learning, it is more imperative than ever that 
undergraduates support their  TAs and the Cost-of-Living Adjustment movement.
Even now, the COLA movement remains key to ensuring that TAs and GSIsreceive fair pay and can support themselves and their families. As housing costs 
have skyrocketed across California, graduate workers at every single UC campus 
are now rent-burdened, which means they spend at least 30 percent of their take-
home pay on rent. When people need to use 30 percent or more of their incomes 
for their rents, they have less money for basic needs and often  families-face-a-
growing-rent-burden) have to rely on social safety nets such as food stamps.  
Thus, without COLA, graduate students remain at high risk of housing insecurity 
and will struggle to make ends meet, which is worrisome for several reasons. To 
properly socially distance and prevent the spread of the coronavirus, graduate 
workers need access to proper housing. Moreover, as the pandemic has moved 
classes online, graduate workers’ housing conditions have become imperative to 
their teaching. After all, if TAs’ homes cannot function as workspaces or their 
salaries do not cover the cost of high-speed internet, they will not be able to  
teach and support undergraduates. Consequently, COLA has become even more 
necessary, not only for graduate workers’ livelihoods but also for undergraduate 
education.
As courses transition from in-person to online, TAs are instrumental in keeping 
courses functional and effective, making COLA even more relevant to 
undergraduate education. After all, in the UC system, TAs engage with 
undergraduates one-on-one, often acting as the first point of contact by doing the 
grading and supporting students through assignments. Essentially, graduate 
workers act as the backbone of undergraduate education, doing the work 
necessary to implement professors’ visions for their courses. Consequently, as 
COVID-19 brings new challenges for students, TAs face the burden of adapting to 
the new challenges remote learning brings. 
For example, Robert Edwards, a fourth-year graduate student and TA for Sixth 
College’s Culture, Art, and Technology writing course, explained that since many 
of his students are international students, they struggle to attend his discussion 
sections.
“Professors have just been pre-recording lectures but it’s my job, as the TA, to 
hold live sections…[and] when students cannot attend section, it is my job to 
make sure they know what they need to know…” he said.
Still, it is difficult for Edwards to afford his housing, make ends meet, and 
maintain access to technology like high-speed internet because he spends aboutAccessed: 5/28/2020 COLA and COVID-19: COLA's Continued Importance in the age of a Global Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
60 percent of his income on rent  alone. Even though Edwards has been making it 
work, he worries about his ability to continue  to do so, especially since he has been 
homeless in the past. Edwards’ economic situation is not  unique among graduate 
TAs and GSIs at the various UC campuses. Clearly, graduate workers’  conditions 
remain precarious and even though undergraduates need their TAs, graduate  
workers’ incomes continue to shortchange TAs’ abilities to support students.
While TAs have been at high-risk of housing insecurity for years now, the COVID 
pandemic has  increased costs and made their living conditions even more tenuous. 
At this time, TAs face  additional pressures because many have lost the side-jobs 
they used to supplement their incomes due to rising unemployment as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. As such, TAs, many of whom already  struggled to pay rent 
for their homes, are at further risk of losing them altogether. Moreover,  even 
though graduate workers’ income sources have decreased, the burden put on their 
incomes has increased because they now need access to private workspaces, high-
speed internet, and  other technological necessities. Therefore, the fact that TAs’ 
salaries are insufficient in covering  their rents now restricts their abilities to teach 
remotely and thus, compromises the quality of  undergraduates’ learning.  
Considering COLA would decrease the proportion of TAs’ salaries  going to rent, it 
would stabilize their living conditions more and as a consequence, improve  
undergraduate learning conditions.
Now, while the UC system has made some changes to help TAs at this time, it has 
yet to meet  graduate workers’ demands enough to alleviate concerns. For example, 
the UC system has extended healthcare coverage for the 80 plus fired strikers and 
on March 30, the system offered fired workers the option to rejoin as UC  
employees. While the UC system’s extension of healthcare coverage helps protect 
striking workers, it only temporarily resolves a much deeper problem. After all, 
despite the necessity of their labor to the functioning of the UC education system, 
the system fails to sustain TAs basic needs. 
Moreover, while the offers to reinstate striking TAs allow graduate workers to regain
employment and income, their acceptance of the offer prevents them from striking. 
The fact that the UC system is only offering jobs if TAs refuse to strike arguably 
takes advantage of their vulnerability, which is exacerbated by the complications the 
COVID-19 threat has created, to prevent them from continuing to fight for fair pay. 
Accordingly, TAs remain at risk and the UC system’s response may further reduce
graduate workers’ leverage, threatening their ability to earn adequate wages.COLA and COVID-19: COLA's Continued Importance in the age of a Global Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
TAs continue to be instrumental to the success of undergraduates and are 
imperative to  undergraduates’ ability to complete their degrees during an on-going 
global pandemic. Yet,  graduate workers continue to be underpaid and the poverty 
that entails creates many serious  consequences for our TAs other than those 
discussed in this article. These issues hurting our  TAs, clearly impact their ability to 
teach us. Fortunately, we can help alleviate some of these  problems by supporting 
our TAs in their fight for COLA. After all, if undergraduates stop caring  about 
COLA, we put our TAs at risk. Moreover, as TAs’ living conditions become  
undergraduates’ learning conditions, a lack of COLA puts our education at risk. To 
help out, we  can support graduate students’ efforts to make their strike union 
sponsored  and take a look at Strike University, which discusses larger-level issues 
with universities  and acts as a space for engagement and activism.
Now more than ever, we need to step up for COLA so our graduate workers can  
keep stepping  up for us.
Artwork by UCSD Guardian Art Editor Anthony Tran.
This article was updated at 6:21PM on April 7, 2020 to add information about 
how students  could support the COLA movement.COLA and COVID-19: COLA's Continued Importance in the age of a Global Pandemic - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Students respond: How have COVID-19 policies changed your life? - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Annika Olives
It’s almost an understatement to say that the COVID-19 pandemic has altered our 
ways of life.  While Californians were the first to be put under a mandatory stay-at-
home order on March 19, other states followed suit, and, now, almost 300 million 
people are being asked to only leave  their residences for essential activities. 
Over spring break, we asked UC San Diego students to share their experiences to 
find out how  COVID-19 policies, like social distancing or shelter-in-place, have 
affected our lives, families,  and communities. Here’s what five of them had to say. 
Nithish Narasimman, First-Year, Currently Located in Seattle, 
Washington
“Luckily, I was able to get back home during these hectic times albeit my home 
being the  epicenter of this epidemic. I haven’t left my home for the past week 
except for short walks  around my neighborhood. I usually like to stay home, but not 
having the option to leave and go  hang out with friends is a very suffocating feeling. 
I have been talking to my friends more  through video calls and regular calls while 
playing games with them.”Noelle Aguinaldo, Fourth-Year, Currently Located in San Diego, 
California
“‘I don’t know’ is my new mantra. This has been a time of uncertainty for me, and 
undoubtedly,  everyone else. A time when bills demand to be paid with no means 
to settle them. When public  places and socialization threaten vitality. When years 
of hard work and late nights across  generations might go unrecognized. 
Everything is just toying with my anxiety, and life seems to  be teetering on a 
delicate line that separates fiction from reality.”
William Pham, Second-Year, Currently Located in San Diego, 
California
“In regards to the routine at home, not much has exactly changed, except when 
spring quarter starts up again, instead of waking up super early just to commute to 
school and get to my classes, I can sleep in later and then log on to attend classes. 
My family still has to go to work because they are essential, but now they go to 
[get] groceries less often and are trying to hit multiple stores in one trip so they 
will have to go out less.”
Hugo Mercado, First-Year, Currently Located in Chula Vista, 
California 
“My daily routine probably would have been the same regardless of the 
precautions currently in place. Since we’re on spring break, I fill my time playing 
Xbox and working out at home or at a friend’s house since the gyms are closed. I 
can’t work or anything, and the beaches are closed, so those are two downsides. 
But COVID-19 has brought all the boys back together in the hometown, and most 
of us still meet up despite social distancing.”
Ryan Su, Third-Year, Currently Located in San Francisco, California
“As of late, I’m confused as to who I am. Being back home, even if I’m sheltered in, 
has always made me feel more like myself. But, I don’t want to be that exact 
person anymore. This shelter in place has brought back memories of what I was 
like in high school and it simultaneously amazes me and makes me uncomfortable 
to think about how much I’ve grown since. 
I’ve been fixated on this song that my housemate sent me, “Grow As We Go” by 
Ben Platt. … For so long, I always thought that there was an independence to 
growth. I now disagree. … Especially in times like this, I can now clearly see how 
people affect me and teach me how to grow both positively and negatively. I don’tAccessed: 5/28/2020 Students respond: How have COVID-19 policies changed your life? - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
need to or want to be on my own at all. Rather than  telling yourself that you can 
leave, be alone, or even be tied down to nothing, try to grow with  someone right now 
if you have that blessing. Growth doesn’t happen alone. It happens through  
experience, and human experience will always include another. A lot of my friends 
have been  telling me that they feel like they’ve hit a dead end because of these 
policies. I completely  disagree. There is so much to do; even at a slow online pace, 
there is so much room for growth. 
In response to COVID-19, to the shelter-in-place rule, to the news, I thought — 
there’s so much  to do. Now I have all the time in the world to grow and add to it.”
Have an experience you’d like to share? Email us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org. 
Photo by LOGAN WEAVER on UnsplashStudents respond: How have COVID-19 policies changed your life? - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Quarantine Recipes — Dessert Edition - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020  Hannah Rosenberg
As Spring Quarter classes ramp up and planners fill to the brim, allowing less 
white space in  addition to our now less-frequent grocery shopping excursions, 
meal options might be less  diverse than before. In this current era of the 
COVID-19 stay-at-home lockdown orders, many  have stocked their pantries with 
non-perishable staples. Over the past few weeks, we have  collectively ridden the 
waves of a massive increase in yeast demand due to a surge in self-taught  bread 
bakers. Empty produce bins stare back at us blankly and shared treasure hunts for 
fresh garlic bulbs, such as my dad and another shopper’s garlic hunting 
experience, often end with  our hands still empty. In a time like now, when finding 
a recipe and executing it with all the  ingredients originally intended is becoming 
more difficult, it is easy to get caught in the cycle of  making and eating the same 
dishes with the staples you have until your taste buds know  nothing else. 
Finding the little everyday joys can help you through this abnormal time, and for 
many, dessert  begs for its well-deserved spotlight. Here, in this first edition of 
Quarantine Recipes, are some  simple yet delicious sweet treats that are easy on 
time, ingredients, and effort. Whether you  need a Zoom lecture baking break or a 
weekend kitchen field trip, you’ve come to the right  place. If you are home with 
family in quarantine, don’t be surprised when family members come  to you asking 
for more. Your eyes will also thank you for giving them a much-needed screenbreak.
3 Ingredient Peanut Butter Cookies  
Ingredients:
1 cup peanut butter
1 cup white sugar or brown sugar
1 egg or 1 flax egg (1 Tbsp ground flaxseed meal and 2 Tbsp water. Let sit for 5 
minutes.)
Mix all ingredients in a bowl until well incorporated. Roll into 2 inch balls and 
place staggered on a lined cookie sheet. Using the back of a fork, press down to 
score each cookie with criss-cross marks. Bake at 350 degrees fahrenheit for 8 to 
10 minutes. Let cool.
Fruit Crisp with Oatmeal Cookie Crumble
Filling:
4 apples, pears, or peaches, or 4 cups frozen blueberries or mixed berries
2 Tbsp sugar
1 tsp cinnamon
1 Tbsp lemon juice (optional)
Cookie Crumble:
1 cup oats
½ cup flour
½ cup brown sugar
6 Tbsp cold butter
For the filling, toss chopped fruit with flour, sugar, cinnamon, and lemon juice in 
a bowl. Transfer to a baking dish such as a square pan or pie pan. Set aside. For 
the crumble, combine oats, flour, and sugar. Add diced butter into the mixture, 
and use your hands to mix into a cookie dough-like texture. Next, distribute the 
crumble evenly on top of the fruit mixture in the pan. Press down to create a top 
crust. Bake at 350 degrees fahrenheit for 30 minutes, or until the crust is browned 
and crispy. Serve on its own or with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.Accessed: 5/28/2020 Quarantine Recipes — Dessert Edition - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
Chocolate Clusters
Ingredients:
½ cup dried fruit such as raisins, cranberries, chopped apricots
½ cup nuts such as almonds, peanuts, cashews, pecans
1 cup any chocolate 
Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper. Cluster handfuls of dried fruit and 
nuts spaced 2  inches apart. Melt chocolate in the microwave or on a double boiler 
until smooth. Spoon melted  chocolate on top of each cluster, making sure that 
each one has chocolate blanketing all pieces  underneath. Let sit until the 
chocolate has hardened. 
Pro tip: Trader Joe’s Pound Plus chocolate bars are great to have on hand. They 
come in 72  percent dark chocolate, dark chocolate, milk chocolate, milk chocolate 
with almonds, and  bittersweet chocolate!
If you decide to try out any of these recipes, send us feedback to 
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org!
Art by Susan SunQuarantine Recipes — Dessert Edition - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020 Concert Review: Rock N’ Roosevelt 2020 - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020   Steven Zhou
At this year’s Rock N’ Roosevelt, Tessa Violet, Coast Modern, and The Driver Era 
pulled out all  stops and gave a memorable performance. 
Despite its proximity to finals week, Rock N’ Roosevelt drew in a surprisingly large 
and lively  crowd. Listening to the chatter in the line, it was clear what drove most 
people to attend: the  chance to see childhood familiar — face Ross Lynch in 
person. While the line seemed  agonizingly long, the check-in process went by quite 
smoothly, and I even nabbed a Rock N’  Roosevelt themed card-holder to stick on 
my phone.
Once I entered Price Center Ballroom West, I was immediately drawn to the photo 
booth set up in the back corner. After my brief photo session with my friends, 
Tessa Violet, the concert’s first opener, stepped onto the stage and everyone in the 
ballroom quickly condensed around her. The energy of the room quickly changed. 
While Violet is often seen as more of a YouTuber, her performance at Rock N’ 
Roosevelt proved that she could rally a crowd effortlessly. Constantly interacting 
with the audience, Violet was the playful and exuberant opener this concert needed 
to revitalize everyone after a long wait in line. On stage, she wasted no timeshowcasing a  tougher side to her image that her sweet and sultry studio voice fails 
to capture, especially with  her performance of “Games” and her concluding song of 
the night, “Crush.”
During the intermission, the audience also got to see some familiar faces from 
previous Rock N’ Roosevelt concerts. Moontower, an electronica band, made their 
third appearance at Rock N’  Roosevelt. This time, instead of being an opener, they 
were tossing paper airplanes into the  crowd that allowed several lucky attendees to 
grab some free merch before leaving the venue. 
Coast Modern took the stage after the break and brought in a unique sound to the 
room. With songs like “Guru” in their repertoire, Luke Atlas and Coleman Trapp 
lived up to their band’s name, bringing in a coastal, beachy atmosphere to the 
room. Coast Modern even incorporated a brief meditation session into their set, 
which was a first for me. This further added to their beach boy brand that they 
seemed to embody. With their feel-good personalities and interesting music style, 
Coast Modern shares much in common with what made Moontower surprisingly 
popular amongst UC San Diego students, and I wouldn’t be surprised to hear if 
they came back to UCSD for another round in the future. 
Finally, The Driver Era rounded off the concert as the final performers. Consisting 
of Ross Lynch from Disney Channel’s “Austin and Ally” and his brother Rocky 
Lynch, The Driver Era received a roaring welcome from the audience as they 
opened with their song “A Kiss.” With remarkable stage presence, the brother-
musicians spent as much time performing their music as they did engaging with 
their fans and joking around about the UCSD stereotypes. Far from being a one-
dimensional boy band, their performance showcased their musicianship in all 
styles, from the slow and mellow “San Francisco” and “Afterglow” to coarser 
bangers like “Preacher Man” and “Welcome to the End of Your Life.” Notably, they 
even managed to pull off a medley of “Sweet Home Alabama” by Skynyrd and “All 
Summer Long” by Kid Rock with just their guitars and voices. At the end of their 
set, the audience once again exploded with cheers, only instead, they were 
demanding for an encore. After some uncertainty, Ross and Rocky Lynch decided 
to oblige, performing “Feel You Now” as the closer to a wild night. Accessed: 5/28/2020 Concert Review: Rock N’ Roosevelt 2020 - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
Frontman, Ross Lynch, of the Driver Era captivates the UCSD audience.
While UCSD’s school-sponsored concerts have a reputation for being rather bland, 
Rock N’  Roosevelt for 2020 was anything but that. All three performers brought 
forward different  charms and musical focuses that created a musically varied and 
riveting concert experience.  Furthermore, Moontower’s surprise appearance added 
a touch of nostalgia for older students  who remember their first performance at 
UCSD. For those of you who are blowing off Rock N’  Roosevelt as a lame event, 
mark it on your calendar for next year. You might be surprised at  how fun it is!
Grade: B+
Date: March 3, 2020
Venue: UCSD Price Center Ballroom West
Photo by Howard ChangAccessed: 5/28/2020 Musical Review: "Fly" - UCSD Guardian
 April 5, 2020   Deyshna Pai
While “Fly” entertains with stunning visuals, it fails to achieve the emotional depth 
it strives  for.
Walking into the Mandell Weiss Theatre on a Wednesday night, I was unaware that 
I would be  part of the last audience to see “Fly” at the La Jolla Playhouse. The 
following evening, on  Thursday, March 12, La Jolla Playhouse canceled its 
remaining performances to adhere to  COVID-19 pandemic gathering guidelines. I 
fondly remember this experience as part of the last  night of normalcy the San Diego 
community would see for some time, and I am grateful to have  been a part of it. 
“Fly,” a musical based on J.M. Barrie’s 1911 novel “Peter and Wendy” (known today 
as “Peter  Pan”), swaps the classic tale of the Darling children and the famous boy in 
green for Wendy’s  perilous journey of self-development in a strange, mystical land. 
The story begins with Wendy  (Storm Lever), thirsting for both adventure and the 
ability to remain a child while in the  confines of her bedroom. Lucky for her, Peter 
Pan (Lincoln Clauss) and Tinkerbell (Isabelle  McCalla) crash through her window 
that night to whisk her off to Neverland, the magical home  of The Lost Boys, a bandPirates, and a beguiling, glamorous crocodile (Liisi LaFontaine).
The musical’s biggest strength was its creative interpretation of Neverland. The 
stage boasted a  beautiful set, primarily shifting between the Lost Boys’ play 
structure of bamboo thickets and  the pirates’ beaten up “bro cave” of a ship. The 
costuming was inventive — Peter Pan donned a  survivalist outfit instead of his 
classic asparagus-like look, and the pirates were humorously  styled as a band of 
misfits that meshed together. Furthermore, the ensemble’s artful anonymity  as 
Neverland’s dancing foliage brought airs of mystery and whimsy to the stage. As for 
music, the animalistic, tribal sound of island drums were the heartbeat of 
Neverland. The crocodile, a looming spirit central to Wendy’s story, was its life-
force. The lighting only added to the mystique and development of each scene, 
sometimes rippling across the stage as a blue lagoon or establishing mood with its 
color. The combination of thoughtful design elements produced a Neverland that 
was lively, immersive, and, above all, surreal.
While the show’s set, choreography, and Cirque-du-Soleil-esque aerials were sure 
to impress, there were parts of the storyline that felt underdeveloped. For instance, 
Wendy’s loving relationship with her dad was punctuated with one or two lines 
signifying her childish dislike of his statement that her “growing up” reminds him 
of her deceased mother. The audience was forced to buy that Wendy’s dislike of this 
comparison ties into her longing for exploration and everlasting youth. It felt 
slightly rushed, as if the story needed to justify the journey that was about to ensue 
but lacked sufficient stage time to do so. Considering Wendy’s closeness to her 
father, this motivation seemed out of place.
Additionally, Wendy’s reluctance to grow up fuels her decision to learn to fly from 
Peter, who teaches her that in order to soar through the air, one must forget 
everything they previously knew. After all, as the show demonstrates, memories are 
heavy and weigh a person down. While certainly an intriguing concept, this key 
point in “Fly”’s plot created inconsistencies that disserviced its otherwise promising 
story. At times Peter and Wendy were comically forgetful and at other times 
frustratingly aware of themselves and their surroundings after flying. Later on, the 
musical attempts to address this inconsistency through Tinkerbell with a line about 
Peter choosing to forget details at his convenience, but the explanation feels faulty. 
The resulting mix of scenes that both followed and rejected this fact of Neverland 
suggested that this idea, though compelling in theory, was not executed correctly. Accessed: 5/28/2020 Musical Review: "Fly" - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/28/2020
Moreover, Wendy’s conflict over growing up or staying a child — summarized as 
“to forget and  fly or to remember and stay grounded” —  was a major theme in 
the story that was cheapened  by the show’s resolution of having the characters 
use pixie dust to fly one last time. The mix of  these actions felt like a feeble 
attempt to sew together explanations and solutions for  convenience, and as flying 
is so central to the theme of the musical, I could not help but wish  that the logic 
behind it had been more convincing.  
While some plot points could be refined, “Fly” still had plenty of enjoyable 
moments due to its  costuming, set design, and acting. The crocodile’s role was 
creatively reimagined in this  interpretation as a central figure who certainly 
holds her own powerhouse vocals and energy  opposite Wendy. The imagery 
related to the crocodile was stunning. I can still envision a certain  scene involving 
a lavender backdrop and glittering emerald green tail. Captain Hook (Eric  
Anderson) had impeccable delivery and entertained with his song of lament over 
his lost hand.  Peter engaged with his petulance, Wendy wowed with her vocals, 
and the cast members and  ensemble enriched one another’s performance. 
Overall, “Fly” stood out for its compelling visuals and strong cast but struggled to 
achieve emotional depth and a consistent storyline. Despite these pitfalls, this 
new take on an old  favorite renews the spirit of Neverland for the musical stage, 
bringing to viewers a refreshing  exploration of what it really means to “grow up.”
Rating: B
Opened:  Feb 18, Mandell Weiss Theatre 
Starring:  Storm Lever, Lincoln Clauss, Eric Anderson, Liisi La Fontaine
Image courtesy of La Jolla PlayhouseMusical Review: "Fly" - UCSD Guardian