The California Consumer 
Privacy Act, which protects 
consumers’ privacy rights, went into effect on Jan. 1, 2020. The 
CCPA was originally passed in 
June 2018, in compliance with 
the California State Constitution’s 
guarantee of both privacy rights and consumer protection.
The CCPA legally protects 
consumers by granting them the right to “request a business to disclose the categories and specific pieces of personal information that 
it collects about the consumer, the 
categories of sources from which 
that information is collected, the 
business purposes for collecting 
or selling the information, and 
the categories of 3rd parties with 
which the information is shared, ” 
according to the Legislative Counsel’s Digest of the bill.
This act gives consumers not 
only the right to access information about how their private data is used but also authorizes them the legal right to reject a business’s 
ability to use their private data, 
to request the deletion of their 
data, and to protect them from any 
discrimination which may arise 
from enforcing these rights.
The act was introduced by 
Assemblymember Ed Chau and 
State Senator Robert Hertzberg. The act is a protection of the Artist John Baldessari, the mind behind 
Geisel Library’s “READ/THINK/WRITE/DREAM, ” passed away Jan. 2, 
2020 at his home in Venice, California at the age of 88. Baldessari will be remembered for his conceptual designs and devotion to education. 
“READ/THINK/WRITE/DREAM, ” which 
makes up the entryway to Geisel Library, is one of the 20 art pieces part of UC, San Diego’s Stuart Collection. Mary Beebe, Director of the Stuart Collection, spoke to the UCSD Guardian on Baldessari’s passing. 
“We are extremely proud to have this major 
Baldessari as part of the Stuart Collection, ” Beebe said. “He was a friend and a pal and we will miss him very much. ”
Born in National City, California, Baldessari 
earned both his Bachelor of Arts and Masters of Arts in painting from San Diego State University in 1953 and 1957, respectively. He created his art largely by juxtaposing images and photographs with text, leading viewers to confront and question the images’ new meanings created from placing these elements out of context.
Within this conceptual style, Baldessari 
maintained a sense of personality and humor, with many of his works evoking wry smiles. One such piece is Baldessari’s 2018 “Emoji Series, ” which consists of printed images of fruit with captions. A print in this collection shows an apple with the text “You May Like” below. The title of this piece reads “ Adam Wasn’t Into It. ”  
In 1970, Baldessari began his career as a 
university professor, teaching for the following 18 years in Valencia, California for the California Institute of the Arts. From 1996 to 2007, he taught for UCLA. According to the New York Times, Baldessari’s teaching style centered on embracing the new and unconventional in a way that inspired his students, including conceptual artist Barbara Bloom and painter David Salle. 
It was this very passion for education and 
experimentation that Mary Beebe used to encourage Baldessari to install “READ/THINK/WRITE/DREAM” in 2001. The piece consists of moving, primary colored sliding glass doors, bookended by black and white images of students and a row of books. Two eucalyptus benches rest on either side, and within the doors are photos of art supplies and the ocean. 
Above all of this are the words “READ, 
THINK, WRITE, DREAM, ” words that its Stuart Collection writeup identify as a message Baldessari would convey to his students by reminding them that they’re capable of doing so much more beyond work. 
Beebe reflected on Baldessari’s inclusion in 
the Stuart Collection, explaining how he was at first hesitant to do the piece, but she reassured him by referencing his influential relationship with both art and education.
“When first asked he kept saying ‘But, Mary, 
I’m not a sculptor, ’” Beebe said. “I kept saying but you’re such an important teacher, and artist, and you grew up here, and have taught here, and I know you can think of something to do. ”   
Another Baldessari piece familiar to San 
Diego residents is his mural “Brain/Cloud (with Seascape and Palm Tree. ” Installed in 2011 at 1250 Prospect Street, La Jolla, the mural depicts a cloud that distinctly resembles a human brain, floating above a palm tree by the ocean. The Murals of La Jolla website cites that the intention behind the mural is to draw viewers’ attention to the way many people identify images in the clouds. VOLUME 53, ISSUE 12  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 11, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TECHNOLOGY
California Data Privacy Law Takes Effect at Start of  New Year
Doors of Geisel Library, READ/WRITE/THINK/DREAM by John Baldessari, Stuart Art Collection // Photo by Nithish Narasimman
By  Daisy scott   editor-in-chiefCAMPUS
Artist Behind Geisel’s Doorway Art Experience Passes AwayPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Soleimani’s death has 
started a great chain 
of events that have 
completely changed 
the nature of U.S.-Iran 
relations as well as the 
environment in Iran."
CUSTODIANS
LITTLE  WOMENThanking  the  staff
FILM  REVIEWFeatures,  Page 6
A&E,  PAGE 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"On one hand, we 
can be rational, 
logical, and powerful 
masters of our own 
destiny, society, and 
even nature itself. On 
the other hand, we 
can be cats."TUESDAY
 H 60 L 45
THURSDAY
H 58 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 60 L 51
FRIDAY
H 60 L 47
AUSTRALIA....................2
D.A.R.E............................4
PLANTS...........................10 
STRESS TOOLS.............12
TRITON TIMEOUT...........16Hemmy Chun
 “Cats” Review
 PAGE 8The new law will broaden the ability for consumers to dictate how their data is used by companies. 
BY vivian  yang
senior staff writerIRAN’S SILENT 
PROTESTS
Opinion, page 9
See DATA,  page 2See ARTIST,  page 3
Wave of  Lawsuits  
Against Catholic 
Church Arise 
Following New Law
AB218 expands upon the previous 
California Child Victims Act.   
Content Warning: This article 
contains topics of sensitive 
issues such as sexual abuse and pedophilia. 
New California State Law AB 
218 took effect on Jan. 1, 2020, which has led to a wave of new lawsuits against the Roman Catholic Church. 
AB 218, a modified version of 
the California Child Victims Act, expands the statute of limitation and time to report sexual abuse cases that occurred during one’s childhood. Older adults in their senior years are now able to take 
legal action against their childhood 
predators. 
Zalkin Law Firm in San Diego, 
which deals with sexual abuse cases, has used the new law to pursue lawsuits against institutions, such as the Boy Scouts of America and the Roman Catholic Church, that are historically tied to acts of pedophilia and child sexual abuse. 
In a Jan. 2, 2020 press 
conference with the law firm, an NBC article stated, “Zalkin Law Firm says it plans to file 125 new sexual abuse law suits against the Catholic Church and Diocese of San Diego. ” 
Several attendees of the press 
conference were new Zalkin Law Firm clients, some of whom were already in their 70’s. The law firm is filing cases against the San Diego Catholic Diocese, as well as several of its parishes. 
“Priests who committed [the 
abuse] may be dead, but the diocese that allowed them to do this to these kids and covered it up, they’re very much alive, ” Attorney Irwin Zalkin told the UCSD Guardian. “The victims have been in silence 
for so long, many of them have 
been keeping this inside of them. The diocese is accountable, even though the priests might be dead. ” 
Zalkin also stressed how 
bringing these lawsuits into the public eye can encourage the Catholic Church to change its policies regarding sexual abuse of minors. 
“[Media] draws attention to 
the issue and causes institutions to have to rethink their policies and implement policies, which they are doing and have been doing since the lawsuits were filed previously, ” Zalkin told the Guardian. 
One anonymous executive 
board member from a UC San Diego campus Catholic organization agreed with Zalkin’s view. 
“How can you put a money 
amount on something so abstract? LEGISLATION
BY  madeline  leon
Senior Staff writer
See CHURCH,  page 3“inalienable” right of privacy 
stipulated by an amendment made 
to the California Constitution in 
1972. 
The bill was enacted under the 
general environment of widespread 
use and misuse of personal data in 
California. The range of personal data handed to the businesses 
could include one’s birthday, age, 
background, or even more detailed 
private personal information such 
as one’s average driving speed 
and list of online purchases. The 
provision of user information is often made violating the privacy rights of the subjects whose data is 
gathered from.The CCPA is by far the strictest 
and most comprehensive privacy law passed in the United States to 
date. The law covers businesses 
and agencies who gather personal 
information of over 50,000 people 
each year and those whose annual 
financial revenue amounts to over $25 million. 
Since the act has been 
enacted, many large technology 
corporations have responded 
by providing their users with 
information on how their personal 
data is used. Microsoft, for example, set up a privacy dashboard where users can access the data collected 
by the service provider, understand how this information is used, and 
grant or remove the permission for 
the company to access this data.
Facebook, who was previously 
caught in the whirlpool of private 
data leak and data misuse by 
Cambridge Analytica, now also 
provides privacy protection service that allows users to download a 
copy of their own data from the 
website. 
While CCPA only pertains to 
California, companies who now 
provide information on personal 
data have also extended the service to all of their users, without differentiating where a user resides. 
As a precursor to the enactment of CCPA, the European Union came out with the General Data 
Protection Regulation in 2018, 
which also addresses the use and 
transfer of personal data and 
grants users similar powers to 
those outlined in the CCPA.
As companies comply with the 
law, there are still many challenges faced by corporations, such as 
limited implementation time and 
the building of the technological 
infrastructure to process the 
amount of personal data that they 
have collected. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Follow queenfreen on Spotify.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
A similar data privacy law was put in place in the European Union in 2018 to expand consumer protections
▶ DATA , from page 1While California’s wildfire 
season is anticipated to conclude in 
February, Australia’s fires show no 
sign of stopping as they continue to blaze across the continent, burning over 15.8 million acres and killing at least 24 people as 
of Jan. 8, 2020. These wildfires 
will be remembered as Australia’s deadliest fire season to date.
Fires have devastated much of 
the land, with many people being displaced due to their burning 
homes. Poor air quality has also 
engulfed the area, with many travelers being warned to take 
precautions while in the country. 
As a result, the United States Department of State issued a Level 2 travel advisory in Australia on 
Jan. 8, citing wildfires and natural 
disasters as the main reason behind 
the increased risk.
Humans and animals alike are 
suffering from these fires. Professor Chris Dickman of the University of Sydney estimates that over 480 
million animals alone have been 
affected by fires in the Australian state of New South Wales since 
fires started in September 2019. 
Among those animals are the country’s indigenous kangaroos and koalas, as well as rare species 
of native birds and frogs. 
Animal populations have 
suffered under the hot weather conditions and will continue to do so until March or April, when 
analysts believe the fires will end. “The true loss of animal life is 
likely to be much higher than 480 
million, ” Dickman said. 
Australia’s Irwin family has 
continued the work of their patriarch, Steve Irwin, in the years since the environmentalist’s 
passing, with the current situation 
being no different. As owners of 
the Australia Zoo, the family told 
the Cable News Network that there has been a significant increase in 
wounded animals admitted to the 
zoo’s Wildlife Hospital. Despite the overwhelming numbers, they 
have remained dedicated to saving 
animals and have said they’ll continue to treat animals as they come into the hospital. 
The San Diego Zoo, which 
displays a collection of 20 koalas loaned by the Australian 
government, has backed research 
and rescue efforts in Australia’s Blue Mountains, home to the most 
diverse group of koalas in the 
world. Rescued koalas were sent to rehabilitation in a Sydney zoo, 
where they will take refuge until 
the fires dissipate. Researchers hope they will be reassimilated to the wild and restore the region’s 
population. 
“It is a battle for our ecosystem 
right now, and I think last year, 2019, was a year where we really saw a lot of things tip, whether it’s glaciers melting, the fires in the 
Amazon, now it’s hitting Australia, ” Terri Ir win said to CNN.
Twitter and Instagram have 
been a powerful tool in spreading awareness on the natural disaster. The severity of the situation has prompted many across social media to take action, including 
celebrities. 
Australian artists Kylie 
Minogue and Cody Simpson 
have been vocal in spreading news to their followers across 
social media, including donation 
links to organizations such as the Australian Red Cross and Rural 
Fire Services. Political figures such 
as former U.S. President Barack Obama and Sen. Bernie Sanders, as well as and other American 
public figures like Kim Kardashian, 
have used their accounts to fill 
in American audiences who may 
have been detached from the issues 
in Australia. 
Others have taken a more 
unorthodox method to raise awareness. Under the Twitter 
name, “The Naked Philanthropist” , one user told her followers she 
would send one nude photo for 
every $10 donation made to a charity providing help in Australia. Kaylen Ward, an Instagram model 
based in Los Angeles, told The 
Washington Post that she has raised more than $500k for wildfire 
relief efforts through this system.Changes in the global climate 
has resulted in the transformation 
of landscapes across the planet, with California and Australia 
being the latest examples of 
this phenomenon, as both have experienced stronger than usual wildfire seasons.
Due to the warmer climate 
patterns, some forests burned 
in Australia are not expected to 
recover and will become brush and 
grasslands instead. A similar case 
presents itself in the country’s Great Barrier Reef, which has lost its 
color due to mass coral bleaching, 
a result of climate change. 
According to experts, altered 
landscapes will make it difficult for animal species to survive, resulting in forced adaptation for some and possible extinction for others. The 
same is expected to occur in other 
environments across the world, 
assuming climate conditions 
continue to deteriorate. 
There are many ways to 
help those affected in Australia, including donations and 
“adopting” an animal. The 
Australian Red Cross and WIRES, Australia’s largest wildlife rescue 
organization, represent just a 
handful of the organizations taking donations to aid in wildfire relief.
BY  luis  valente
contributing writerABROAD
Australia’s Wildfires Threaten Local Populations; Celebrities in US and Abroad Take Action
This winter’s wildfires marks Australia’s deadliest season to date, as 15.8 million acres of land and countless animals have suffered under the extreme natual disaster event
luis  valente   lvalente@ucsd.edu
vivian  y ang   yiyi288@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your Winter Quarter 
U-Pass today! Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.
Valid January 1 through 
March 25, 2020.FRIENDS
By Michi Sora
The Catholic Diocese has set up a compensation fund for all victims of  childhood sexual abuse
Other pieces by Baldessari include “Brain/Cloud (with Seascape and Palm Tree)” in La Jolla▶ CHURCH , from page 1
▶ ARTIST , from page 1
Baldessari explained his relationship 
with his art in a 2013 interview for 
Interview Magazine with his former student and fellow artist David Salle. At the time, three of Baldessari’s works were about to open at the Marian Goodman Gallery in New York. 
“I go back and forth between 
wanting to be abundantly simple and maddeningly complex, ” Baldessari told Salle. “I always compare what I do to the work of a mystery writer—like, you don’t want to know the end of the book right away. ”
John Baldessari’s contributions 
toward conceptual art as both an artist and a teacher will be long celebrated. Readers who are interested in learning more information about his life and art are encouraged to visit www.baldessari.org and his page on the Stuart Collection website. Bringing [the case] into a trial will alert the diocese like ‘hey maybe we should fix this or change something in the system so this starts happening less. ’”
The San Diego Catholic Diocese 
released a statement on Jan. 2 in response to the new wave of lawsuits.
“While we can’t respond to any specifics 
involved in these lawsuits, five of the six men mentioned in today’s news conference are known sexual predators whose names 
have been published on our website, ” the 
statement read.
The statement also mentioned the 
Compensation Program run by the Catholic Diocese. 
“Regardless of the legal issues involved, 
we have a moral obligation to provide assistance to any victim-survivor of that abuse and we would urge their attorney to contact us so that counseling can be 
arranged at our expense, ” the statement 
continued. “There are no prior conditions 
and the offer of counseling stands regardless 
of any lawsuit against the diocese. ” 
The recently launched Independent 
Compensation Program is administered by seven dioceses in California and 
attempts to financially compensate victims 
for the abuses they endured as a child, as long as they provide documented proof of their abuse. It was officially launched September 2019 and the deadline to apply is Jan. 31, 2020.According to the Program’s FAQ page, 
“ Any Claimant who chooses to accept the offered compensation pursuant to the Program must surrender any right to go to court to sue any party relating to the alleged sexual abuse. ”
The site is also unspecific with how 
much financial compensation each victim will receive, or if there are other resources the Program Administrators will provide to the “claimants. ” 
“The Program Administrators have final 
decision-making authority to determine who is eligible and the amount of any compensation, ” the FAQ page states. “The compensation will be determined based upon the experience and judgment of Mr. Feinberg and Ms. Biros and consistent with the Protocol. ” 
Sexual Abuse Attorney Irwin Zalkin 
claims that the Program is meant to cover 
up the secrets of the abuse and discourage 
filing lawsuits with attorneys. 
“The Catholic Church has created 
an independent compensation fund and they’re trying to convince victims to apply to their fund and avoid lawyer and lawsuits and go to them directly, ” Zalkin told the 
Guardian. “It keeps secrets, and it won’t 
make information public. It’s not a lawsuit, and financially trying to lure people when undervaluing [their abuse]. ” 
Zalkin also claims that “clients have 
gotten letters from [the Catholic Church], trying to dissuade people from pursuing lawsuits. ” 
The anonymous source believes the 
new laws can encourage victims to receive a sense of justice, rather than just financial compensation.
“It’s very valid if their intent is in the 
right place, ” the anonymous source told the Guardian. “Some people say they’re just after the money from the church. If their intent is to get justification, then it’s 
a good thing that this law went into effect 
… it’s really hard for victims to work up the courage. ” 
The anonymous source notified the 
Guardian that the topic of sexual abuse in the Catholic Church is discussed in their organizations, but is also not sure whether it is discussed in other Catholic student organizations. 
Victims who endured sexual abuse 
as a child who would like to take legal 
action with the Zalkin Law Firm can call 
800-617-2622. However, this is not the only law firm that pursues sexual abuse lawsuits. Victims from campus-related sexual assault or abuse events can also call 
the UCSD campus police at 858-534-4357. 
madeline  leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu
daisy  scott   editor@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
College is where many students are first 
introduced to alcohol and drugs. While some 
are able to safely balance substance use such 
as drinking, others might be unable to do so and face an addiction that they are not able to control. College students commonly binge drink and use drugs, and so they face a greater risk of addiction and unsafe substance use. While certain resources such as education and counseling may help contain the dangers associated with these activities, the current lack of visibility of and funding for existing resources on campus limits the university’s ability to address such issues. There should 
be an increase in the amount of resources available for UC San Diego students who are facing substance abuse in order to account for this deficiency on campus.
Improving mental health resources for students on campus should be a major priority in addressing substance abuse. Severe mental illness is associated with a higher risk of substance abuse, and counseling in these cases could prevent substance abuse from occurring. But there are also far more factors that heighten one’s risks for addiction. Chronic stress is also associated with a higher risk of addiction and drug abuse, and college students are reporting higher levels of stress. And as a whole, 31 percent of U.S. college students report symptoms of alcohol abuse. Short-term and long-term counseling on campus could help one manage risks for addiction and develop responsible substance use habits. Resources such as these are fundamentally important in preventing substance abuse, but the mental health infrastructure that currently exists on campus received a C+ in an assessment by the UC Student Association. A deficiency in mental health resources would also 
mean a de ficiency in substance abuse resources, and 
any effort to combat substance abuse on campus would 
not be possible without the improvement of mental health infrastructure on campus. Increasing funding to resources such as Counseling and Psychological Services in order to decrease wait times as well as creating peer support groups and addiction-geared counseling on campus are essential steps in creating the resources some may need to address their negative relationships with alcohol and drugs. 
A recent e ffort to increase the resources available to 
CAPS signals a change in this direction. New programs such as video calls with a healthcare provider, new psychologists for CAPS, and lengthened o ffice hours It’s safe to say 2020 has not been a great start to the decade. Three days into the new year, people 
across the world began panicking about the start 
of World War III. On Jan. 3 an airstrike at Baghdad International Airport killed General Qasem Soleimani and nine others. President Donald Trump’s decision to kill Soleimani raised fears about a war between Iran and the United States. In retaliation, Iran fired more than a 
dozen ballistic missiles at military bases in Iraq. There 
were no casualties in this attack and both countries have since stated that they don’t seek war. 
Soleimani’s death has started a great chain of events 
that have completely changed the nature of U.S.-Iran relations as well as the environment in Iran. This past 
week, Iranians have gone through a rollercoaster of 
emotions. Within a matter of five days, Iran shi fted its 
focus from mourning for Soleimani to mourning the 
lost lives of the passengers on Ukranian flight 752. On 
Jan. 8, a Ukranian International Airline plane crashed, killing all 176 passengers and crew members. A fter 
three days of denying responsibility for the crash, Iran admitted “due to human error” they fired missiles that 
caused the plane to crash. They mistook the plane for 
cruise missiles during a period of heightened tensions with the U.S. In Iran, sorrow soon turned into anger as protests have erupted all across the country. Protesters are infuriated and saddened with the irresponsibility of Iranian o fficials. 
Initially, it seemed as if Soleimani’s death would unite 
Iranians around its leaders. It was scary to think that fear about an Iran-U.S. war would empower Iran’s oppressive regime. Among my own family and friends, many posted Soleimani’s picture along with their condolences. They also spoke as if they were more approving of Iran’s 
leaders, even though they had been highly critical of them before. As of now, it looks as if those sentiments have changed as seen in the nationwide protests regarding the plane crash. Videos of crowds shouting, “Commander-in-chief resign, resign” and “Death to the Dictator, ”referring to the supreme leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, have overtaken social media platforms. While it’s exciting to see Iranians standing up against the ruthless regime, the path that it took for them to reach this stage is overwhelmingly sad, with the lost lives of 176 people and their families.
The protests taking place right now are not an 
isolated event. While many Americans envision crowds of people chanting “Death to America” and the burning of American flags when they picture Iran, many Iranians 
are not like that. They are unhappy with the current 
state of Iran with its unemployment rate at 17 percent, a long running recession, shrinkage in trade, and corrupt government o fficials. There are larger issues 
at hand including Iran’s internet censorship as well. In November 2019, Iran experienced its deadliest wave of anti-government protests in 40 years. The protests 
began due to a 300-percent increase in gas prices and soon evolved to demonstrators calling for an end to the current regime and many of its leaders. A fter the 
protests, videos began pouring out of the country of security forces opening fire on crowds of protesters, 
leaving hundreds dead and thousands wounded. The 
death toll is unclear with the government withholding the numbers, but the UN Human Rights O ffice estimates 
208 people were killed while others suggest numbers as high as 1,500. Security forces shot at masses of unarmed protesters from roo ftops and helicopters, proving that 
the Iranian government will go to any length to silence any opposition. 
With that in mind, the Iranian government has not yet reacted to the current protests. Their own citizens 
are shouting for their demise. However their range of motion is more limited with the international community’s attention turned toward them. If Iranian officials choose to shoot at protesters again, as Trump 
said, “the world is watching, ” and they may face harsh reactions as many countries are still focused on Iran following Soleimani’s death. But wasn’t the world watching during the November protests? Yet the Iranian government was still able to get away with the murder of hundreds of people who only desired the basic human right to freedom of speech. While this was happening, the rest of the world failed to pay any attention. I watched videos published by activists on Instagram, but here in the U.S. I had di fficulty finding coverage of the protest 
on news outlets. Ignoring these protests will never allow people outside of Iran to realize that the Iranian people do not hate America. Iran is not the same country that it was during the hostage crisis. Protesters right now are chanting to let both the Iranian regime and the rest of the world know that, “ They are lying that our enemy is 
America, our enemy is right here. ” Many Iranians are fed up with the inadequacy and the violent nature of their government. 
It’s unclear if these protests will bring about any 
change. It’s possible they will be successful and a regime change will take place in Iran, making the world a safer place. However, it’s much more likely that the protesters will be silenced again. But if that is the case, will the world even notice the Iranian regime su ffocating the 
voice of 80 million people who want them gone?OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The author of this piece is an Iranian-American UC San Diego student, who has decided to remain anonymous due to familial safety concerns abroad.Iran’s Silent Protests
D.A.R.E to say yes to Resources 
By: Sean Kim // Contributing Writer
See DARE,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FEEDBACK FORUM
Thursday,January 23 • 4– 6 pm
Red Shoe Room, Price Center West, 2nd Floor
Join Associated Students and voice your opinion. We will be focused on hearing 
back from principle members of student organizations.TOPIC: WIFI FREE FOOD!
For more information, contact AS Campus Aﬀairs at asvpcampusaﬀairs@ucsd.edu.are bene ficial to the student body, but 
all this may not be enough to combat 
substance abuse on campus. While it is certainly a step in the right direction, the lack of resources dedicated for substance abuse is a de ficiency that has 
not been addressed yet, even with these new changes. Creating programs such as drop-in workshops on substance abuse would be a useful addition to the already existing workshops on campus since they would provide resources dedicated for those su ffering from substance abuse.
Other resources for students also exist 
online, but they lack the visibility that could enhance their role in addressing substance abuse. Tools such as e-Chug and e-Toke, which are questionnaires aimed at establishing healthy patterns of substance consumption, are useful and may provide students an anonymous way to gauge their substance use. However, not many are aware they exist. Making such resources more visible would increase their usefulness overall, and a conjunctive e ffort to improve mental 
health infrastructure on campus would ultimately prove to be bene ficial for the 
student body and the university. For example, adding such tools, as well as links to Student Health Services and CAPS, to the TritonLink portal could enhance their visibility and increase the awareness of these resources and their potential subsequent use.
There are many useful resources that exist on campus — CAPS and educational sources on drug safety are incredibly useful for student life. But these programs lack two major things that hamper their e ffectiveness: visibility 
and funding. Improving mental health resources on campus would yield useful results in combating substance abuse on campus, and an increase in the visibility of educational resources could increase the effectiveness of existing tools.
▶ DARE , from page 4
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kita6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Last quarter, the storms hit La Jolla pretty hard. Our campus is no 
stranger to the pouring rains and the flooded foothills they cause. Those of us who decided to go to class despite the dreaded rain saw 
the mess. Leaves littered the ground and branches fell by Library Walk. Mud poured out onto the walkways and sandbags were put up to prevent water from flooding the buildings. 
However, soon after, the grounds were cleaned of litter, and the mud 
stains were washed away. The leaves that had clunked up the gutters and drains were no longer there. There was a woman raking the leaves aside, wearing a light blue shirt that could only belong to the custodial staff at UC San Diego. 
The custodial staff at UCSD is organized under different departments. 
The custodial and maintenance staff that are in charge of the dining halls and residential areas are part of a division called Building and Custodial Services under the Housing DiningHospitality department. Meanwhile, there is another group of custodial staff who are under the school’s Facilities Management department. The staff under the Facilities Management department are in charge of cleaning and maintaining public facilities and buildings, such as lecture halls, laboratories, hallways, stairwells, public restrooms, computer labs, and study rooms. However, this does not include sports facilities and public spaces such as Price Center. The custodial services provided for those facilities are under a separate department. 
Our campus stays clean because there are staff who work hard to keep 
it clean. A typical day of a custodial staff who maintains the campus 
facilities may involve sanitizing bathrooms and keeping supplies in 
check, removing trash and recycling, sweeping and mopping floors, as well as wiping down the chalkboards in classrooms at the end of each day. Staff who work in residential areas clean common areas such as the dining room, living room, and bathrooms weekly. Custodial staff also provide students with vacuuming services, surface cleaning and sanitation for sinks, bathrooms, oventops, and countertops. Despite their hard work, the staff are underappreciated and little is known about their jobs. In 2012, Nancy Madrid, a UCSD alumna, wrote a thesis on low-wage 
immigrant workers. The  thesis, titled “What keeps us here is the love we have for our students: Solidarity among low wage immigrant workers and students at the University of California, San Diego, ’’ was later published in a reader used by Thurgood Marshall College’s writing program, Dimensions of Culture. The third part of this writing program is called “Imagination” and focuses on “inequality and the lack of opportunity of various groups. ” Nancy’s thesis focuses on the issues of low-wage immigrant workers. Her thesis states this about custodial services: “A l t h o u g h  t h e r e  i s  v e r y  l i t t l e  t o  b e  g a i n e d  f i n a n c i a l l y  o r  i n t e l l e c t u a l l y,  t h i s  industry remains in high demand considering the need for cleanliness will never end. ”
This thesis also brings attention to the “invisibility” that may come 
along with this occupation in certain cases or environments as Nancy explains the “tendency for individuals to ignore cleaners in public spaces, as their job is solely to clean and not necessarily to be integrated into the environment. ” While students can interact with their professors and teaching assistants with such programs such as Coffee with a Prof or Lunch with a Prof, no such programs exist for students or staff to interact and get to know the people who are helping them clean the spaces that they live and work in. Most requests for services are done online or through phone and there is a disconnect between the two parties. 
Earl Warren College freshman Sydney echoes how some students 
may feel about initiating conversation with the custodial staff. She said, “I think the custodial staff who comes every week are very nice people. 
However, when I’m out on campus, I don’t really interact with them. It 
depends. I don’t want to bother them from doing their job, but also there is this class divide that I want to be conscious about, and sometimes, I may be rushing out or just not have the energy to do so. ” 
However, for students who live on campus, some of them get to really 
know and appreciate the staff that comes to their apartments for weekly maintenance, and some make meaningful connections with the staff. 
Thank  you,  UCSD  Custodial  St aff
The Guardian expresses sincere gratitude for the custodial sta ff.
By Jenny  Lee    Contributing writer
Part of the custodial staff is organized under the Housing Dining and Hospitality department. PHOTO BY MARIYAH SHADPHOTO BY MARIYAH SHADSee CUSTODIANS,  page 7
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
Class consciousness is still prevalent at UCSD, and a divide exists between the faculty and custodial staff. PHOTO BY LARA SANLIPHOTO BY LARA SANLI
Emily Levin-Rosenshine, a sophomore from Thurgood Marshall 
college, appreciates the concerns that the custodial staff has for the 
students, which helped build their trusting relationship. The staff who cleaned her apartment noticed that paint was chipping off of the hood over her stove and had warned her about it. Emily had given the staff a Thank You card for the New Years holiday.
Custodial staff who work in 
residential areas clean about “six apartments per day” and often get to interact and “connect with students fairly well, since they’re in the [student’s] living space daily, ” says Custodial Services Administrator Ana Rodriguez. 
The 160 employees who work there 
also have access to a series of activities that the university offers, including English as a second language, fitness classes and diabetes awareness classes. The classes are meant to aid employees in their communication skills, health and awareness, as well as their career advancement. Ana says that these opportunities, as well as support from her supervisors and directors, has helped her grow into the position of Custodial Services Administrator after being a senior custodian for 14 years. 
The amount of foot traffic that goes on at a school this big means that 
some places need to be cleaned regularly in order to avoid junk build-up and to keep things such as drains and ventilation in working order. The school’s ongoing construction projects mean that there will be more facilities that require these custodial services, which means either more people need to be hired to maintain them or the staff will have to take on more duties. The importance of the custodial staff on campus also 
has a larger impact on the school’s appearance and reputation than just keeping the campus clean.
Research from APPA - Leadership 
in Educational Facilities suggests that universities with well-maintained facilities, such as classrooms, residential areas, and student service buildings, are much more attractive to students. APPA is an organization that focuses on improving education facilities through training facility 
managers and focusing on elevating 
learning environments. In a research report done in 2006, APPA member 
Maggie Kinnman suggests that “the survey suggested a significant number of respondents rejected an institution because facilities were missing, inadequate or poorly maintained. ” 
The impacts of the custodial staff are felt by all of us, whether we know 
it or not. The clean boards that we see in the morning, the quick responses to Fix-It requests, and their warm smiles when we greet them are just a few of the things that affect us everyday. UCSD focuses heavily on community, and we are thankful for the custodial staff in our community who work hard at their jobs.
“Perhaps the best we can do is at 
least pay attention. That is, pay 
attention to how we are to consume 
art, and who it is coming from, but 
most importantly pay attention to 
what we make of it.”▶ CUSTODIANS , from page 6
Jenny  Lee   jel003@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
“Cats” delves into a whirlwind fantasy that would have been better le ft untold. 
Greta Gerwig proves in “Little Women” that she knows how to celebrate the excellence of women all over the world. Cats, dance, and film are three of my favorite things. 
“Cats, ” however, despite being the amalgamation 
of them all, somehow managed to make me want 
to claw my eyes out less than 10 minutes into viewing 
the human/cat hybrid nightmare. Tom Hooper’s 2019 
adaptation of this musical completely failed to adapt the 
theater production into a comprehensive story onto the big screen. The film not only did not translate the same on screen as it does on stage, but it also felt genuinely uncomfortable 
to watch. The blatant sexualization of the cats left you with 
an uneasy feeling throughout the entire film that never quite left. As Bombalurina (Taylor Swift) shimmied her furry chest 
alongside other female cat dancers to an audience of cowering 
felines with curves, the audience is left with an unpleasant pit in their stomachs as they scratch their heads, wondering who 
exactly this film’s focal audience was supposed to be. It is not 
clear whether it was intended to appeal to children, theater lovers, or furries, as it seems to have been produced for all three vastly different groups while simultaneously missing 
the mark to be appealing to any normal person.  
Despite all of this criticism, “Cats, ” ultimately has some 
redeeming qualities that had the potential to set this film apart as an impressive display of musical talent were it 
not for everything else that went appallingly wrong. It 
cannot be denied that the choreography was exceptional, 
and the amount of talented dancers in the film did not go unnoticed. The decision to cast actual professional dancers 
for a Hollywood film in an industry where big names are 
valued more than talent was appreciated and might I say, even celebrated, within the dance community. The casting of Francesca Hayward, a principal dancer in the Royal Ballet, as 
the lead character (Victoria) despite it being her first feature 
film, conveyed a certain level of respect for the art of dance in cinema. That is not to say that there are no famous faces in 
the film, and this is where the praise ends. Taylor Swift, James 
Corden, Jason Derulo, and Rebel Wilson are among other big stars with a noticeable role in the movie. It is obvious that a 
considerable amount of time, effort, and money went into this 
film in order to obtain a finished product with accomplished performers and a star-studded cast, which is what makes “Cats” so much more unfortunate. The CGI, which no doubt 
cost millions of dollars and required hours of grueling labor to 
assemble only served to distract from the few virtues present within the production. The exceptional dancing, powerhouse vocals, and beautiful musical composition found itself buried beneath cats with human faces and manicured hands. 
“Cats” is so shockingly terrible that, like a car crash or a 
terrible accident, you cannot bring yourself to peel your eyes away from the screen, even as you feel your face physically 
cringing as cockroaches and mice with children’s faces tap 
dance on a disportionate table, slave to a tabby Rebel Wilson. What movie is better able to sum up our current age? We have progressed to a point in scientific advancement where 
our technology can be used to make human/cat hybrids, but 
no one ever stopped to ask themselves if we should. “Cats” as 
a concept represents the duality of man.  
—  hemmy  Chun 
Staff Writer
Dec. 25, 2019 marked the release of the new remake of 
“Little Women. ” Originally a novel written by Louisa 
May Alcott, “Little Women” is a story that follows 
the lives of the four March sisters as they navigate growing up 
during the latter era of the Civil W ar. After the many different 
adaptations of “Little Women, ” this new film introduces a 
new perspective. Greta Gerwig, the film’s director, creates a masterpiece of commentary and imagination with her adapted screenplay of the literary piece. With both bodily 
and verbal experiential shots, classical and contemporary 
language, and a strong cast, Gerwig constructs a story relatable and moving beyond compare.
The production value of the film, the set design, and 
the costuming deserves a big round of applause due to the accuracy in capturing a cohesive and aesthetically pleasing 
adaptation of a classic story. The film’s score, created by 
French composer Alexandre Desplat, who also worked on “The Grand Budapest Hotel’’ and “The Shape of W ater, ” perfectly captures the emotions of every scene in the film. A 
composition of orchestral mastery sends the audience into 
an empathetic interpretation of what is shown on screen. Lengthy piano chords by Beth March (Eliza Scanlen) create 
longing and desperation for James Laurence (John Neville) 
and his lost daughter. Not only this, but quick violin chords played at a ball sends the audience’s stomachs into a frenzy as 
they watch Jo March (Saoirse Ronan) and Theodore “Laurie” 
Laurence (Timothée Chalamet) dance for the first time. To capture the emotions of a scene and enhance them through 
music demands the ear of a true composer, and Desplat did 
not disappoint.
Complimenting the experimental score were shots not 
often seen on current theater screens. Gerwig creates her 
own telling of the March sisters’ story with the added eye of 
sister shots — shots set up the same way to create a parallel effect — and a scattered chronological ordering of the plot. 
Gerwig also specifically shot all the March sisters’ flashbacks with an orange-like filter over the camera to create a warm, 
comforting haze over all the shots capturing their childhood. 
She also wanted to embrace the essence of the March sisters 
in their clothing by making each sister wear a specific color and have the mother Mary March (Laura Dern) wear all 
four colors. These little touches added by Gerwig created the 
beauty of this adaptation and distinctly shaped her directorial style.
The actors of “Little Women” did not fall short on 
delivering Oscar-worthy performances. Saoirse Ronan was raw, likeable, and sassy while portraying the character Jo, the protagonist and maverick of female empowerment. The 
intensity of Jo’s need to be free and seen as more than just her 
gender demanded an actor to force the audience to empathize with the struggles, and Ronan delivered. Another example 
of Ronan’s brilliance in the film is when Jo is discussing her 
lost opportunity of marriage with Laurie. She delivers this powerful line, “ And I am so sick of people saying that, that love is all a woman is fit for. I’m so sick of it. But I’m, I’m 
just so lonely!” The desperation behind these lines sent the 
audience into tears while the perseverance and desire Ronan acted out as Jo had the audience hungry for more.
Timothée Chalamet, who quickly received national 
attention from his parts in “Call Me By Y our Name” and “Beautiful Boy, ” also delivered a cheeky and reserved dichotic 
performance as the most accurately casted boy-next-door 
character Laurie. Moving through the emotions of love, anger, jealousy, sadness, and more, Chalamet proves that 
he is not just a beautiful face, but also enchanting with his 
skills and talent. The chemistry between him and Ronan is undeniable and could mark as one of the greatest casting decisions ever made for a film. Not only do their acting 
styles harmonize, but the playfulness of their acting — due 
to their comfort in each other retained from their work on “Lady Bird” together — easily translates onto the screen. The 
audience watches as Jo develops a lifetime friendship while Laurie falls in love, thus keeping the audience anxious to see 
how their relationship develops over the film.
One of the biggest selling points of the film is the lessons 
and commentary it possesses. Although the film is set in the Civil W ar era, it reaches the hearts of the average person 
by still relating to one of society’s current social crises. 
Surprisingly, most of the issues that surround Jo — written off for the mere fact that she is a woman, being considered an economic deal more than a human, and the ever crushing 
idolized ideal of getting married — still plague society to this 
day, making the narrative even more powerful. With sexism in the workplace, in social society, and even at home still at 
large, it is not hard to relate to the issues the March sisters 
face.
This is also the reason for the way Gerwig ended the film; 
the ambiguous ending of Jo’s life made this film the best remake possible. Gerwig gave Alcott the ending Alcott always wanted for herself — Jo becoming a writer — and to give the editors and society the ending that they wanted — Jo getting 
married and falling in love. 
The one thing that I believe was not executed well in the 
film was Beth’s death. Her death came and went with little to no mourning period whatsoever. I believe that the impact of 
her death should have created more of a ripple in the plot. Jo is sent into a frenzy after her death to write her book, but — 
aside from an establishing shot of the words “for Beth’” on 
screen while Jo is writing the book — there is not much more said than “I miss her” and embellishments from that.
All in all, I could not recommend this masterpiece more 
to all walks of life. The lessons, perspectives, and stories told within “Little Women” must be experienced by more people so they can understand a little more about what it means to 
be a woman.  
—  hanaa  moosavi 
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWCATSCATS
Little  WomanLittle  WomanPHOTO COURTESY OF VANITY FAIRPHOTO COURTESY OF VANITY FAIR
PHOTO COURTESY OF BOSTON GLOBEPHOTO COURTESY OF BOSTON GLOBE
Director   Tom Hooper
Starring  James Corden, Judi Dench, Jason Derulo, Idris Elba, Jennifer Hudson, Ian McKellen, Taylor Swift, Rebel Wilson, Francesca Hayward
Release Date  Dec. 20, 2019
Rating  PG
Director   Greta Gerwig
Starring  Saoirse Ronan, Timothée Chalamet, Emma Watson
Release Date  Dec. 25, 2019
Rating  PGCD-
CAA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
UCAL.US/REGISTERWith lush visuals and an endearing story, “Weathering With Y ou” soars until it cannot stick its landing.
That “Weathering With You” would be Japan’s 
submission for the Best International Feature Film category for the 2020 Academy Awards seemed a 
foregone conclusion. The film is director Makoto Shinkai’s follow-up to the towering 2016 international critical and commercial success “Y our Name, ” re-exploring familiar themes about young love and sacrifice in a new story.
“Weathering With Y ou” follows Hodaka Morishima, 
voiced by Kotaro Daigo, a high school runaway aboard a ferry to Tokyo who is nearly thrown overboard before being saved by Keisuke Suga (Shun Oguri). Keisuke offers Hodaka a place to stay in exchange for the boy’s work as an assistant for his publishing company, helping to research why there has been record-breaking rain in the city for weeks. After rescuing Hina Amano (Nana Mori), Hodaka finds out Hina is a weather maiden, or a girl able to create 
patches of sunshine in the midst of a downpour. The self-
supporting teens team up to start a business together, in which people pay to stop the rain for their special events. All goes well until the police start looking for Hodaka who has been reported as missing, and Hina begins to suffer the unforeseen consequences of her power.
The animation conjures the world of a perpetually 
soaked Tokyo impeccably. Animated by CoMix Waves Films, the imagery never feels gloomy or dull, despite the dark gray color palette of the rain and the skyscrapers of the city. The vivid lights and sounds of the city collapse the distance between the viewer and the screen, making it so that Hodaka and Hina’s world is no longer on a screen, but has come alive around them. This makes the moments when Hina pauses the rainfall, when the animation turns from gray to pale blue and bright green and an entirely different Tokyo is revealed, as precious to the viewer as it is to the patrons they’re doing it for.
The uniquely stunning animation of the film contrasts 
with the familiarity of the story and its characters. Even without a direct comparison to “Y our Name, ” the story beats of boy beginning to develop feelings for girl, ultimately needing to save her are familiar and rote. Hodaka and Hina’s relationship develops to become each other’s found family, but the two are never fully fleshed out with distinct personalities. Instead, the story relies on montage to 
cut their adventures together in place of depicting more 
organic shifts. While their relationship is still believable and sweet to watch, the film relies too much on the crutch that because viewers know Hodaka and Hina are the main characters, they’re supposed to care. The best character is really Nagi Amano (Sakura Kiryu), Hina’s younger brother whose womanizing and wiseness beyond his years provide 
expert comic relief.
What Shinkai continues to pull off perfectly in his 
stories, though, is taking the viewer beyond the world as we know it. From time traveling in “Y our Name” to 
the opening shot of Hina falling through the clouds in “Weathering With Y ou, ” Shinkai is less interested in the narrative aspects of his stories and far more interested in their stakes. In this film, he again explores the tension between the power of personal will and that which seems fated from above, as his characters continue to fight against the unfightable. However, in this film it seems he has set the stakes too high. The story builds and builds, only for its resolution to land with a thud. Shinkai’s message about how we relate to our environment is muddled, as he is preoccupied by his conjectures rather than what he wants to say about them.
“Weathering With Y ou” may not live up to its predecessor 
or deliver on all of the fascinating questions it asks, but it easily wraps the viewer up in its world, one in which love 
and determination can achieve anything — even soaring 
into the sky.
—  asiyah  syed 
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
WEathering  with  youWEathering  with  youPHOTO COURTESY OF VANITY  FAIRPHOTO COURTESY OF VANITY  FAIR
Director   Makoto Shinkai
Starring  Kotaro Daigo, Nana Mori, Shun Oguri, Sakura Kiryu
Release Date  Jan. 17, 2020
Rating  PG-13CB10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  1 3 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
A CONCERT BEYOND
ASCE PRESENTS:
1.24.202 0  |  RIMA C ARE NA
Registration  opens  January • BeyondTheHorizon.UCSD.EDU • #BeyondTheHorizon
ASCE PRESENTS:
HEADLINED BY:
1.24.202 0  |  RIMA C ARE NA
Register NOW! • BeyondTheHorizon.UCSD.EDU • #BeyondTheHorizonTop Dorm and Apartment Friendly Plants
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
As college students at UC San 
Diego, the fast paced quarter 
system seems to bring us lots of stress and takes away lots of our time. Some studies have shown that keeping plants around inside your bedroom, living room, etc. can actually help improve your 
mood. Just like a nice hike in 
nature or walking outside might help you breathe a little better or release stress, having more green around inside can have a little of that same effect. However, it is important to make sure you have the right kind of plant so you can be able to watch it thrive! In order to be a successful college student plant parent, be sure to 
find plants that are compatible 
with indoor lighting and are ideally low maintenance. If you’re not sure what kind of 
plants those might be, check out 
some of these options:
Succulents  
Succulents are a perfect dorm 
addition because they are so abundantly found, low cost, and very low maintenance when it comes to watering. These little guys love to be in the sun, so try to keep them on a windowsill or somewhere nice and bright. If you’re looking for a nice little addition to your desk, Trader Joe’s sells succulents for usually 
less than five dollars! 
ZZ Plant
The zz plant, with its tall 
stems and plentiful green leaves, is a perfect house plant because 
it can grow in bright, medium, and even low light, which makes it convenient for all types of living situations! You only need to water it once every other week or so, so it is incredibly low maintenance. This plant can also release a lot of oxygen into the air, so it can keep things fresh! 
Pothos 
The pothos plant is also a great 
option for dorms or apartments 
that don’t get as much natural light as other plants might need. 
This plant cascades down the side of its pot with big, bright green leaves that give off a calming effect. You can place it on top of a bookshelf or dresser and watch as it grows, draping down the side. Be sure to allow the soil to dry fully between waterings. 
African Violets 
If you’re looking for something 
with more than just green leaves, 
then these blooming violets are the plant for you! With colors 
ranging from deep magenta to lighter pinks and whites, these plants are nice to have around to brighten up a room. They do prefer bright light, but indirectly, so you can keep it on a desk or a bedside table. Just like pothos plants, let the soil dry out before watering! 
Aloe Vera 
If you have lots of bright light 
in your dorm or apartment, 
consider the wonder plant, aloe vera. Not only is it aesthetically 
pleasing, but this plant also has a long list of uses and benefits! The gel inside of the plant has been known to treat sunburns, clear up acne, ease skin irritation, and even speed up the healing process of cuts and burns. If you choose to buy one of these “miracle plants, ” be sure to keep it in direct sunlight and keep the soil moist at all times. 
PICTURE COURTESY OF AMAZONPICTURE COURTESY OF AMAZONLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Finding the Right Side Hustle
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
Side hustles can be an 
attractive and lucrative option 
for making money — they’re flexible, you can work as much as you want, and you get to pick the work you do. Maybe you already have a job but want to make a little extra cash, or maybe 
you can’t commit to a full or 
part-time job right now but still want to have an income — either way, the side hustle industry is here for you. While there are probably hundreds of hustles, here are some ideas to serve as a jumping-off point.
Babysitting
If you’re good with kids, 
consider offering your babysitting services to families in the area! Check out websites like Care.com or Sittercity.com 
to find openings — with some 
luck, you may be able to find a family that needs babysitting on a regular schedule. 
Photography
If you have a good camera and 
have some experience in editing software like Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Lightroom, advertise your photography services to the public! Plenty of UC San Diego organizations have photoshoots throughout the year that need photographers, so feel free to 
each out to any organizations 
you know or check the Facebook Free and For Sale pages. Students are always looking for graduation pictures toward the end of the year as well, so look out for those opportunities! 
Cooking/Baking
Talented in the kitchen? Have 
a pop-up in your dorm room or apartment where you cook a full-course meal for select paying 
guests, for one night only. Offer 
your meal-prepping services to college students who never seem to have time to cook. Create birthday cakes or specialty items for local events. The possibilities for food side hustles are endless, so just trust your gut!
Reselling Items
Do you have a lot of things 
laying around your house that are ready for a new home? Put up items for sale on Facebook Marketplace or Craigslist for 
a few extra bucks. If you like 
to thrift and you have a knack for finding treasures and good deals, consider thrifting trendy clothing and reselling them on Depop, Poshmark, or social media. 
Tutor 
This is probably one of the 
most traditional side hustles there are. If you’re gifted in a particular subject and you can explain things well, provide tutoring services to your fellow 
college students. You can also 
choose to tutor high school students – if you did well on standardized tests like the SAT or ACT, tutoring for those types of things tends to make good money.
Sell Y our Art
If you’re artistically inclined, 
sell prints, stickers, buttons, patches, or any other personal work! You could start an Etsy store, sell things on Redbubble, or join a local vendor fair. If you’re a dancer, musician, or actor, consider offering lessons. 
Hair/Makeup
Know how to apply makeup or create intricate hairstyles? Offer your services to anyone who is attending a fancy event, like proms, weddings, formals, or even photoshoots. 
Writing/E diting
Check out Fiverr or Upwork for 
freelance writing opportunities — lots of companies will pay writers to create content for them. Or offer your editing skills for essays, resumes, cover letters, and more. 
Whatever side hustle you choose, make sure you have enough time to complete the jobs that you take on. While we all appreciate having a little extra money on hand, it shouldn’t come at the cost of your education, your other commitments, or your mental health. Good luck with the hustle! 
PICTURE COURTESY OF TOKYO INTERNATIONAL ART FAIRPICTURE COURTESY OF TOKYO INTERNATIONAL ART FAIR12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  1 3 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
2 FREE LYFT RIDESCalming Activities for a Break From a Hectic Quarter
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
By now, as the new quarter 
begins to take off, our schedules 
are becoming solidified and our classes are getting down to business. As the quarter goes on, it can seem harder and harder to take time out for yourself between classes, work, and other 
commitments. If the whole idea 
of “self-care” seems daunting or foreign to you, check out some of these small and easy ways to relax and ease your busy mind! 
Make a List 
If you’re starting to feel 
overwhelmed and don’t know where you should start with the things on your plate, make a 
list! I have found that listing 
out all of the things I need to get done is very helpful in not only remembering important 
things, but also being able to 
prioritize what should be tackled first. Additionally, if you’re like me and find list making to be a calming activity, you should check out Moorea Seal’s “52 Lists” interactive books. I personally own “52 Lists for Happiness” and “52 Lists for Calm, ” where each book contains 52 prompts for writing lists that encourage personal check-ins with yourself. 
Coloring Books 
When adult coloring books 
started becoming more and more popular in the last few years, it took me a long time to get into it. The idea seems nice and relaxing — who doesn’t like to color? However, once I actually purchased an adult coloring book, it was actually incredibly stressful for me! For some, the more detailed, smaller spaces in these books’ designs can bring peace and concentration. For others, it causes stress around coloring outside the lines and having to pick the perfect colors sit well together. If you identify with the latter, what I realized was that nobody said you can’t use the bigger, more spacious coloring books that are more commonly purchased for kids! Currently, I own a Disney princess coloring book and I have no shame! Plenty of comfortable coloring room on each page and feel-good images that make me feel like a little kid. So when it comes to coloring books, find whichever one works best for you! 
Buy a Plant 
If you’re not getting out in 
nature as much as you’d like because of your schedule, try buying a nice, leafy plant. Having that extra green foliage in your bedroom can lighten your mood and make you feel proud of yourself for taking care of it. Try finding a low-maintenance plant that grows nicely indoors. This way, you can write out a watering schedule for yourself so you can take those few minutes to take a break and observe your baby plant’s growth. If you’re not sure where to find a good plant, I recommend checking out the garden section in front of Trader Joe’s or even Home Depot for some inexpensive options. 
Take a Walk
San Diego has plenty of great 
spots to go on scenic hikes, which I definitely recommend checking out, but you might not exactly have the time to get out there as much as you’ d like. So, next time you’re in your dorm, apartment, or in Geisel Library and you’re starting to feel the study session burn out, give yourself 15 minutes and go for a walk. It doesn’t need to be long; it can be just around the block. Whatever you can do to get yourself outside and get some blood pumping will be worth it for your well being!
PHOTO COURTESY OF HEALTHLINEPHOTO COURTESY OF HEALTHLINECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN   LUTHER  KING,  JR.
COURAGE TO UNITE FOR JUSTICEDa y of Service
SATURDAY
JANUARY 18, 2020Parade
SUNDAYJANUARY 19, 2020
MLK JR PARADE & DAY OF SERVICE JANUARY 18 & 19
HARBOR DRIVE, EMBARCADERO
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM - GSA 
GRAD LOUNGE
A supportive drop-in space for graduate and 
professional school students seeking strategies for resilience, perseverance, and flourishing. 
Common themes include: stress management, 
sustaining motivation, recovering from 
set-backs, work/life balance, and navigating interpersonal challenges ( personal and 
professional). Location: GDA Grad Lounge 
Contact : Dr. Miriam Adrianowicz, Psy.D 
858-534-3456 or Madrianowicz@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
AEP SUMMER RESEARCH 
OPPORTUNITIES! - VARIES; SEE 
FLYER
Get paid to do research this summer! There are a 
number of undergraduate research opportunities 
with upcoming deadlines. These programs 
provide mentored research, a stipend, and many 
other benefits. We will be offering several 
information sessions so that students can find 
out more about the programs and the application process. Information about the programs: * UC 
Scholars Program https://UCScholars.ucsd.edu 
(Feb. 3 deadline) * Undergraduate Research 
Scholarships (URS) https://urs.ucsd.edu (Feb. 3 deadline) * Triton Research & Experiential 
Learning Scholars (TRELS) https://trels.ucsd.edu
3pm
CAPS SELF -CARE STRATEGIES - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, 
MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to balance your personal and 
academic life at UCSD? Dr. Andy Nguyen and a Wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help you achieve wellness! Topics will include: self-care, stress management, mindfulness, self- compassion, and effective communication. 
,8am
DECAF 2020 - PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOMS
Find a job for the Disciplines of Engineering 
Career Fair (Decaf!) If you want to meet and connect with representatives from engineering companies, you should come to Decaf! 
3pm
CAPS WELLNESS @ THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management! You'll learn strategies such as progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress as well as learn about some cool technology. We'll have free giveaways each week AND you can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! 
5:30pm
SPIRIT NIGHT 2020 - RIMAC ARENA
CALLING ALL TRITONS! It is time to pack RIMAC for our annual Spirit Night and the 25th anniversary of the Cup of Cheer! Spirit Week is an exciting time as we bring all Tritons together to celebrate what it means to wear the blue and gold. Your No. 6 mens basketball team and No. 22 womens basketball team will face conference rival Cal Poly Pomona with the action starting at 5:30 p.m. The Spirit Night Tailgate- EXCLUSIVE for students- opens at 6 p.m. JUST outside RIMAC and will have food, t-shirt, and other giveaways! You do NOT want to miss out on the fun- wear you blue and gold and get ready for some great hoops action!TUE1.14
THU1.16MON1.13
APPLY TO STARTR IMPACT!
RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT -- 
HTTP:/ /BIT.LY/STARTR-IMPACT -202
0
Open to students across UCSD interested in social 
innovation and impact. Students interested in 
creating a company and or pursue a business 
idea with social impact should apply! Apply here: 
http://bit.ly/StartR-Impact-2020 More 
Information: 
https://rady.ucsd.edu/centers/ciid/startr/accelerat
ors/impact/
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provided! 
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
WOMEN'S CENTER SMALL GROUP 
ROOM
Starting week 2, join CAPS and the LGBT Resource 
Center for conversations about our experiences as 
gay men. This forum addresses relationships, 
sexual health, community building, and more! We 
meet during weeks 2-10( excluding holiday) in the 
Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters on, in the 
Women's Center Small Group Room. Come join us! 
Contact : Dr. Greg Koch, Psy.D. 858-534-3585 
gkoch@ucsd.edu
2pm
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR PARADE - 
HARBOR DRIVE, EMBARCADERO
Join other UC San Diego students, staff, faculty 
and alumni in downtown San Diego for the 40th Annual Martin Luther King Jr. Parade. This is one of the largest celebrations of its kind in the United States in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The UC San Diego contingent will be led by a large "UC San Diego" banner, followed by the UC San Diego Pep Band and members of the campus community. Departments and organizations are encouraged to showcase their own banners, letters, and signage while we march in the parade. Limited transportation available for UC San Diego students, register at http://bit.ly/UCSDMLK20SUN1.191pm
OUTREACH HIKE TO HO CHI MINH 
TRAIL - HO CHI MINH TRAIL
This event is designed for students to free their 
minds and to enjoy the scenic views of La Jolla from the Ho Chi Minh Hiking Trail with Outreach on a Saturday afternoon. The hike is considered moderate difficult that descends from the northern neighborhoods of La Jolla to Blacks Beach. We will be meeting in front of Caf Ventanas at ERC on campus and to walk over together. A $4 fee will be charged to confirm your attendance. We will refund it back once you attend.SAT1.18WED1.15
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS @ THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the 
opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to 
incorporate state of the art technology for stress 
management! You'll learn strategies such as 
progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress 
as well as learn about some cool technology. We'll 
have free giveaways each week AND you can sign 
up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! See you on Wednesdays! Week 2-10 Location: The Zone Contact: Ebartelmar@ucsd.edu 858-822-0155  Website: https://wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPS/Pages/default.aspx
3:30pm
AEP SUMMER RESEARCH 
OPPORTUNITIES! - VARIES; SEE 
FLYER
Get paid to do research this summer! There are a 
number of undergraduate research opportunities with upcoming deadlines. These programs provide mentored research, a stipend, and many other benefits. We will be offering several information sessions so that students can find out more about the programs and the application process. Information about the programs: * UC Scholars Program https://UCScholars.ucsd.edu (Feb. 3 deadline) * Undergraduate Research Scholarships (URS) https://urs.ucsd.edu (Feb. 3 deadline) * Triton Research & Experiential Learning Scholars (TRELS) https://trels.ucsd.edu
Contact: kkung@ucsd.eduWebsite: https://aep.ucsd.edu
FRI1.17
3pm
CAPS FOUNDATIONS OF 
WELL -BEING - CAPS CENTRAL 
OFFICE, 190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come spend an entertaining and informative 
hour examining six fundamental lifestyle areas. You leave with a wealth of practical tips you can immediately use to make changes that will help you manage your stress, improve your mood, and enhance your life satisfaction.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact : Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or Cathompson@ucsd.edu ( Weeks 2,4,6,8,10) 
8pm
ARIEL QUARTET BEETHOVEN 
CYCLE, PART 2 - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Formed in Israel nearly twenty years ago, the 
Quartet was recently awarded the prestigious Cleveland Quartet Award. In honor of Beethovens sestercentennial in 2020, the Ariel Quartet will perform the complete Beethoven Cycle. Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
JAN 13 - JAN 19
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
ICE CREAM!CLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Retain
5. Book leaf9. Trimmed the border
14. Wind instrument
15. Highest point
16. Depart17. Not temporary19. Actress ____ DeGeneres
20. Needle hole
21. Less common
22. Changes direction23. Skirt border24. Aid in crime
26. Aggravate
31. Shaquille and Tatum
35. Dentist’s concern36. Mine finds38. Exchange
39. Fairy
40. Entice
43. Fourth mo.44. Run into46. Consumes47. Capital of Idaho49. Stress51. Banished one53. Cinch55. London’s country (abbr.)56. Pesky bugs59. Fern “seed”62. DDE’s predecessor65. Uncanny66. Cease-fire68. Chirp69. Maui garlands70. Wrought ____71. Leading actors72. Legendary story73. Cherished animalsDOWN
1. Expectation2. Follow orders3. Folk knowledge
4. HST’s party
5. Straw hat
6. Imitator7. Dancer ____ Kelly8. Additional
9. Gridiron number
10. Removes
11. Brisk wind12. Happily ____ after13. Lions’ homes
18. Singer ____ Franklin
23. Strike
25. Pear type26. Things27. Rent again
28. Allude
29. Toddlers
30. Made mistakes32. Anticipate33. Expire34. Shopping frenzy37. Alleviate41. Canned fish42. Certain steaks (hyph.)45. More flavorful48. Association (abbr.)50. Map parts52. Expire54. Biblical poem56. Understands57. Politician ____ Gingrich58. Range60. Hunted animal61. Leave out62. Give a job to63. Kilt wearer64. Certain bills67. Cabbie’s bonusHOUSING 
Blvd 63 Single Room w/ Private 
Bathroom - *Price Negotiable* Single Room available in Blvd63 apartments 
near SDSU. Fully furnished with desk, 
bed, walk in closet and attached pri -
vate bathroom. Apartment also fully 
furnished with kitchen, TV (with cable) 
and balcony. Shared with 3 other room-
mates, all girls. Shuttles to SDSU, two 
pools, a hot tub….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1855 Diamond St#226 - $700 per 
month; Beautifully property that you 
will not like to miss out so kindly con -
tact me directly as the owner with the property address to the below email if 
not you will not get a respond from me, 
don’t contact me….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
219-221 Kalmia St  - $2,750 per month; 
Historic Bankers Hill Two Bedroom for Rent - Bankers Hill Two Bedroom unit 
available for rent. Located on Kalmia st, 
this historic downstairs unit is coming 
available soon! Views and location in 
the Bankers Hill community with res -
taurants, shops, and entertainment. This 
condo is close to all of what Downtown 
….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FULL-TIME JOBS
Cost Analyst - Looking for recent 
Accounting Grads OR entry level 
Accountants are encouraged to apply 
to this role. This Cost Analyst role will allow you to gain hands-on accounting 
experience with a team that deals with construction and professional service 
projects. Under general supervision, 
performs a wide variety of cost, statisti -
cal and other administrative analyses in 
support of capital development activi -
ties, fun….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Bilingual Customer Service 
Representative - We are currently 
recruiting for multiple Customer Service positions in San Diego! If you are a 
Customer Service rep looking for a new 
opportunity please consider apply-ing for the following positions: Client Support - Rancho Bernardo - $18/hr must have….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Engineer I - As an entry level Engineer, 
you will work with Senior Engineers, Project Managers and project teams helping develop gas pipeline and sta -
tion engineering projects from plan -
ning and design through construction and closeout. Engineers assist different teams of professionals….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
2010-700c Specialized Transition Triathlon Bike - This bike was used for one month in total and in one Triathlon. My spouse broke her foot at the time 
and lost interest in the sport. The bike 
has been stored in my garage since that time. We are cleaning up and decided to 
sell it. I can take any photos and gather any data available on the bike. If you are 
local, you can come and ….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
57cm Giant ‘RS940’ 12 speed road bike  
- Giant RS940, size 57 cm (c-c) - large. Lightweight 4130 Cr-Mo triple butted frame and fork. All original Japanese made Shimano twelve speed indexed gearing, caliper brakes, 700 c Araya wheels, and SR pedals with Giant clips and….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
52 cm Centruion ‘ Le Mans RS’ , freshly 
tuned - 52 cm (c-c) Centurion ‘Le Mans RS’ twelve speed, now available! Tange two Cr-Mo lugged steel frame, and Mangaloy fork. 27” alloy Araya wheelset w/Suzue hubs. SunTour Cyclone deraill-ers….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
7
6
5
34
8
776
3
21
9891
4
64
98
3
1 3
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
Coming o ff of their upset win 
over the No. 11 Loyola University 
Chicago on Thursday night, the 
UC San Diego Tritons failed to maintain their momentum at home, falling to the No. 6 Lewis University Flyers in straight sets, 22–25, 20–25, 19–25 on Saturday, 
Jan. 11.
The Tritons had the support 
of a sizeable weekend home 
crowd of nearly 500 fans and the always-pesky band, but the 
height of the Flyers, especially 
that of redshirt junior middle back Tyler Mitchem (6’11”) and redshirt senior outside hitter Ryan Coenen (6’9”), meant that the Tritons had a di fficult time 
stringing together points.
In the first set, UCSD recorded 
5 blocks to Lewis’ 7, with 3 of the 5 coming in the final four plays of 
the set. By the end of the night, UCSD only trailed by 6 blocks, but the e ffect of the Flyers’ lanky 
attack was felt in more ways than one.
“Whenever you play a team 
with guys that 6’10” and 6’11” , that’s a formidable [team], ” head coach Kevin Ring said. “With that much size on the other side, we had trouble setting up our attack. ”
Ten missed serves and a low 
hitting percentage (.177) hurt the Tritons, keeping the home team from building any sort of run against the Flyers. UCSD only could string together a 4–0 run once on the night, while Lewis racked up five-plus point runs 
multiple times over the course of the match.
“They served really well, 
especially down the stretch, ” Ring said. “For us going forward, it’s all about getting comfortable in uncomfortable situations. ”
After an even start to the first 
set, the Tritons found themselves down 17–10 a fter a resounding 
block by Coenen to set up a 3–0 run for the Flyers, which prompted a UCSD timeout. From that point on, the Tritons’ star transfer junior outside hitter Kyle McCauley rattled o ff 5 kills 
to bring the home team back to within 2 points, but the former Orange Coast College Pirates standout missed a block to give the Flyers the set.
Seven of the first 10 points 
scored by both teams in the second set came via service errors, a trend that would continue to plague UCSD for the rest of the night. A fter tying the 
score at 9–9, Coenen unleashed a booming cross-court kill that sparked the increasingly flightless 
Flyers’ o ffense. A fter the kill, 
Lewis went on a 4–1 run before a McCauley spike stopped the bleeding.
Another Coenen kill pushed 
the advantage to 7 points for the Flyers, before McCauley again ended the run for the opposition, smashing kills in back-to-back points to bring the Tritons back to within 4 points at 21–16, much to the delight of the home crowd. But the momentum would not last long, as more miscues by the Tritons kept any run from forming beyond one of the two-point variety.
By the third set, Coenen and 
the Flyers had found their groove, jumping out to a 5–2 lead that the visitors never risked losing.
After a tricky homestand 
against a pair of top-12 opponents to begin their season, the Tritons will have two more home games this coming week against the Vassar University Brewers and the rival UCLA Bruins before going on the road to take on the Grand Canyon University Lopes.
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSUCSD  Drops  Second  Match  of 
Season to Lewis Capping o ff a five-game win 
streak, the No. 6 UC San Diego 
men’s basketball team came back 
from a 16-point first-half deficit 
to defeat the California State 
University, East Bay Pioneers 
76–73. The win lift ed the Tritons 
to 13–1 overall and 7–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, despite missing their 
captain and leading scorer, senior center Chris Hansen, for the last 
six contests. To make up for the 
missing Hansen, senior forward 
Scott Everman dropped 21 points 
in what was his biggest game of the season. 
The Tritons were blindsided 
early on; just five minutes into the 
game, they faced a 15–2 deficit. But after a 20–10 run to close 
out the half, UCSD found itself down only three points entering halft ime. 
In the second half, the Tritons 
didn’t lead until seven minutes in, after an Everman fast-break layup 
pushed the score up to 45–44. 
The lead evaporated though a fter 
a pair of Pioneer three-pointers, 
and the Tritons trailed 55–53 with 
over nine minutes left in the game. 
Redshirt junior guard Mikey 
Howell (who became just the 
fifth Triton to reach 300 career 
assists during this game) took over, scoring the game’s next six points to give the Tritons a four-
point lead with eight minutes 
remaining. 
UCSD grew its lead to 10 with 
just three minutes to go, but CSUEB responded with a late 12–3 run, capped o ff by a three-
pointer from guard Trent Warren that brought the teams within one point with just 12 seconds on the 
clock. With the game on the line, 
redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts hit both free throws with four seconds remaining to close the game out. Two Tritons finished with double-doubles: Howell, with 14 points and 11 
assists, and junior forward Marek 
Sullivan, with 12 points and 11 rebounds, the junior transfer who 
has been Hansen’s replacement in 
the starting lineup.
Saturday’s match was preceded 
by four straight double-digit wins 
over CCAA opponents, beginning 
with a Dec. 17th matchup at California State University, 
Dominguez Hills. Coming o ff 
the first loss of the season, junior 
guard Gabe Hadley put on a clinic, 
making six of eight three-pointers and scoring a game-high 22 o ff 
the bench. UCSD shot a scorching 
61.5 percent from three, and they 
never trailed on their way to an 84–65 win.
Two nights later against Sonoma 
State University, the Tritons dominated the first half, up 49–29 
after a 23–7 run to close out the 
period. The early eff ort was led by 18 first-half points from redshirt 
senior guard Christian Oshita. 
In the second, Sonoma State 
never got within single digits, as the Tritons cruised to an 84–69 
win. UCSD was once again led 
by Hadley, as he made five three-
pointers on his way to a game-high 19 points; Mikey Howell 
added 8 points, 9 assists, and 6 
rebounds.
On Dec. 22, UCSD started o ff 
slow against the California State Polytechnic University, Pomona 
Broncos; Hadley, the highest-
scoring Triton in the last two contests, finished scoreless. The 
first half was a low-scoring and 
even affair, and the Tritons entered 
halft ime trailing 27–24. But in the 
second half, the Tritons took the lead on an Oshita three-pointer 
with nine and a half minutes remaining and never trailed again, winning 66–56. Tyrell Roberts’ 19 points, as well as a 17-point, 10-rebound double-double from Oshita, led the Tritons to victory.
The Tritons returned to face last-
place California State University, Monterey Bay on Jan. 2. Once 
again, the Tritons never trailed, 
riding 19 first-half points from 
Oshita to a 52–34 halft ime lead. 
UCSD spent the entire second half 
with a double-digit lead, on its 
way to a 94–72 rout. Oshita led the team with 27 points, and Howell 
was all over the stat sheet, scoring 
11 along with 10 assists and eight 
rebounds.
The Tritons play their next 
two games on the road against 
California State University, 
Stanislaus and Humboldt State 
University, looking to remain atop the CCAA and keep their win 
streak alive.16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 13, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Vassar College
vs Cal Poly Pomonavs Cal Poly Pomonavs NevadaUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball
W Tennis 6PM
5:30PM
8PM2PM1/151/161/161/16
I’m a rabid Los Angeles Dodgers 
fan, and I have been for almost as 
long as I can remember. Unlike a 
healthy portion of fans, I’ve never bought a baseball jersey before; 
I’ve never even had one given to 
me as a gift. 
I’ve only been a San Diego 
Padres fan for the better part of a 
year and a half, but on Saturday, 
I bought myself a game-worn Spring Training Padres jersey. For a Dodgers jersey of similar quality 
and back story, I could have easily 
had to dole out $100 or more, but at the 2020 Padres FanFest, I spent 
just $15 to acquire my first and 
only authentic baseball jersey. 
Over the span of four hours 
at Petco Park in downtown San 
Diego, I got to play catch in the outfield, walk around the infield, 
throw pitches in the bullpen, sit in the dugout, and walk through the clubhouse. The small market 
Padres provided all of this to me, and more, in one compact outing. The only out of pocket cost for 
this indulgent baseball experience 
was the reasonable $10 charge for 
parking, which I split amongst four other budding Padres supporters. 
Despite all of the time I have 
spent in LA as a Dodgers fan, I have only gotten to do a few of 
those things, and there’s a slim 
chance that I would be able to do any of those today, as a 19-year-old instead of as a kid. 
Even beyond this event, the 
Padres have done a great job converting me into a fan. Before my first day of class at UC San 
Diego last fall, I had already bought a Padres shirt, largely because it was half the price of 
any Dodgers shirt I’ d seen before. 
A few months later, at an event attended by no more than 50 fans, 
I got to meet with Padres players 
in the Petco Park team store.
By that point, I was hooked, 
more than three months before Opening Day 2019, I’ d already become a fairly loyal Padres fan. 
Then I went to a game. 
Playing against my beloved 
Dodgers, LA and San Diego fans alike packed Petco Park with more 
than 40,000 fans and watched the 
Padres come from behind to beat one of the best teams in all of baseball.  
Over the next few months, I 
spent my weekday a fternoons on 
the couch in my dorm, watching 
baseball. But it wasn’t the Dodgers 
games I was watching, it was the Padres. When in LA, I’m blacked out from watching the Dodgers 
along with roughly 80 percent of 
the city thanks to an $8 billion TV deal the team’s ownership group signed half a decade ago.
With the Padres, all of their 
games are televised on a widely accessible regional sports 
network, so whenever I game was 
on, I tuned in. 
Granted, I was not a hard fan 
to convert. I’m already a baseball fan and I’ d follow the Padres even if they treated me more like the 
Dodgers have. But from easily 
being able to follow the team on TV to meeting players and having 
a great, a ffordable time at the 
ballpark, the Padres have found 
ways to interact and engage with me on an intimate level that the 
much larger Dodgers never could 
imagine. Within their more personal 
framework, the Padres have 
catered towards fans that aren’t 
willing to switch TV providers or pay outlandish sums for gear, 
autographs, and tickets. Instead, 
San Diego’s largest sports franchise has become the best option for sports entertainment in the city, 
filling the void the Chargers NFL 
franchise left behind when they 
shuffled o ff to LA a few summers 
back.
For those of you thinking this 
line of thinking is heretical, trust me, I’m still a Dodgers fan for life. 
This doesn’t mean I’m more of a 
Padres fan than a Dodgers fan by any stretch. All it means is that 
after only one full season, I have 
found a way to demonstrate my 
connection to San Diego and to 
the Padres more concretely in less 
than two years than I did a fter 19 
years as a Dodgers fan, and that’s 
something worth thinking about. 
Triton 
Timeout
How the Padres 
stole my baseball 
heartWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduIn their seventh consecutive 
victory, the No. 6 UC San Diego men’s basketball squad took down 
the Humboldt State University Lumberjacks 86–70 in a game 
they never trailed, led by 27 points 
from redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts. With the win, their sixth in the last seven contests 
against Humboldt State, the UCSD 
Tritons improve to 15–1 overall and 9–1 in conference matchups, 
both best in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association.
UCSD jumped out to a quick 
8–2 lead on three-pointers from senior forward Scott Everman and redshirt senior guard Christian Oshita. A fter a Humboldt triple 
brought the lead down to 12–7, an Everman dunk and jumpers from Roberts and junior forward 
Marek Sullivan gave the Tritons an 18–7 advantage with 13:43 
left in the first. The Tritons led by 
double digits for most of the rest of the half, and a fter two jumpers 
from Sullivan to close out the half, 
UCSD entered halft ime up 46–32. 
But Humboldt State came out of 
halft ime on a hot streak, rattling 
off 12 straight points early in the 
second period to shrink the lead 
to just two with 13:45 remaining. But, in a dominant display, 
Roberts scored the next nine 
points of the game — two ten-foot jumpers, followed by a three-
pointer and another mid-range 
jumper — to push the lead to 11. Oshita added a three-pointer to bring the lead back to 14 points, 
and UCSD held on to finish with a 
16-point lead. 
Roberts was the clear diff erence-
maker for the Tritons, adding a career-high eight rebounds to 27 
points on 10 made field goals — 
both one below his career highs. Oshita, Everman, and Sullivan were the other Tritons in double 
figures, with 20, 15, and 12 points, 
respectively.
The Tritons were coming o ff a 
decisive road win at the California 
State University, Stanislaus 
Warriors (9–5, 5–4 CCAA) on Jan. 9. Both teams traded baskets 
in the early stages of the game, but 
Roberts drained a paint jumper and a three-pointer to give UCSD 
a 13–6 edge early in the half. Soon 
after, threes from junior guards 
Gabe Hadley and Mikey Howell pushed the lead to double digits. 
After the CSU Stanislaus Warriors 
responded with three of their own, 
the Tritons went on an 8–0 run, 
capped o ff with a three-pointer from Oshita that gave UCSD a 
commanding 27–12 lead. On a 
Roberts triple and a pair of free 
throws from Howell, the Tritons rallied to end the period 42–22.
UCSD was never in danger in 
the second half, maintaining a double-digit lead for its entirety. Again, an 8–0 run was capped 
off by an Oshita three-pointer, 
putting the Tritons up 24. The 
Warriors did embark on a 12–0 run with 3:33 to go, but it was 
far too late for a comeback; all Stanislaus State could do was 
mitigate the blowout to a more 
respectable 12-point deficit in the last minute, as the match finished 
74–60. 
The story of the match played 
out in the three-point shooting numbers — while the Tritons 
went 14-for-32 on threes (a 43.8 percent clip), the Warriors made 
just two threes on 15 shots. Again, 
Roberts left his mark, leading both 
teams with 22 points, 6 assists, and a career-high 5 steals; Oshita 
tacked on 20 points, including 5 
three-pointers.
The Tritons will attempt to 
stretch their win streak with a pair 
of home games against California 
State Polytechnic University, Pomona on Thursday’s Spirit 
Night, and against California State University, San Bernardino on Saturday — both teams that 
UCSD has beaten on the road this 
season.
Roberts’ 27 Points Leads Tritons 
to Seventh Straight Win
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
ha yden  wellbeloved  hwelbel@ucsd.eduWomen’s Basketball Holds on in Win 
Over Humboldt State