Accessed: 2/18/2021 Student Complaints Regarding Upper Division Math Class - UCSD Guardian
 December 14, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
During Fall Quarter 2020, students enrolled in MATH 11 and 183 have complained about how 
Professor Parinaz Ezzati has been unresponsive to their concerns and taught material 
unrelated to the course. They have  cited her and her teaching team’s failure to respond to 
emails, unclear and contradictory answers regarding  course material and project 
requirements, loud music being played in the background of lectures, and  unresponsiveness to 
student’s questions. The severity of the situation has led the department of mathematics to  
alter their requirements and allow for a no-fault final. 
Additionally, for a project for the Math 183 course, multiple changes were made to project 
requirements the  day it was to be submitted, such as requiring the project to be turned in on 
Gradescope rather than Canvas as  previously instructed. 
Students voiced their frustrations about the project on Piazza. “It seems like instructions were 
very vague and the rubric was graded very differently than expected,” an anonymous student 
wrote. “I spoke with a TA about my project and the TA helped me change things and add
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 2/18/2021 Student Complaints Regarding Upper Division Math Class - UCSD Guardian
things and then I went back and the TA said it was fine. However, I then got 0s in places 
where the TA advised me on what to add….Given the vagueness of the project and the 
amount that we learned I feel like the grades were very harsh and unreasonable and I am 
hoping that project 1 can be taken away or changed in a way that is more fair to everyone.”
Moreover, students felt like they were censored when they tried to voice their opinions to 
Professor Ezzati. The course uses Piazza, a platform for students and teaching staff to 
communicate, however, students began to notice that their posts on Piazza were being 
deleted. Comments on Piazza about unfair grading on a project and petitions for a Pass/No 
Pass option for the class were deleted by the teaching staff. 
The large volume of complaints against Professor Ezzati has led to the creation of a separate  
Reddit megathread dedicated to Ezzati’s MATH 11 and MATH 183 courses. Complaints 
against Ezzati started from Week 1. Students from both classes have compiled lists of 
misconduct and complaints in these posts.
Students have also expressed concern about being unprepared for future classes. Some 
students have looked at previous MATH 183 podcasts taught by Professor David Quarfoot 
and have noted that the material is unrelated to what the source has been in previous years, 
“the depth and breadth of content covered is nothing like the class I am currently in.” They 
worry that the instruction provided in the course was unrelated to the course descriptions 
and did not prepare them to continue the next class in sequence, MATH 189.
Ezzati is also teaching a course called MATH 1005 at the University of Sydney. Students 
noted that they have been learning material that is outside the scope of MATH 183 and that 
Ezzati mentions MATH 1005 instead of MATH 183 in lecture materials on numerous 
occasions. This has made some suspicious that Ezzati is using shared materials to teach both 
classes. 
Students who communicated concerns with the Department of Mathematics early in the 
quarter received unclear responses.
“Our undergraduate Vice-Chair and committee on Teaching Visitors have read through your 
complaint and they have reviewed the course and its instruction – and understand at least 
some of your concerns,” a Department of Mathematics representative said in an email. 
“Additionally, we are meeting with faculty that have previously taught the course (who are 
reviewing the instructional material for themselves) and have discussed the problems 
experienced by TAs.  If deemed necessary by our Vice-Chair, the Mathematics FacultyCouncil will meet to make a decision on how to proceed in a way that maintains the  
standards we expect, and students demand.”
However, in a Dec. 7 response to a student, the mathematics department revealed that they 
asked Ezzati to refrain from deleting responses, will review final grading for the course, and 
will discuss ways to provide additional guidance to students to enable them to succeed in 
their future courses. The department also shared with students that they will automatically 
approve P/NP petitions for MATH 183 this quarter to satisfy requirements for students in 
any major. 
A MATH 183 student shared his final thoughts about the experience and the outcome of the 
class with Professor Ezzati. 
“With regards to thoughts, 183 overall is quite pleased with the no-fault final, though some 
are displeased that Ezzati is continuing to teach,” he said. “Personally, I do not think this 
quality of instruction is befitting one of the best universities in the world, but it is my 
understanding from information from a student who spoke with her provost about the 
issue that Prof. Ezzati is part of a union and is contracted. This complicates the 
department’s ability to do much.”
After many student complaints, Professor Ezzati will now have the option of a no-fault 
final, in which finals scores would either have no effect or improve students’ grades. As of 
this publication, Professor Ezzati will be part of the teaching staff for MATH 10B and 
MATH 11 for Winter 2021. 
The UCSD Guardian reached out to Professor Ezzati for a quote but did not receive a 
response. 
Photo courtesy of Patrick Lazo for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 2/18/2021 Student Complaints Regarding Upper Division Math Class - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 2/18/2021 Muir College Reverses Plan to have Synchronous-Only Writing Classes in Winter Quarter 2021 - UCSD Guardian
 December 14, 2020  Troy Tuquero 
In a Dec. 3 email sent out to students enrolled in the John Muir College Writing Program for 
the Winter Quarter 2021, the MCWP department stated that all remote Muir writing 
courses during the upcoming Winter 2021 quarter would be held synchronously. Student 
outcry in response to the change prompted the MCWP to announce on Dec. 7 that it would 
be continuing Fall Quarter accommodations for students unable to attend remote courses 
synchronously. 
Students had originally been informed that they should drop their Muir Writing course if 
they were unable to attend synchronously.
“All remote MCWP classes will occur during their scheduled time,” the Dec. 3 email said. “If 
you are not able to attend synchronously, you should drop the class. If this leaves you 
unsure what to do about moving forward with your coursework, send a message through the 
Virtual Advising Center so we can provide additional support.”
Accessed: 2/18/2021 Muir College Reverses Plan to have Synchronous-Only Writing Classes in Winter Quarter 2021 - UCSD Guardian
Soon after the email was sent out, students took to Twitter to complain about the change.  
Much of the pushback revolved around concerns that international students and others  
residing in different time zones would be negatively impacted by the shift to a synchronous  
format. 
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Muir College sophomore Sophie Wynn said that  
the initial email likely caused unnecessary stress for students who needed to take the courses  
to graduate in a timely manner.
“As a student at Muir College, I know how hard it is to get a spot in the MCWP classes and
[planning] your schedule around them,” Wynn said. “I empathize with the students who  
dropped the class after the initial email, because I would be stressed if I received that email  
too. Having taken MCWP 40 this fall synchronously, I can see the value in taking the classes  
in real time but that does not work for everyone during these hard times.” 
The MCWP department acknowledged that student input in response to the announcement  
caused the program to reverse its plans.
“Thank you for your responses after our recent notification about remote MCWP classes,” the  
MCWP department said. “We now understand that this message may have seemed  
insensitive to the challenges you, as students, currently face and we have adjusted  
accordingly.”
Muir College freshman applicant students are required to complete the two-course Muir 
Writing sequence as part of their general education.  Transfer students are also held to 
similar general education writing requirements. 
Guidelines on remote instructional activities  posted by Academic Personnel Services note 
that course materials should be accessible to students regardless of whether they are 
participating in either an asynchronous or synchronous format, as some students face 
personal, technical, or safety challenges in being able to attend remote courses in real time.
“We don’t want [challenges to remote learning] to become demoralizing barriers to their full 
academic engagement,” the guideline stated. “In recognition of this, we are operating under 
the shared expectations that course material for remotely offered courses should be made 
available in asynchronous format and that an asynchronous equivalent (or readily accessible 
alternative-time accommodation) should be provided for any synchronous remote learning 
experience (including assessments) an instructor or TA chooses to offer.”  Accessed: 2/18/2021 Muir College Reverses Plan to have Synchronous-Only Writing Classes in Winter Quarter 2021 - UCSD Guardian
Students who dropped a Muir Writing class based on the Dec. 3 email are encouraged to  
submit a message on the Virtual Advising Center, choosing “Muir Writing” as their topic.  
Although the email did not explicitly state that students would be able to re-enroll with their  
original preferences, the MCWP will work with students to devise an alternate solution.
Photo courtesy of Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego.Accessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
 December 14, 2020   Caledonia Davey 
This edition of the UCSD A.S. Council Brief news update includes the Week 9 and Week 10 
meetings.
Week 9
On Wednesday, Dec. 2, Associated Students held their Week 9 Council Meeting, which 
included a special presentation regarding the Academic Integrity Office review process, 
reports on Triton Dine, complications with free campus COVID tests, and a discussion on 
the creation of a new Senate Leadership Position.
Junior Wen Fang’s presentation brought up concerns about the lack of consideration for 
international students for whom English is a second language within the AIO review 
process. Fang explained that she had been charged with an academic integrity violation 
that she believes she was not at fault for.Accessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
Before entering the initial meeting with an AIO representative, Fang requested to have a  
translator present. She claims that her request was denied without explanation. She felt that  
without a translator present, she was unable to sufficiently express her arguments and  
provide evidence to plead her case. 
“It was [the representative’s] understanding that after the initial meeting, I wanted to take  
responsibility,” Fang said. “I would have to take a punishment for something I know I did not  
do… I was not truly able to be heard or understood…  If fairness was the goal, a translator for  
an international student would be encouraged.”
After the presentation, Fang was encouraged by Senator Mihir Pandya to seek help from the  
Office of Student Advocacy. Fang claimed that she did reach out, however, the OSA did not  
have a translator who spoke Fang’s language.
Following the presentation, Senator Yarenni Medina reported on a collaborative constitution  
she is working on with the All Campus Transfer Association.  This constitution will serve to  
allow for both A.S. Council and ACTA to work more efficiently together with less overlapping  
of the responsibilities of the two student-led groups.
The next report, made by Vice President Hannah Kreitman, covered both issues with  
students being charged for their COVID-19 asymptomatic tests and the Triton Dine giveaway
According to Kreitman, some students have found that their free COVID tests provided by  UC 
San Diego left charges in their Student Accounts. She explained that if it is perceived that  a 
student is getting tested too frequently, close to everyday, that student will be charged. The  
cases are evaluated individually, however. According to Kreitman, members of the Student 
Health Team also suggest that students should utilize the Price Center walk-up location as 
opposed to the drive-up because the drive-up is used by UCSD Health, not just UCSD 
students so “there is less likely to be issues.”
The Triton Dine giveaway received $2,000 from the AS budget and will be split up into $20 
gift cards to Vons, Ralphs and the UC San Diego Bookstore. To enter into the giveaway, 
students will need to complete a short Google Form. To obtain a second entry, students will 
have to attend an asynchronous game night put on during Monday of finals week at 6 PM, or 
follow @asucsd on Instagram. Winners will be picked and contacted during finals week.
Next, the Legislative Committee reported approvals on items L1–L3, the appointments of AS 
Elections Manager, Marketing Coordinator for the Office of Local Affairs and the Office ofAccessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
External Affairs Campus Engagement Director. They also reported the approval of items L5–
L7 which were the appointments of two Student Orgs Event Interns, as well as the  
appointment of the Student Organizations Event Chief of Staff.
Item L4, the resolution calling for Academic Senate to extend academic accommodations,  
such as extending the pass/no pass deadline for courses and the drop with a “W” deadline,  for 
Winter and Spring Quarter of the 2020–2021 year, and item L8, enhancing communication 
among ASUCSD Assembly Act –– Amendment to the Standing Rules from  COSTAR –– were 
discharged to the Senate Floor and approved.
Wrapping up the meeting, the council held a discussion on the creation of a new Senate  
Leadership Position. This position would have the responsibilities of being a representative  of 
the Senate body, an advisor to senator projects, and an overseer, or ‘watchdog,’ of the  
senators. 
Week 10
The Week 10 Associated Students Council Meeting, held on Wednesday, Dec. 9, included a  
special presentation from University of California Student Association and a special  
presentation from the California Public Interest Research Group regarding their Students  
Fall Quarter Program update. 
The meeting also contained reports on the A.S. website, the creations of the Triton Transfer 
Coalition, the International Student Association and AS On Demand; the UC San Diego 
Sustainability Team, Seventh College Senators, the extension of the “Pass/No Pass” deadline, 
Director of International Students Program, stricter attendance policies, and updates in the 
Admissions Committee. The meeting wrapped up with a long discourse around the passing of 
a Committee Charter that supports international students experiencing human rights 
violations and the passing of a resolution to extend academic accommodations.
To begin the meeting, UCSA President Aidan Arasasingham conducted a special presentation 
on the history, mission, and 2020–2021 goals of UCSA in honor of its 50th anniversary. 
Arasasingham’s presentation was followed by a special presentation from the UCSD 
CALPIRG Chapter to provide their fall update. 
These presentations were followed by several reports from Senators. Senator Tommy Jung 
reported that he will be completing the “About Us” and Landing Page of the A.S. website over 
the weekend. Senator Michael Zarucki is working on a Triton Transfer Coalition. ThisAccessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
coalition will be a body of representatives from groups who serve transfer students. It will  
meet frequently to talk and collaborate on ideas as to how they can best help transfer  
students in need. 
Senator Zaruchi’s report was followed by a report from Senator Dakshh Saraf on the newly  
created International Student Association. This project, based on Instagram, replicates the  
Instagram page “Humans of New York,” but instead of showcasing the diversity of the  
residents of New York City, it will showcase the “diversity that each and every International  
student brings along with [them],” Saraf said.
Vice President Hannah Kreitman then reported on her meeting with the UCSD Sustainability  
Team, who said UCSD won a few awards recently for its level of sustainability and are  
beginning Earth Month preparations. Kreitman also reported that she has started work on  
A.S. On Demand, “the idea of a formatter website where student groups can request an A.S.  
member to go into their organization and talk about a specific topic with an A.S. [member].”  
The A.S. member will then be able to bring back feedback to the A.S. council. Lastly,  
Kreitman reported that new senators for Seventh College have been picked and will be added  
to the Council shortly.
President Kimberly Giangtran reported that the pass/no pass deadline  has been pushed. 
Students can now retroactively make a course P/NP after seeing their final grade in the 
course. However, it is suggested that students “check out how it’ll affect their specific 
situation and make sure they do that research before clicking that button,” Giangtran said. 
Giangtran also had an update on the Director of International Students Program. The 
policies in place for Fall are expected to be the same for the Winter Quarter. 
“Students entering the U.S. and coming to UCSD for the first time are going to be required to 
be enrolled in at least one hybrid class to enter the U.S.,” Giangtran said.
Next, Senator Mihir Pandya gave an update on the Admissions Committee, stating that UC 
Admissions will no longer be using the SAT/ACT. To replace this testing metric the UC 
system will consider using the California Smarter Balance statewide standardized tests in the 
future.  It also considered removing the statewide admissions guarantee to California high 
schoolers who are in the top 9 percent of their class. Instead, the UC system is thinking about 
increasing outreach to tribal communities and increasing accommodations to disabled 
students. Accessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
The Council Meeting began wrapping up with discussions and the passing of two proposals.  
The first was a Committee Charter, sponsored by Senator Corliss Lam, that was created to  
delegate a whole committee to aiding international students who are subject to human rights  
violations. The committee will help these students get accommodations by having a student  
representative meet with them to understand what they need, and then direct said student to  
the best resources available. 
“Just ask them what they need because this committee will have more direct communication  
with these students,” Lam said. “The problem right now is that resolutions are the only 
things we’re putting out when there are human rights violations and it’s because there is no  
committee for us to focus on these issues and to do more.”
However, some senators were opposed to this Committee Charter.
“It’s very hard to make this a non-political thing,” Senator Adam Tyler said. “Talking about  
these issues is inevitably going to become political and is going to piss off certain students at  
UCSD. That is my concern for this.” 
Despite opposition, the Charter was passed with a roll call vote of 17 in favor, one opposed, 
and nine abstained.
The final proposal discussed was the updated resolution introduced in the Week 9 Council 
Meeting regarding academic accommodations. The resolution called to block the change in 
attendance policies for next quarter that would make certain in-person classes mandatory. 
The resolution aims to block that change because these classes will be impossible for students 
who live outside of San Diego and even outside of the country to attend.
In opposition of the proposal, President Giangtran recognized a member of the public, 
Associate Vice President David Hickman, to speak.
“This is a change that has resulted from the physical accommodations our campus has been 
able to make,” Hickman explained. “Originally we had the classrooms at 25 percent 
capacity… We have extended our physical accommodations to include the outside learning 
areas and the classroom tents.”
The resolution passed with a roll call vote of 18 in favor, zero opposed, and nine 
abstained.A.S. Council meetings take place every week and are open to the public. StudentsAccessed: 2/18/2021 A.S. Council Brief: Academic Integrity, COVID-19 Fees, Pass/No Pass Deadline - UCSD Guardian
can be a part of these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S.  website.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 2/18/2021 Seventh College Students Express Concern Over Allegedly Unclean Apartments During Move-In - UCSD Guardian
 December 18, 2020  Genesis Lopez 
Several UC San Diego Seventh College first-year students claimed that their new Seventh  
College West apartment units were left unclean and unsanitized when they arrived on  
campus at the beginning of Fall Quarter 2020. The students alleged that they encountered  
various issues, including used earplugs beneath mattresses, visible dirt on floors, moldy 
toilet seats, and dirty kitchen cabinets.
Seventh College freshman Paola Mendoza felt that the cleaning of her suite prior to her 
arrival was unsatisfactory and said that the administration did not live up to the standards 
outlined in the Return to Learn program.
Accessed: 2/18/2021 Seventh College Students Express Concern Over Allegedly Unclean Apartments During Move-In - UCSD Guardian
“Even from the beginning, when I just got here, you could tell that nothing had been  
sanitized. It was untouched. It was gross,” Mendoza said. “They told us before: ‘Everything is  
going to be sanitized, clean, safe for you to move in.’ No. I spent the whole day cleaning,  
sanitizing, and bleaching.”
Seventh College freshman Hayley Pritchard corroborated this and shared a similar  
experience when inspecting her kitchen drawers when she first moved in.Accessed: 2/18/2021 Seventh College Students Express Concern Over Allegedly Unclean Apartments During Move-In - UCSD Guardian
“I expected everything to be extra sanitized because of [COVID-19] but instead it felt like the  
apartment hadn’t been touched since March,” Pritchard said. “I only saw it after my parents  
left. It’s not my first instinct to open all the kitchen drawers — I was just trying to get all my  
stuff in the apartment.”
Another student, Seventh College freshman Gray Hernard, expressed their discontent upon  
arriving at their apartment and finding that their room had not been properly cleaned.
“The carpet and the tile are both completely filthy,” Hernard said. “On the tile, I took a little  
Clorox wipe, and it came back basically black the first time I did it. When I was finally able to  
Swiffer both, the wet and the dry [towels] came back completely black… if I walk around I’ll  
get random hair and dust and dirt all over my socks and it’s very clearly not my hair.”
After settling into the apartment, Hernard claimed that there was an ant infestation.  After  
multiple attempts to get in touch with UCSD’s Environment, Health & Safety Pest  
Management and spending about 50 dollars out-of-pocket on pest and cleaning supplies,  
Hernard finally had the issue resolved by UCSD Housing Dining Hospitality after submitting  
a Fix It Request. 
“I called pest control a couple times before I was finally able to get through,” HernardAccessed: 2/18/2021 Seventh College Students Express Concern Over Allegedly Unclean Apartments During Move-In - UCSD Guardian
explained. “When I did get through, they told me, ‘We don’t spray any apartments, we only  
spray outside.’ So they sprayed outside my apartment, and it had no impact whatsoever. I  
waited like two or three weeks, and the ant problem had not changed in the slightest. I  
continuously called  [Environment, Health & Safety Pest Management] back a couple times,  
and then finally booked an appointment… within a couple of days all of the ants were gone.” 
Hernard added that there were other signs that their suite had not been cleaned properly,  
citing trash found around their bed.  
“My roommate found multiple used earplugs between their mattress and the bedframe,”  
Hernard said. “There were at least three or four. There was a used q-tip too. It was very clear  
that it had not been cleaned properly,” said Hernard.
UCSD’s plan to facilitate a safe return to on campus activities has been guided by its Return  
to Learn plan. It emphasizes an “adaptive model” which listed hygiene, cleaning, and  
sanitation of undergraduate residences as a way to mitigate the risks of COVID-19 infections. 
Prior to the pandemic, UCSD routinely hired limited workers over the summer to complete a  
deep cleaning of dorm rooms before student move-ins in the fall. Citing COVID-19 public  
health guidelines, the administration did not hire temporary workers.
Over the summer, UCSD laid off approximately 200 housing and dining employees  due to 
“financial hardships” that came as a result of the  Coronavirus pandemic. HDH released a 
statement  saying that  the layoff was temporary, and staff would ideally be reinstated in 
September. The UC San  Diego Local American Federation of State, County, and Municipal 
Employees 3299 claims to  have asked the administration to do more hiring, but the 
university ultimately decided  against it. 
The UCSD Guardian reached out to HDH about the concerns. In its statement, HDH  
maintained that spaces were deep-cleaned before student arrivals in the fall.
“The conditions you report are not acceptable and certainly not within the level of service we  
strive to provide,” the statement said “We did not receive any communication from students  
about the cleanliness of units during move-in, or the deplorable conditions you describe. If  
we had, we would have immediately addressed the situation with the resident, the custodial 
administrator and the on-site custodial supervisor. Students should know they can always 
communicate directly with us through Fix-It Requests or reaching out to us at x42600 or 
hdhcustcare@ucsd.edu.”Accessed: 2/18/2021 Seventh College Students Express Concern Over Allegedly Unclean Apartments During Move-In - UCSD Guardian
Any students affected by these issues are encouraged to reach out to HDH to follow up on  
their complaints and seek proper restitution. Further information regarding the Winter 2021  
Return to Learn plan can be found on the program’s website. 
Artwork courtesy of Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian