Accessed: 6/11/2020 Open Letter: Standing Against the Violence of Police: UCSD Must Respond - UCSD Guardian
 June 1, 2020  Guest Writer
This open letter is courtesy of the San Diego Faculty Association. The UC San Diego Faculty  
Association (SDFA) is a member of the Council of University of California Faculty 
Associations  (CUCFA) which coordinates the advocacy work done on behalf of UC Senate 
faculty by the various  campus Faculty Associations. Open letters do not reflect the opinions 
or beliefs of the UCSD Guardian .
The board of the San Diego Faculty Association (SDFA) stands with all UCSD workers and 
communities in San Diego who mourn the murder of George Floyd at the hands of police, the 
domestic arm of a global project of US militarism whose reach extends throughout the world. 
We recognize the UC system’s complicity in violence as an institution of research and higher 
learning that regularly deploys its own police force that uses militarized surveillance 
techniques to intimidate student protestors, and benefits from defense funding and research 
on military technologies whose effects are felt well beyond this city. As tenure-stream facultyTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic,  
click hereAccessed: 6/11/2020 Open Letter: Standing Against the Violence of Police: UCSD Must Respond - UCSD Guardian
members who make our livelihoods within this system, we are committed to collectively 
amplifying and supporting individuals and organizations that put themselves on the line to call 
out university policies that reinforce these structures of violence that disproportionately target 
Black and Latinx communities.
To this end, we express solidarity with student demands  for greater university accountability  
for the violence of police on and off campus, which we saw on  display this weekend when police 
sprayed tear gas and rubber bullets at protestors in La Mesa and  downtown San Diego. We also 
support a recent letter  penned by students to the UCSD administration imploring it to make 
good on its promise  to extend assistance to students struggling to carry on as usual in the 
aftermath of the murder of George  Floyd. Finally, we stand with a national coalition of grad 
worker unions that have issued a statement  against state terror and have called for the 
termination of university-police ties. 
Both as university workers and as people whose affiliations and lives exceed the university, we 
must do  more than simply condemn yet another murder. We must join the ongoing work to 
build abolitionist  alternatives: put into practice ways to repair harm, distribute resources and 
care, and respond to  medical and mental-health crises through channels other than state 
violence. We recognize that  violence is not an aberration of policing; rather, it is the heart of 
police power, and its trajectory has been racialized from the beginning. The violence of police  
was never inevitable; it was  built  over centuries  of legal, imaginative, and material practices as a 
mode of  everyday governance  for colonialism, indigenous dispossession, and racial capitalism. 
We invite everyone who  works and teaches with us to make their classrooms, their  
departments, and the university itself into  spaces  for unlearning the legitimacy of police 
worldwide. And we call on  UCSD to stand by its words with actions of material redress: 
prioritize the public-health  impact of anti-Blackness in its medical and scientific responses to 
COVID-19, remedy the persistent  underrepresentation  of Black students and faculty at UCSD, 
center students most likely to be targets of policing–Black, Indigenous, Latinx, undocumented, 
and low-income students–for both material and academic support in the ongoing and 
interlocking crises  they currently face, guarantee that its most vulnerable and poorly-paid 
constituencies not bear the brunt of the austerity measures implemented in response to the 
pandemic, and commit to transforming the violent structures and practices that reward profit 
over well-being. This is critical to the university’s mission to serve the public.
SDFA board members:
Wendy Matsumura (Chair) (Associate Professor of History)Accessed: 6/11/2020 Open Letter: Standing Against the Violence of Police: UCSD Must Respond - UCSD Guardian
Saiba Varma (Vice-chair) (Assistant Professor of Anthropology)
Sal Nicolazzo (Secretary-Treasurer) (Assistant Professor of Literature)
Jessica Graham (Associate Professor of History)
Simeon Man (Associate Professor of History)
Matthew Vitz (Associate Professor of History)
Photo courtesy of NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP via Getty Images.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Begins Phase II Store Reopenings - UCSD Guardian
 June 1, 2020 Andrew Ha
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how  
to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here .
Following strict state guidelines, the County of San Diego has now moved into an accelerated 
Phase II reopening of businesses and locales. On Wednesday, May 20, California Governor 
Gavin Newsom approved the county’s request to reopen dine-in restaurants as well as in-
store retailers. Phase II of the state’s COVID-19 Resiliency Road Map aims to allow low-risk 
workplaces – like those aforementioned as well as manufacturing, offices, and personal 
services – to resume business.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Begins Phase II Store Reopenings - UCSD Guardian
According to the county’s Safe Reopening Plans, businesses will have to continue to  ensure 
the health and safety of all patrons and employees with limited reopenings. This  means that 
owners must ensure that people in the stores are at least six feet apart and are  wearing face 
coverings. They must also regularly sanitize often touched surfaces and limit the  number of 
people inside the store to promote social distancing. Many businesses are also  requesting that 
patrons do not visit if they are exhibiting any symptoms of COVID-19.
At this time, some businesses are still choosing to not reopen due to continued concerns  
while waiting for federal and state loans; others are still not permitted to open. As stated by  
county health officials in this announcement, San Diego is on a fast-track through the 
Resiliency Road Map and has also been approved to  allow salons, barbershops, and church 
services to resume. However, beach usage is still  restricted while other businesses like gyms, 
bars, indoor museums, and concert venues will  not be open until the county moves into the 
next two phases. 
UC San Diego students still living in La Jolla and the surrounding cities can expect to see  
some of their favorite destinations reopen and expand services in the coming weeks.
Accessed: 6/11/2020Westfield UTC reopened on Friday, May 29 with modified hours, but specific vendors vary 
in their hours of operation. The mall will continue its Answer on the Spot Program to 
respond to any questions or concerns people have; they will also work with specific stores to 
allow for curb-side pickup of over-the-phone and online orders. 
“Westfield shopping centers in San Diego, which include Westfield UTC, Mission Valley, 
North County, and Plaza Bonita, announced today that they will re-open for the 
community.” according to a Westfield press release. “The centers will continue working with 
select retailers to facilitate curbside pick-up to make it as easy as possible for customers to 
quickly and safely collect purchases. Customers will purchase items online, or do so by 
calling the store directly, with the retailer then arranging to deliver the purchased items 
directly to the customer at an appointed location at the center.”
Restaurants like the Taco Stand will now allow both dine-in and take-out in accordance to 
the Resiliency Road Map. Similar to many restaurants in the San Diego area, the Taco Stand 
will be expanding their services and have requested for patrons to wear masks and adhere to 
social distancing rules.
“We have adjusted our dining rooms so guests and tables are at least 6 feet apart, improved 
the flow so people don’t come in contact with each other, our crews are taking additional 
safety measures and surfaces are constantly sanitized,” Taco Stand representative Julian 
Hakim said via email to the UCSD Guardian. “These last few months have been very 
difficult for the restaurant industry and we are no exception. We are committed to keeping 
our employees safe and employed with as many hours as they had before but it isn’t over yet 
and restaurants need support more than ever.”San Diego Begins Phase II Store Reopenings - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 6/11/2020Many large indoor areas are still not open. The nearby Birch Aquarium will remain 
indefinitely closed to prevent further spreading of the disease. However, they have stressed 
that they are still working to ensure that all animals and plants are thriving and that 
exhibits are fully functional. Although absent of guests, the aquarium is still following 
health and safety guidelines. 
“Birch Aquarium is working behind the scenes to update safety and cleaning protocols,” 
Birch Aquarium Marketing Specialist Caitlin Scully said in an email to The UCSD Guardian. 
“We are incorporating Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and World Health 
Organization recommendations, as well as adhering to state and University of 
Californiaguidelines. The safety and well-being of our guests, staff, and volunteers is our 
highest  priority and we are taking every step to ensure that our guests are confident and 
comfortable  once our doors reopen.”
Downtown tourist destinations like Balboa Park have opened limited areas for guests to 
visit. Although museums  and other amenities are closed, park areas and trails are now 
accessible. Park authorities will  only permit passive activities like walking, jogging, and 
biking and have stated that they will  not allow large group activities. Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Begins Phase II Store Reopenings - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Begins Phase II Store Reopenings - UCSD Guardian
Balboa Park
about 2 months ago
Balboa Park is following Federal, State and local mandates, and at this time, parts of  
the Park are open for individual, passive, activities, like walking, jogging, and biking.  
These include the East Mesa (east of Park Blvd.) & the West Mesa (west of the 
Cabrillo Bridge). For the latest info visit http://bit.ly/BPLatestUpdates
If you are missing the Park, visit #BalboaParkTV ! Park videos, past performances,  
virtual tours, museum content, & more!
✔ it out now @ http://bit.ly/... See More
Updates | Cultural Partnership
This internal information page is managed by 
the B…
Updates | Cultural Partnership
This internal information page is managed 
In lieu of visiting the plethora of museums, Balboa Park has partnered with some of them to  
create virtual tours that patrons can attend online. Through their Balboa Park TV, people will 
be able to visit popular  destinations like the San Diego Zoo, the Fleet Science Center, and the 
Museum of Man. 
Although not every business is open now or has limited options for visiting, UCSD students  
now have more options if they decide to take a break from quarantine. However, going  
outside for non-essential activities is still not advised by the county. To enter into businesses,  
everyone is required to wear some type of face covering and must practice social distance to  
promote health and safety.
Photo courtesy of San Diego Tourism.
Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Faculty Association to Host Town Hall to hear Faculty Concerns Surrounding COVID-19 and Recent Acts of Police Brutality - …
 June 2, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
The San Diego Faculty Association will hold a faculty town hall on Monday, June 8 to create a  
space for faculty and staff to voice their concerns surrounding the pandemic, recent acts of  
police brutality and protests, and any other concerns with teaching and research.
The SDFA was reconstituted by a group of UC San Diego professors led by Dr. Wendy 
Matsumura, an associate professor for the UCSD history department. The organization had 
always existed, but had been defunct up until recently. The group is a voluntary membershipAccessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Faculty Association to Host Town Hall to hear Faculty Concerns Surrounding COVID-19 and Recent Acts of Police Brutality - …
organization of UCSD Senate faculty members and does not have any  official affiliation with 
the university administration.
Sal Nicolazzo, an assistant professor for the literature department and a board member of the  
SDFA, explained to The UCSD Guardian that the SDFA was created to address the issues that 
the Academic Senate cannot cover.
“The Academic Senate is a part of the university and deals with the literal governance of the  
university, so that’s where faculty make policies,” Nicolazzo said. “The [SDFA] … is  
independent of the university itself, so we can do political advocacy … for issues like UC  
funding, and any issue that affects faculty or that faculty members care about. So that’s the  
importance of it being independent and separate from the university.”
Simeon Man, an associate professor for the history department and board member of the  
SDFA, spoke with The UCSD Guardian about more specific goals he hopes the organization  
can address.
“Through the SDFA and this town hall, we want to create a space where faculty, including  
lecturers and adjuncts who are often left out of conversations, can come together and discuss  
issues that are not being discussed in the academic senate,” Man said. “Personally speaking  … 
We want to model the type of university that we think should exist — one that is truly  student-
centered. Especially since the pandemic, many of us have been moved by student  concerns 
about remote learning and Return to Learn and the ongoing racial disparity in  terms of access 
and also particular students who are vulnerable to violence on and off  campus — all of this 
despite the university’s language of diversity, equity, and inclusion. I  think there are concrete 
issues that are left unaddressed and the SDFA can be a space to  address these issues.”
The SDFA will reach out to the broader UCSD faculty community with its June 8 town hall.  
Nicolazzo said that while the event was planned before the recent acts of police brutality and  
protests occurred, she expects that the town hall will include discussions on those issues.
“The town hall is called ‘Austerity, Inequality, and the COVID Crisis,’ and it focuses on a lot of 
big and interlocking issues,” Nicolazzo explained. “Our agenda is about asking big questions 
and creating a space where faculty can have as much of a voice as possible to share their 
concerns. We often do this work within our departments, but the point is to create a broader 
space to see what everyone is concerned about, whether that’s [concerns about] teaching, 
research, how your students or staff are doing, and how contingent faculty … are particularly 
affected.”Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Faculty Association to Host Town Hall to hear Faculty Concerns Surrounding COVID-19 and Recent Acts of Police Brutality - …
The announcement of the town hall comes shortly after the SDFA released a public letter  that 
referenced a Voice of San Diego investigation which found that the University of  California 
had disclosed virtually no records on the use of police force on campus as outlined  under a 
California transparency law. The letter also discussed the recent acts of police  brutality and 
protests which have been ongoing nationwide following the murders of George  Floyd, 
Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor .
“We recognize the UC system’s complicity in violence as an institution of research and higher  
learning that regularly deploys its own police force that uses militarized surveillance  
techniques to intimidate student protestors, and benefits from defense funding and research  
on military technologies whose effects are felt well beyond this city,” the letter states.
“We tried to highlight in the statement that [COVID-19 disparities and police brutality] are  
not entirely separate issues,” Nicolazzo explained. “One of the things we wanted to push on in  
the statement is that the UC needs to be a better actor in the world and better reflect our  
concerns and values.”
At the time of this article’s publication, the university has not publicly responded to the  
SDFA’s open letter. The “Austerity, Inequality, and the COVID Crisis” town hall will take  
place on Monday, June 8 from 4-5:30 p.m. Details can be found here .
Photo by Mariyah Shad for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
 June 3, 2020 Andrew Ha
Content warning: first-hand account of racism and ableism .
In the wake of rising racial tensions throughout the nation, an individual decided to 
Zoom bomb a UC San Diego Associated Student meeting, yelling racial slurs targeted at 
black students. In their tirade, the individual had interrupted third year undergraduate 
student Syreeta L. Nolan from sharing her experience as a disabled African American 
student.
Nolan recently reached out to the UCSD Guardian to finish that conversation. The 
following transcript of the interview has been edited for clarity.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
Andrew Ha: So let me begin by thanking you for coming here. It’s very brave of you to be  
able to speak out and share about your experiences. In this interview, we want to give you the  
space to share any and all of your experiences and your tribulations throughout your time  
thus far at UC San Diego and the things you foresee in the future.
If you could just begin with a brief introduction about who you are and why you decided to  
speak out, that’d be great. Whenever you’re ready.
Syreeta Nolan: My name is Syreeta Nolan and I am a junior at UCSD majoring in  
psychology with a specialization in human health. And I’m an African American student, but  
I also am a student with invisible disabilities. I don’t have a wheelchair, crutches or things  
like that that would visually show my disabilities. I literally have to be vulnerable enough to  
share it for someone to know that I’m experiencing it. I’ve been diagnosed since 2015 [with  
Fibromyalgia] so it’s still one of those things that I’m learning to be comfortable with.
That Sunday morning I saw that there was this meeting for African American students to  
voice ways that the faculty could support us more. It was so important to me and even though  
I was at a nine out of 10 on the pain scale, I went. And I did it because it’s important not only  
for black students to be heard, but also for students with disabilities to be heard. 
A lot of people think that it’s wrong that we’re two percent of the campus population. But  
what percentage of the campus population is disabled either visibly or invisibly? All the other  
resource centers transitioned to Zoom meetings and have events. Because we don’t have a  
Disabled Student Resource Center, there’s never been any events for us to connect over the  
course of the pandemic. 
It’s been a lot harder for a lot of us. I know for myself, my clinic closed in March at the 
beginning of the pandemic. I went for months without my normal treatments and I just got 
back yesterday. So Sunday [on the day of the AS Conversation], everything was worse than 
normal. It was at 12 pm and the meeting started and there were waves of 10 out of 10 pain. 
There’d be times where I’d have to turn away from the camera to almost wince and cry and do 
a modified fetal position in a chair.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
THERE WERE BLACK STUDENTS THAT NOTED THAT IT HAD BEEN 10 MINUTES AND WE 
ONLY HEARD FROM NON BLACK STUDENTS OF COLOR. IF THIS SPACE WAS CREATED 
FOR AFRICAN AMERICAN, WE SHOULD SPEAK.
I was the first student to speak and as I was speaking, I mentioned how it’s already been a  
very difficult quarter for all of us who identify with disabilities. For those of us who are black  
and disabled, it’s even more difficult and it’d be valuable if the faculty could reach out to us  
and check on us. It would be so important for them to reach out rather than a student  
continuing to put out energy during a very traumatizing time to reach out to them.
And that’s when the Zoom bombers happened saying a collection of racial slurs combined  
with expletives, and the N-word was thrown out. My ancestors have been called the N-word,  
my relatives have been called the N-word. We just had that anniversary of Black Winter  
earlier last quarter. And I’m like, okay, so we’re evolved. I’m in research here. I lead two  
research teams. I don’t feel like this will affect me.
That might have been a version of false comfort but in that moment when they called me  
those words, I wasn’t going to give them the benefit of seeing that they hurt me. All I said to  
them was that I reject what you say. I rejected that statement and I muted myself because  this 
space immediately turned. You can see [A.S. Vice President of Academic Affairs Adarsh  
Parthasarathy’s] face drop into his hands, almost in tears after what happened. You could  
hear other students unmute and verbally engage the zoom bombers and it felt like the longest  
couple of minutes until [Parthasarathy] ended the zoom call to enhance the security settings.
I feel like as a black student, the Black Resource Center and the Black Student Union are  
spaces you go to when you are proud to be black and it’s just not a part of my identity. I’ve  
always struggled with being black from being bullied as a kid for not being black enough, not  
speaking with enough ghetto terms or not cursing. I am really disconnected from my African 
American roots and it wasn’t until getting to my community college and learning about 
Umoja that I started to engage that aspect of me.
I’ve always been passionate about helping other students with disabilities. And I actually won 
the 2020 Warren College BEARL for Resolving Conflict Constructively and for developing 
two programs to build support and community between able-bodied and disabled students.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
Andrew Ha: Could you explain for some of the readers what Umoja is?
Syreeta Nolan: Umoja for African American students is to explore what community means  
and it looks at different African community ideals. My community college had allowed me to  
stay connected and just to learn more about what it means to be proud of myself as a black  
person and what community could look like. That wasn’t just being surrounded by African  
American culture not like R&B music, not things like that. It was more academically driven.  
It’s a lot different from a space like the Black Resource Center or the Black Student Union. 
It was my honor earlier this quarter to actually represent UCSD through an invitation from  
my mentor Roberta Camarena in the Welcome to the Family, a seminar for transfer students.  
I was able to speak of the support that I have [at UCSD] and as a chance as an associate  
scholars student. I’m also a part of the psychology honors cohorts and I lead two research  
teams. Anything is possible here. It’s just amazing what happens when you create your  
opportunities and it’s really beautiful.
I’VE A LWAYS FE LT LOVED AND SUPPORTED UNTIL THAT ONE MOMENT [ON THE AS 
CONVERSATION] WHEN I DIDN’T FEEL LIKE I WAS ACCEPTED. THERE WAS THIS 
ALMOST IMMEDIATE OUTPOURING OF MESSAGES OF PEOPLE ASKING “ARE YOU 
OKAY?” I’M LIKE, I DON’T KNO W. I WILL BE.
As I was saying earlier, I was awarded the 2020 BEARL for Resolving Conflict Constructively  
for the two programs I developed; the first was for personalized emergency planning. I  
couldn’t participate in fire drills because I live on the 11th floor and fibromyalgia is not going  
to let me run down 11 stories and up another 3 stories. The OSD Housing Liaison advised  
that I just don’t go to the fire drill. I hung up.
I wanted to have a more comprehensive emergency plan that addressed different types of 
emergencies that could happen, like if there was a fire in your lecture hall. What do you do, 
where do you go? Let’s say you’re in a lecture hall on the third story of Center… Where is 
your area of refuge?Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
The second program I developed was called JADE, which stands for justice, awareness, and  
disability education which creates safe spaces for students to learn more about what it’s like  
having an invisible disability and having a visible disability and creating a space where it’s  
okay to talk about these concerns. I am still in the process of it being realized as a club in a  co-
curricular program with volunteer opportunities for able bodied students to help disabled  
students. It could even evolve into part time and offer part time job opportunities.
And I was thinking about those connections that I built in developing those programs. So,  
immediately after the Zoom bombing occurred, I emailed the Vice Chancellor of Equity,  
Diversity and Inclusion, the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs, and the Dean of Student  
Affairs for Warren College. I told them about what just happened on the call, and how much  
pain I was in. What happened was just horrendous. They replied in under an hour to set up a  
meeting that same day on Sunday.
The reason the investigation opened into the two Zoom bombers was by my report. What I  
love about our associated student government is their presence. You can see how much they  
care, and they put passion into what they do. Adrash created a meeting to discuss the Zoom  
bombing that started at 12 pm. The meeting lasted until 4 pm. That level of dedication from  
Adarsh to listen to our concerns for 4 hours was just remarkable. He’s been openly sharing  
the report’s progress: there are already the preliminary results of the investigation: one looks  
like a very organized attack and the other looks like a UC affiliate. 
When I was talking to the campus leadership, they also invited Dr. Juarez, the director of  
CAPS, to join. I realized just how alone I felt in a lot of things, because I didn’t have any  
ability to connect with other disabled students over the quarter. It’s already been a quarter of  
nightmares and trying to ask for accommodation after accommodation for  assignments.  
Luckily I had them approved, but it still doesn’t make it easy to ask for help. And I think  that’s 
one of the strengths of disabled students: that we are resilient. We’re strong and we  fight 
through whatever disability. We have to be here at UCSD.
And to not know and to not be able to support each other, I feel like it’s a great disservice.  
Hopefully we can create the disabled student Resource Center in the future. And I joined a  
task force with AS to be able to pursue some of these goals as well as a part of this Task Force.
It’s actually quite shocking that they don’t have statistics or support for students with 
disabilities, because we’re going through [quarantine] with medical conditions. The quarter 
system is already difficult as a student in general, but when you add your physical health not 
being there for you, it becomes worse.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
Because I’ve already been building these connections with disabled students, I know it’s not a  
large community on campus. I don’t know if that’s due to lack of knowledge or due to the lack  
of us here on campus. We go to the Office of Students with Disabilities can get services, and  
that’s it. That’s the support we have which is quite ludicrous and sad. I know that I’m  
probably not the first person to apply for grad school with disabilities. It’s just been hard to  
connect with alumni to talk about having disabilities and overcoming them to achieve their  
career goals. I find that to be really sad.
And I feel like with the zoom bomber, all they’ve done is given me a platform to share about  
why disabled students need to be heard. I think a lot of us aren’t out there publicly because  
we’re just trying to be there for ourselves, which can be very hard.
We need our voice, especially students of color with disabilities because you can look around,  
like the Black Student Resource Center, the other resource centers on campus, and you don’t  
know who can relate, except for if it’s a visibly disabled person. We should be able to come  
together and recognize our intersectionality between our disabilities or racial background or  
our gender, like being a black disabled woman. We are not just one thing. It just being one  
thing is easier to get used to. Everyone would relate to you completely, but there is no way  
that that is what’s true for any student.
That’s why I actually proposed to EDI VC Petitt about 2 new DEI courses I want to be added  
to our structure, like one for Disabilities and Higher Education because I know that black  
students struggle to get the same caliber of education is white students, for example, but was  
there a similar struggle with students with disabilities? Could it be that they initially couldn’t  
come to college because the office of students with disabilities didn’t exist? How did the  
American with Disabilities Act come to exist? We’d never know. These are questions that I  
feel needs to be addressed and need to be taught, so that we’re more sensitive to each other  
and that we have safe spaces to talk about disabilities. 
And the second course that I recommended was Intersectionality, Diversity, and 
your Identity. When you look at the DEI requirements page, there are 10 different 
facets of diversity, from racial background, gender background, sexual orientation, to 
disability status.
Like I said like, I’m not proud of being black. I identify as bisexual. It’s hard with a Christian 
family and being Christian to identifying as bisexual. It’s hard saying it, but it’s my truth.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
IF I FIND A MAN I FALL IN LOVE WITH, I’LL DO THAT. IF I FIND A WOMAN I FALL IN 
LOVE WITH, I’LL DO THAT. AND I’LL CROSS THOSE BRIDGES WHEN I NEED TO, BUT I 
FEEL LIKE WE NEED THOSE SPACES THAT DON’T ASSUME THAT WE’RE COMFORTABLE  
WITH OUR RACIAL BACKGROUND. 
We should get into this class to explore what each one of those dimensions means and where  
we are in that dimension if we relate to having a minority racial background, having a  
disability, whether it’s mental or physical, whether it’s an invisible physical disability or  
visible disability. We deserve that space to be able to explore to be uncomfortable.
And the thing that the VC mentions to me is that both of those courses would need professors  
who are passionate about teaching them. So if you are a professor and you’re thinking, hey,  
those courses sound interesting, one contact me contact me please. I know that students  
would be so grateful for you to teach this course.
Andrew Ha: So I heard you mentioned earlier that you were not proud of being black. Can  
you elaborate a little bit more about why you feel that way?
Syreeta Nolan: I was bullied as a kid. I wasn’t black enough for others. I wasn’t speaking in  
ghetto terms. I was too proper. I didn’t curse. I didn’t listen to rap or R&B. I loved Gothic  
things: I liked to be all black. I think I may have even done things like dark brown or black  
lipstick from time to time and black nail polish. 
I just wasn’t what they expected of a black person and I just have never really had close  
friends that were African American before so I wasn’t comfortable with that aspect. When I  
admitted this on the Zoom call with VC Petitt, VC Satterlund, Dr. Juarez, and Dean Kafele, I  
saw VC Petitt break up into tears. She said it made her sad to hear that I wasn’t proud to be  
black and she offered to meet with me one on one to talk more. So many things have  
happened in our culture where black people are seen as lesser or that we’re targets of police  
brutality. We’re targets of so many racial stereotypes.Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
If my life is going to be harder by identifying boldly as black, what’s the point? On documents  
like financial aid forms, I struggle to [check the box for] my race. But I know that it’s  probably 
the only thing [administrators] will see when they first see me, so I check the box.  I’ve 
actually on occasion when I didn’t feel like it really mattered as much, I do one or more  races. 
I might refuse to respond on occasions, because I also do have Native American roots  as well.
I HAVE A DYSPHORIA IN REGARDS TO WHO I AM RACIALLY AND THAT’S WHY I THINK
INTERSECTIONALITY, DIVERSITY, AND YOUR IDENTITY WOULD BE SO VALUABLE TO
BE ABLE TO HAVE A SPACE WHERE IT’S OKAY TO EXPLORE WHY I DON’T FEEL PROUD
OR WHY I DON’T FEEL CONNECTED. 
You know how in LGBTQ, [some use the ‘Q’ to represent ‘Questioning’]? Like I’m questioning  
if this is really who I am. It’s assumed I am black, because this is what’s on the outside. I  don’t 
know if everyone is ready to be instantly proud of that aspect of who they are and just  having 
a safe space to explore is important. 
It’s been hard feeling like I don’t have that space to question without shocking people. I know 
that it’s not the common dialogue. I’ve seen people say “I’m proudly for Black Lives Matter.” I 
stand for all of that, just personally, it’s hard for me to identify.
Andrew Ha: Thank you very much. Is there anything else you’d like to add in conclusion?
Syreeta Nolan: As I work with student government to make the Disabled Student Resource  
Center a reality and to make JADE a reality, I need people to reach out to me and be right  
beside me. If you have that intersectionality about being disabled and black, being disabled  
and Latino, being disabled and LGBTQ, let’s make conversation and see how we could  
collaborate.
 I feel like it’s almost like we don’t feel comfortable asking someone what it is like being a  
student with invisible disabilities; what is it like being a student with visible disabilities; what  
is it like being a student who was born with a disability; or what is it like being a student  
who’s just got a diagnosis. Accessed: 6/11/2020 A Response to the Racist Zoom Bomber - UCSD Guardian
Is there a student advocate that I could talk to for the Office of Students with Disabilities,  
because if you have never applied for accommodations, it can be hard. You might have to go  
back to your doctor multiple times to get the paperwork right. We need these spaces to  
support each other in these difficult areas of our lives and to be able to support students who  
are newly diagnosed with chronic disorders or help when someone is close to die.
I think silence is what weakens us. It’s not like we’re out here intentionally dividing, having  
this divide between able-bodied students and disabled students. It’s already an unspoken  
divide. We don’t know how to speak to it. There are no real spaces for what it is like being a  
disabled student at UCSD. I feel like with how innovative and how world class we are, we  
could really use our influence to create world renowned support and community.
Nolan has requested to have her contact information be included in the article. If you would  
like to learn more, please email her at snolan@ucsd.edu.   
Although the Q in LGBTQ was referred to as Questioning in the interview, it is more  
commonly referred to as Queer. The acronym stated was also a shorthand for the longer  
initialism, LGBTQIA+.
Photo courtesy of Yui Kita for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/11/2020 BREAKING: UCSD Students able to change to Pass/No Pass Grading Option through Finals W eek - UCSD Guardian
BREAKING: UCSD Students able to change to Pass/No 
Passading Option through Finals Week
 June 3, 2020 Daisy Scott
The UC San Diego Academic Senate has announced that UCSD students will  be able to 
change their courses’ grading options from letter to pass/no pass until the end of  finals 
week. The statement also announces that while no across-the-board exceptions to  
finals and grading options will be made for students, instructors are encouraged to be  
accommodating to students regarding their final exams.
“Many of our faculty colleagues, staff, and students are feeling especially distraught 
after the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, and the 
violence disrupting peaceful civic marches. In addition, some of our graduate students 
are faced with the potential revocation of their visas per the recent Presidential 
Proclamation,” the statement reads. “Our goal is to reach out to fellow instructors to 
insure that our students’ permanent records and their ability to make future academic 
progress is not negatively impacted by the challenges that they have experienced this 
quarter, and provide them as much sympathy and support as possible through finals 
week.” Accessed: 6/11/2020 BREAKING: UCSD Students able to change to Pass/No Pass Grading Option through Finals W eek - UCSD Guardian
The senate’s pushing the deadline for students to decide their grading options is an  
expansion of its Spring Quarter 2020 decision to move the deadline to the end of Week  10. 
During traditional quarters with on-campus learning, the deadline is the end of  Week 6. 
The statement explains that under this extension instructors are not required to distribute  
final grades before the end of finals week, and that they intend this additional week to help  
students make their decisions regarding grading. 
The statement also lists several options instructors may consider applying to their finals in  
order to better accommodate their students. These suggestions include assessing the format  
of their finals, adjusting their grading scale so that students’ grades cannot be lowered past  
Week 10, and making the course’s final optional. 
The senate clarifies, however, that these changes to final exams will need to be made on an  
individual basis by instructors. 
“Both EPC and Senate Council do not support approving any blanket exceptions that would  
require all undergraduate and graduate courses to be offered on a P/NP or S/U basis in  
Spring 2020,” the statement reads. “There is too much variation across disciplines, degrees,  
and student needs to advance a uniform policy. Every student’s circumstance is unique and  
they should be referred to their Dean of Academic Advising and financial aid advisor so that  
they can be fully informed of their options and potential consequences before making end of  
quarter decisions.”
This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian has reached out to the university for  
further comment. This article will be updated with any further developments. 
Photo by The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/29/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Investigation Reveals that Zoom-Bombers Were Not UCSD Students - UCSD Guardian
A.S. Council Brief: Investigation Reveals that Zoom-
Bombers Were Not UCSD Students
 June 4, 2020 Niloufar Shahbandi
Associated Student Senators heard results from university officials about the 
investigation into the recent Zoom bombing incident during their first meeting with 
2020-2021 elected  senators on Wednesday, June 3.
The presentation was in response to the May 31 zoom bombing incident during which 
racial slurs were used against black students in a meeting demanding changes to UC San 
Diego’s final grading option due to recent activity involving police brutality and protests. Accessed: 6/29/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Investigation Reveals that Zoom-Bombers Were Not UCSD Students - UCSD Guardian
Chief Information Security Officer Michael Corn, Director of the Office for Prevention of  
Harassment and Discrimination Michael Diaz, and Campus Privacy Officer Pegah Parsi  
presented the outcomes of the UCSD investigation into the incident revealing that the  
responsible parties were located in the Middle East and are not members of the UCSD  
community.
Corn further explained that this is a typical trend in Zoom bombing incidents, as  
interruptions usually come from outside the campus community. He revealed that there are  
certain websites that share Zoom meeting addresses. 
The student who was interrupted, junior Syreeta L. Nolan,  shared her experience with the 
incident and her thoughts about the campus’s response.
While the university cannot fully prevent Zoom bombings, they urge students and faculty to  
take individual measures to avoid such incidents. Some steps to increase security during  
Zoom meetings are to use passwords, avoiding using personal meeting IDs, the use of waiting  
rooms, and scheduling meetings in advance. More information and guidelines about Zoom  
privacy and security can be found  here. 
Additionally A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran revealed that she is working on a letter along  
with Assistant Vice Chancellor of Academic Affairs Alison Sanders and the Black Resource  
Center to urge different department chairs to accommodate students in light of recent events  
and protests.  
Giangtran explained that many professors are unaware of the rights they hold and believe  
that they are incapable of administering shorter final exams or making exams no-risk. This  
letter will be a last plea to departments to notify professors and make more accommodations  
for students.
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated at 11:30 p.m. to include Director of the Office for Prevention of 
Harassment and Discrimination Michael Diaz in the investigation.Accessed: 6/29/2020 UCSA President Calls for System-Wide Academic Accommodations, Dismantling of How UCPD Currently Operates - UCSD Guardian
UCSA President Calls for System-Wide Academic 
Accommodations, Dismantling of How UCPD 
Currentlyerates
 June 4, 2020 Daisy Scott
In a statemen t released on June 2, University of California Student  Association President 
Varsha Sarveshwar called for systematic changes across all UC  campuses to better represent 
and address the needs of black students. The requested changes include academic 
accommodations for students across all UC campuses and the dismantling of the University 
of California Police Department as it currently operates.
Sarveshwar’s statement began with expressing grief and frustration over the deaths of black 
individuals and police violence across the country. She then turned to acknowledge anti-
blackness within the UC system and UCSA as an organization; she cited a lack of black 
student representation on the UCSA board and the system’s “inability to give the Racial 
Justice Now campaign the support and investment it needs.”Accessed: 6/29/2020 UCSA President Calls for System-Wide Academic Accommodations, Dismantling of How UCPD Currently Operates - UCSD Guardian
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Sarveshwar explained that by the end of the 
2019-2020 academic year, four of the 15 UCSA elected board positions identified as black. 
Sarveshwar continued by calling for the UC system as a whole to take specific courses of  
action to support black students. 
“The prohibition on affirmative action and the lack of investment in outreach, recruitment,  
and retention efforts must be dismantled,” the statement read. “The University of California  
Police Department — which continues to arrest, assault, and detain Black people with little to  
no accountability — must be disarmed and dismantled.”  
According to UC San Diego’s 2018-2019 academic year’s student characteristics survey, only  
2.6 percent of the more  than 35,000 students studying at UCSD identify as African 
American. Across all UC campuses, only  4 percent  of students identified as African American.
Sarveshwar commented to The UCSD Guardian that she wants the UCPD dismantled due to  
multiple instances of force on UC campuses in recent years. The most recent example she  
cited was UCPD’s reaction to UC Santa Cruz COLA strikes this past  February.  
“I am still drafting specific demands,” Sarveshwar explained. “But basically I want to  
advocate for significantly reducing UCPD’s size and budget, reducing or eliminating its ability  
to work with other PDs, creating more transparency around instances of use of force, and  
demilitarizing it and eliminating its ability to use lethal force.”
Sarveshwar sent a letter to UC President Janet Napolitano, UC Chair of the Board of Regents 
John Pérez, and Faculty Representative Kum-Kum Bhvani on June 1. This letter, which can 
be read in full here, asked for academic accommodations for students across all UC campuses 
due to the current protests as well as the ongoing pandemic.
“We want to be as clear as possible,” Sarveshwar’s letter read. “It is nothing short of 
inhumane to expect Black students to turn in assignments and prepare for finals as if their 
education occurs in a vacuum.”
The UC 2020 Spring Quarter finals week is scheduled to take place between June 8-12. In her 
letter, Sarveshwar requested a default pass/no pass grading option made available to all 
students by this time. She also called for faculty and professors to exercise more lenient 
grading practices and to actively modify their finals to be more accommodating of students’ 
needs, such as making them optional.Accessed: 6/29/2020 UCSA President Calls for System-Wide Academic Accommodations, Dismantling of How UCPD Currently Operates - UCSD Guardian
Many professors across the UC system have already changed their requirements for final  
exams on a personal basis. As of June 3, UCSD announced that all students would have the 
option to change  their grading option to pass/no pass until the last day of finals week. UCSD 
also encouraged  instructors to be lenient in their plans for final exams; however, the 
university maintains that  no general guidelines or exceptions will be applied to finals. 
The UCSD Guardian spoke with Karina Cota Fierro, a psychological and brain sciences  
student at UC Santa Barbara, who had two of her four professors alter their finals in response  
to the current protests.
“One cancelled the final completely while the other gave us two weeks to complete the online  
final. Another professor only commented on current events but said we should remain strong  
and focus on our final papers despite everything,” Corta Fierro said. “I do believe most  
professors should either cancel or make accommodations. Whether or not you are physically  
protesting, your mind is not present. Our attention is in the movement and what we can do.  
It’s odd to expect us to remain focused on something that now seems so trivial.” 
As of June 3, Sarveshwar has not met with members of the UC Office of the President but 
was planning to reach out to Academic Senate leaders that afternoon. The UCSD Guardian  
contacted the UCOP, but they did not respond to requests for comment on Sarveshwar’s  
demands.
Photo courtesy of the UC San Diego Police Department.
This article’s title was updated to better reflect Sharveshwar’s goals.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Black Lives Matter Demonstrators Caravan throughout La Jolla and University City - UCSD Guardian
Black Lives Ma tter Demonstrators Caravan throughout La
Jolla and University City
 June 6, 2020 Hanaa Moosavi
San Diego protesters gathered in their cars in La Jolla and University City to caravan in  
solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement on Saturday, June 6. Starting at noon, the  
protesters drove in a line down La Jolla Village Drive, Genesee Avenue, and Torrey Pines  
Road toward Glider Port and chanted the names of black individuals who were murdered 
by the police.
The caravan halted traffic moving in and around the UC San Diego campus. The Genesee 
Avenue off-ramp on Interstate 5 was temporarily inaccessible due to the volume of traffic 
created by the caravan.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Black Lives Matter Demonstrators Caravan throughout La Jolla and University City - UCSD Guardian
Despite being in their cars, the protesters did not remain silent. They honked their horns and 
held up homemade signs. One demonstrator even took to the streets on their skateboard and 
supported the protesters sitting in traffic.
A protester on a skateboard in the Torrey Pines neighborhood of San Diego // Hanaa MoosaviAccessed: 6/29/2020 Black Lives Matter Demonstrators Caravan throughout La Jolla and University City - UCSD Guardian
Around 1 p.m., the protesters flooded the opposite side of traffic with their cars, heading  
toward Westfield UTC mall. Cars consisting of medics, food and water, and safety  
information provided by the San Diego chapter of Black Lives Matter led the procession.
Horns sounded sporadically as demonstrators sat on their window ledges and popped 
out of their sunroofs to chant and wave their signs. The signs featured phrases like “No 
Justice, No Peace,” “We Stand In Solidarity,” and “White Silence is Violence.” 
A BLM representative walked up and down the median of Genesee Avenue asking for 
protesters to “Chant Her Name” in reference to Aleah Jenkins, a black woman who died 
of an overdose while in custody of the San Diego Police Department. Due to a blockade 
of police officers, the first stop of the caravan — the San Diego Police Department in 
University City — was inaccessible. This led the demonstrators to change course and 
head toward nearby Crossroads Judicial. 
At Crossroads Judicial, more protesters stood on the sidewalks and walked up and down 
the medians of the surrounding streets in order to be heard and not risk being diverted 
by the police. Cars looped throughout the various neighborhoods as the protestors 
continued to demonstrate.
Although COVID-19 concerns have prevented many from protesting in person against 
racism and police brutality, the La Jolla protest was one of many creative 
demonstrations including forms of social-distancing that have taken place across the 
country. Protests are expected to continue throughout San Diego in the coming days.
Photo by Hanaa Moosavi for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Sports Culture is American Culture, and It’s Worth Studying - UCSD Guardian
Sports Culture is American Culture, and It’s Worthtudying
 June 7, 2020 Jack Dorfman
Sports are one of the largest unspoken cultural phenomena in American history. Whether  
you’re in elementary school, college, or beyond, sports have notably been extricated from  
other societal and cultural discussions of American history.
Sure, Jackie Robinson is a well-known figure to many, and rightfully so; He broke 
modern Major League Baseball’s color barrier in 1947 and prominently advocated for 
Civil Rights throughout his life.
But there are other players and trends across American sports history that have been very 
clearly separated from anything you’d read for in a typical U.S. History class.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Sports Culture is American Culture, and It’
s Worth Studying - UCSD Guardian
As a lifelong sports fan studying political science and history, I’ve seen this dichotomy first  
hand. When writing a paper on Cuban baseball Fidel Castro’s portrayal by American media  
and academics for example, I found this out first hand. For every book or article rightfully  
connecting baseball to a national pride machine, three more books surrounding simply  
Cuban baseball players playing in America could be found. Interdisciplinary and thoughtful  
sports articles that dive into the social and political worlds when analyzing sports are  
uncommon enough in the press today, but that sort of thought is almost impossible to find in  
an academic setting.
I find this appalling.
Like music, fashion, or any other cultural marker, sports provide an intersection of all of the  
sometimes-ill-fitting pieces that make up humanity, from race and class to morality and  
capitalism. The sports world is not separate from the real world, nor does it serve as a  
distraction, or as Tony Jones of The Athletic put it last week, as a ‘deodorant.’
Many of my favorite sportswriters and athletes from across generations clearly understand  
this and make their opinions known. From voices of the past like Kareem Abdul-Jabbar to  
those of today like Jaylen Brown, there are so many powerful, cogent voices connecting the  
issues they see in the sports world to those in what some would simply call ‘the real world.’
Too many do not see or acknowledge these connections.
If sports are your escape or oasis from the pressures of the rest of your life, that’s not wrong.  
For millions of us, we’ve alleviated stress and built lifelong friendships through sports, and  
for a lucky few, they’ve elevated themselves into the professional level with unprecedented  
amounts of hard work and perseverance.
But simply because we are fans doesn’t excuse leaving one’s manners, morals, and mind at 
the door when heading out to watch a game. And even if some perceive their relationship 
with sports to be that way, that’s not what’s really happening.
Bill Plaschke wrote on this problem in the LA Times last week, calling out fans for building 
barriers between athletes as entertainers and as human beings.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Sports Culture is American Culture, and It’
s Worth Studying - UCSD Guardian
I decided I wanted to speak to the same issue on my much smaller platform, but I wanted to  
add the nuance of a student journalist to this discussion. At the beginning of the COVID-19  
pandemic, I wrote on dehumanizing athletes by seeing them only as profit-driven  
entertainers that would give the masses something to consume during their quarantine. But  
in light of the differential scrutiny clearly given to athletes during the George Floyd protest  
movement, there is more to add than humanizing and empathizing.
Over the course of my life, I’ve seen sports and the rest of our lives separated. Maybe that is  
what helps sell tickets and boost TV ratings, providing people an entertainment experience in  
a vacuum.
But that’s not why I love sports, and if, especially as students, we want to see change in our  
country, I think sports should not be ignored.
Sports provide us with powerful tools through which to alter our society. Devout support of  
teams and athletes has helped endear millions of fans all over the country to African  
American and Latin American athletes less than a century removed from Robinson, who was  
booed and threatened simply for playing on the same field as white players.
Can we capitalize on this to help change race relations in this country? Can the interactions  
that go on in locker rooms with people from all over the country, from small towns in the  
South to urban jungles on the coasts to isolated midwestern hamlets, translate into a  
framework for understanding across any and all backgrounds?
It already seems to be the case. As white players across major sports have issued statements  
of support for their black teammates and fellow citizens, they’ve also denounced some of  their 
white teammates who aren’t working towards the same cause, something many are  seeing as  
a sign of changing times and a more hopeful, integrated future.
By humanizing, empowering, and expecting our athletes to work like other American cultural 
influencers and by studying them and their contributions as such, I think we, as students, 
sports writers, and fans, like any other active analytical members of our society, have a 
chance to effect real and lasting change.