Accessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Initiate "Return to Learn" Program; Mass COVID-19 T esting to Begin - UCSD Guardian
 May 5, 2020   Guardian Staff  
This article was cowritten by UCSD Guardian Editor-in-Chief Daisy Scott and News 
Editor  Jacob Sutherland, is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on  how to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here.
Chancellor Khosla announced in a May 5 email that UC San Diego will begin mass 
testing  students for novel coronavirus as part of efforts taken toward students
 
returning to campus.  This testing is part of a larger program called “Return to Learn,” 
and will begin its first phase on  May 11 by making testing available to over 5,000 
students who currently reside on the UC San  Diego campus.
The testing will involve students obtaining nasal swabs from designated on-campus  
locations, using a barcode to identify the swab as their own, self-swab their nose, and 
return the  test sample at drop-box locations. The university anticipates that the
 
approximately 65,000 students, faculty, and staff will all be able to self-test on a 
monthly basis as early as September,  2020.
According to the statement, “Return to Learn” consists of five long-term components:To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here → •Risk Assessment and Mitigation:  The university administration will
implement a  variety of changes to campus culture to mitigate any potential
transmission of the virus, including “optimal class sizes and density, the scope and
structure for co-curricular  activities, and appropriate personal behaviors, like
physical distancing and the use of face coverings.”
•Proactive Vigilance : UCSD scientists have worked with the administration to
develop mathematical models for virus management. According to the models, if
60 to 90 percent of the on-campus population is tested, the university estimates
that they “have a greater than 90 percent chance of detecting the spread of SARS-
CoV-2 when fewer than 10 persons among tens of thousands are actively, but
unknowingly, shedding viral particles.”
•Rapid Response : When or if an individual does test positive for COVID-19,
university public health team members will reach out to them, as well as any other
they may have come in contact with before being tested. The university email
states that they will be working alongside “state and local public health officials in
all our responses.”
•Technological Tools : The program will also include studies that look for viral
RNA from “residential wastewater and surface collections,” as it is believed that
the disease may be more infectious before symptoms occur. This knowledge will
help the university to better monitor the spread of the virus.
•Big Picture : The program at large is designed to “identify clusters of individuals
shedding virus or those at greater risk in specific locations.” This will allow for
faster treatment, as well as quicker interventions and refinements within the
program. Ultimately, UCSD aims to lessen the chances of outbreaks on campus
through this mass testing and early detection system.
Khosla stated in the announcement that while the program is unprecedented for the 
university, it could serve as a model for other schools around the country if proven 
successful.
“The UC San Diego Return to Learn Program represents higher education at its finest, 
and if successful, the program can help UC San Diego and similar institutions to do 
what we do best: teach, conduct leading-edge research, and provide service to our 
communities,” Khosla wrote.Accessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Initiate "Return to Learn" Program; Mass COVID-19 T esting to Begin - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Initiate "Return to Learn" Program; Mass COVID-19 T esting to Begin - UCSD Guardian
Students are encouraged to continue practicing social-distancing to limit any potential 
contact with the virus.
This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian has contacted the university for 
further comment. The article will be updated with any further developments.
This article was updated at 4:06 p.m. to include details on the testing procedure.Accessed: 6/5/2020 Like a Good Neighbor... - UCSD Guardian
 May 6, 2020   Veronica Menendez 
This is my first article for the Guardian and I wanted it to be about some recent changes 
I have personally seen in my community caused by COVID-19. In these times of great 
uncertainty, we  find ourselves scared, confused, and worried about what the future 
holds for us. Being in  quarantine is a huge sacrifice and can be difficult for many of us. 
But I propose that we see it as  an opportunity for us to practice being good citizens. I 
am grateful that during these hard times,  my community has taken steps to make our 
current environment safer and friendlier. Many  local restaurants and other 
establishments have started making food packages for those who  find themselves 
without access to food. These actions, and the people behind them, are what it  means to 
be a good member to your community. We have seen much on the news about people  
fighting at market places for items, elders being scared to shop for groceries, and 
mothers not  finding diapers for their children. This is a time where we need to show 
compassion and  friendliness to our fellow neighbors. 
The most important thing we should leave with, coming out of this quarantine, is 
knowing what it means to be a good neighbor and a good member of your community. 
So what does that mean? Does it mean being friendly with your next-door neighbors?Getting involved with your  community? Donating food? It means all these things and 
more. 
I’ve listed some ways that we can be good neighbors and show friendliness: 
1. Make time to call your family and friends to make sure they are ok.
When we can’t gather in groups of more than 10 people, it is hard to stay connected 
with family and friends. Spending some time of your day sending a text message, 
FaceTiming, or having a Zoom meeting with your friends and family is a great way to 
stay connected and check in on how they have been doing; quarantine affects everyone 
differently. 
2. Help your parents with that technical issue they always seem to have  
with their
phone. We all have that one parent or guardian who can never seem to work their 
phone — or any piece of technology, really. With this extra time on our hands, we 
should look at it as an opportunity to teach our parents or guardians how to properly 
use their phone or any other piece of technology they struggle with, especially in my 
case: the computer. 
3. Spend time helping your siblings with the online homework assignment  
they are struggling with.
As we struggle with online classes, so do our siblings. Online classes are new to us and 
to them. But while we have a plethora of resources available to us, they might not have 
as many. Offer your help and go over material together for them to have a better 
understanding. 
4. Donate extra canned goods to shelters.
Be a good neighbor and donate extra canned food items to shelters in your community. 
With the closure of many food places and new rules in place regarding grocery 
shopping, people are struggling with getting access to food. Donating food, even if it’s 
five cans, makes a difference. 
5. Remember to not hoard essential items.Accessed: 6/5/2020 Like a Good Neighbor... - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/5/2020 Like a Good Neighbor... - UCSD Guardian
When the pandemic started, we saw on the news how people rushed to the grocery shops 
trying to stock on necessities. We also saw how this rush to hoard items left those with 
bigger needs  empty-handed. That hoarding continues today, as aisles that used to be 
filled with toilet paper  are now empty. We must remember that we are not the only ones 
quarantining. There are  countless others who need the same necessities as us, and in that 
sense, we must be respectful  to others 
6. Doordash some food to your friend or nextdoor neighbor
We all miss going out to eat with friends and can’t wait till we can finally go out. Until 
then, I suggest doing this activity electronically. Brighten someone’s day by sending them 
food through  DoorDash or any other food delivery system. My family and I recently sent 
some food to our  next door neighbor, who recently did us a big favor, to show our 
appreciation. 
7. Help with chores around the house.
I think my favorite thing about living away from home was not doing as much chores, but 
now that I am back, it’s back to the same routine as before. Yet, in these different 
circumstances, I know it’s much more difficult for my mom to do them all by herself. I 
volunteer to do some  chores, while my brother takes up another few and my mom the 
last few. This act of assistance  goes a long way and is a good way to make your 
“community” at home a better place. 
8. Volunteer to cook dinner for your family
It is not easy cooking dinner every day for a larger group of people. If you are 
quarantining with others, I suggest you volunteer to help with cooking. Even if you are 
not the best cook, helping by cutting vegetables or even washing them is another act of 
being a good member of your household. 
9. Support your local restaurants by ordering takeout
While many restaurants have closed due to COVID-19, many others remain open. But 
with quarantine in effect, they don’t get as many customers. Ordering takeout from 
restaurants when possible is another way of being a good neighbor to your community. 
Your business helps them stay open and gives them support during this hard economic 
time. Accessed: 6/5/2020 Like a Good Neighbor... - UCSD Guardian
10.Have a positive attitude in everything you do
This is super important to remember. To push through these tough times, we must 
remember to always have a positive attitude. Having a positive way of thinking brings 
more hope into your life and less negative thoughts. 
All these actions and more are what makes us good citizens and helpful members to our 
community in a time of need. 
During these very stressful times we forget about the people around us who are 
working hard to accommodate us during quarantine and actively working to fight the 
virus. It is our responsibility to play our part in keeping our community sane and safe. 
Being a respectful good neighbor inside and outside your home is what will lead us out 
of quarantine as better people and better neighbors. 
Art: Social Distancing by Yui KitaAccessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Releases Statement on Financial Impacts Related to the Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 May 7, 2020   Andrew Ha 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
information on how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
On May 7, Chancellor Khosla released a statement regarding the  financial impact of 
COVID-19 on UC San Diego, claiming that UCSD will lose  hundreds of millions of 
dollars as a result of the economic conditions that arose with the  pandemic. 
According to the statement, the loss of university funding has come primarily from  
the following:
•Housing and dining refunds to students;
•Reduction in state tax revenue leads to decreased state funding for UCSD;
•Lack of revenue from parking, retail, child care, conferences, and cultural
venues;
•Hospitals focusing on providing more space for COVID-19 patients;
•Typically maintenance to ensure a functioning campus for students and
employees.Accessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Releases Statement on Financial Impacts Related to the Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Given the enormity of the financial losses, the university has been working to get 
emergency  funds from all levels of government through various support mechanisms 
such as the CARES  Act, FEMA, and research funding. 
The university will also be dramatically reducing the amount of new hires during this 
time.  Construction projects which have already broken ground will continue while any 
projects in the  design stage will be halted.
“The key to making decisions in this current environment is knowing and accepting 
that there are unknowns,” Khosla wrote. “From this position, we must plan for 
potential scenarios and act decisively, while accepting that we may need to change 
course at a moment’s notice should a new variable present itself or better solutions 
become apparent. In this context, we believe it is prudent to plan for a reduction of all 
core operating budgets for the fiscal year 2020/21.”
At this time, the university has not provided their budget statements nor their specific 
projected pandemic-related economic losses. 
This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian has contacted the university for 
further comment. The article will be updated with any further developments.
Photo by Brendan Wilson for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Convert Lot P782 into COVID-19 Testing Site - UCSD Guardian
 May 8, 2020   Daisy Scott 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
UC San Diego’s Department of Transportation announced on May 8 that parking lot 
P782, which is located by the La Jolla  Institute for Allergy and Immunology Gemini 
Science, will be used as a COVID-19 testing site  beginning May 11.
The Department of Transportation’s announcement was sent to recipients of their  “First 
to Know”  mailing list. Due to the construction of this testing site, visitors will not be 
able to park in lot P782 for the indefinite future. 
“For the duration of this closure, lot P701 at the Triton Baseball Stadium replaces lot 
P782 as the Supersaver lot where no parking fee is required on weekends and the daily 
rate is just $3.00 Monday – Friday,” the department wrote.While the original email announcement claimed that testing in lot P782 would be 
connected with UCSD’s initial phase of their Return to Learn testing, which will also 
begin on May 11, that statement has been rescinded as of 5 p.m. Friday. 
“The P782 testing site is unaffiliated with the Return to Learn program; it is a site 
supporting patients and staff of UC San Diego Health and will be conducting tests by 
appointment only,” the university’s clarification email stated. “Please do not go to 
parking lot P782 for testing without an appointment.”
This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian has contacted the university for 
further comment. The article will be updated with any further developments.
This article was updated at 5:00 p.m. to reflect that the university mistakenly sent 
out an email stating that the testing site would be a part of the Return to Learn 
program.Accessed: 6/5/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Convert Lot P782 into COVID-19 Testing Site - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/5/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Questions Remain around CARES Act Aid Distribution - UCSD Guardian
 May 8, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
Associated Students Senators discussed programming funds for Fall Quarter, the lack of  
information regarding the distribution of  financial aid from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, 
and Economic Security Act, and the introduction of  UCPath for student payrolls during 
their meeting on Wednesday, May 6. 
A.S. Financial Controller Ethan Christenson announced that the May 29 deadline for 
student  organizations to apply for Fall Quarter funding is no longer effective. 
Christenson explained  that this is a result of the social distancing guidelines of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the lack of  room reservations.
Furthermore, he explained that the UC San Diego administration is working to create a 
system where rooms will continue to be used for events while still adhering to social 
distancing rules. This system would be implemented by scaling down room sizes. 
However, since the system is not yet completed, no room reservations can be made at 
this time. The new deadline for program funding is expected to be in mid-July or early 
August. Accessed: 6/5/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Questions Remain around CARES Act Aid Distribution - UCSD Guardian
Later in the meeting, Senator Efran Martinez asked about the lack of information about 
the distribution of the CARES Act financial aid for students, and specifically how the 
information about the distribution of funds will be publicized to students. There was no  
clear answer to this,  although A.S. President Eleanor Grudin stated that she will look  
into it.  
There has been lots of confusion regarding the distribution of CARES Act aid, as some 
students have already received funds while others do not know how to apply. The Vice 
Chancellor of Student Affairs has stated that  12,000 students are eligible  to receive 
monetary aid from the CARES Act fund. However, the Financial Aid and Scholarship 
Office has been slow to release information regarding how
students can apply to receive these funds. 
Grudin also shared information about UCPath, a new payroll system that will replace 
the current system, At Your Service. UCSD is the last of the University of California  
campuses to  make the switch. Other UC campuses which have UCPath in place have had  
many challenges with the program. Grudin encouraged senators to  research and be well-
informed about the issues regarding UCPath for their senate meeting next week where 
they will be hearing a presentation about the implementation of UCPath at UCSD.  
UCPath will be deployed at UCSD starting June 1, 2020.
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/5/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: The Restlessness of Fear - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Andrew Ha 
Fear easily permeates the mind and sentences you to exhaustive thought. The unknowing 
is what bothers you and plays with your mind. Hope, so often championed, now plays 
tricks on you. Controlling your apprehension slowly becomes more difficult and finding 
an absence of  finality tortures every thought. To an onlooker, it may be outlandish, but to 
you, it’s still so  pertinent to your wellbeing. Have I condemned the ones I love to needless 
suffering? 
An otherwise foreign issue had finally latched onto the university’s consciousness, but 
more specifically, onto mine.With finals and Spring Quarter confirmed to be online, I 
now meandered  between dread and denial. There certainly was a poignant concern, but I 
had localized it to the  back of my mind: at the fore was predominantly dismissal. Not 
that I didn’t accept the reality  that was setting in, but I held out hope that it would blow 
by promptly and the issues we faced  would be solved in a matter of weeks. I had too 
much faith.
Some of those around me brushed it off and acted as though it would be nothing, while 
others were packing their bags and preparing to go home as quickly as possible. With allAccessed: 6/5/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: The Restlessness of Fear - UCSD Guardian
the changes in  my schedule, I found more free time and chose to use it to help a friend 
organize his things to  move out of his apartment before we drove home together. 
I remember spending a few hours rummaging through his stuff, moving them all into 
their respective bins; I was just providing support, but the act in itself felt surreal. The 
warm yellow  light of the sun faded as the last of the items were moved into the nearby 
closet space. Once  finished, I nonchalantly threw myself onto his living room couch and 
saw scattered medicine  and a bottle of Pepto Bismol. 
“Whose is it?” I asked. 
“Just my roommate’s. He has been sick for a while.”
And I thought little more of it afterwards. I merely found it funny that his roommate was 
trying the whole gamut of over-the-counter medicines to subdue his illness. 
Days went by and I felt an ever pressing yearning to go home. It wasn’t so much the 
change in circumstances, but the reality of how little time I had left with my family 
before I would graduate and venture out into the world. For this brief moment, I was a 
bird in search of a cage. 
On my last evening in San Diego, I sat alone at a picnic table by the seashore. The orange 
tint of the fading light whispered a final goodbye through the salty air. What replaced it 
was a sky of cotton candy, the truly last strokes of intense color before dusk set in, and all 
I would see were faint freckles of distant worlds. 
A week later and I found myself resting in my childhood bedroom, looking out the 
window at the scattered white hues of an otherwise blue canvas. A year earlier, I was 
chasing the super-bloom in Anza Borrego while taking in the beauty of thriving resilience 
in the harsh desert climate. The midday reverie was cut short as I received a phone call 
from the same friend I drove home with. 
“You remember my roommate, right?” he said. “He’s being tested now and I just wanted 
to let you know.”
His roommate was sick, and I was in his living space. His breath circulated that room 
and he interacted with my friend but only now did I feel suffocated. It made me question 
whether the nightly coughs and itchy sinuses I had weren’t just from allergies. By now, IAccessed: 6/5/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: The Restlessness of Fear - UCSD Guardian
had already been  home for two weeks, and I live with my grandmother. I had talked to 
her and spent time with  her. All I could think about was “if” and “when.” 
Am I an unwitting carrier? The oppressive thought fell upon my shoulders and the fear of  
the unknowing plays with my mind. How was I supposed to tell my parents without 
letting them into the same sphere of anxiety? But I had to. I’ve read stories of entire 
families dying and the thought of that happening to me now seemed in the realm of 
possibility.
In the three days that followed, I pulled away as I found necessary and maybe even 
beyond so. I isolated myself to my room, trapped with just my own racing ideas. I ate. I 
slept. I talked to Kaiser for a brief e-visit, but nothing really pulled me out of my fear and 
my guilt. I knew I couldn’t blame myself, yet all I could do was ask myself all the small 
changes I could have done to avoid this reality. I sat staring at the wall, wondering if I 
had just condemned my family. 
My much younger sister, who didn’t know any better, would try to come peek inside my 
room to tell me things about her game or to just give me a hug. But in my fear and 
frustration, I irritably cut her off and pushed her away. She knew I could be infected, but 
I don’t know if she fully understood the gravity of my isolation. 
Hours and hours passed by as I just sat in my room. The rancor of disquietude was 
unending. I could not just take a calm breath when every now and then the thoughts 
would permeate my mind and my heart would begin to race. Perhaps I had mild 
symptoms, perhaps I was asymptomatic. I could very well have been an unwitting 
carrier. It was the fear of contagion, and not of the sickness in itself. 
On the fourth day, the university informed us that we had our first case. It was no 
coincidence that my friend’s roommate was tested. People would message me knowing 
some fragment of the story and some would even call and ask how I was. However, their 
comfort simply was not enough, and I carried anger without anywhere to direct it. There 
was no one to blame. All I could do was stare back out the window, finding that the 
panels’ muntin now formed the beams of an inescapable cage. 
I wanted to be home, but not like this, not with all of these thoughts plaguing me. But 
hours turned into more days and with each passing, it became more apparent that my 
fear was what pained me, not an illness. It takes a toll, and torturously waiting for 
something to change, at least to give some closure, is unnerving. A disease is already aAccessed: 6/5/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: The Restlessness of Fear - UCSD Guardian
dreadful enigma but the unease of  unknowing carries its own burdens. When I 
became a victim of my mind, the worries  sometimes seemed endless.
14 days went by and I let myself hear the melodic voices of the dawn chorus; I could 
finally feel  the breeze gently brushing by. The world be as it may, for in that moment, 
even if ephemeral, I  no longer felt the burden. However, I know that I am lucky in 
many respects. My mind game is  but a portion of the struggle for those who actually 
become sick or must man the frontline.  Their suffering may be tenfold than what I 
have endured. I merely know the beginning of the  pain.
But for that brief moment, my thoughts no longer rushed about. I could focus on what 
was before me: the birds weaved the clouds into a silk strewn sky, and for now, we 
were ok. 
Art by Anthony TranAccessed: 6/5/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part Four - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Tori Anderson 
Kickstart your week with our third quarantine workout. As usual, start with a 
warmup of some  type; skipping rope or a walk. Follow your warm-up with a full-
body stretch because today is a  full-body HIIT workout! You will need added weight 
of some sort, a towel, and, most  importantly, music!
These exercises are made to purposely be done one after the other with little to no 
break. HIIT  (High-Intensity Interval Training) workouts are meant to keep your 
heart rate up and burn fat  faster. This workout has two circuits that are repeated 
three times each. After completing circuit  1 three times, you can rest for two minutes, 
then start circuit 2 and repeat the circuit three times  as well. ou will be dripping in 
sweat afterward, but you will feel so good. So get up, grab your  speaker and head 
outside, it’s time to smash this workout. 
Complete exercise instructions can be found below the circuit videos!Accessed: 6/5/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part Four - UCSD Guardian
Circuit One
1. Criss Cross Squat Jump
2. Lateral Lunges
3. High Knees
4. Russian Twists
5. Cocoons
*Rest for two minutes*
Circuit Two
1. Kneeling into Squat Jumps
2. Squats
3. Plank Shoulder Taps
4. Commandos
5. Dumbbell Toe TouchesAccessed: 6/5/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part Four - UCSD Guardian
Full Body HIIT Workout 
Criss Cross Squat Jump
•Three sets of 20
•Stand shoulder-width apart and go into a squat
•Once in a squat, use your power to jump  up and criss cross feet
•From the criss cross, go back into a squat 
Lateral Lunges
•Three sets of 20
•Start standing straight up
•Place one leg out to your side and lean your body weight onto the bent leg
•Your straight leg will feel a stretch at the same time
•Keep back straight and chest faced forward 
Accessed: 6/5/2020
Squats
•Three sets of 20
•Stand shoulder-width apart and squat
•Do not over arch your back, make sure it’s aligned from neck down to your glutes
•Try to squat to 90 degree angle of calf to quad 
Kneeling into Squat Jumps
•Three sets of 15
•Place towel on the ground
•You will start on your knees with your upper body aligned
•Then one foot after the other put yourself in a squatting position
•Explode out of the squat position to jump 
High Knees
•Three sets of 30 reps each side
•Place hands parallel to hips
•One leg after the other raise knees to hands
Plank Shoulder Taps
•Three sets of 20 reps each side
•Place towel on the ground
•Start in a plank position
•Lift one hand to tap your opposite shoulder
•Alternate each hand while maintaining plank position 
Commandos
•Three sets of 20
•Place towel on the ground
•Start in a forearm plank position
•Push up one arm to a straight arm position and then your second one
•You will be a straight arm plank position now
•Once there you will go back down to a forearm plank one hand at a timeLet’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part Four - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/5/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part Four - UCSD Guardian
Abs:
Dumbbell Russian Twists
•Three sets of 20 reps each side
•Place towel on the ground
•Sit on the floor with your legs extended but slightly bent above the ground
•Keep your back straight
•Start with your added weight on one side of your body
•Then lift it over your torso to your other side
Cocoons 
•Three sets of 15
•Place towel on the ground
•Lay on your back with your hands above your head and your feet slightly raised
•Bring your legs towards your chest by tucking them in
•Then bring your arms from above your head towards your sides and then wrap
them around your legs when they are tucked into your chest
•Once you’re in your cocoon position, release to the starting position
Dumbbell Toe Touches
•Three sets of 20 reps each side
•Place towel on the ground
•Lay on your back with your hands and added weight above your head
•Lift one leg up and bring the weight towards it at the same time
•Go back down and alternate legs
I hope you enjoy this workout! Most importantly, remember to take care of yourself 
mental and physically during this quarantine. Stay healthy y’all. We are in this together!Accessed: 6/8/2020 Apps to Keep Busy with during Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Kiana  Chegenizadeh 
As the coronavirus pandemic lingers indefinitely, so does the boredom associated with  
quarantine. Humans are social creatures, and we are all struggling to stay sane while 
staying  inside. This is where technology can be valuable; it keeps us preoccupied and 
allows us to  escape our thoughts for a while. When the monotony of life takes over, the 
innovation of the  21st century jumps in; hundreds of apps are available for free. Rather 
than suggest any too-obvious options, I will offer a bit of a more unique variety. Whether 
you are sluggishly  passing the days by or completely restless, here are some diversions to 
keep you busy. 
Google Arts and Culture
If you consider yourself an art aficionado, this app is perfect for you. Explore vast 
collections of paintings, artifacts, sculptures, artists, and art movements. There are 
comprehensive histories and details for everything. If you aren’t keen on art, delve into 
the many cultural and historical topics provided in the app’s “Themes” section. Expand 
your knowledge by reading up on weekly editorials, articles, and online exhibits that 
document various subjects, from generational fashion trends to natural history facts. The 
app’s coolest features are its interactive elements. Transport yourself to Paris as you walkAccessed: 6/8/2020 Apps to Keep Busy with during Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
through a virtual Musée  d’Orsay. You can also participate in scavenger hunts, match 
your picture’s color palette to  artwork, take selfies to find out what artwork you 
resemble, and much more. Tune into your  cultural side; the opportunities are endless 
here!  
Mario Kart Tour
Are you more of a Yoshi or a Toad? Perhaps a Princess Peach? Whatever you are, play 
as your favorite character in the classic Nintendo creation now available for 
smartphones. Although  it may not be as enthralling as your nostalgic Wii game, Mario 
Kart Tour has the potential of  holding your attention for hours. The game features 
several cups, each of which have four  unique racing tracks. Earn enough Grand Stars to 
progress to the next track. Obviously, the  best part is collecting your beloved characters, 
karts, and gliders along the way. There is even  a multiplayer option, so you can 
remotely play with friends. Rev your engines and race on! 
Terrarium
Some may find it absolutely hopeless to keep plants alive – their green thumb is 
nonexistent. Rest assured that your plants in Terrarium will never die. This 
aesthetically pleasing app lets  you construct your own virtual terrarium by acquiring 
plants as you advance throughout the  levels. The plants emit oxygen, which you gather 
as currency to pay for more plants, their  upgrades, and boosters. The visuals, music, 
and sounds are soothing, so this app is helpful if you ever feel stressed out or 
overwhelmed. Although not a very complex game, it is nuanced and serves more as a 
cute personal catalogue for you to grow and admire. Screen capture of Google Arts and CultureAccessed: 6/8/2020 Apps to Keep Busy with during Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
BitLife – Life Simulator 
This one is a game that you can quickly get addicted to. As the title suggests, you create a  
person and guide their decisions throughout life. You can choose to be nice and produce 
a happy, fulfilling life for your Bitizen or take the cynical approach and get them into 
loads of  trouble. Control your Bitizens’s relationships, schooling, occupations, assets, 
and more. You can also win achievements, careers, challenges, heirlooms, and ribbons. 
The game updates  often and has introduced several additions since its conception, so the 
experience is always  surprising and entertaining. BitLife crowns you the all-knowing 
master of this wildly fun  virtual universe. 
Stop – Categories Word Game
Stop is the equivalent to a one-on-one mobile Scattergories. This game requires a bit 
more brain power than the other ones on this list. You can play with either a friend or a 
stranger. Five categories are randomized,  ranging from topics like “Ice Cream Flavors” 
to “Super Bowl  Music Performers.” Then, a letter in the alphabet is randomized. The 
objective of the game is  to think of a word that starts with the chosen letter for each 
selected category, but you only  have a maximum of one minute to think. If your 
opponent stops their turn earlier than one  minute, then you get even less time. Stop has 
a tendency to make things competitive quickly,  so put on your thinking cap for this one. Photo courtesy of TerrariumAccessed: 6/8/2020 Apps to Keep Busy with during Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
Tasty
The food videos you always see flood your Facebook timeline or Instagram explore 
page are  probably from Tasty. From media giant Buzzfeed, Tasty is the best place to 
discover hundreds of recipes to recreate, or if you want, to watch videos for hours. 
Searching for recipes has never been easier, as the app organizes everything into 
accessible categories.  Equipped with videos and step-by-step instructions, cooking 
novices can master dishes of  their choice. Tasty also includes a helpful “Tips” section 
where users can give input on the  recipe as well as submit photos of their recreations. 
All in all, it’s a handy app to get lost in. 
I hope some of these apps sound interesting enough to download and try out. If not, 
maybe they inspired you to seek out different ones that appeal to your own senses. Our 
once-active  lives have become particularly tedious and dull, so finding new ways to 
keep busy is vital for  getting through these times. Stop Game ExampleAccessed: 6/8/2020 Quarantine Recipes: Chickpea Edition - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Hannah Rosenberg 
Chickpeas, garbanzo beans, versatile bean of the gods, whichever name you prefer 
works. As an avid recipe tester, I often play Food Network’s “Chopped” against myself, 
an entertaining kitchen game when I don’t feel like running to the grocery store to grab 
those missing  ingredients. Quarantine has meant fewer shopping trips and sometimes a 
less diverse  collection of ingredients to work with, but beans tend to be a constant and 
can act as a great base for appetizers, main dishes, and yes, even desserts. Cans and 
bags of chickpeas have continued to assert their dominance on the right side of my 
middle pantry shelf, begging to be transformed. Chickpeas and aquafaba, their partner 
in crime, also referred to as “bean juice” by skeptics, present a Costco-sized pool of 
recipe options and tastebud delights. With a few household ingredients and your 
chickpeas in hand, you can band together to surprise your palette with something 
different from the repetitive quarantine meals we’ve all resorted to.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Quarantine Recipes: Chickpea Edition - UCSD Guardian
Ingredients:
2 cans chickpeas, drained and rinsed
⅓ cup tahini
¼ cup olive oil (more or less depending on personal preference)
4 cloves diced garlic or generous shakes garlic powder (add more if you are a garlic goer) 
½-1 tsp cumin (And I oop. I’m revealing my secret ingredient)
2 tbsp lemon juice (again, adjust as needed)
Salt & pepper (start small and adjust)
Blend all ingredients in blender until smooth. Chill in fridge and pair with anything your 
heart desires.
Chef’s note: During my 2017 hummus stint, I experimented with what felt like every recipe 
on the internet. The common thread? Every hummus recipe with cumin positively stood 
out. It became my secret weapon and I haven’t looked back since.
Ingredients:
1 can chickpeas
½ onion, diced
Squeeze of mustard
Squeeze of tahini
Sprinkle of smoked paprika
Sprinkle of garlic powder
Salt & pepper
Smash chickpeas in a small bowl with a fork or potato masher. Stir in all other ingredients. 
Serve like you would tuna salad, adding sliced avocado on top for a plus.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Quarantine Recipes: Chickpea Edition - UCSD Guardian
Ingredients:
1 can aquafaba (chickpea liquid)
1 cup granulated white sugar
Whipped cream or whipped topping of your choice (I like using homemade coconut 
whipped  cream)
Various fruits such as berries, mango, and kiwi
Preheat the oven to 250° F. 
Whip aquafaba in a stand mixer with a whisk attachment on high for 10 minutes. With 
the mixer still on, gradually pour in sugar and continue beating for 5 more minutes. 
When you  lift the whisk, stiff meringue peaks should form. If they don’t, whip longer.
On a lined baking sheet, scrape meringue into the center of the pan. With a spatula, 
spread in  a circular motion until you have a 2 inch tall disk. Bake on the middle rack for 1 
hour and 30 minutes. The surface should be matte and no longer have any shine. Keep in 
the closed oven  until completely cooled to the touch.
Gently spread whipped cream on top of meringue, leaving an edge like you would a pizza  
crust. Arrange fruit on top however you’d like, and your pavlova is ready to serve!
Chef’s note: Day old pavlova is a no-go so be sure to make it on the same day you plan to  
serve.Accessed: 6/8/2020 TV Review: "Locke & Key" - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Deyshna Pai  
While “Locke and Key’s” visuals hypnotize, it struggles to present interesting characters 
and thoughtful storylines.
Inspired by the dark fantasy graphic novel series by Joe Hill and Gabriel Rodriguez, 
“Locke and Key” chronicles the adventures of Locke siblings Tyler (Connor Jessup), 
Kinsey (Emilia Jones), and Bode (Jackson Robert Scott) at Key House, their father’s 
ancestral home. Moving from Seattle to a small town in the middle of nowhere proves 
difficult for the Locke siblings, whose emotionally absent mother (Darby Stanchfield) is 
unable to help them nurse their insecurities and fears in the aftermath of their father’s 
murder. As Tyler and Kinsey navigate the tumultuous waters of high school social 
circles, the young Bode explores his new home, finding a series of mystical skeleton keys 
and an evil demon (Laysla de Oliveira) who will stop at nothing to steal the keys for 
herself. 
While the fantasy elements and world building of “Locke and Key” entertain, the show 
suffers from a lack of  decisive tone and engagement with its core themes. For one, the 
series draws on some of the dark horror elements of its graphic novel inspiration, but itAccessed: 6/8/2020 TV Review: "Locke & Key" - UCSD Guardian
unnecessarily  waters these elements down to the point that viewers are unsure of how to 
react to horrifying  events. When witnessing cold-blooded murder and terrorizing 
demons, a specific feeling of  panic or alarm would be expected, but the audience is more 
stunned than scared by onscreen  gore treated like a bedtime story gone wrong. Balancing 
this childlike interpretation of the  comics’ magic and the Lockes’ gruesome tale of loss 
involves approaching death and horror  light-handedly, which at times feels 
inappropriate. This disjointed tone, as a result, suggests  showrunners were confused 
about who their audience was. 
Another part of the show’s unrealized potential remains locked in what it avoids 
discussing. The themes of death, grief, and guilt are full of potential for character 
development but  remain mostly untouched. Instead, much of the screen time and plot 
progression in Season 1  devotes itself to laughable character choices and lackluster teen 
drama.While Tyler, stewing in torment, does well as a stand-in father for his siblings, he 
risks all credibility in a drunken  hookup with the villain that is best described as “cringe.” 
Kinsey’s relationships feel forced  and occupy much screen time with their blandness. 
Disappointingly, these focuses portray  the main characters as archetypal in a world of 
unique fantasy. The show serves washed-up,  semi-recognizable clichés as its 
protagonists, leaving viewers detached from the heroes they  are supposed to root for. 
Instead, the only option is to tolerate them for the sake of their  mesmerizing world. 
Furthermore, the screen-time wasted on drama would have been better  spent either 
investigating the villain, who is still an enigma by the season’s end, or exploring  the 
series’ biggest strength — the Locke siblings finding magic. 
Despite tonal inconsistencies and some filler plot, the show’s enchanting universe and 
visuals provide a quarantine-binge-worthy adventure. The discovery of each skeleton 
key’s powers is a gratifying experience that contributes to the show’s addictive nature. 
Some of the most satisfying scenes include Bode flying around the manor as a ghost 
and meeting his many-greats-grandfather, Kinsey exploring a psychedelic mall that 
represents her mind, and the siblings’ humorous interaction with a music box that 
controls human behavior. On top of this, the visual effects used to portray magic are 
executed exceptionally well. Fluid cinematography skillfully shows off the sprawling 
expanse of the Locke estate and establishes Matheson’s small-town charm. As for the 
visual design, the whimsical black and cream illustrations of the opening credits — likely 
an homage to its graphic novel origins — , surreal sets, and quirkily-designed skeleton 
keys leave viewers eagerly anticipating the next episode.  
While “Locke and Key” is certainly not without faults, the allure of spell-binding magic isAccessed: 6/8/2020 TV Review: "Locke & Key" - UCSD Guardian
enough to transfix viewers through its ten episodes. As Season 2’s production has 
already been confirmed, viewers can hope to get some much-needed resolution on the 
more elusive  elements of Season 1. Until then, Narnia fans, Potterheads, and magic 
enthusiasts galore will  find “Locke and Key” a visual treat, but would be best advised to 
take this show with a grain  of salt.
Grade: B
Creator: Carlton Cuse, Meredith Averill, Aron Eli Coleite
Starring:  Connor Jessup, Emilia Jones, Jackson Robert Scott, Darby Stanchfield, 
Laysla de  Oliveira
Release Date:  Feb 7, 2020
Rated:  Rated TV-14
Image courtesy of Variety.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Film Review: “The Half of It” - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020  Erin Chun  
“The Half of It” is a modern-day twist of “Cyrano de Bergerac” that will break your 
heart into two just to mend it whole again. 
In just 104 minutes, Alice Wu’s “The Half of It” achieved what no other piece of 
American media has ever been able to do before: it represented me. I have never related 
to an on-screen character more than Ellie Chu (Leah Lewis), and it was thoroughly 
refreshing to see a perspective on love and identity through a long-overdue queer, 
Asian-American lens. “The Half of It” explores complex themes of identity while 
simultaneously providing the viewers with an all-around enjoyable plot. This in turn 
makes for a viewing experience that could be interpreted heavily or taken lightly, 
depending on how the audience personally resonates with it. In other words, the story 
contains themes of race and queerness without depending on those issues as a crutch to 
prop up the film. 
The film follows Ellie, the shy and bright protagonist who runs an underground business 
ghostwriting papers for other students. The rising action is kicked off when sweet-yet-Accessed: 6/8/2020 Film Review: “The Half of It” - UCSD Guardian
inarticulate football player Paul Munsky (Daniel Diemer) asks for her help writing love  
letters to his crush Aster Flores (Alexxis Lemire). Although she initially hesitates to accept 
his strange request, she eventually agrees. Ellie, Paul, and Aster get swept up in a 
complicated  love triangle where all three embark on a journey of self-discovery and 
emerge as newly-realized individuals by the film’s summation. 
This story is not about romance, nor is it a standard boy-meets-girl-meets-girl narrative. 
In the words of Ellie herself, “this is not a love story. Or not one where anyone gets what 
they  want.” “The Half of It” is a multilayered film that embraces love in all forms, not just  
romantic. It highlights platonic friendships and familial love on top of crushes and secret  
admirations. Ellie’s friendship with Paul is just as developed as her feelings for Aster, and  
both are given equal importance. Her relationship with her father and her struggles with 
the Asian diaspora are emphasized alongside her journey to come to terms with her 
sexuality.  Ellie is her own person who is defined not by any man or relationship but by her 
own strength and individuality. It is the amalgamation of these separate elements of her 
life that  creates a realistic and empowered character.
However, the film’s attempt to create empowered female characters is not perfect. The 
main inconsistency with the film lies in the development of Aster’s character. She 
essentially cheats  on her boyfriend Trig Carson (Wolfgang Novogratz) for the entire film 
as she entertains her  feelings for who she believes to be Paul. Although she maintains a 
right to be angry at Ellie  and Paul when the truth is revealed, it seems hypocritical to be so 
unforgiving when she was  potentially even more dishonest throughout the course of the 
entire film. Trig never confronts her, neither Ellie nor Paul seem to mind her relationship 
status, and she never  receives a consequence for her disloyalty. When Trig proposes to 
her, she says yes despite the  hours of conversation she and Ellie had regarding love, 
essentially throwing away the idea  that she underwent any sort of real character 
development in the film. At the end of the film, she reveals her future plans and her 
intentions to live her life the way she deems fit, but it seems to be a direct contrast to the 
proposal just a few scenes prior. Aster is clearly an extremely intelligent and capable girl 
based off her letters and screen time, and the film doesn’t do her justice in portraying her 
individuality. 
“The Half of It” is what its Netflix sibling “Sierra Burgess Is a Loser” wanted to be so 
badly. It tells a better-rendered unorthodox love story sparked through the power of 
words. The film’s merit is not based solely on its radical representation, but on how it was 
unapologetic in the telling of such a story, regardless of the diverse characters who 
happened to fit those roles. Ellie is one among countless other queer characters of colorAccessed: 6/8/2020 Film Review: “The Half of It” - UCSD Guardian
who are finally starting to have a media platform to tell their story. Stories like this 
confirm that narratives are slowly changing to include those who have been excluded for 
far too long. Life is a stage, regardless of your identity. Make bold strokes.
Director: Alice Wu
Starring:  Leah Lewis, Enrique Murciano, Becky Ann Baker, Alexxis Lemire, Daniel 
Diemer, Wolfgang Novogratz
Release Date: May 1, 2020
Rated:  PG-13
Grade: B+
Image courtesy of NME.com.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Big West Welcomes New Commissioner Dan Butterly - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Praveen Nair 
The Big West Conference, UC San Diego’s new athletic home beginning in July, 
welcomed  new commissioner Dan Butterly in an introductory press conference on 
Tuesday, May 5.  Butterly, who previously served as the senior associate commissioner 
for the Mountain West  Conference and currently chairs the College Football Playoff 
licensing committee, discussed  his plans for conference improvement, rebounding from 
the coronavirus pandemic, and integrating UCSD into the Big West and Division I. On 
June 1, Butterly will replace the  outgoing Dennis Farrell, who has helmed the Big West 
since 1992.
As UCSD prepares to become the fifth University of California campus to join the Big 
West, Butterly discussed the progress the school has made, “The transition is just really 
beginning … That institution is doing things the right way, and their leadership is doing 
things the right  way.” But he also acknowledged the challenges with becoming a Big 
West member in the current uncertain atmosphere, saying, “Who knows how 
governance and legislation is going to change based on this pandemic. There’s a number 
of different things right now in the NCAA legislative cycle that could affect that 
transition phase.” 
One of the barriers that UCSD will face as part of its move from Division II to Division I 
is a four-year restriction on NCAA tournament competition in sports that have aAccessed: 6/8/2020 Big West Welcomes New Commissioner Dan Butterly - UCSD Guardian
Division II  national championship. When asked about the Big West possibly helping to 
shorten that  transition period, Butterly said, “If we can find a way to work with the NCAA 
to get that  process sped up, those are things we want to try to do to help UCSD. But we 
have to play by  the rules that the NCAA has set for us.”
Butterly also noted the improvements the Big West will have to make to be more 
competitive  on a national scale, noting its status as the 20th-ranked conference in men’s 
basketball. 
Under Butterly, the Mountain West went from 16th to 10th in the nation in men’s 
basketball  – while much of that change was due to the dominance of San Diego State 
University, Butterly also stressed the importance of improving the standing of the 
conference’s worst  teams to ensure a balanced and engaging conference schedule.
For some of the less competitive schools in the conference, Butterly said, this could mean  
getting paid to play one-off games at top-tier programs to gain experience, money, and  
exposure at the highest levels. 
But the most immediate issue facing the Big West is the process of reopening college 
sports while balancing speed and safety. “Whether our campuses are going to be open in 
the fall is  going to dictate whether we’re going to be able to play sports in the fall. It really 
is a national issue that really may be out of the control of individual conferences,” Butterly 
said. 
He also noted the need to assess schools’ technological capabilities to allow TV and 
Internet broadcasting of games in the likely event that fall sports begin with no fans in 
attendance.  Ultimately, however, Butterly stressed the need to take government 
guidelines on social  distancing importantly, and that the desire to get sports back takes a 
back seat to safety.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Why it is so hard to evaluate Quarterback Prospects - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Hayden Wellbeloved 
One of, if not the most, vital positions in all of sports is quarterback, but finding the right 
one has proven to be quite difficult. Year after year, top picks fail to pan out, team 
scouting  departments carry contrasting opinions on their QB rankings, and very few 
have had great  success once drafted. In fact, in the past 20 years, top five draft picks at 
quarterback have only won one Super Bowl. So what exactly makes the process of 
drafting a quarterback so difficult? 
Well, there are a handful of factors that go into it, but what has become so overlooked, 
nowadays, is the quarterback’s surrounding cast in college. Obviously, a full QB 
evaluation has a lot to do with their talent and statistics over their collegiate career. But 
many analysts and some teams ignore numerous other elements such the offense they 
played in, the coaching staff, and the amount of NFL talent they were surrounded with 
when making these evaluations. 
Take Jordan Love, for example, who saw his production fall off a cliff this past year — 
just 20 touchdowns and 17 interceptions in 2019 compared to 30 TD’s and 6 INTs the 
year before. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Why it is so hard to evaluate Quarterback Prospects - UCSD Guardian
Many people merely glance at his stats and his 2019 film, and conclude he’s not as talented 
as other quarterback prospects. But these evaluators fail to recognize the effect of a whole 
new  coaching staff and offensive system which was implemented after former head coach 
Matt  Wells left for Texas Tech after 2018. This, in addition to Love losing his only other 
NFL caliber teammate in Darwin Williams to the Chiefs, significantly contributed to a poor 
2019  campaign. 
Similarly, some college offenses are, simply put, not ideal schematically to best display all 
of these young quarterbacks’ abilities. This year, the University of Oregon’s Justin Herbert 
did not receive as much hype as other quarterbacks, partially because he was in an offense 
that didn’t ask him to make a lot happen. NFL mind Chris Simms highlights this issue 
citing that  “he played in a horrible offense in Oregon taught by an offensive line coach”, 
and follows that  up with a comparison to other quarterback prospects like Joe Burrow and 
Tua Tagovailoa  who had both had offensive coordinators with NFL experience and 
schemes. When  evaluating these quarterbacks, you can’t solely assess them on just the 
offense they played,  you have to project how their traits will project to the next level. 
Although Herbert may have  had lesser stats and been drafted lower than Tagovailoa, 
Herbert’s elite arm and size, as well  as his ceiling, are why I think he will be more 
successful in the league. 
The talent level of these prospects’ supporting cast is another key factor that must go into a  
complete evaluation. This past year, two of the top QB prospects, Burrow and Tua had as  
many weapons we may have ever seen in a college offensive. Burrow and Louisiana State  
University, when all said and done, will have had at least three first round skill players in 
that 2019 offense, while Tua’s 2019 offense was stacked at wide receiver will have two first  
rounders this year, Jerry Jeudy and Henry Ruggs III, and likely two more next year, Jaylen 
Waddle and Devonta Smith. Despite both of these QB’s having such elite surrounding 
talent, Burrow, to me, projects as a much more successful NFL quarterback. 
Burrow was more efficient in terms of completion percentage and yards per attempt, and 
he was carving teams up with a pro-style offense put together by current Carolina Panthers 
offensive coordinator, Joe Brady. That’s not to say Tua wouldn’t have been successful in 
Joe Brady’s offense, but Tua will definitely face a tougher learning curve in the league. 
Other stats that point to Burrow having future success include his gaudy numbers when 
passing on first down: 13.9 YPA, 82.1 percent completion percentage, and a 18:1 
touchdown to interception ratio. For comparison, all other first round quarterbacks dating 
back to 2015 (there are twenty) averaged 7.4 YPA, 67.6 percent completion percentage, 
and had a 7:2 touchdown to interception ratio per Sharp Football Analysis. It was clear Accessed: 6/8/2020 Why it is so hard to evaluate Quarterback Prospects - UCSD Guardian
Brady and LSU trusted Burrow on  first down, and Burrow absolutely made the most of it. 
And while Tua also had great success  at the University of Alabama, I’d argue it should be 
more attributed to his four superstar  receivers who could all blaze past defenses. 
According to Pro Football Focus, Tua’s had 72  percent of his yards come after the catch, 
which was the highest percentage in college football  in 2019. 
On the flip side, it’s important to recognize that not all these quarterbacks have the luxury 
of having a bunch of NFL talent around them. Just last year, the New York Giants shocked 
the NFL in selecting Duke University’s Daniel Jones sixth overall. There were concerns 
about the  level of competition he faced at Duke and many doubted the pick from the get-
go. And although his career is obviously still a work in progress, he played some solid 
games last year  and clearly displayed that he can be the future for New York. Again, one of 
the reasons many  were not impressed with Jones when he came out of Duke was his 
pedestrian 60.5 percent  completion percentage and 22:9 touchdown to interception ratio. 
But that Duke team had no NFL players to help Jones, and he had to make the most of the  
situation he was given. When quarterbacks don’t have the best talent around them, they 
often  try to do too much by taking more risks. Buffalo Bills’ Josh Allen is another key 
example of  this, as at Wyoming he had to make plays with legs, and force balls into tighter 
windows to  give his team a chance to win. But in turn, he finished with a lot of picks, and 
an abysmal completion percentage. These are the elements scouts and analysts must be 
weary of when  grading quarterback prospects. 
Quarterbacks have the lowest hit rate for a reason. They’re tough to scout, and even 
tougher to project to an NFL offense. However, analyzing the past few years, the best way 
to find successful NFL quarterbacks requires evaluating their talent, their environment 
whether that be their coaching, level of competition, or the players around them, and of 
course, a little luck.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Change my Mind: UCSD Should not Lower Tuition and Fees due to COVID-19 - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020    Sean Kim 
When the university was operating normally, UC San Diego’s on-campus life was 
good, at least compared to being in quarantine. Amenities such as the gyms, libraries, 
exorbitantly priced parking facilities, Price Center, and the myriad of other buildings 
represented the vital assets that made the UCSD experience unique; these amenities 
added value to students’ daily lives. 
During normal times, the fees collected to fund these amenities were arguably 
justifiable. They funded vital aspects of student life as well as other useful assets, like 
student shuttles and Counseling and Psychological Services.
But the university is not operating under normal conditions. We are currently in the 
midst of a historical pandemic, and the university’s facilities are closed to its students. 
Instruction has moved online, and many students have not visited campus this quarter. 
Despite this, the costs of tuition and fees are expected to stay the same for Fall Quarter 
2020.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Change my Mind: UCSD Should not Lower Tuition and Fees due to COVID-19 - UCSD Guardian
Negative sentiments around this decision are justifiable — students do not have access to 
the facilities they are paying for. However, the cessation or discount of fees and tuition 
raises other issues, thereby necessitating that the university keep collecting student fees 
and tuition  payments. 
A number of the fees UCSD undergraduates pay are relevant to their education and 
campus experience while also helping to pay for many employees in the University of 
California system. According to a former UCSA President, any reduction of fees would 
result in more  firings and furloughs of UC employees in the coming months. Even more 
layoffs of UC  employees will negatively affect the quality of students’ education and 
experience. Therefore,  it is counterproductive for students for all fee collections to stop. 
Furthermore, these workers  would be laid off in a depressed labor market. Unemployment 
in the U.S. hit 14.7 percent, the  highest it has ever been since the Great Depression, raising 
ethical concerns about layoffs during this time.
But professors and teaching assistants still need to be paid, facilities still need to be  
maintained, and digital licenses for students and faculty research must be purchased, 
which are all funded through student fees and tuition. While students may not have access 
to physical facilities this quarter, paying for the continued cost of attendance helps UCSD  
continue employing personnel and maintaining facilities. The continued maintenance of  
UCSD and employment of personnel will ultimately prove to be a net benefit for the 
student  body as once physical education resumes, students will not have to use 
deteriorated or  defunct facilities.
The continued collection of fees also would not affect students from lower-income 
families, solving many questions about the equitability of financial burdens on students. 
The ability of these students to apply for more financial aid, as well as the UC Blue and 
Gold program, helps alleviate some of the financial pressure; continued fees would 
therefore not disproportionately affect students from lower income families. The costs of 
providing education have not decreased significantly, however. The opposite has 
happened, and the university is now facing major fiscal issues.
Many universities across the nation are reporting increased operating costs, such as digital 
license purchases and sanitization. UCSD is not excluded from this trend either; the 
pandemic has cost the university specifically $150 million, with another $200 to$300 
million in losses expected over the summer. The university is now facing major fiscal 
issues as a result of the pandemic, creating potentially negative implications for many 
aspects of the student experience at UCSD. From the quality of teaching staff to the future Accessed: 6/8/2020 Change my Mind: UCSD Should not Lower Tuition and Fees due to COVID-19 - UCSD Guardian
state of the facilities,  many things could deteriorate and ultimately harm the student body 
should fees or tuition be  discounted or waived at this time. And in a more selfish point of 
view, the deteriorated  quality of staff and facilities could decrease the value of a UCSD 
degree.
The question of fees and tuition during this time is tricky. It is understandable that people  
have negative feelings about fees and tuition staying the same given that the quality of 
their education and student experience has decreased. But if fees were to be waived or 
discounted  at this time, the university would be forced to lay off more employees. This 
would have  significant, reverberating effects on not only the workers who would lose their 
jobs in a failing economy, but also the quality of campus life and educational experience. 
The continued collection of fees and tuition, therefore, is a necessary evil in order to 
maintain  UCSD’s facilities and staff.
Artwork by Alex Liang of the UCSD Guardian Art Department.Accessed: 6/8/2020 PC PRINCESS: Stop Stigmatizing the Adult Entertainment Industry - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020  Jacob Sutherland 
If you search “famous ucsd alumni” on Google, one of the first people you will see is 
Evelyn Lin, a prominent  pornographic actress  who first began making adult 
entertainment films while attending UC San Diego in the late  2000s.
Lin is not the sole UCSD student in her profession. While there is no official data on the 
matter, I have encountered a number of peers on-campus who have supplemented the 
cost of tuition and other expenses by partaking in the adult entertainment industry, 
whether it be through startups like OnlyFans, or more established outlets like PornHub 
and Brazzers.
The UCSD students I reached out to for comment on their involvement all declined to 
be interviewed. Those that responded stated that they had to keep their profession a 
secret in order to evade judgement from their peers.
Stigma surrounding adult entertainers is nothing new, as Western society has 
historically maintained a certain level of sexual conservatism. While recent praiseAccessed: 6/8/2020 PC PRINCESS: Stop Stigmatizing the Adult Entertainment Industry - UCSD Guardian
surrounding music videos like “Cyber Sex,” which features singer Doja Cat as a camgirl, 
and movies like  “Hustlers,” a movie about strippers, reflects a departure from this cultural 
mantra, the vast majority of society still negatively views adult entertainers. This is a 
problem because this  stigma is degrading to those who work in the industry.
Duke University graduate Miriam Weeks experienced  this stigma first hand.  Weeks, who 
chose to create pornography to pay her nearly $50,000 in tuition and fees, faced  an 
onslaught of criticism and threats once her secret was out.
“People said that I deserved to be raped and murdered,” Weeks said in an interview with 
The News and Observer. “I had people threatening to run me over with their cars. 
Probably the  most hurtful thing was there was a suicide countdown for me on one web 
site, of people  making bets on when I’d succumb to all the harassment and kill myself.”
No one should experience this level of hate, and I personally have a hard time 
understanding  where this disdain for the industry stems from. Whether one chooses to 
work in the industry  to pay their way through university or simply to make a little extra 
cash on the side, what  these workers choose to do with their bodies should not be up to 
the scrutiny of others, as  their actions affect no one except themselves.
In an  Op-Ed  for Cosmopolitan, an anonymous General Surgeon explained her decision to 
become a  stripper as a way to pay her way through medical school. The context under 
which she  decided to become a stripper mirrors the experiences of many UCSD students 
— she said she  first tried working full time in a traditional job, but saw that her academics 
suffered due to the lack of sleep she experienced having to balance work and school. The 
decision to become a stripper made sense in her situation, as she earned enough to get by 
with a limited amount of hours worked. However, this decision was not one she felt she 
could express to her classmates.
“I definitely would have been judged if other people knew,” she wrote. “Medical school, 
and forgive me for saying this, is filled with very cliché kids. Their father and grandfather 
were surgeons, they have a summer home in the Hamptons, they got a new car for their 
16th birthdays, and every other year they go backpacking through Europe. That was about 
85 percent of my graduating class.”
With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic limiting the amount of jobs available to students, 
several have understandably turned toward camwork to pay for their college expenses. 
Since the epidemic began, OnlyFans has reported a 75 percent increase in sign-ups. Accessed: 6/8/2020 PC PRINCESS: Stop Stigmatizing the Adult Entertainment Industry - UCSD Guardian
However, this increase in participation has not decreased the stigma surrounding adult  
entertainment at large.
One subtler form of stigma comes in the form of making fun of the profession, claiming 
that it is “easy” and a way to cure “quarantine boredom.” Gwen Adora, an adult content 
creator, explained how jokes and fetishizations of the industry broaden its  stigma in an 
interview with Vice. 
“Our community deals with so much and that ranges from stigma to people being  
murdered,” Adora said. “When people make jokes like, ‘Oh, ha ha ha, sex work is so 
funny, let’s start an  OnlyFans,’ they don’t acknowledge the gravity of our situation.”
Adora’s argument showcases how even subtle stigmas harm adult entertainers. Especially 
for those in college who are already trying to balance their job with school and daily life, 
the damage that the stigma creates can both affect one’s academic success as well as their 
mental health.
For you Tritons who are struggling to make ends meet and have decided that the adult 
entertainment industry financially makes sense, I applaud you and support your decision. 
This is both a difficult and personal choice to make.
As for those of you who want to criticize your fellow adult entertainers, I ask you to take 
an introspective look before you comment on the matter. Does your classmate’s 
involvement in the industry have any effect on your personal life? And most importantly, 
do you have the privilege to not have to make such a stigmatized decision in the first 
place?
College is difficult, and these difficulties have been even more magnified with the ongoing 
pandemic. We must support one another rather than tear each other apart. We all face a 
number of difficulties unique to ourselves, and not one of us is any better than the other.
Artwork by Anthony Tran of the UCSD Guardian Art Department.Accessed: 6/8/2020 The Stock Market Crashed. Should College Students Still Invest? - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020  Lanlily Nguyen 
As COVID-19 has spread in the U.S., the stock market has become extraordinarily 
volatile  where high risks may offer high rewards. 
The stock market has plunged, prompting the Federal Reserve to drop its benchmark 
interest rate to zero and launch a new round of quantitative easing as well as a slew of 
other steps to save the economy. This past February, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, 
an index of the 30 largest companies on the U.S. stock exchange, fell over 3,500 points, 
officially setting the record for the worst week for stocks since the 2008 financial crisis. 
As Wall Street is at its wit’s end, should college students take this as an opportunity to 
invest? 
Most college students are not too familiar with the workings of the stock market. 
According to a 2018 Gallup poll, most young Americans hold back when it comes to 
investing. Only 37 percent of those younger than 35 invest in the stock market. In 
another survey of those between the ages of 18 to 25, only 18 percent are investing. Even 
when they do invest, they tend to stray away from the stock market and instead directAccessed: 6/8/2020 The Stock Market Crashed. Should College Students Still Invest? - UCSD Guardian
their funds toward a savings account. 
As to why there is hesitancy from younger people to invest in the stock market, 
researchers point to the effect of witnessing the shock and struggle during the 2008  
financial crisis. Many young Americans are more risk-averse when it comes to trusting 
their money with other sources due to fears of making the same mistakes. Whatever the 
issue may  be, college students are especially wary of investing in stocks. However, when  
asking students at UC San Diego, some are more than happy to share their expertise and  
experiences.
“Yeah,” Earl Warren College senior Justin Lee said. “I invest in ETFs and am looking into  
other stuff.” 
ETFs, or exchange-traded funds, are funds traded on stock exchanges, much like your 
average stock. An ETF holds assets such as stocks, commodities, or bonds and is more 
flexible, such that you can trade whenever you want and often at lower fees. They are 
typically considered safer since they contain a preselected collection of stocks or bonds 
that can balance out to minimize losses. 
Lee started his interest in investing in high school, noting that he would have invested in 
Bitcoin at the time if he had “had the money.” Bitcoin, or BTC, is the dominatingly popular 
digital currency that’s cornering the cryptocurrency market. It was valued at a $20,000 
record high in December 2018. But BTC is infamous for its volatility, and it often swings 
thousands of dollars in either direction in a single day. 
“My parents gave me an allowance back then, but I didn’t know as much then as I do 
now,” Lee said.
Younger Americans are still understandably hesitant to start investments. After all, even if 
making plans for long-term earnings sounds tempting, not all debts are created equal. 
When students are racking up loans as high as $30,000 per year, the short-term rewards 
of the stock market when you are in your twenties are most likely not enough by the time 
the grace period expires for that subsidized loan. Or perhaps that interest that has been 
building up since the first year of college might be too high for that fraudulent 44-cents-
per-share penny stock to cover. If you are leaning toward the safe side for a beginner 
portfolio, then you are most likely not going to be making thousands in your first two 
business days.Accessed: 6/8/2020 The Stock Market Crashed. Should College Students Still Invest? - UCSD Guardian
Apart from racking up long-term debt, many college students are also eligible for opening  
credit card accounts that can create instant outstanding payments. CNBC reports that over 
a third of college students in the U.S. already have credit card debt. Banks offer attractive 
benefits and cash back for things like good grades and fair  credit scores during the first 
year in college. Such deals can lure students who may eat out  more than they can keep tabs 
on, or who are so heavyweight that one or two drinks at the bar  don’t suffice for the night 
— that is, if you are old enough, of course. For individuals who are  inexperienced with 
fiscal responsibility, it can be very easy to lose track of spending.
Essentials like gas, textbooks, housing, and groceries are also reasons students get credit 
cards. It’s a great option for students who don’t carry cash on hand. But by the time they 
realize it, they have racked up credit card debt into the hundreds or even thousands. Some 
debts are just too immediate for investments to handle.
When asked if they were ever interested in investing in stocks to help with earnings, a 
majority of students replied it’s just simply not an option.
“No,” Sixth College junior Tina Tran said, very matter-of-fact and paired with an 
incredulous look. “I don’t have expendable funds. I think for most people who do invest, 
especially so early, it just depends on their environment and their upbringing. They can 
spend their parents’ money; they have friends who also invest. It’s just not something that 
is required and definitely not something I can just do as a hobby when I have other debt to 
pay off.”
Many potential student investors share Tran’s sentiment, and the research supports it. 
According to a 2016 Harris Poll survey asking young Americans why they do not invest, 40 
percent of respondents stated money as the top barrier. 34 percent noted that they hadn’t 
felt educated enough about it to know how, while 13 percent said student debt was the 
reason they haven’t invested.
However costly it may be, if you are thinking of investing in the stock market, then it is 
often recommended to do so as soon as you can. Investment is like good wine that pays off 
with age. With steady annual return rates and a long life to live, small change can add up 
to huge amounts years down the road.
For those who decide to take the plunge into the stock market, many companies have 
made it easier and more accessible with apps. New brokers like the pioneering free-trading 
app Robinhood act as free “no commissions” brokers for those new to trading. While this Accessed: 6/8/2020 The Stock Market Crashed. Should College Students Still Invest? - UCSD Guardian
feature may be attractive for a  weary investor, it sacrifices many standards for brokerage 
that make it unsustainable for  active traders or investors.
However you start, it is imperative to understand what you are getting into. You may have 
heard that Clorox stock is booming due to new and urgent health care needs. Facebook is 
also experiencing dramatically more user traffic since all its posted content takes up 
everyone’s down time, but there is a lot more to it than just popularity.
Academic studies broadly agree that the best returns in the long run are achieved by highly 
diversified stock funds that have low management fees and emphasize value over growth. 
Growth stocks represent companies that have demonstrated better-than-average gains  in 
earnings in recent years and that are expected to continue delivering high levels of profit 
growth, although with a tendency to be riskier. Value stocks tend to be more affordable and 
less risky, as they have already proven an ability to generate profits. But even the rewards 
in this market are not always guaranteed. In short, growth investors seek companies that 
offer strong earnings growth while value investors seek stocks that appear undervalued in 
the marketplace.
Being a part of the Wall Street scene can seem very appealing, especially for young people 
with the social pressure to prove themselves as capable adults, but this does not always 
lead to investing. There are sophisticated barriers to starting a well-studied portfolio that 
actually pays off. Financial advisors have critiqued the market itself for becoming more of 
an “elite club” where those who don’t have their own savings have difficulty getting into 
investing. 
In his analysis for Advisor Perspectives, economist and Chief Portfolio Strategist Lance 
Roberts argued “Despite Central Bank’s best efforts globally to stoke economic growth by 
pushing asset prices higher, the effect has been entirely consumed by those with actual 
savings, and discretionary income, available to invest.” 
According to Roberts, monetary policies have over time merely increased the wealth of the 
wealthy and have not been quite enough to stimulate the entire economy to benefit those 
with lower income. With the government stepping in due to changes from COVID-19, not 
much has changed according to studies. The government’s $2 trillion economic stimulus 
package offers financial aid for individuals and industries struggling due to the pandemic. 
However, it also permits wealthy investors to use losses generated by real estate to 
minimize their taxes on profits from things like investments in the stock market. The cost 
from the offset taxes is estimated to be $170 billion.Accessed: 6/8/2020 The Stock Market Crashed. Should College Students Still Invest? - UCSD Guardian
This is not to say there is any shame or sure sign of disadvantages to investing while 
young or investing at all. Investing is a valuable and fiscally responsible decision in aiding 
one’s future. However, with the market as volatile as it’s ever been and where not even 
illegal insider trading can help with the losses, no one can say where the market is going 
to go or who will come out as winners. So if you are not very risk-inclined to establish a 
particularly aggressive portfolio, especially during such inordinate times, it might be best 
to save your money for a rainy day. Or for a pandemic. Whichever.
All names under alias due to the personal and private nature of financial investment. 
Art by Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/8/2020 UCSD to Recognize Graduating First Generation College Students - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Andrew Ha 
In order to celebrate the achievements of graduating first-generation college students, 
UC San Diego’s Triton Firsts initiative has created a virtual space to recognize these 
individuals for the first time in the university’s history. Given the current state of the 
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the university decided to utilize the internet to showcase 
the success of these undergraduate students.
As reported by the UCSD administration, more than 39 percent of the undergraduate 
student body are first-generation college students. These students would become the first 
person in their families to graduate from a four-year college. 
According to this article from the Journal of Higher Education, first-generation college 
students on average come from underprivileged households and face more obstacles than 
their peers in order to graduate. 
The initiative, created by the Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs, Student 
Retention and Success, aims to create virtual profiles on a new website to honor students 'Accessed: 6/8/2020 UCSD to Recognize Graduating First Generation College Students - UCSD Guardian
scholarly work and their involvement in clubs and organizations. Students will also have a  
chance to thank all the people who have supported them throughout their academic 
career. 
“For many first-generation college students, the attainment of a bachelor’s degree is the  
culmination of generations of hard work, one where students are celebrated for their  
accomplishments, and are able to show gratitude for the support they have received from  
family, loved ones, and their community on and off campus,” an email to UCSD students  
said. “We want to ensure that students still have the opportunity to celebrate and be  
recognized for their tremendous accomplishments, even during these unprecedented 
times.”
The university had initially planned to host an in-person event to send off the students and 
to award them commemorative pins. Working jointly with the First-Generation Student  
Association, Triton Firsts organized a team to prepare for the event, but with the rise of  
COVID-19 cases, the event was called off for fears of spreading the disease. 
“When the pandemic started to impact our in person events and we all began to work  
remotely, we had to make the difficult decision of cancelling the in person event,” 
Assistant Director of  Communications at UCSD Christine Clark said to The UCSD 
Guardian in an email. “We worked on a proposal and planned for the virtual recognition 
and shared it  system-wide with the 10 other UCs. The UC Office of the President is 
supporting these efforts  along with our campus leadership and student body. In addition, 
the event is being supported by the Virtual Collaborative, so a cross campus group of 
stakeholders are working to make sure this virtual recognition is successful.” 
In addition to having the profiles on the new website, Triton Firsts will feature some of 
these graduates on UCSD’s official Instagram. The initiative is also working with the 
commencement committee to give students the opportunity to include their identification 
as first-generation students in the UCSD 2020 virtual yearbook. Once the students 
graduate, they will also be included in a new Tritons Connect group that allows them to 
speak with alumni and provides them with opportunities to receive mentorship and build 
networks. 
Students like Roger Revelle College senior Gage Marquez welcome the new initiative and 
are pleased that the university is giving them recognition for their hard work. 
“It means so much that the university is taking a moment to recognize students such asAccessed: 6/8/2020 UCSD to Recognize Graduating First Generation College Students - UCSD Guardian
myself who are reaching new milestones within our lineages,” Marquez said in an interview  
with The Guardian. “While I am so grateful to have UCSD recognize me for what was a  
challenging journey to say the least, I am even more grateful of the positive impact the  
university is making on my family. Knowing that [my family] get to see how all of their 
hard work and sacrifices to give me a better life have paid off and having a university that  
recognizes those sacrifices means the world to me.”
UCSD has also provided first-generation students with various programs and events to  
support students throughout their academic career. By hosting events like the First-
Generation Career Readiness Conference or having programs like TRIO Student Support  
Services, the university has multiple mechanisms to encourage students to achieve their 
four-year degrees.
“The Student Success Program really helped me transition from high school to college,” 
Gage  added. “The program provided me with a counselor, early class enrollment, and 
dozens of  resources for academic support and professional development. In addition, 
UCSD itself offers  a wide array of networking opportunities that allowed me to gain 
internships and build my  career.”
This recognition initiative will continue each year to celebrate new graduating first-
generation students. If you would like to take part in this initiative, please fill out this form 
or contact firstgentritons@ucsd.edu for more information.
This article was updated at 8:30 p.m. on 5/10/2020 to clarify the definition of first-
generation college students.
Artwork by Yui Kita for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Graduate Admission Exams Undergo Changes due to COVID-19 Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 May 10, 2020   Zhuoying Lin 
Prospective graduate students who are planning to attend post-graduate schools will be 
taking  their admissions tests online after the closure  of test centers due to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. The administrators of the Graduate Record Examination, 
Graduate Management  Admission Test, and the Law School Admission Test have made a 
series of changes, including moving their exams to an online format, to  provide 
continued student access. 
•GRE for prospective grad school students: In-person exams are expected to 
remain on hold until June 30 and  the online version retains the same content 
and structure. A  computer device with Windows system and a functional 
webcam is  required; whiteboards and papers with transparent sheet protectors 
are allowed for note taking.
•GMAT for prospective business school students : A temporary option of online 
and at-home exams is available between April 20 and June 15. The new version 
has the same  time limit  and number of questions but it does not include the 
Analytical Writing  Assessment section. For now, test takers can only take the 
online GMAT once, and score  cancellation is not available. Accessed: 6/8/2020 Graduate Admission Exams Undergo Changes due to COVID-19 Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
•LSAT for prospective law school students:  An online proctored version of  the 
LSAT called the LSAT-Flex will be administered in June and July for students 
who have already registered to take the in-person  test. The new version will have 
three 35-minute  scored sections and a separate LSAT writing portion.
•MCAT for prospective medical school students:  Three test appointments are now  
available per test dates at test centers between May 29 and September 28.  The 
exam has been shortened to 5 hours and 45 minutes from the usual 7 hours and 
30 minutes, and it will still have four sections. 
“We haven’t heard that any graduate school, business school, or law school will evaluate 
applicants who take the at-home versions of the GRE, GMAT, and LSAT, respectively, any 
differently from applicants who took the traditional forms of the exams,” Jeff Thomas, 
Executive Director of Admissions Programs for Kaplan Test Prep, said. “The tests 
themselves, while slightly altered, still feature the same question and section types, so all 
the preparation strategies and techniques remain.”
Although the knowledge that is tested on the exam remains the same, Eleanor Roosevelt 
College junior Elle Peterson, an international studies – sociology student, told The UCSD 
Guardian about concerns that have arisen as she studies for her LSAT-Flex exam in June.
“As I struggle to focus in my apartment I am extremely worried this will translate to my 
exam,” Peterson said. “Rolling out of bed like I do everyday to sit at the same dining room 
table isn’t conducive to that natural test anxiety that would help me succeed. Also, I have 
a noisy needy cat, 3 roommates, a sick parent at home where every call from them could 
be bad news, and my apartment is right next to a busy street. I feel like the distractions 
will make it a difficult testing environment.”
Despite these struggles, Peterson also shared some positive notes about how she stays 
connected with other folks.
“The test is going to be different, but it doesn’t mean it has to be bad,” she said. “This is 
uncharted territory for everyone and you don’t have to go it alone. Reddit threads are 
your friend for updated information and talking about the outcomes of the LSAT-Flex 
with people who understand what you’re going through.”
Sixth College junior York Zhang, a bioengineering major who took the at-home GRE in 
April, shared his test experience and offered some advice for test-taking.Accessed: 6/8/2020 Graduate Admission Exams Undergo Changes due to COVID-19 Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
“The most inconvenient part of the GRE test is the note taking: you cannot use white 
paper; you need to use a white board or a plastic erasable  paper instead,” Zhang said. “I 
used the white board so I have to half stand while writing drafts.”
York also provided some helpful testing advice to the Guardian which can apply to all at-
home proctored administration exams: 
1. The proctor will make sure your face is in the camera during the test. So they
may remind you to make yourself visible during the test. To avoid such
interruptions, it’s best to  make sure that you are inside the camera’s viewpoint at all
times.
2. Testers are responsible to make sure their equipment is working. Before the
test, make
 sure everything, including the camera and microphone, is working well.
It’s not a bad thing to  check often before the exam. Because the online GRE uses the
Windows system, for those who  are unfamiliar with it, you can talk to the proctor
directly if you don’t want to risk any accidents  
of switching the window.
3. Make sure that any background noises are as low as possible, especially for
those who  are sensitive to noise. Someone like roommates or family members may
interrupt you during  the test, so be sure to notify them of your testing time advance.
4. Before the test, the proctor will check your ID. Then you will need to stand up
and use your webcam to shoot the 4 corners of your room and the space underneath
your table. Then you will be asked to turn off your phone in front of the proctor and
put it to a place inside of the camera’s vision. If you leave the room during the test,
you will be asked to redo the process above.
5. When preparing an at-home test site, make sure there is nothing “weird”
around you that may catch the proctor’s attention. Read the requirements one by
one carefully, and don’t take any chance that’s not necessary.
The above exam updates are subject to change as the pandemic progresses. Students are 
encouraged to check official exam websites often for any future updates. 
Photo courtesy of US News and World Report.