Accessed: 6/1/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition, Part I - UCSD Guardian
 April 13, 2020  Tori Anderson 
While quarantine has taken over our lives and it seems like we can do absolutely 
nothing, we sit  on our couches trying to distract our wondrous minds. I know for me, at 
least, I feel a little stir  crazy not being able to keep my body moving. However, I have 
tried by keeping my quarantine  routine as close to my normal life routine as possible. 
The one thing that has kept me sane is  doing some type of home workout. I know many 
people do not have home gyms or weight lifting  equipment, so I will be listing some 
alternatives for the extra added weight or workouts you can  do.
First thing, if you don’t have weights, you can use water gallons or water cases, books, 
laundry detergent, or anything that gives you that extra weight to increase the difficulty 
of your workout. If you do not have some already, I recommend getting some resistance 
bands. They can be used  for either upper body or lower body and are also amazing 
because they intensify your workout.  You can get different types and styles from 
Amazon for 20 dollars or less. The last pieces of  equipment you would need are small 
hand towels and a chair or bench. 
All these exercises you can do with just your body weight, but, if you want to pushAccessed: 6/1/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition, Part I - UCSD Guardian
yourself, add  the extra weight and/or resistance band. I personally do all my workouts 
with added weight and  resistance bands when possible. Your workouts do not always 
have to be the same; you can  change them up and be creative because we are all stuck 
in quarantine for who knows how long.  Why get bored and tired of one of the only 
things that can pass an hour of your day? 
If you want to start off slow, go for a walk, run, bike ride, or jump rope — just do 
something to  get moving. I personally like to start my workouts with a walk just to get 
my blood pumping and  wake me up without exhausting myself. Then, I do whatever 
workout I have planned and finish  with either abs or sprints. If you do not like 
finishers, you can designate a day for abs and cardio.
With all of that explained, I will now list some exercises under each type of workout. 
These are all killer exercises that give such a great burn. I recommend doing these 
exercises for 15 reps each set for three sets, but if you cannot do 15 reps, then shoot 
between 10 to 15 reps. Switch up what exercises you do with each other and the number 
of exercises you do. Try to shoot between five to seven exercises with some type of abs 
or cardio at the end or beginning of the workout!For example, a beginner’s upper body 
workout might look like this: Warm up by jogging or walking, then do bicep curls with 
either added weight or resistance bands. Then, move into tricep extensions followed by 
push-ups and bicep curl to a shoulder press. To finish, end with mountain climbers, 
30-second planks, and crunches.
Lastly, this article will be turning into a column with weekly workout routines and 
videos. So, I will write out full workout routines from the ones listed below to help keep 
you and me accountable during this quarantine. I look forward to doing these workouts 
with y’all. Let’s be active and keep each other accountable!
Resistance Band Workout
You will need to use a chair or bench.
•Bicep Curls
•Tricep Extensions
•Bent Over RowAccessed: 6/1/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition, Part I - UCSD Guardian
•Squats (Different Variations)
oRegular or Sumo Squat
oElevated Heel Squat
oPulse Squat
oSplit Leg Squat
•Crab Walks
•Kick Back (Standing or on all 4s)
•Fire Hydrant/ Leg Abduction (on all 4s or laying down)
•Ski Jumps
Body Weight or Additional Weight Workouts 
You will need to use a chair or bench.
•Lunges
oForward Lunge
oReverse Lunge
oSide to Side Lunges
•Hip Thrusts (I add my resistance band as well)
•Squats (Different Variations – same as above listed)
•Chest Press
•Push Ups
•Shoulder Press
Towel Workouts
You will need small towels. Use them as sliders under your feet to help with fluid motions.
•Side Lunges
•Mountain Climbers
•Plank Walk Outs
•Hamstring Curls (Lay down on your back with your towel under your feet and legs
bent. Slide your feet away and back to your butt, just like on a yoga ball)
Ab Workouts
I do two to three sets and 15-20 reps for each set.Accessed: 6/1/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition, Part I - UCSD Guardian
•Crunches
•Bicycles
•V-Ups
•In-n-Outs
•Heel Touches
•Russian Twists
•Leg Raises
•30-Second Planks
•Plank Hip Dips
Push yourself, you can do it!Accessed: 6/1/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Uncertainty Around Commencement; Remote Learning Commitment to Incoming Freshmen - UCSD Guardian
April 16, 2020 Niloufar Shahbandi 
Associated Students Senate held their weekly meeting to discuss COVID-19 
accomodations for  the incoming class of 2024, give an update on the possible situations 
for the class of 2020  commencement ceremony, lowering the voter threshold for the 
upcoming Counseling and  Psychological Services fee referendum, and discussing a 
pass/no pass grading option for the  2020 Summer Sessions on Wednesday, April 15.
A.S. President Eleanor Grudin shared new policies for the incoming class of 2024 that 
will include a guarantee to non-resident freshmen that if they accept their offer to UC 
San Diego, they will be able to study remotely. This guarantee was made to 
accommodate international  students who may experience difficulties with traveling to 
San Diego due to the ongoing  COVID-19 outbreak.  
A Senator from the All Campus Commencement Committee gave updates for the 2020  
commencement ceremony. The Senator reported that commencement will most likely 
not take place in June or during the summer since Summer Sessions will also be 
remote. Some of the  suggested dates for class of 2020 commencement include the end 
of the upcoming Fall or  Winter Quarters or combining the commencement ceremony 
with the one for the class of 2021.The senate also debated dropping the threshold percentage for the upcoming Election  
and Referenda Questions. A.S. Senators  discussed lowering the referendum threshold 
percentage from the required 20 percent  following the low voter turnout in the college 
council elections. They addressed the difficulties  in getting students to vote without 
being able to physically campaign like previous years.
The CAPS fee referendum will be held from May 18 to May 22  on TritonLink. The 
referendum will  ask students if they approve of increasing the CAPS and Student 
Mental Health Fee “ of $20.71 per student per quarter effective fall 2020 (fall, winter, 
spring), increasing to $28.21 per student per quarter effective fall 2021, and increasing 
to $35.71 per quarter effective fall 2022?” 
While the Senate did not agree on a certain percentage, a poll held by Grudin indicated 
that most senators are in favor of lowering the threshold to 10 percent. 
Other items for debate included the issue of pass/no pass grading options for Summer 
Sessions. Grudin, shared the Academic Senate Undergraduate Council’s discussion 
regarding grading  options for Summer Sessions. While the council has not reached a 
decision yet, they are looking  to proceed with normal grading standards for Summer 
Sessions which will not include the  pass/no pass grading option that they provided for 
the Spring Quarter. 
Grudin explained that the decision to include the pass/no pass grading option for Spring
Quarter was to aid faculty in adjusting to remote classes. However, many Senators 
opposed this  outlook by stating that remote classes are difficult for students in different 
living conditions and having the pass/no pass grading option helps students to cope 
with this new method of  learning. 
Financial Controller Ethan Christensen also discussed changes to the Safe Rides 
Program. The  A.S. Senate has restructured the program to include 10 free rides per 
student at $2 off per ride.  This new system helps accommodate students living on-
campus to get rides to the grocery store  and other essential locations. 
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/1/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Uncertainty Around Commencement; Remote Learning Commitment to Incoming Freshmen - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/1/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with UCSD’s Dr. Schooley, Dr. San Miguel, and Dr. Scioscia - UCSD Guardian
 April 17, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
This article was written in collaboration with Ella Chen,  Editor-in-Chief of The Triton, 
and is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how 
to prevent the spread of the virus, click here. This interview has been condensed and 
edited for clarity.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a lot of misinformation floating 
around on social media. At the same time, most students have had their lives 
completely changed over the  last month, with many unsure of what the future will hold 
and what they can do now to protect  themselves.
In an effort to mitigate some of these anxieties, we joined The Triton to sit  down with 
Dr. Robert Schooley, Chief of UC San Diego’s Division of Infectious Diseases, Dr.  Stacie 
San Miguel, Director of Medical Services and Student Health Services, and Dr. Angela 
L. Scioscia, Interim Executive Director of Health & Wellness at UCSD, to have a
conversation about the pandemic as well as to discuss ways for students to stay safe and
promote wellness.Accessed: 6/1/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with UCSD’s Dr. Schooley, Dr. San Miguel, and Dr. Scioscia - UCSD Guardian
What symptoms are most commonly associated amongst young  people with COVID-19?
Dr. San Miguel:  [At UCSD], the majority of students that tested positive had fever, had a  
cough, and have felt fatigue. Some of them had a little bit of chest pain and shortness of 
breath.  Some other symptoms that we’re also looking for are lack or loss of smell and loss 
to taste. Most  of [the students] were very stable and most of them got better within a few 
days of being seen and they recovered very quickly.
Dr. Schooley: It’s not clear how the virus replicates, but there are several theories on it. 
One theory is that people who are younger make much more vigorous immune responses 
and contain viral replication better. And because the amount of viral replication correlates 
with how severe the disease is, people who are older are more likely to have a lot more 
viral replication [early on], which leads to more inflammation later, so they end up with 
more symptoms or are more likely to get sick. But younger people are more likely to 
spread the [disease] without realizing it. That’s why social distancing is very important for 
all of us.
ucsdhealth
2,562 followers
74 likes
ucsdhealth
Researchers at #UCSanDiegoHealth report the first scientific evidence that 
strongly associates loss of taste and smell with COVID-19.  
“Based on our study, if you have smell and taste loss, you are more than 10 
times  more likely to have COVID-19 infection than other causes of infection. 
The most 
common first sign of a COVID-19 infection remains fever, but 
fatigue and loss of smell and taste follow as other very common initial 
symptoms,” said Carol Yan, MD,  
an otolaryngologist and head and neck 
surgeon. “We know COVID-19 is an  extremely contagious virus. This study 
supports the need to be aware of smell and  
taste loss as early signs of 
COVID-19.” 
Read more about this study by clicking the link in our bio.Accessed: 6/1/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with UCSD’s Dr. Schooley, Dr. San Miguel, and Dr. Scioscia - UCSD Guardian
What are some myths about the virus that you would like to dispel?
Dr. Scioscia:  One thing we heard early on was that hand sanitizer doesn’t work. It does 
work,  if you can get it you should get it. But washing your hands makes the difference. 
Hand sanitizer is an alternate when you don’t have soap and water next to you, so carry it 
with you.
Dr. Schooley: One myth is that “We know it’ll go away in the summer no matter what 
we do  because it’s hot and dry.” We’re pretty sure that it’ll stick around if we don’t take 
advantage of  what we already have learned about giving the virus no place to go by social-
distancing. Our
 goal if we get infected is to make sure that the virus doesn’t get to 
anybody else. Everytime the  virus infects someone and doesn’t go forward, it’s a dead end. 
We want every infection to be a  dead end, and the way to do that is with social-distancing. 
Dr. Scioscia:  Students have tested positive on our campus and done well [with 
treatment]. We ask students with symptoms to call the nurse’s hotline so that we are 
ready to receive them.  Most of [the students] end up not testing positive. We do have a 
few who are living in the  isolation system on campus. We realized most students live in 
communal living with shared  bathrooms. If someone has COVID-19, and it doesn’t matter 
how many symptoms they have, we  prefer they have their own bathroom. We’ve created 
an area where we provide students with  some extra space so they have a private bedroom 
and bathroom setting. We also want them to  stay in that space, because they should not 
be leaving that environment. Food should be  delivered to them, so we’re making sure that 
students are getting those resources.
The [Counseling and Psychological Services] team is also on-site for mental health 
support. CAPS has switched to providing healthcare remotely, but the central office and 
urgent care are  still open.Accessed: 6/1/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with UCSD’s Dr. Schooley, Dr. San Miguel, and Dr. Scioscia - UCSD Guardian
Dr. San Miguel:  In terms of the clinic, things have been pretty quiet. Our staff is down to 
40 percent and non-patient care staff are working from home. When people come in, we 
triage them at the front desk before letting them into the building, and we give masks to all 
patients in  the facility. Those with symptoms go through a specific entrance. We’re still 
doing women’shealth, sports medicine, and urgent care, but student health does provide 
video meetings now.  So if students are living at home, they can actually schedule an 
appointment with a provider  here on campus if they have an established physician here. 
Our pharmacy is working hard to  deliver medication to students. We have also been 
making medications available through Fedex,  but for now delivery is only within California. 
What research is the university currently undertaking to address
COVID-19? 
Dr. Schooley: We are doing cutting-edge studies of drugs being used to treat people. 
There’s an antiviral drug called remdesivir that is being studied as the first line drug to 
treat this disease. Trials are going  on downtown at the antiviral research center to see if it 
decreases symptoms. This study has  about 700 people in it. UC San Diego has around 
15-20 of those 700, and we expect some  results within the next month. That study was
actually the only one approved by the [National  Institute of Health], and it was started here
at UC San Diego within five days of its approval. We  have been enrolling patients steadily
and we hope that we can start to tell if this drug works or  not. There are people who are
studying characteristics of the response to the virus, response  from antibodies or killer T-
cells, [and] which of those are correlated with the best recovery. We  want to induce the best
kind of immunity with vaccines, so that’s how we develop them.
For students who are anxious waiting at home and want to do
more to help  ght the pandemic, is there anything that you would recommend that they do 
to help with the cause?
Dr. San Miguel:  On campus, our food pantry is still open, so they may want donations. 
Some of the students here on campus are also struggling. The other thing is, I know that 
our campus  emergency operations center was taking donations of personal protective  
equipment from the  community, so that could be another potential [way to help]. Just a 
story from here, we had  received a donation from a painter of N95 masks, and I was able to 
give some to my neighbor who is a pediatrician who had no personal protection equipment. 
I think anything that people have would be greatly appreciated during this time.A Conversation on COVID-19 with UCSD’s Dr. Schooley, Dr. San Miguel, and Dr. Scioscia - UCSD Guardian
What are the university’s plans for the future going into Fall Quarter 2020?
Dr. Schooley: We’ll have much better tools to monitor what’s going on than when 
things came up the first time. We’ll have antibody tests, we’ll have widespread availability 
of nasal swab testing for anybody who is symptomatic. We are working on a monitoring 
plan to detect the earliest cases on campus.
If things are quiet, we’ll welcome back everybody to campus that we can and have on 
campus teaching. We realize that some international students may not be able to get 
back, so there is a commitment to students who can’t get back to be able to still 
participate remotely. We plan to go on when it’s safe, and we plan on continuing to 
function as a university to provide education, research, and service to the community.
Graphic by Jacob Sutherland for The UCSD Guardian.UC San Diego Health
@UCSDHealth
Join us in the fight against the #COVID19 pandemic. 
Together, we can play an important role in addressing this 
emergency and helping those affected by it. There are many 
ways you can help and donate go.ucsd.edu/39di7Kn
5:30 PM · Mar 23, 2020
29 See the latest COVID-19 information on Twitter
Accessed: 6/1/2020Accessed: 6/1/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Dealing with Depression while Stuck Inside - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Erin Chun 
*Content Warning: suicide*
On my first day of second grade, I sat alone, criss-cross applesauce on the playground 
floor, plucking at the fake plastic grass beneath me. My back was pressed against the 
plastic walls underneath the slide, and I observed as all the kids around me yelled and 
shrieked and laughed and played tag. I looked longingly towards them and turned my 
face back down towards the ground. With my small finger, I thought about what it 
would be like to not exist as I traced a Korean word into the ground. “ 희망 .” “Hope.”  
I have always been a shy, sad kid, and I still am. I can never seem to shake away the 
feeling I had when I ate my lunch alone at school, shoulders slouching, eyes averted, 
and fingers tapping away the seconds until the bell would ring for class. As I grew up 
and entered college, I came to realize a very important fact: everywhere is essentially 
the same, just a different background. College is an older playground, and in my mind, 
I am the same kid with her back against the yellow slides, waiting for lunch to be over, 
only this time, the playground is much bigger. Now, if you fall off the slide, you’re 
going to get  more than a couple of small rocks embedded into your knees, and after alifetime of watching tag alone on the sidelines, I decided to quit the game that I 
was never even truly a part of. On November 16, 2019, I tried to kill myself. 
I have dealt with suicidal tendencies, severe depression, and mental illness for 
most of my life, and I remember how these overwhelming aches in my chest felt 
long before I even knew how to put a label on them. College is already an 
extremely difficult environment to adapt to, and traversing through this rigorous 
academic domain where everybody except you seems to be doing great seems 
practically insurmountable. Quarantining alone with your thoughts while still 
maintaining academic responsibilities is even more challenging. For the hour-long 
gaps in between my smiley Quarantine Chronicles videos where I baked cookies, 
cleaned my room, did work, and played my kalimba at the park, I slept. I was 
sleeping and curled up into a small shaking ball in the center of my bed, lights 
turned off, curtains closed, door locked, phone off, mind numb. And I was proud of 
myself for doing so. Because every minute I was asleep was a minute where I 
wasn’t thinking about, or actually, hurting myself. 
Staying at home everyday has almost given me the excuse to push people away 
from me. I took the term social isolation to a whole new level and turned off my 
phone for a week. It took all of my strength to do normal activities, and I would be 
lying if I said that I am adjusted to this new life in quarantine. Despite all of this, I 
am trying my hardest every single day to regain some sense of normalcy. I try to do 
at least three things a day: one thing I enjoy, one thing I need to do, and one self-
care activity. Sometimes, I can do all three. Other days, I cannot find it in myself to 
do one. The point is not if I am able to be productive in my goals. The point is if I 
try, and, with all the love in the world, I encourage you all to try too. 
Depression is not a romantic sadness that can be packaged with a satin bow. It is a 
legitimate health issue that deeply impacts millions of people. It is not pretty. It is 
not cute. But it exists. I acknowledge that my own personal experience with 
dealing with depression in quarantine may be completely different from the next 
person, and would like to thank Annika, Lara, and Jacob for lending their own 
perspectives in their Quarantine Chronicles that have opened the door for more 
conversation regarding heavy subjects intertwined with personal privileges. I do 
not have housing worries or food insecurities to cause me further distress, and I 
acknowledge that many do not share the same privileges I have. Although my 
words on a page are not enough, from the bottom of my heart, I wish everybody 
strength and peace to get through this time. We will come out of this together. Quarantine Chronicles: Dealing with Depression while Stuck Inside - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 6/1/2020Accessed: 6/1/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Dealing with Depression while Stuck Inside - UCSD Guardian
This week, I baked cookies. Today, I took a shower and felt proud of myself. Next 
week, I think I might take another walk down to the park at dusk; I plan on watching 
the sky turn purple. It’s  the little things. Always, I will have “ 희망 .” “Hope.”
**If you or someone you know is struggling, please know that there is hope and help 
available for you:
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255
Crisis Text Line: text HOME to 741741
UCSD Counseling and Psychological Services Hotline: 858-534-3755Accessed: 6/1/2020 Professor Strause: Powered by Passion - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Hannah Rosenberg 
Dr. Linda Strause is a long time professor in the biological sciences department at UC 
San Diego  for BILD 22, Human Nutrition. She specializes in global clinical operations 
and clinical development, with emphasis in oncology. I took Professor Strause’s class 
last year and quickly  discovered that I wasn’t the only student she has positively 
impacted. When a professor is  passionate about their subject, it becomes a contagious 
ripple, opening minds and prompting  waves of curiosity that are often unexpected out 
of a lower-division general education class. 
I interviewed Dr. Strause about her journey to UCSD, her passion for education, and 
her focus  on oncology.
The following interview has been condensed for clarity.Accessed: 6/1/2020 Professor Strause: Powered by Passion - UCSD Guardian
The UCSD Guardian: What has your journey as a professor in the biology 
department entailed and how did you get there?
Dr. Strause: I followed a fairly common path, from my B.A. at UC San Diego, to my Ph.D. at 
UC Santa Barbara, and to a postdoctoral position at UC San Diego. I was able to remain as a  
postdoc, transition to a research scientist and then, when my mentor Paul Saltman went on  
sabbatical, I was given the opportunity to teach an Introduction to Nutrition course at 
UCSD. I was nervous and unsure of myself, but I loved it. So, when I was given the 
opportunity to leave  the university and venture out into the drug development industry, I 
took it but remained as a  visiting professor so that I could continue to teach. Thankfully, that 
position eventually rolled in  an adjunct professor, where I remain today. I have been 
teaching the lower division  Introduction to Nutrition course to over 300 undergraduates 
[per class] for over 30 years.
The UCSD Guardian: What inspires you to do the work you do?
Dr. Strause: Education and knowledge are essential in order for the human race to survive. 
The students are our future. Every time I teach, I have the opportunity to share my 
knowledge, but more importantly to learn from my students. I enjoy being a mentor and 
hope that I can leave each student with knowledge that will help them to improve not only 
their overall quality of life but that of others.
The UCSD Guardian: How do you decide what is worth fighting for?
Dr. Strause: This is not a straightforward question because I believe that personal life 
experiences change and, with that change, our decisions may be different. I believe that I 
have always been focused on education and mentoring others. However, when my husband 
was diagnosed with incurable brain cancer, GBM (glioblastoma multiforme), my journey 
was changed forever. He died two years after his diagnosis. From that point on, my focus on 
oncology, specifically GBM, was clear. I am proud to be a mentor to younger women, I am 
proud to be a confidant for an individual caring for a loved one with GBM, and I am proud 
to be available for anyone who wishes to reach out to me. Accessed: 6/1/2020 Professor Strause: Powered by Passion - UCSD Guardian
The UCSD Guardian: How did Randy’s experience with cancer inspire the birth 
of you and your son’s hemp business? Would your younger self have expected 
you’d be on this path?
Dr. Strause: My two year journey with Randy and glioblastoma multiforme, an incurable 
brain  cancer, changed my entire world. It was a journey that had no map. In order to make 
his life  more comfortable and pain-free, we began using, at the time, medicinal marijuana 
on a more regular basis. This was before the passage of Proposition 64 and the new 2018 
Farm Bill. The benefits became immediately apparent. Randy began to sleep better, and he 
had less pain in his  muscles which meant we could move him more easily. After he died, 
Tyler, my oldest son, began  to work in the medicinal marijuana industry. He worked in a 
physician’s office and learned  about the use of marijuana. He worked with a cultivator as 
well as a biochemist to learn how to  manufacture different products. Brendon joined Tyler 
in 2012 to form Randy’s Club, and I joined them in 2014. Our mission is to produce 
products that “we wished we had when Randy was alive.” We remain  passionate about this 
mission. Our younger selves never would have believed we would be on  this path had it not 
been for Randy’s diagnosis.
The UCSD Guardian: How have recent world events centering around 
COVID-19 affected your work?
Dr. Strause: World events have definitely had a dramatic impact on everyone. For me  
personally, the impact of learning to teach remotely, to a course of over 300 undergraduate  
students, in less than two weeks has taken at a minimum, two to three times the time as  
teaching in a classroom. This is because remote teaching includes both synchronous and  
asynchronous teaching. The materials need to be complete in advance in order to lecture in 
real time, synchronously, not just bullet points. Content of PowerPoint presentations must 
include  more details so that they can be posted so that other students, unable to attend in 
real time  asynchronously, can make sense of the material. In addition all lectures must be 
recorded and  uploaded so students can listen whenever they want. Instructors should add 
techniques to keep  students engaged while on their computers at home. I try to write at 
least two polling questions  for every lecture. Of course, the fact that I have over 350 
students magnifies everything and that  this is new technology for the majority of faculty 
makes it challenging.Accessed: 6/1/2020 Video Game Review: "Animal Crossing: New Horizons" - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020  Sophia Nguyen
“Animal Crossing: New Horizons” brings back a beloved franchise onto the Nintendo 
Switch.
It is, without a doubt, that “Animal Crossing: New Horizons” was one of the most 
anticipated  games of 2020. Slated for a 2019 release, it would have been six years 
since the last mainline  entry in the series, “Animal Crossing: New Leaf.” The delayed 
release date of March 20, 2020  only intensified anticipation and excitement for the 
game. After years of waiting, I can say with  full confidence that the wait was worth it.
For those unfamiliar with the franchise, “Animal Crossing” is a series of life-
simulation games.  The recurring plot features the player as the sole human character, 
moving into a town with  adorable animal villagers. The general goal is to pay off your 
home loan while taking care of  your town, collecting fish and bugs, and befriending 
your villagers in the process. However, with  such an open-ended plot, the games offer 
an insane replay value. As  seen in the case of  the grandma who logged over 3,500 
hours into “Animal Crossing: New Leaf” , this franchise is beloved by a wide  
demographic, and it’s easy to see why. It is in part a collectathon, a designer’s dream, 
and an escape from  reality. Over the series’ 19-year history, fans have fallen in love
option of progressing at their own  pace, a playstyle that’s always welcome in today’s hectic 
world. with “Animal  Crossing’s”’s laid-back nature. The games give the player the option of 
progressing at their own pace, a playstyle that’s always welcome in today’s hectic 
world. 
So what does “Animal Crossing: New Horizons” have to offer? This time around, the 
game is set on a deserted island. It’s up to you as the “Resident Representative” to 
create an island suitable for living. Unlike previous games, “New Horizons” brings new 
concepts to the table. A new crafting mechanic has been added, allowing you to make 
new tools, furniture, and other in-game items. You can now get rewarded for 
completing tasks via the Nook Miles Program, which can be used to purchase more 
goods and the ability to travel to other islands to gain more resources. The Island 
Designer feature is the biggest change yet, as it lets you terraform and reconstruct the 
landscape to your will. Veterans and newcomers alike will constantly have something 
to discover, whether it be characters to interact with, customization options, or do-it-
yourself DIY recipes to make.
Additionally, the visuals and soundtrack are fully immersive, and perfectly lend to the 
game’s goal of making a captivating island paradise. The polished HD Nintendo Switch 
graphics allow for the series’s charm to shine through more than ever before. 
Everything is incredibly detailed, from the texture of the trees to the toe beans of the 
villagers, all while maintaining an endearing cartoon aesthetic. The ambient 
soundtrack makes use of ukulele and ocean sounds to transport you to a getaway with 
a little sunshine, a lot of beaches, and all the cuteness that one game can muster up. 
However, the game is not without its faults. While “New Horizons” has implemented 
the most changes to the series so far, some of them overstay their welcome. I found the 
crafting mechanic to be fun at first, but the constant need to build tools proved to be 
frustrating. There were many situations where I needed to catch a bug or fish, but my 
tools would break without warning and I would have to run to craft another. A possible 
solution would have been to implement a durability meter, so that players could at 
least be prepared for when their tools break. The progression of the game is quite slow, 
as it can take a day or more for construction projects to be completed. You can cheat 
the in-game clock by manually changing your system’s settings, but “Animal Crossing” 
has always prided itself on being a life simulation to the fullest, and what better way to 
simulate life than making people wait several days for something to be completed, out 
of their control? I didn’t mind waiting too much, since it felt like the game was 
rewarding me for my hard work by giving me a break, and not pushing me towards the 
next task at hand. All in all, these problems were rather small, and didn’t hinder myAccessed: 6/1/2020 Video Game Review: "Animal Crossing: New Horizons" - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/1/2020 Video Game Review: "Animal Crossing: New Horizons" - UCSD Guardian
overall enjoyment of the game. 
As fate would have it, “Animal Crossing: New Horizons” was released in the midst of a 
global pandemic, giving people all over the globe the chance to live out their fantasies of 
going to the beach whenever they want, making an income off of selling fruit and unwanted 
furniture, and socializing with their neighbors. The series has garnered a massive following 
over the past couple decades for giving people an escape from the stresses of real life, and 
its return to the gaming scene has achieved this again, only on a much larger scale. Online 
play between fellow players has opened up new avenues for socializing in an isolated world, 
whether it be from sharing custom clothing designs with friends or celebrating a virtual 
wedding. “New Horizons” also gives players a normal amidst the abnormal through 
tending to their island, and its wholesome energy is more than welcome during these trying 
times. Seemingly menial tasks like picking weeds and watering flowers offer a sense of calm 
and order amongst the chaos of the real world. The game’s lighthearted nature has people 
flocking to it for comfort, and it’s easy to see why.
With a stellar atmosphere, abundant innovations, and constant cheer, “Animal Crossing: 
New Horizons” truly lives up to its name as it takes new and old players alike to a 
destination worthy of escaping to hours on end. 
Grade: A 
Rating: E
Release date: March 20, 2020
Director: Aya Kyogoku
Producer: Hisashi Nogami
Company: Nintendo
Art by Susan Sun for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Hanaa Moosavi
Arts & Entertainment writer Hanaa Moosavi shares her Netflix-exclusive movie  
recommendations.
Hello all. As you may or may not know, my name is Hanaa Moosavi, and I am a writer 
here at The UCSD Guardian. Along with my studies as a philosophy and public law 
major, I’m also pursuing a film studies minor. Movies have always been a part of my life, 
like I am sure it has for many of you. I always find myself turning to movies in my 
freetime, when hanging out with friends, when I’m stressed, and honestly whenever. At a 
time like this, I know many of you are at a loss of how to fill your time without seeing 
your friends or going outside. Look no further: Here is a list of streamable movies that 
you can cuddle up with your computer and watch. I have seen all of these films once, 
twice, again and again, and one more time after that because of their reliability and my 
attachment issues with films. All the movies recommended below are offered on Netflix 
so read the reviews carefully and find one that fits you. Also, please remember to stay 
safe during these times and keep yourself active and healthy .a)Accessed: 6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
If you need a film that’s well made, has a very interesting plotline, and will tug the crap out 
of your heart strings, here’s “Short Term 12.” This film is about Grace (Brie Larson), a 
woman who works at a children’s center. While we follow Grace’s own story of handling 
her personal relationship with her boyfriend and the internalized trauma she has procured 
throughout her life, we also learn about the many different at-risk children and teens that 
inhabit the center. It’s hard not to fall in love with every character introduced and feel 
incredibly empathetic towards them. Filled with beautiful cinematography and witty, 
extremely emotional writing, “Short Term 12” is a movie I constantly find myself 
rewatching.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Bong Joon-ho is not just the director of the 2019 award winning film “Parasite,” he is also 
the director to “Okja,”  a heartwarming story depicting animal cruelty.  “Okja” follows Mija 
(Ahn Seo-hyun), a young woman who lives in the mountains in South Korea with her father 
and their genetically mutated animal bred for consumption by a major million dollar 
corporation. Not only is this film beautifully made with insane visuals of South Korea and 
calculating camera  angles, the plot displays a story not often told in the movie industry. The 
gut wrenching  moments throughout this film show the real reason people should care about 
animal cruelty  and how much it affects all of us. 6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Listen, I do not care who you are or what you think are appropriate movies to watch, “Anna 
Karenina” is a must see for any cinephile obsessed with experimental film design . By using 
an
 actual theater to base most of the scenes in, the writers of this movie were able to create 
three-dimensional metaphors of the different social classes within the story and integrate it 
in the set  design. A tale about a young woman, Anna (Keira Knightley), battling with her own 
need to  indulge in marital scandals is interwoven with the many different stories of the 
inhabitants of 19th-century Russia. This film is a transformation of one of the greatest pieces 
of classical  literature into, what I would call, one of the greatest pieces of cinematic 
excellence of the 21st  century.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
A movie I have recently been able to finally watch due to this time of self-isolation is “The 
Pianist,” which, for many film students, is considered a must see movie, and I would happen 
to agree. There have been many World War II films made because, as many of you know, the 
film industry loves to make profit from American success stories. Americans love to watch 
movies praising themselves. This movie, however, does a wonderful job of reworking an often 
told story  and giving it a new perspective. This film follows a pianist’s journey of living 
through the war as  a Jewish man. The added element of making him a piano player enhances 
the desperation of  scenes and the overall story through the addition of depressed and lengthy 
piano chords, as well  as the fast and paced compositions. “The Pianist” is certainly a movie to 
see if you are tired of the other renditions of a WWII plot. Fun Fact: this film won Roman 
Polanski a Best Director award at the Oscars, but, because he was wanted in America by the 
police, the award remains unclaimed to this day.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
I am weak when it comes to dark comedies, and “Inglorious Basterds” is no exception. And 
yes, I know this is another WWII film, but I was not lying when I said that Americans love 
their success stories. “Inglorious Basterds” follows a ragtag team of elite Jewish Nazi fighters. 
Since this is a Quentin Tarantino film, it is very gruesome and there are a lot of scenes where 
people  get scalped and absolutely destroyed physically, so this is not a film for the light-
hearted. Of  course, the plus side to it being from Tarantino is that it has amazing 
cinematography and  interesting ways of telling stories, making this another WWII film that 
takes on a fresh  perspective.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Okay, I think it’s time to hit you with the harder films I’ve seen. Warning: if you are not  
accustomed to watching experimental, psychologically messed up movies, then please move 
on to the next recommendation. “Super Dark Times” (Thriller) is a movie you would see on 
the recommended page on Netflix and think nothing of, continuing to scroll past to find a 
better  movie to watch. This thriller is the “Alice in Wonderland” of paranoia and suspicion 
that follows two friends who engage in a serious accident that changes their lives forever. 
Each plot reveal shocks you more than the last, making you determined to watch until the 
end. A surprisingly amazing display of scene work and set design takes you back to suburbian 
horror and surprise. 6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Continuing on with the dark theme, I present “The Lobster,” a movie I found completely on  
accident, and have now fallen in love with. “The Lobster” is set in a dystopian society where  
single people are required to find a counterpart or they will be transformed into an animal 
of their choice. We follow a man in his journey to find his soulmate and combat the insane 
world rules that he lives in. With dramatic, dry humor and deadpan delivery of all plot 
points, “The Lobster” is a drastically different delivery of dark comedy that keeps the 
audience intrigued  until the very end. 6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
It seems about time for me to recommend another film about love, and it has to be “About 
Time” because there is no romance film I crave more than this one right here. This film is 
purely for the hopeless romantics who love to indulge in a sweet story about two people 
finding love, with a twist. The movie follows Tim Lake (Domhnall Gleeson), a normal man 
who happens to have the genetic gift of  the ability to jump in time. As his life advances, 
contingencies arise in the special gift that force Tim into choices that change his life, for 
better and worse. Shot in the south Cornish coast, this film reminds you of fantastic 
memories of summer romance and falling in love.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Now, I know what you are thinking: we are down to the last two films and there has been no  
coming of age classics to fulfill our vicarious living-selves.  Here you go you dog, here is “The 
Perks Of Being A Wallflower” (Coming-of-Age),  a film that I loved so much when I was 
younger, I ended up with two copies of the novel completely by accident. This film is probably 
one of the  sweetest, soul-crushing coming of age films you will probably ever see in your 
lifetime. With a  cast including Logan Lerman, Emma Watson, and Ezra Miller, did you really 
expect to keep  yourself contained and mentally intact? This film follows young Charlie (Logan 
Lerman) as he navigates highschool life while supporting a heavy load of mental trauma. As 
he meets Patrick  (Ezra Miller), Sam (Emma Watson), and the gang, Charlie tries to experience 
all he can while  trying to keep his head above water. If you are missing high school a little 
extra, give this film a  watch.6/1/2020 Hanaa's Netflix Self-Isolation Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Last but not least, I give you a Jim Carrey classic that I have watched over five times with my 
parents. “Yes Man” (Comedy) shows Carl Allen’s (Jim Carrey) journey to experiencing the 
philosophy of “yes,” a philosophy that tells people to only say yes when different opportunities 
arise in their lives. While turning his life around, Carl seems to find that, not only does he like 
this new way of living, but when you give to the world, the world will certainly give back to 
you. This film definitely pounds the lesson “don’t let opportunities slip you” over your head. A 
lighthearted comedy that is full of Carrey shenanigans and fun facial expressions, “Yes Man” is 
something you can watch anytime, with anyone, no matter how many times you’ve already 
seen it. You will always love this classic.
With that, I conclude my list of Netflix recommendations. Thank you for reading, and I hope 
you find a movie that you will enjoy and cherish during these times of isolation.
Images courtesy of The New York Times, Vanity Fair, Slant Magazine, NME, Bloody 
Disgusting, The New Yorker, Collider, IMDb
Art by Anthony Tran for the UCSD Guardian.
Accessed: 11/18/2020 COVID-19: San Diegan Olympians React to Tokyo 2020 Uncertainty - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020  Shungo Najima 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information 
on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
The Tokyo Olympics organizers announced on Tuesday, April 14 that they do not 
have a “Plan B” for the event in the chance that it requires further postponement due 
to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. While local San Diego Olympians and officials 
collectively try their best to work  around the pandemic, the severity of the outbreak  
has left many to question if 15 months is  enough time to realistically hold the 
Olympics.
On March 24, the International Olympic Committee and Japanese officials decided 
to postpone  the Olympics and Paralympics by one year, effectively moving the start 
and end dates to July  23, 2021, and August 24, 2021, respectively.
Masa Takaya, the spokesman for the Tokyo Olympics, spoke to journalists on a 
teleconference call. “We don’t have a B Plan,” Takaya said. “Tokyo 2020 and allconcerned parties now are  doing their very best effort to deliver the games next year.”
In the event that the games are fully canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic next year,  
millions of athletes’ efforts may be deemed fruitless. SeveralSan Diego-based 
Olympians  expressed their optimism about the uncertainty of the event.
Brittney Reese: 3-Time Olympic Long Jumper; 2012 Gold Medalist, 2016 
Silver Medalist
“I’m only taking the positives out of this situation,” Reese said in an Instagram post. 
“More time in the lab = a stronger and faster BEAST!!!”
Nicole Ahsinger: Trampoline Gymnastics Olympian
“It’s hard to find out it’s going to be in 2021,” Ahsinger said in an interview with NBC 7. 
“Also, it’s just another year I get to train harder. Even though it’s another year, it’s still 
just a year.
Darrell Hill: Olympic Shot Putter
“Tokyo 2021? Delay is NOT Denial,” Hill said on Instagram.“An additional 365+ days to 
prepare? This one must be special. Take care of yourselves in the meantime. Lord 
please place a healing hand over our world.”
Lex Gillette: 4-Time Paralympic Long Jumper; 2004, 2008, 2012, 2016 
Silver Medalist
“I know that this news causes different reactions from athlete to athlete and it’s tough 
news, but for me, the vision still burns brighter than ever and that’s what keeps me 
going,” Gillette said in a Tweet.
Lex Gillette
@LexGillette
Thank you for all of the kind messages, texts, tweets, 
and  comments surrounding #Tokyo2020 . I know that this news 
causes different reactions from athlete to athlete and it’s tough 
news, but for me, the vision still burns brighter than ever and that’ s 
what keeps me going… cont.
28 9:22 AM - Mar 24, 2020
See Lex Gillette's other TweetsAccessed: 11/18/2020 COVID-19: San Diegan Olympians React to Tokyo 2020 Uncertainty - UCSD GuardianCOVID-19: San Diegan Olympians React to Tokyo 2020 Uncertainty - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 11/18/ 2020
Al Joyner: Olympian, 1984 Triple Jump Gold Medalist; USA Track & Field 
Coach
“See you in the summer of 2021 in Tokyo,” Joyner said on Instagram. “SAME PLACE, 
SAME DREAM, SAME DESIRES, JUST A YEAR LATER. But a year GREATER.”
Sakura Kokumai: Team USA Karate Athlete
Kokumai, a first-generation Japanese-American athlete who planned to make her 
Olympic debut in the Tokyo 2020 games, expressed her disappointment in the 
postponement of the event. 
“The dates are out,” Kokumai said on Instagram. “Time to reset and focus. Just another 
year to be faster and stronger. I’ll spend this next year evolving,” she added in Japanese 
at the end of her caption.Accessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: Chinese Parents Donate Personal Protection Equipment to UC San Diego Health - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Vivian Yang 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information 
on how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
UC San Diego Health received the first shipment of medical protection masks from a 
group of  over 300 Chinese parents of UCSD students on April 1, 2020. This shipment 
is one of several  shipments sent by this group of UCSD parents from China. The 
entire shipment includes  medical supplies such as masks, protective overalls, and 
face shields. 
In March, the group of parents voiced their intentions to donate money and medical 
support to  UCSD as the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 was rising and 
reports of medical  equipment  shortages were confirmed.
The donation started spontaneously among the parents and officially began on 
March 27. It received more than $40,000 USD, or ¥300,000 Chinese Yuan, in two 
24-hour donation windows.Accessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: Chinese Parents Donate Personal Protection Equipment to UC San Diego Health - UCSD Guardian
Due to the transportation and trade control in place by the Chinese government, the 
donations were divided into multiple shipments. Three shipments have been received at 
the time of this  article’s publication, and a fourth shipment will arrive within the next few 
days.
On April 12, the official UCSD Twitter account posted a  thread as they received 20,000 
masks, expressing their appreciation. 
A parent who volunteered in helping with the donation procedures said she wanted to help 
the university because to help the university is to help her own child.
But one of the key leading organizers of the donation event expressed more motivations 
behind  this donation on her personal blogging platform.
She declined to disclose her name because she insisted that the donation is from the entire  
group of parents from China, and she does not want to, in any case, enlarge her personal  
contribution. 
“If what is falling down in front of us is the entire world, who could avoid her 
responsibility and only mind herself?” she said. “What we want to do is what can bring a 
thread of peace to our  hearts during the darkest time.”A box of medical equipment with a logo that says "Love" (in red) in the middle.Accessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: Chinese Parents Donate Personal Protection Equipment to UC San Diego Health - UCSD Guardian
UC San Diego
@UCSanDiego
A group of UC San Diego parents from China sent more than 
20,000 masks, thousands of protective face shields, and full 
body suits to @UCSDHealth. We thank them for their 
generosity during these difficult times. #UCSDCares  
Learn about how you can help: bit.ly/2JXbotP
9:18 AM · Apr 12, 2020
219 43 people are Tweeting about this
“I can be a storyteller, but I am not the hero,” she added.
The group of parents are left with some remaining funds after purchasing the medical 
supplies.  They plan to use this money as emergency aid funding or an anti-epidemic fund 
for UCSD. 
Photo by UCSD Chinese parents for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/2/2020 On The Brighter Side: Global Quarantine Proves Climate Change - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Megan Cox 
Although this quarantine is a trying time for us all, it provides scientists with exciting 
new  information on human’s effects on climate change. This new information should  
inspire climate  change deniers into becoming believers.
While the entire planet has been on pause, overall  carbon emissions have been 
reduced, air pollution in major cities is going down,  and the waters of Venice  are 
clear and populated with marine life again. With humans stuck inside, nature slowly 
returns to its natural  equilibrium. These changes in ecological patterns inspire a new 
outlook on humankind’s relationship to the environment. 
Considering our schools acclaimed research in climate studies, most of our student 
population already understands humans’ impact on the environment. To other 
people, however, there the connection between human activity and climate change is 
unclear: In a study done by researchers at Yale University, 42 percent of those 
surveyed did not know if climate change was primarily caused by human interaction, 
but the international quarantine offers irrefutable proof. For example, climateAccessed: 6/2/2020 On The Brighter Side: Global Quarantine Proves Climate Change - UCSD Guardian
researchers predict that the coronavirus epidemic  will halve CO2 emissions in 
2020. When the world begins to  see how beneficial cutting CO2 emissions will be 
for the environment, it will increase “climate  literacy”  among skeptics. With this 
new knowledge in mind, people will be more inclined to change their habits. 
Furthermore, the international solidarity we’ve seen during the coronavirus 
pandemic proves the world’s ability to effectively work together in halting a crisis.  
The world will come out of this pandemic knowing that it’s possible to make a 
difference in flattening a curve. After this pandemic, there will be a wave of post 
traumatic growth where the world positively restructures. In that rebuilding period, 
the world should be willing to tackle flattening the Keeling curve, which measures 
the accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. 
People staying inside for a few weeks will not completely undo the decades of 
damage humankind has done to our environment, but quarantine shows that every 
person can do something small to make a difference. Hope is not lost for our 
warming planet — if people and companies recognize climate change is caused by 
humans, and they choose to minimize their ecological footprint because of it, the 
planet will become a little more sustainable.
Amidst the social and economic carnage this virus causes, remember there are 
silver linings: The climate research being done during quarantine immensely 
benefits science and the environment. The data collected will convince people of the 
legitimacy of climate change and its human causes. With the international 
teamwork used to halt the spread of coronavirus, networks are being made that will 
be essential in stopping the climate crisis. While we may be stuck indoors, the 
environment slowly returns to its beautiful, natural state. Climate research creates 
something everybody can be grateful for. 
Artwork by Angela Liang of the UCSD Guardian Art Department.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Social Media Influencers and Advertisers need to Support Users' Mental Health During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Zara Irshad
Entering the fourth week of online classes and for most of us, with quarantine, it has 
been easier  than ever to fall down the rabbit hole of social media. An advertising 
company called Obviously  found that their Instagram campaigns have been 
receiving 76 percent more  likes in the past two weeks, and TikTok activity has 
increased 27 percent in the  last month. 
Scrolling through the seemingly endless array of posts can feel inspiring and 
encouraging  during these dark times, but it can also be overwhelming. Some people 
feel pressure for not  being as productive as those who they see online, or feel 
anxious from reading constant news  reports. 
This is why it is more important now than ever for social media influencers and 
advertising companies to promote messages of authenticity and positivity. Although 
heavy, this burden is a necessary and critical one. A 2019 influencer marketing 
survey conducted by Rakuten Marketing, found that 89 percent of women and 83 
percent of men would make a purchase based on an influencer’s endorsement. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Social Media Influencers and Advertisers need to Support Users' Mental Health During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
Additionally, “fitspiration” posts on social media  platforms have proven to lead to 
varying levels of body dissatisfaction and facilitate “peer-based  body comparisons”, 
according to a content analysis  conducted by the Burnet Institute. This evidence 
makes it clear that the voices of influencers are  valued in today’s society. People are 
willing to listen, so it’s important to make what they’re  hearing authentic and honest.
Influencers and advertisements need to expose people to the idea that it’s okay to not 
be okay during this pandemic. Whether that be influencers being honest and realistic 
about their feelings and routines, or advertising companies promoting self-care 
products, those with large followings need to come together to foster a sense of 
community and camaraderie to help combat feelings of negativity.  
The link between social media and poor mental health has been long established, and 
studies have found that spending too much time on these platforms can lead to 
anxiety, loneliness, and depression. Since social media activity is increasing with 
everyone on lockdown, it can be assumed that the correlating side effects will also 
increase. This emphasizes the importance of individuals and companies with large 
followings recognizing their influence and using it to reassure their viewers.
Mental health is already vulnerable during a period of quarantine, so it’s important 
that what people see on social media doesn’t worsen it even more. The Lancet, an 
online medical journal, conducted a study through a variety of online databases 
regarding the mental health impacts of being quarantined. Using data collected from 
the 2003 SARS outbreak, it found that of a study group of 1,057 people, over 20 
percent reported fear, 18 percent reported nervousness, 18 percent reported sadness, 
and 10 percent reported guilt during quarantine. In addition, the study reported that 
some people developed worsening depression and/or anxiety that lasted post-
quarantine. 
Seeing as the SARS quarantine had such a profound impact on mental health and it 
was much lesser in severity than our current COVID-19 quarantine, with roughly 
8,000 worldwide cases and 800 deaths, one can only imagine the effects that 
COVID-19 will have. In order to mitigate these long-term effects and make our current 
situation easier, it’s crucial for those with influence online to publicize the fact that 
taking care of one’s mental health is important and looks different for everyone, rather 
than trying to upkeep a facade.
Lynn Bufka, a clinical psychologist and senior director at the American PsychologicalAccessed: 6/2/2020 Social Media Influencers and Advertisers need to Support Users' Mental Health During Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
Association reminds people to “be really clear that what you’re seeing on social 
media doesn’t reflect the reality for most people.” 
It is important for people to do what makes them feel happy and calm, not what 
they feel pressured into achieving by influencers and advertisements. While some 
may be motivated to be productive and utilize their time at home when they see 
social media posts, others may feel overwhelmed and anxious. Influencers have the 
responsibility to use their platforms to spread positivity and hope; they should be 
vulnerable and honest with their followers, voicing their current realities rather 
than creating idealized ones. This is a traumatic time for some and a life adjustment 
for everyone; people need to remember that it is okay to not be fully functioning. 
As Bufka says, “there’s no road map on how you manage a pandemic.” The 
responsibility to help convey this to society on a large scale is in the hands of those 
with influence and power, and if done right, this will allow for the united and 
supportive society that the world needs right now. 
Artwork by Anthony Tran of the UCSD Guardian Art Department.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 1 - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020  Daisy Scott 
Editor’s Note: This article was researched before UC San Diego’s transition to remote 
learning due to COVID-19. The programs discussed in this article are temporarily not 
available for student participation. 
If you asked UC San Diego students to name a type of tree on campus, most would 
respond  with  eucalyptus. After all, the campus was constructed where a vast eucalyptus 
grove resided,  and the Stuart Collection’s  installments of  “Trees” and “Two Running 
Violet V Forms” hinge on the leveling of this grove for meaning. 
However, despite the eucalyptus trees’ prevalence and recognition, they are far from 
being the  only trees on campus. In fact, there are more than a hundred different species 
of trees currently  growing across UCSD. The beginning of the 2019-2020 academic 
school year kickstarted three  new initiatives to encourage greater awareness and 
support regarding tree diversity on campus. 
In honor of Earth Day, The UCSD Guardian compiled this series  to share with readers 
what these new campus initiatives entail and their ultimate goals. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 1 - UCSD Guardian
Tree Tours
A new opportunity to learn about and support campus sustainability emerged this year 
with the  “Tree Tours.” These events are free, hour-long tours that teach students and 
faculty about the  various species of trees on different parts of campus. The tours were the 
idea of Chris Johnson, a groundskeeper, student garden coordinator, and horticulturist. 
He was joined by Mike Hogan,  an urban forester, in both applying and later hosting the 
tours. 
“On a tour, we visit an area of campus,” Johnson explained, “and talk about six or so trees, 
their natural and cultural history, ethnobotany, how they got their name, why they are 
interesting here or why they were planted, and as a Beatle friend and regular ‘customer’ 
added, what Beatle song each tree reminds me of.”
The tours began this academic year after receiving funding from the UCSD Staff 
Sustainability Network in Spring 2019. According to Sustainability Engagement Manager 
Jennifer Bowser, this annual network award “provides funding for a staff member 
through a grant that helps increase awareness of sustainability on campus.” The funding 
Johnson received was able to pay for informative handouts and tree-related snacks — for 
example, pine nuts for discussions on pine trees — to tour attendees. 
“I am always thinking of ideas to push my agenda of a campus arboretum, and having 
been to dozens across the country, I put forward what they do. I’m not inventing anything, 
I’m just inventing it here,” Johnson said. “Many arboreta and gardens have tree tours, and 
to push tree advocacy, familiarity and knowledge come first.”
After receiving this funding, Johnson and Hogan began hosting the tours with groups 
ranging from three to 25 attendees across campus. As of the beginning of March, eight 
Tree Tours had been held, with the most recent one taking place on February 28 at the 
base of the Sun God statue and focusing on “the trees the Sun God sees.” Students were 
able to learn about the nearby tree species’ characteristics and history, and at the end of 
the tour, Johnson gave a seedling tree he started growing in his nursery to a student 
attendee. 
“I am interested in succulents and trees, so when the tours came along, I was intrigued,” 
Divisional Manager of Facilities Karen Wagner said. “Mike and Chris are so 
knowledgeable and passionate about what they do, I have become a regular. They share 
information on native species, but also where the non-native tree species come from. TheAccessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 1 - UCSD Guardian
Tree Tours have inspired me  to explore new parts of the campus and learn more about 
its history—there really are some  hidden gems out there.”
Currently, Chris Johnson spends his days tending the trees and student gardens while 
campus access is limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tree Tours have been 
cancelled for the  remainder of the academic year, but students interested in joining 
when physical classes and  events resume can access the Staff Sustainability Network 
calendar here.
Photo by Esra Elhendy for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Words Over Weapons - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020  Lanlily Nguyen 
Discussing politics is no small feat, let alone leading the discussion. In efforts to 
learn more  about each other and foster community at UC San Diego, Open Dyalog 
works to encourage  students to speak their minds on controversial political 
topics and what they can do to take  action.
The following interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. 
The Pew Research Center  finds that only 17 percent of the public would be very  
comfortable conversing over the topic of politics with someone they did not know 
very well. It is  not uncommon to want to avoid discussions on politics. In fact, it is 
often the norm to avoid  uncomfortable dinners with the extended family, online 
Twitter fights, and most certainly the  violence that incurs when stating one’s own 
personal beliefs.
To amend this, Open Dyalog, a student organization founded in September 2019 at 
UC San Diego, seeks to foster community through open discussions on politics and 
current issues. In June of 2019, The UCSD Guardian sat down with Zahabiya Accessed: 6/2/2020 Words Over Weapons - UCSD Guardian
Nuruddin, Warren College senior  and founder of Open Dyalog, to  learn more about her 
journey in healing political and social  disconnection in The Village at Torrey Pines. 
The UCSD Guardian: How did Open Dyalog get its start?
Nuruddin: I was a Resident Assistant for The Village last year and there were incidents 
of racial discrimination. People drew swastikas on my building, they yelled racial slurs, 
and there was a huge disconnect in my community. I completed a police report and 
went to each and every apartment to talk about how hate symbols and speech does not 
have a place in our residential community. But residents still came up to me and said 
they felt unsafe and disconnected [when] they were living there. 
I started hosting these weekly social justice town halls. [At first,] they weren’t very well 
attended. We tried to have a more professional discussion in which we would discuss 
what it meant to live in a cohesive community. We quickly transitioned into doing more 
of an open discussion where we talked about controversial topics such as abortion, 
immigration, and gun rights. People from different perspectives started to come 
together, and we had constructive conversations. No one was yelling at each other. No 
one was calling each other names. It was people from completely opposite ends of the 
political spectrum sitting in a circle in a room, eating some food together and having an 
honest discussion. I led one almost every week from January to June in 2019, for a 
total of about 15 discussions. 
The Guardian: How did you go from these Village resident hall forums to a university-
wide organization?
Nuruddin: [At the time], it was just the resident community in The Village. I didn’t 
want to lose this steam from this movement, so as a fourth year I wanted to expand this 
to the rest of the university.  I wanted to expand to other residential areas and other 
universities. So that’s what I started working on this summer. At The Basement 
[Editor’s note:  The Basement  is a campus-wide resource hub at UC San Diego 
designed to support students in innovation and entrepreneurship. ], I was trying to 
come up with a plan on how to expand. I ended up starting a student org called Open 
Dyalog. We then held [our discussions] in Price Center during the Fall and Winter 
Quarters. We started off well with a following of about 15 to 20 people at each 
discussion.”
The Guardian: What would these discussions look like?Accessed: 6/2/2020 Words Over Weapons - UCSD Guardian
Nuruddin: As an RA, I didn’t have any formal training as a facilitator. So week after 
week I tried  different things. I would show either a video or read out an article so that 
the attendees could  have something to begin talking about. I would do my best to create 
open-ended and unbiased  questions to generate conversation. Primarily, we emphasized 
that this was an open space. It’s  not like you can’t say controversial thoughts or 
opinions. You can, as long as you are being  considerate of other people and not 
deliberately attacking them. 
It can be tough to know when to draw the line as a facilitator when speech begins to 
escalate  and upset people- to address this, our facilitators emphasize the community 
guidelines at the  beginning and repeatedly ask ‘Why?’ when a student expresses a 
certain thought or opinion. By  continuing to ask questions, we often find that we can get 
to the root of the issue and discover  common core values among even the most diverse 
groups of people.
The Guardian: What are some topics that you guys have discussed and what are some 
topics you  hope to bring up in the future?
Nuruudin: Well, this week our topic is ‘The Blame Game’ surrounding coronavirus. But 
we’ve done discussions on media bias, immigration, and religion. Our mission is to start 
directing our  discussions towards what we can actually do in our communities and 
future jobs concerning  some of the issues. Discussions about the election and health 
care would be extremely  interesting future topics to talk about. 
The Guardian: How has Open Dyalog impacted those who participated?
Nuruudin: One of the best parts of this experience has been training a group of 10 
facilitators to lead future discussions. As a student leader for the past few years, I have 
gone through different conflict resolution programs. Through my hands-on experience 
at The Village, I developed an interactive training program to successfully equip 
interested students with the skills they would need to lead these discussions. The three 
main parts of the program include developing a leader who is self aware of their own 
identity and those of others, can actively and effectively participate in a discussion, and 
be a facilitator to lead these discussions. Not only have the skills impacted the org, but it 
also has an impact in their personal lives. People have conflicts with friends, 
roommates, and family. The skills they learn through this org are applicable to personal 
conflict and future careers as well. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Words Over Weapons - UCSD Guardian
In Winter Quarter we started to expand to residential areas. We did about five 
collaborations with RAs and brought our program to their residents and led an open 
discussion. We worked  with Muir, I-House, Warren, and others. It was really amazing to 
see how fast we could mobilize  and hold these discussions while still maintaining that 
close community feel. 
The Guardian: How has Open Dyalog adjusted and responded to recent events with 
COVID-19?
Nuruudin: We have begun to utilize the features on Zoom to host two discussions per 
week. We hosted our first discussion this past Wednesday. It was interesting,  because 
now we have  Zoom’s ‘breakout rooms’ where we can have smaller discussions and then 
we come back  together to the main room to have a larger discussion. And we still have 
the same features:  community guidelines, open questions. We aim to create a respectful 
platform where people can  feel comfortable to share what is on their minds. We host 
discussions every Sunday at 2 p.m.  and every Wednesday at 6 p.m. 
The Guardian: Where do you see Open Dyalog taking off in five years?
Nuruddin: I hope in five years it has become a platform that has grown and been self-
sustained.  Students have so much on their plates, and it’s hard to sustain [the retention] 
year after year.  I’m really trying to transition it to be based on a more sustainable model 
in which facilitators  teach the new facilitators and there is always this new energy moving 
forward. 
There’s also a new opportunity to expand our online platform. If we can really hone in on 
the online platform and reach students across the nation and even across the world, these 
students  will be our leaders in politics and big corporations. They will be future doctors 
and lawyers and  they will have the necessary tools to have these open discussions. Then 
hopefully, we will be  able to deal with our world’s most pressing issues in a more 
constructive manner. I sincerely  hope that there are passionate students that will 
continue to lead this movement well into the  future. 
Open Dyalog meets every Sunday at 2 p.m. and Wednesdays at 6 p.m. PST. You can 
follow them on their Facebook  page and join their discussions via Zoom.
Photo courtesy of Zahabiya Nuruddin.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Triton Timeout: How to View Athletes During a Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 April 19, 2020   Jack Dorfman 
Our athletes are invincible. That is why when the first NBA player contracted the 
virus, the country went on notice. The professional leagues suspended their seasons 
around the world,  and for many Americans who had not yet been affected by 
COVID-19, that is when the virus  first began to disrupt their routines. That was 
almost exactly one month ago, back in the second  week of March.
Fast forward to now. We are in the second week of April. We have not had Opening 
Day for Major League Baseball; the Olympics, for the first time in its century-
spanning history, has been  postponed, and Colby Cave, a hospitalized NHL player, 
passed away without his family in the  room with him due to the threat of the 
coronavirus. 
Our athletes are invincible. We deify them and we dehumanize them, and yet now, 
without  them playing their sports for us to enjoy, we can finally grasp just how 
human they really are.  For some of us, we can relate to them now more than ever 
because they are stuck at home,  playing the same video games we do that purvey their 
skills to millions of wishful thinkers and  hopeful dreamers. For others, they endurethe same pains we do, from losing a teammate or  best friend to having to isolate from 
their families to keep them safe. 
Really, we can always relate to them. Even when the season is going, they are still just 
like us. Anyone who is an athlete themselves, or is friends with one, or has gotten a 
chance to sit down with professionals knows that much. But when sports are in play 
and the world is “normal,” many of us forget that simple fact.
Our athletes are not invincible. They hear the jeers and insults just like they hear the 
cheers and praise. They see the loathing on the contorted faces of enemy fans, just 
like they see the little kid with the sign asking for a signed ball on their birthday. All 
of the emotions we face, they face too, with the added pressure of being viewed by 
millions of people on a nightly basis and of being a role model for entire generations 
of young athletes.
Now more than ever, we need to remember that our athletes deserve the same period 
of reflection, rest, and health that we do. Seeing them play games as early as next 
month would certainly bring many people some vestige of the nostalgic comfort that 
ideally would not have to be so. In the real and pressing case of the MLB, a league 
scrambling to field teams overseas or in Arizona with little to no thought seeming to 
go to the mental health of the players in question, fans should not react with 
gratitude. There should be anger for the dehumanization of their idols; their boos 
should be directed at their owners, who are doing nothing to stop the flood of rumors 
and speculation surrounding these desperate actions. 
Remember, our athletes are not invincible. Their health and safety should not be put 
on the line for the small emotional benefit of a few million fans, and for the 
pocketbooks of the wealthy owners running the teams and the television networks. 
We should save them just like they have saved us.
Art by Kalo GrimsbyAccessed: 6/2/2020 Triton Timeout: How to View Athletes During a Pandemic - UCSD Guardian