Accessed: 10/26/2020 International Student Stay in US May Be Restricted to 4 Years - UCSD Guardian
International Student Stay in US May Be Restricted to 4
Years
 October 22, 2020  Zhuoying Lin 
On Sept. 24, the Department of Homeland Security proposed to shorten the stay for  
international students and scholars with F, J and I classifications. They believe that the  
rule will strengthen U.S. immigration laws and prevent foreigners from exploiting the 
country’s education system.  
Current international students with valid visas are allowed to stay for as long as their 
academic programs last. They also have the ability to extend their duration of stay, with 
approval from the sponsoring university, if they will exceed the anticipated time period, 
such as the case when research takes longer than expected or additional programs are 
added. To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 10/26/2020 International Student Stay in US May Be Restricted to 4 Years - UCSD Guardian
Under the proposed rule, however, DHS would set a fixed authorized stay for a maximum of  
four years. Individuals with F or J visa status  — students,  researchers, scholars, and their 
dependents — need to reapply their visas after the expiration  date. The proposed rule doesn’t 
limit the number of times to file an extension. Additionally,  students from counties on the 
State Sponsors of Terrorism list  or associated with a high visa overstay rate––greater than 10  
percent––may be subject to a two-year fixed stay with the opportunity of extension. 
“Given the possibility for people to stay in the US overtime with a nonimmigrant academic  
status, it’s reasonable for the government to be cautious of fraud,” Roger Revelle College  
senior Jiayu Huang, who is also an international student, said. “There are cases in which  
international students stay and apply for a job in the country without status.” 
The federal proposed rule also reduces the F-1 grace period from 60 to 30 days after  
completion of the program of study. This will limit the time for individuals to change status,  
transfer to another school or leave the US. F-1 students who enroll in non-degree English  
language programs, such as those offered by Extension International Programs, will have a  
limited lifetime aggregate of 24 months in language study — including academic breaks — as  
opposed to the current policy which has no limitation. 
“I don’t think that the existing culture is extremely welcoming toward international students.  
I think that it needs to improve,” Thurgood Marshall College senior Haley Fong said. 
“Having international students is beneficial for everyone in our age range to form 
interpersonal  connections and understand different perspectives, teaching styles, and other 
sociocultural  values. U.S. students learn, international students learn — it’s a combination of 
everything.”
Huang also believes colleges need to cultivate a welcoming environment to support its 
international community. 
“Compared to the [proposed] policy, the academic environment including campus culture 
plays a much important role in my willness to continue my education here,” Huang said.
“Political policy may change people’s attitudes toward students from certain countries…But 
if my colleague and classmates remain inclusive and friendly to us, I will be very willing to 
continue my education here.”
According to the Fall 2019 report from the International Student and Programs Office, 
there’re a total of 8,842 international students at UC San Diego, which makes up 23.5Accessed: 10/26/2020 International Student Stay in US May Be Restricted to 4 Years - UCSD Guardian
percent of the student population. Many international students currently enrolled have an F1  
visa, which permits them a five-year duration status. New changes from the DHS will directly  
impact students with F or J status, since many undergraduate and graduate degree programs  
take more than four years to complete.
“This policy is unwise and shows the untrustworthiness toward international students, just as  
the ICE policy which tried to prevent international students taking online classes in the U.S.  
during the pandemic,” Earl Warren College sophomore Charlie He said. “All the colleges  
should stand together and take legal action to vote against these unreasonable policies that  
may potentially harm the international community.”
In a statement of support  made to all UCSD international students and  researchers on Oct. 
21, ISPO confirms the campus’s ongoing efforts to express concerns and  submit formal 
comments to the DHS. Students are also encouraged to  contact U.S. elected officials or  
submit comments  to DHS by Oct. 26. The statement is intended to inform students about the 
proposal, and ISPO is unable to provide any immediate advice until the final rule is 
published.  
“We have fielded numerous questions from students who are concerned about the negative  
impact on their studies and ability to remain in the U.S. to complete their academic  
programs,” ISPO Director Dulce Amor L. Dorado said in an email to The UCSD Guardian.  
“We want to assure students that we stand firmly in support of our international community. 
As Tritons, we recognize and value the many significant contributions you have made to our 
campus, greater community, and country.” 
ISPO, International Faculty & Scholars Office, and Extension International Programs will 
continue to monitor the situation and provide updates via email and websites when more 
information is available. Students who have questions or concerns can visit
https://iStudents.ucsd.edu,  contact the international students office via phone  
858-534-3730 or online advising.
Photo courtesy of Tanya Bharatula for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/27/2020 Some Graduate Students Lose UCSD-Sponsored Health Insurance at Start of Fall Quarter - UCSD Guardian
 October 23, 2020   Andrew Ha 
At the start of the 2020 Fall Quarter, approximately 500 graduate students were left without 
their University of  California Student Health Insurance Plans, because UC San Diego did not 
enroll them on time. Some of these students  allege that they were left without insurance for 
approximately two weeks, during which time they had to make out-of-pocket expenses if they 
wanted to have their doctors appointments and receive their prescription drugs. 
According to the United Auto Workers Local 2865 union’s grievance filed against UCSD,  
some academic student employees noticed that their insurance remained inactivated even 
though they had provided  all payments and documentation on time. The grievance, which 
was sent to the University of California’s Labor  Relations for adjudication, claims that UCSD 
had violated a part of the UC/UAW Collective Bargaining Agreement by  not renewing the 
students’ insurance in a timely fashion.
“I was set to scheule [my doctor’s appointment] finally but then I was told over the phone that 
my insurance was inactive,” third year ethnic studies PhD student Muhammad Yousuf said toAccessed: 10/27/2020 Some Graduate Students Lose UCSD-Sponsored Health Insurance at Start of Fall Quarter - UCSD Guardian
The UCSD Guardian. “I couldn’t believe it  at the time because I was registered as a full-time 
student and all my fees were paid.”
Yousuf was not enrolled for SHIP because he submitted his paperwork after the date that 
UCSD sent a processing  notification to Academic HealthPlans.  AHP is the health plan 
enrollment/waiver administrator that processes  student’s paperwork to send over to insurance 
carriers. Although Yousuf had provided his documentation prior to his  academic department’s 
submission deadline, the university had already sent their available roster on Sept. 21.
UCSD claims that they sent the processing notification early in order to get more students 
insured by the start of the  academic year on Oct. 1. They have also since stated that students 
who received medical services during their period  without SHIP will be retroactively covered 
and be provided with reimbursements for their out-of-pocket expenses.
“UC San Diego did not purposely delay insurance for any students. The eligibility process takes 
time and if students  are not registered when the enrollment files are transferred, their active 
eligibility is delayed,” a Student Health &  Wellbeing representative said to The UCSD 
Guardian in an email. “UC San Diego works to abide by the AHP’s  schedule for enrollment, but 
due to slow selection into various graduate education programs and registration of  students, 
some students may not be listed on the enrollment file.”
Although UCSD Student Health & Wellbeing said that they informed the Grad Division, the 
Graduate Student  Association and the Student Workers Union of the delay, some students still 
claim that they were not notified of their  lack of insurance until they had attempted to use it. 
For students who contacted SHIP individually, insurance  reactivation took approximately 2–3 
business days. 
“If a student was not included in the 9/21/20 list and needs immediate coverage, SHS can 
provide an urgent add to the enrollment file and have their coverage expedited,” Assistant 
Dean of Graduate Student Affairs April Bjornsen said in an email to Yousuf. “SHS provides 
rosters every other week to the brokerage or on a needed basis. SHS can also add a student 
individually if needed.”
Fourth-year theater Ph.D. student Kristin Leadbetter, who is jointly enrolled at UC Irvine and 
UCSD, registered for insurance with the former school. Because her UCSD department did not  
properly file her insurance paperwork for transfer from UCI, she did not have her prescribed 
medication over a weekend.Accessed: 10/27/2020 Some Graduate Students Lose UCSD-Sponsored Health Insurance at Start of Fall Quarter - UCSD Guardian
“Side effects I’ve experienced in the past include nausea, vomiting, panic attacks, and fatigue,” 
Leadbetter said. “Going  off of all [my medications] was a combination of the worst withdrawal 
symptoms. I didn’t want to leave my house  because I felt like a zombie… There was no 
possibility to get work done, to do research, to really do anything other  than just lay on the 
couch and try not to vomit.”
Although Leadbetter had acute symptoms, she decided to go without medication because it  
would have cost her over$1,000 out-of-pocket. After the weekend, she was able to contact a 
SHIP associate who helped reinstate her insurance  in the next 48 hours. 
Fourth-year chemistry graduate student Eleanor Castracane faced a similar issue when they 
had to go to an  appointment and purchase additional medication. They discovered at Ralph’s 
Pharmacy that their insurance did not  work and that they would have to pay out-of-pocket. 
However, Castracane was able to negotiate with the pharmacy for  a reimbursement of their 
medicine and later had one of their claims processed by SHIP’s insurance partner, Anthem, 
for reimbursement.
“We don’t get a notification if we’ve been dropped. We just have to try to use our insurance 
and at that point, they tell you whether or not it’s ok,” Castracane said. “This isn’t a new thing 
that has happened… Last fall [2019] was worse because they changed insurance enrollment 
companies. Almost all [graduate] students were late in getting their insurance.”
Castracane’s comment was corroborated by another student who said their insurance was 
rejected last Fall 2019 by a private dental office when they went in for a routine procedure. 
This person has requested to remain anonymous. When reaching out to the university, this 
person was also informed that inactive insurance at the beginning of the quarter was a regular 
process.  
“What [UCSD] told me was that at the start of every quarter there is a ‘verification period’ 
during which the school verifies all of our fees and tuition are paid before they update our 
plans,” the source said. “Apparently, we needed to contact the insurance company at Student 
Health Services ahead of time if we needed some necessary appointment during this 10 day 
period. I was told [by UCSD] that there is no documentation on the internet or in print, so we 
had to know about it anyways.”
The university has responded by citing discrepancies that exist between insurance enrollment 
and student registration. Rather than allowing students to enroll for insurance on their own, 
some academic departments act as an intermediary by processing and sending studentAccessed: 10/27/2020 Some Graduate Students Lose UCSD-Sponsored Health Insurance at Start of Fall Quarter - UCSD Guardian
documentation to SHIP. This additional step consequently makes the  overall enrollment 
process longer. 
“Moving forward, our department will work with these academic departments to create a better 
schedule, so that we  include all students that are expecting to be included in the insurance 
offering,” the Student Health & Wellbeing  representative said. “We would love to have everyone 
covered by the first day of the quarter but due to a fluid  registration process – in which students 
are still registering for classes past the first official date of the quarter – we  are unable to do this. 
We are working on our timing, so that this issue doesn’t affect students in the future.”
UCSD Student Health & Wellbeing will continue to work with the Graduate Division to develop 
better, more timely  registration practices to ensure that all students who want SHIP insurance 
are able to receive it. However, without that  support and earlier notification in September, 
students still found themselves in a difficult situation.
“I understand the need to update your rosters and be as accurate as possible when you’re giving 
insurance, but it is a  bureaucratic nightmare that is susceptible to error, especially in a situation 
like this,” Yousuf said. “For graduate  students having been unenrolled during the pandemic, 
during Return to Learn, when it’s possible that you’ve been  exposed to COVID, and with times 
of increased stress on mental health, accessing [health insurance] services is vital.”
For reimbursement-related inquiries, please contact Anthem Blue Cross at 1-800-940-8306 or 
Delta Dental at 1-800-765-6003. Reimbursements typically take a few weeks to be processed.
To inquire more about SHIP insurance, please contact Student Health and Wellbeing’s  
insurance department at 858-534-2124 or email at SHIP9@ucsd.edu. If you would like to report 
your case to the UAW Local 2865, please fill out  this survey.
Photo courtesy of Irvin Yang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/27/2020 XOXO, Guardian Gurl: Girl Code Dilemma - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020  Guardian Staff 
Dear Guardian Gurl,
I recently reconnected with a friend who ghosted me for the past three months right after 
hooking up. He was the one who texted me first and he apologized for going MIA. He said 
he still thinks about the day we hooked up and even specified details of the hook up that he 
has missed the most. Before he ghosted me, I was starting to develop feelings for him, so I 
thought that by him texting me again that something could happen between us. However, 
after checking his instagram through a friend’s account (I don’t have any social media 
besides Facebook), I found out he has a girlfriend. I confronted him about why he sent 
flirtatious and suggestive texts to me while in a relationship and he told me he was “just 
reminiscing,” as friends apparently do. Long story short, I told him that it’s best that we 
cut communication and he agreed. Now I’m conflicted: should I message the girlfriend 
about the texts or leave it alone? I understand the pros and cons of both choices, but I’m 
still concerned about her not knowing. Yes, they were just texts, but in my opinion, one 
shouldn’t text a past hookup telling them they miss them and go into detail about what 
they miss most while they’re in a relationship.Accessed: 10/27/2020 XOXO, Guardian Gurl: Girl Code Dilemma - UCSD Guardian
Sincerely,
Female looking out for her fellow female
Dear Female Looking Out For Her Fellow Female, 
This can be a real tough one! First of all, good on you for being skeptical of Mr. Ghost. I’ve  
gone through a similar thing where I was ghosted for a few months and continued to go back  
to him. Three words, girl: not worth it. I’m glad you were able to stand strong! 
When it comes to a situation like this, I often say you should go with what your gut tells you.  
He ghosted you, tried to come back, and he had a girlfriend the whole time! Something tells  
me this guy isn’t thinking much with his head, but rather something else instead… If he is  
with someone and tries to text another girl about something not-so-PG-13, I think that is a  
red flag for everyone involved. He made a choice to text you, so he should know that will  come 
with consequences! 
To make it simple, put yourself in his girlfriend’s place. If you were her, would you want to  
know if your boyfriend was texting other girls? Especially a girl he’s had a romantic history  
with? I know if I was her, I’d sure want to know. If you come clean to her, it’s not like you’ve  
done anything wrong. If you keep it to yourself and it somehow comes out later, you might  
seem a little sus, as the kids say. So my advice to you is to stick to the Girl Code and let this  
man deal with his own actions. You got this, girl! 
XOXO,
Guardian Gurl
“xoxo guardian gurl” is the UCSD Guardian’s newest advice column. Fill out the form at 
tinyurl.com/ask-guardian-gurl to ask Guardian Gurl any questions.Accessed: 10/27/2020 What Your Quarantine Coping Says About You - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Colleen Conradi 
As we find ourselves in the seventh month of quarantine, many of us have had to get creative  
in order to fill all the time at home or because it helps us from going stir-crazy! There have  
been many trends to come and go during quarantine that may have become your pandemic  
coping method. Here’s what your activity of choice says about you:
Making Bread : If you’ve spent time in quarantine scouting out different grocery stores 
that still had yeast in stock, this one’s for you. Using quarantine to make different kinds of 
bread tells me that you’re the most wholesome one in the friend group. You like to take care 
of other people — especially by feeding them — because you like to be the “mom.” However, 
you might not be the best at putting yourself first! You probably have caught yourself 
choosing bread making over facing a problem of your own, but hey, that banana bread is 
always worth it.
Renovating a Room: If you’ve spent quarantine giving your bedroom or any other part of 
your house a makeover, then you love to be productive. You see quarantine as an 
opportunity to finally get all of those tasks done that have been in your mind for months. IfAccessed: 10/27/2020 What Your Quarantine Coping Says About You - UCSD Guardian
you relate to  this, I envy you. You’ve probably been able to make a schedule for yourself and 
wake up  before 10 a.m. You know what you want and you’re not afraid to go for it!
Cutting or Dyeing Your Hair : If you’ve done anything drastic to your hair over  
quarantine, girl, are you okay? I am also guilty of this, from cutting my bangs in March to  
getting ready to dye my hair pink and blue this week. If you’re like me, you may have done  
this as a reaction to all of the world-ending events going on around you. You like to be in  
control of your life and 2020 has done many things to stop you. One thing you have the  power 
to control is your own hair, which feels nice. Also, being stuck at home is the perfect  time to 
experiment — who’s going to see it?! 
Playing Video Games/Spending Time on Social Media : If you’ve been playing too  
much “Animal Crossing” or “Among Us,” you most likely have been using quarantine to  
connect with your inner kid! Specifically, if you prefer “Animal Crossing” and you’re living at  
home with your parents, there’s something about the nostalgia for you that’s comforting. It’s  
just like when you were playing “Cooking Mama” on your Nintendo DS, except this time if  
you’re playing too late at night and you hear a parent’s footsteps in the hall, you don’t need to  
pretend to be asleep in case they check on you. If you’ve been on TikTok too much, similarly  
to “Animal Crossing,” you find it to be comforting. When the outside world is falling apart,  
you find TikTok to be a perfect Vine-like escape. When those ads come up on TikTok telling  
you to stop scrolling and go to bed, you absolutely skip right through it and later regret  
scrolling for two more hours. 
Dalgona Coffee: If you were making this whipped coffee drink in early quarantine, you like 
to stay on top of new trends. You probably love finding cute brunch spots or coffee shops and 
almost always post about it on Instagram. It is also likely that you learned how to dance to 
“Say So” by Doja Cat. If you’re making it now in October, you might be feeling nostalgic for 
the happy ignorance we all felt in March, drinking whipped coffee and watching “Tiger King.”Accessed: 10/27/2020 TV Review: "Emily in Paris" - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020  Deyshna Pai
“Emily in Paris” is a national embarrassment. 
In the midst of a pandemic in a country that has mishandled global and social crises for the 
past four years, “Emily in Paris” sells viewers a tone-deaf, American escapist fantasy that can 
only be watched through cracked fingers in the depths of second-hand embarrassment. From 
its repulsive undercurrents of American moral superiority to its wince-eliciting, caricatured 
portrayal of French culture, there is very little left to love within these 10 episodes. Much of 
the writing relies on stereotypes to fuel plot points and force drama. For example, Emily 
(Lily Collins), the bright-eyed, naive American marketing intern at Savoir, a Parisian 
marketing firm, is often at odds with the hedonism of the French lifestyle. She is thrown by 
her coworkers’ leisurely attitudes toward work-life balance, the forwardness of French lovers 
— a prominent trope on this show — and the elitism of the Parisians she encounters.
The exaggeration of Emily’s differences from her French counterparts creates a season’s 
worth of plot that is plain uncomfortable to watch as it mainly touts a sensationalized 
ideology of how the French view sex. Antoine (William Abadie), a married client, flirts withAccessed: 10/27/2020 TV Review: "Emily in Paris" - UCSD Guardian
Emily while both his wife and his mistress are in the same room. Later on, he inappropriately  
gifts her expensive lingerie as a thank-you for helping his ad campaign, which Emily must  
hide along with her indignation at the blurring of work-life boundaries from her tough boss  
Sylvie (Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu), who is revealed to be his mistress. It’s messy, it’s cheap,  
and it gets worse. 
Emily, in all her prudish glory, later learns that it is a “common thing” for wives to be aware  
of their French husbands taking on mistresses, and that it is, in fact, encouraged, because “no  
one wants to have sex with the same person for their whole life.” Contrarian statements like  
this exist aplenty in “Emily in Paris,” acting as a mouthpiece for the French population — a  
presumptuous move for a “Sex and the City” knockoff to think it can speak for an entire  
country. Furthermore, “Emily in Paris” doesn’t seem like it even understands its own logic  
about the French. Antoine’s wife finds out about a secret trip he planned and assumes it was  
for herself, which upsets Sylvie, Antoine’s intended vacation partner who must stay home as  
a result. This contrasts with the end of the show when Antoine’s wife insinuates to Emily that  
she’d make a better mistress to her husband than Sylvie, displaying a disorienting mix of  
awareness and lack thereof. Confusingly, these interactions barely acknowledge the rules the  
show sets earlier on about “how French relationships work.” As a result, the writing of these  
characters and their actions feels haphazard and nonsensical.
Finally, “Emily in Paris” tries to incorporate a laughable feminist agenda that puts the  
movement to shame. When Emily is not questioning why female body parts use masculine  
articles in gendered romance languages, she takes issue with French ad campaigns that  
exploit female sexuality for profit. The French client and boss argue to Emily’s disagreement  
that a woman’s sexuality empowers her to have control over men, influencing her marketing 
strategy of posting these ads on social media with the caption “SexyorSexist?” The debate 
feels so contrived and cringeworthy, that at some point listening to metal pans scrape against 
one another becomes preferable to watching Emily “teach” the French how to treat women. 
And furthermore, any possible message about female empowerment is drowned out by the 
problematic portrayal of female characters and friendships in this show. Sylvie is needlessly 
hostile to Emily as a boss when she could recognize her ability to be a mentor and guide in a 
foreign country, Emily betrays her new Parisian friend by lusting after her boyfriend in secret 
and kissing him twice when she could have very well refrained from doing so, and Mindy
(Ashley Park), the best friend from Hong Kong, as well as the only woman of color on the 
show, is just … there. In this context, many of Emily’s actions and pro-female stances feel 
hollow, further highlighting other aspects of the show that disappoint.Accessed: 10/27/2020 TV Review: "Emily in Paris" - UCSD Guardian
If you want a riveting exploration of Paris and French culture through fresh eyes, a strong  
female lead living her best life, and a relaxing vacation from your daily quarantine woes, this  
is not the show for you. Maybe it would be slightly easier to accept this show if it openly  
branded itself as satire, but considering the seriousness with which it takes itself, that might  
be a stretch as big as believing that any of Emily’s “marketing strategies” would be successful  
in reality. In a time where we must recognize our shared experiences as human beings,
“Emily in Paris” is more focused on hashing out and judging our differences. That’s reason  
enough to skip to the next show in your Netflix queue.
Grade: F 
Creator: Darren Star 
Starring:  Lily Collins, Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu, Ashley Park, William Abadie 
Release Date:  Oct 2, 2020 
Rated:  TV-MA
Image courtesy of Us Weekly.Accessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Continues Amidst County-Wide Case Spike - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Genesis Lopez 
Amid rising  coronavirus  concerns, San Diego County is inching closer and closer to the precipice 
of being shut down  all over again. As of Friday, Oct. 16, San Diego has scarcely managed to 
avoid being ranked as  “widespread,” or “purple tier,” in  state rankings by a 0.1 margin.
In a press conference given on Friday, Oct. 16, San Diego County Public Health Officer Dr. 
Wilma Wooten warned residents about rising case rates. For now, San Diego has been able to 
remain in the second-to-last “red tier” after adjusting the case rate for the extensive testing 
performed throughout the county. However, Dr. Wooten published a chart showing that 
adjustments may not be enough to compensate for rising case rates moving forward.
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, infectious disease specialist and Chief of the Division 
of Infectious Diseases at UCSD Health Dr. Robert Schooley said that UC San Diego is playing a 
critical role in keeping the county out of the purple tier threshold.
“The way this works is counties get extra credit to bring their case count down if there is anAccessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Continues Amidst County-Wide Case Spike - UCSD Guardian
above-normal amount of coronavirus testing done in the county,” Schooley said. “UC San 
Diego is doing so  much [COVID-19 testing] that they’re getting 0.8 cases per hundred-
thousand credit over and above  what the county’s real rate is. So without us, the county would 
already be headed to purple.” 
When asked if there were any concerns about the impact of rising county case rates at UCSD, 
Schooley  said that “with all the streams of information we’re getting about viral activity on 
campus, I don’t think we really have to change much of anything right now.”
As a way to cope with the reality of the Coronavirus pandemic, UCSD has implemented the 
Return to Learn Program  to safely facilitate on-campus activities through risk mitigation, viral  
detection, and intervention. Since student move-ins occurred in September, UCSD has 
positively  diagnosed a total of 48 students and 10 campus employees with the virus. For 
updated data regarding  positive cases and tests performed, students can go to the COVID-19 
Daily Dashboard which is available on the Return to Learn  website. 
UCSD campus staff were notified by email on Oct. 20 that university employees who are 
currently working remotely can  continue to do so until  Mar. 12, 2021, which aligns with the 
end of instruction for the winter  2021 quarter. This change does not apply to UCSD Health 
and Health Sciences staff.
In the statement, UCSD Chief Human Resources Officer Nancy E. Resnick said that extending 
remote work would continue the social distancing needed to curb the spread of the virus and 
supports employees during these difficult times.
“Empowering employees to continue to work from home whenever possible greatly reduces 
the population density on campus, which helps protect our students, student-facing 
employees and other essential staff working on site,” Resnick said. “The extended remote work 
timeline will be helpful to employees as they make decisions regarding distance learning, 
caregiving, childcare and other personal and family obligations. I encourage managers and 
supervisors to be flexible during this time and work collaboratively with employees who may 
be navigating new challenges and responsibilities at home.”
Seventh College freshman Paola Mendoza provided a positive assessment of the Return to 
Learn program when she was asked to share her opinion on the initiative from the perspective 
of a student currently living on campus.
“I’m already from an area that’s highly impacted. I was working in an area of customer serviceAccessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Continues Amidst County-Wide Case Spike - UCSD Guardian
so I always had that interaction. Compared to where I’m living now, I feel like I’m more 
isolated and less  exposed. If I do ever want to get a COVID test, I have access to that, which is 
good. If I ever feel like it, I  know that there’s resources compared to back home,” Mendoza 
said. “What I do like [about] what  they’re doing is that before entering one of the markets or 
getting your food, you have to sanitize or else  they won’t let you in. They have little stickers on 
the ground too, you know, like ‘six feet apart here.’  They also have the app Triton2Go so you 
could just order your food online and then go pick it up, so  that prevents large crowds from 
gathering.”
In a letter addressed to the UCSD administration released  in early September, hundreds of 
UCSD community members and stakeholders spoke out against the  university holding in-
person classes. They also alleged that the university was prioritizing its financial  needs as a 
business rather than the wellbeing of UCSD students and staff.
In response to the letter and the recent increases in community spread, Schooley praised the 
behavior of UCSD students in following health and safety guidelines.
“One of the underlying things that concerned me about that letter was the implication that UC 
San Diego students weren’t responsible enough to deal with this epidemic,” Schooley said. “It 
was essentially an accusation that we would bring these students back and they wouldn’t be 
responsible  enough to follow guidance about masking and distancing. I have to say, I’ve been 
really blown away by  how good they’ve done in dealing with all of this. That’s why this has 
succeeded: because of what our  students are doing.”
Dr. Schooley also urged students to communicate their health and safety concerns to both 
UCSD Administration and the Return to Learn Team. He added that he hopes student 
feedback can help the program to improve and ensure that people can “get out of their dorms, 
get back into classrooms and get into college.”
For now, Return to Learn will move forward as planned. The program encourages students to 
download the California COVID Notify system on their mobile devices, which uses bluetooth 
technology to notify users that may have been exposed to the virus. As of Saturday, Oct. 25, 
San Diego County remains in the red-tier.     
Picture taken by Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego
This article was updated on Oct. 26 at 10:25AM to reflect new information about the 
extension of remote work for UCSD campus employees.Accessed: 10/27/2020 Film Review: "The Boys in the Band" - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Marina Lee
Moderated by rain and records, “The Boys in the Band” is a lively, aching trip through the  
shame, cruelty, guilt, and selfishness of internalized homophobia.
Based on the 1968 Mart Crowley play and succeeding a 1970 film adaptation, the 2020 film 
version of “The Boys in the Band” combines the breakneck pacing of theatrical writing with 
the limitless visual capabilities of film to deliver a complex look into 1960s Manhattan 
homophobia. The film takes place over the course of a single night, with the simple premise 
of a group of old friends coming together for a birthday party. As the alcohol flows and an 
unexpected guest arrives, self-loathing, fear of aging, and scathing honesty mix and mingle 
among this dynamic group of gay men. Each must confront their internalized homophobia 
and the impact that this has on their relationships with each other as friends, lovers, and 
enemies.
Bridging past and present queer struggle, this film deals in the disruption of feigned 
contentment, and the rocky aftermath of that disruption from start to finish. The film has 
an electric opening, introducing an aspect ratio more typical of a 60s film,  a close-up of aAccessed: 10/27/2020 Film Review: "The Boys in the Band" - UCSD Guardian
backlit figure lighting a cigarette, a figure moving to start a colorful record player, and then 
the start  of an incredibly fast-paced montage of every main character — excluding the very 
figure who  opened the film. Biting sex jokes, flying clothes, and stuffed grocery bags glide 
across screen  as viewers are actively submerged into the 1968 New York scene.
And with that energetic kick-off, the film’s greatest strength lies in its pacing, through the  
writing style and the repetition of images. The harshest of critiques and spoken truths  
between characters elicit tearful responses and heated threats to leave the birthday party at  
the center of the story. These fiercely defensive moments are then juxtaposed with moments  
of immense tenderness and nostalgic yearning, where first true loves were revealed to have  
never been forgotten. This interwoven structure of pain, lust, fear, and romance is  
bookmarked by the cinematic images incorporated into its visual narrative. There are  
characters constantly looking into mirrors. There are characters looking into mirrors that  
face other mirrors. There are memories cross-cut with phone calls. There is always someone  
moving to put on a new record when the music stops. Everything is always moving, and it is  
impossible to take your eyes away.
While pacing is the film’s greatest strength, characterization is its greatest weakness. It was  
the only aspect of the film that detracted from the otherwise contemporary feel of the film.  
There were smaller distracting details, such as Harold (Zachary Quinto), the birthday  
celebrant, dressed in a green suit resembling that of the Once-ler from “The Lorax,” or  
lacking character development for Alan (Brian Hutchison), the unexpected party guest.  
However the much larger issue lies in the depiction of issues at the intersection of race and  
sexuality. Only two of the characters, Emory (Robin de Jesús) and Bernard (Michael  
Benjamin Washington) are queer men of color, and their roles are smaller, with more  
stereotypical and less-varied dialogue. The film makes an attempt at acknowledging anti-
Blackness in the queer community, but it only creates space for that dialogue as a source of 
tension between the two characters of color. In limiting these conversations to the two 
characters of color, the film portrays the white characters with moral superiority, 
automatically set as faultless bystanders in this racism. Though the film usually characterizes 
with depth, it walks a fine line between camp and caricature during these conversations.
The film undoubtedly falters in its characterization, though it is compelling to note that 
many of these characters are also portrayed as extremely flawed in their behavior towards 
other characters. Humanized in the mistakes they make, these characters highlight the 
possibility  of growth. As a result, the film still manages to generate significant empathy as it 
chips away at this buried mass of anger. This sentiment is not hidden, yet it hits the watcher  
unexpectedly, summed up in a Michael (Jim Parsons) brush-off meta-line: “It’s not alwaysAccessed: 10/27/2020 Film Review: "The Boys in the Band" - UCSD Guardian
like it happens in plays. Not all f—— bump themselves off at the end of the story” (54:50).  The 
unravelling of defense mechanisms places this narrative at a crucial step in the healing  
process, where everything feels uncertain, but the hope lies in carrying on.
As a fan of theatre and film, I find that the transition of a piece from the stage to the screen is  
not always successful. While the writing may be strong, there’s a heightened expressiveness  
in live performance that can overshadow otherwise positive features in a film adaptation.  
However, this film surpassed all of my expectations for a new adaptation. Whereas the first  
film adaptation was released within a few years of the original 1968 setting, a 2020 release  
makes this most recent iteration a period piece. The film retained a surprisingly fresh  
relatability in how internalized homophobia continues to manifest. This was helped in no  
small part by having Joe Mantello’s direction from the 2018 play revival, and the inclusion of  
all of the queer-identifying principal actors from that same revival reprising their roles. The  
authenticity of pain and fear vividly struck through the decades in this remarkable delivery. 
Nosebleeds, religion, telephones, and saxophones: this is a film for acknowledging harm and  
unlearning the mechanisms and mindsets that create it.
Grade: B+ 
Director: Joe Mantello 
Starring:  Jim Parsons, Matt Bomer, Zachary Quinto 
Release Date:  September 30, 2020 
Rated: R
Image courtesy of NME.com.Accessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Expands Efforts to Promote Minority Representation in STEM - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Lindsey Choo 
UC San Diego officially launched the  Student Success Center  on Tuesday, Feb. 4, 2020, 
which aims to prepare and aid minority students in their professional  careers in the Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics field. Embedded within  the Division of Physical 
Sciences, the Center was established with the goal of achieving UCSD’s equity, diversity, and 
inclusion principles. 
The Center funds various STEM-related student organizations and brings them together to 
connect with one another to encourage cross-campus collaboration. It also works to 
increase visibility and lower barriers for student organizations to function, as well as 
provide aid to students through mentoring and internship opportunities for professional 
development. 
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Director of the Student Success Center Franklin 
Garrett said that the Center is crucial in guiding students, especially those from minority 
backgrounds, to the campus resources they need to succeed.Accessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Expands Efforts to Promote Minority Representation in STEM - UCSD Guardian
“It’s almost like information overload when you come to campus, there’s a bunch of different  
resource centers, there’s a bunch of different programs for students, but students get  
overwhelmed with all that they have,” Garrett said. “I think that [the Center] impacts student  
success because there’s so much research on how sense of belonging impacts your academic  
abilities. For example, if you’re a woman in STEM, something as easy as having a study group  
is hard to do when there’s not a lot of other people who look like you or come from a similar  
background, so whatever we can do to increase the campus climate to support these students,  
I think it’ll have a big impact on academic success.”
Other recent initiatives that align with UCSD’s EDI values include the recent re-
establishment of a campus chapter of the Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics  
and Native Americans in Science. According to its  website, the nationwide organization is an 
inclusive organization dedicated to fostering the  success of Chicano/Hispanic and Native 
American undergraduate and graduate college  students as well as working professionals in 
attaining advanced degrees, careers, and  positions of leadership in STEM.
UCSD’s SACNAS chapter’s status was inactive until March 2020, when it achieved campus  
recognition through the efforts of a faculty planning committee and student leaders.  
According to a press release  by the UCSD News Center, the faculty committee consisted of 
Franklin Garrett, director of programs and operations of the Student Success Center, Edgar 
Beas and Sinai Cota from the  Graduate Division, Olivia Molinar-Inglis from the  Department  
of Pharmacology, and Beto Vasquez from CREATE.  
According to Marlenne Valesquez, the undergraduate president of SACNAS at UCSD, and 
one of the founding members of the chapter, the re-establishment planning started in 
November 2019.
“[The faculty planning committee] reached out to us and held an info session, which I and 
many other undergraduate, especially underrepresented minority, students attended,” 
Valesquez said. “SACNAS at UCSD is actually very new still, we’re still trying to spread the 
word around. That’s kind of how the re-establishment took place.”
When asked about the significance of re-establishing the chapter, Analine Aguayo, the 
graduate president of SACNAS at UCSD, said it was important for STEM students of 
Hispanic and Native American background to foster a community and have a sense of 
belonging on campus. 
“I was in a SACNAS chapter at Cal State Northridge, and that is how I got into research andAccessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD Expands Efforts to Promote Minority Representation in STEM - UCSD Guardian
learned about STEM careers,” Aguayo said. “Once I got to UCSD, I was looking for that same  
community. I’m of Hispanic background and there weren’t many people in my cohort of  
similar backgrounds so I felt isolated. I reached out to my department and they told me  
SACNAS was in the works, so I felt excited and the need to join a community like the one that  
I had.”
Sinai Cota, one of the co-founding advisors of SACNAS and the Sloan Scholars Program  
Assistant at the Student Success Center, noted that UCSD still has a long road ahead in  
reaching its EDI goals. 
“I think that UCSD is chugging along and moving forward, but change is really slow,” Cota  
said. “Unfortunately, when offices or departments want to seek these types of initiatives,  
they’re looking for funding and then that kind of holds up and you have to get certain  
permissions and find the money to do it. But I definitely see it in my advisor role and within  
the Physical Sciences Division with the building of the student center to help support  
professional development and help be there for the students.”
Associate Dean of EDI in the Division of Physical Sciences Alison Coil, echoed the same  
sentiments and told The Guardian that there are many more initiatives to achieve UCSD’s  
EDI goals in the works for both faculty and students.
“We have a lot of bigger plans and ideas that we haven’t fully ramped up yet because it’s 
new,” Coil said. “The IDEA Center in Engineering has a lot of well-established programs and 
we’d like to do some similar programs in Physical Sciences. We are also really focusing on 
getting the faculty to understand better how to support underrepresented students, what are 
their needs, how their experiences are different and why it matters. Sometimes faculty in 
STEM don’t understand why identity is relevant in the field, but student belonging impacts 
student learning and grades even in courses like physics and math.”
SACNAS and the Student Success Center are just some of the initiatives by UCSD that aim to 
increase campus-wide diversity. For more information on ongoing and future EDI initiatives 
related to STEM in particular, visit the Student Success Center and the PATHS Program.  
Photo taken by Erik Jepsen for UC San DiegoAccessed: 10/27/2020 Voters Beware: Voter Suppression Tactics Plague Upcoming Election - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Savannah Gamboa 
Voting presents the opportunity for the American people to vocalize their hopes for the 
future  of their country, and this upcoming election presents many Americans with the 
privilege of  being able to vote. As monumental and empowering as it is to practice this civic 
duty, to  ensure that Americans are able to accurately cast their ballot they need to first 
become educated voters. While there are many requirements necessary to fill out your ballot, 
that is unfortunately not the only facet of approaching voting you need to be aware of, 
especially if you are a first-time voter. Now that you are able to vote, outside forces can now 
attempt to prevent you from doing so. This is called voter suppression and it is being 
employed to sway the outcome of the election.
Voter suppression can dennotiavely be defined as the effort, either legal or illegal, by ways of 
law, administrative rules, and/or tactics that prevents eligible voters from voting. This has 
been happening throughout the current presidential campaign and in fact, it is not a new 
concept. Have you ever seen a post on social media urging a certain community to boycottAccessed: 10/27/2020 Voters Beware: Voter Suppression Tactics Plague Upcoming Election - UCSD Guardian
voting as a means to demonstrate  dissatisfaction with the American government? That’s an 
attempt at voter suppression. Have  you ever seen flyers that have claimed that large voter 
turnouts would constitute two separate  voting days for both democratic parties? That is also 
attempted voter suppression. Have you  heard about ballot drop boxes being set on  fire? Well, 
that, too, is attempted voter suppression.   
While some methods of voter suppression are more apparent than others, as a first time voter  
it is essential to the success of your voting experience that you are able to recognize fallacious  
comments and efforts grounded in the interest of a political party, because that will make the  
difference between you being able to correctly cast you ballot and falling victim to voter  
suppression. Those who intentionally engage in suppressing the American people’s vote fall  
along a spectrum from average citizens to well known political figures. A prominent figure  
within the space of voter suppression has been none other than President Donald Trump.
President Trump has very prominently vocalized a distrust in mail-in ballots, claiming that  
ballots will be discarded simply for the sake of rejecting the m. Although it is inaccurate, 
President Trump does allude to an important  point. In the primaries for this year alone, 
roughly 500,000  ballots were rejected in 23 states. For most  ballots that are invalidated, the 
justification is normally one of two reasons: ballots having  arrived late or being improperly 
filled out. Yes, President Trump was not necessarily wrong.  However, he presented this fact 
in a manner that can evoke fear amongst voters and make  them believe that their ballot is at 
risk for rejection for unsubstantiated reasons. What  President Trump should have done is 
emphasized the importance of Americans educating themselves on their state’s requirements 
for ballots to be properly filled out. If Americans know how to logistically approach casting 
their ballots, there would be less room for error and for their ballots to be rejected. 
Regardless of President Trump’s intentions with discrediting mail-in ballots, his comments 
may prove detrimental, as they present mail-in voting as an unreliable voting alternative. 
Since there is a highly contagious virus restructuring daily life, mail-in voting offers a safer 
alternative to many Americans, so if the President of the United States uses his platform to 
invalidate this option, some voters who can not vote in person may become discouraged 
about how influential their individual vote is. 
Disproving comments made about the method in which Americans vote are not the only 
means of potentially suppressing the vote. In fact, voter suppression also comes in the form 
of subtle encouragement from the president to groups known to enlist their members for 
violence. During the first 2020 presidential debate, President Trump urged his supporters to 
“watch” what occurs at polling stations. This is potentially voter suppression because many 
Trump supporters have engaged in violence in the name of Trump. It was found that thereAccessed: 10/27/2020 Voters Beware: Voter Suppression Tactics Plague Upcoming Election - UCSD Guardian
 have been 54 cases of violent acts on the basis of defending and honoring  President Trump’s 
name. What feeding into these groups does, especially by the person they  hold to such a high 
regard, is positively reinforce their behavior, and further perpetuates a  “them versus us’ 
mentality amongst Americans who both do and do not support Trump. 
While Trump supporters cannot legally stand within polling places and watch anyone vote,  
there are laws, each varying by state, that permit standing a given number of feet from a  
polling station. In California, protestors are able to stand 100 feet from where voting occurs;  
for context, lanes in urban areas are 10 feet. While neither of these facts constitutes  voter 
suppression, they do create a space for those who follow Trump’s rhetoric to potentially  see 
this as an opportunity to safeguard the Trump agenda. Trump’s “watch” what happens at  the 
polls mentality comes off as wishful thinking, almost as if he is calling his supporters to  take 
on the task of being unauthorized polling workers. 
As unsettling as President Trump’s comments have been, his distrust in the mail-in ballots  
and encouragement to violent organizations are only a couple examples of detrimental  
comments that have been made this election season; in fact, it gets more disturbing. Some  
organizations that stand in alliance with the Republican party have insisted that early voting 
data be used to  identify  individuals for the purpose of collecting debt. What makes claiming 
debt collection immensely unnerving is that most individuals with an outstanding debt 
balance happen to not fall within the upper socioeconomic class; additionally, this assertion 
of debt collection is well spread in areas with a large Black demographic. That makes these 
claims not only classist, but racist. A fear tactic that stifles the influence of the lower class and 
minority groups in an election where they can vote on propositions that can potentially lessen 
the already unpropritionaly high levels of stress they endure is indicative of the fact that those 
who aim to suppress voters do not really care about these communities. Rather, those who 
suppress the American vote, whether they be a politician or another voting American, are 
primarily focused on their own self-interest. That is why it is so vital for all voters, especially 
first-time, to educate themselves on how to properly cast their ballot. 
These comments are merely skimming the surface of voter suppression. There are countless 
other attempts that present themselves in resourcefully manipulative manners. What this 
means for voters is that it is increasingly important to make sure you are aware of every piece 
of information you believe can influence how you approach voting in this year’s election. If 
you have questions regarding how to fill out your ballot, check your state’s requirements. If  
you do not know how to distinguish between third party, unofficial ballot drop boxes and 
authentic ones; check your secretary of state’s website. For all voting Americans, especiallyAccessed: 10/27/2020 Voters Beware: Voter Suppression T
actics Plague Upcoming Election - UCSD Guardian
those who have only been afforded this opportunity after years of protests and advocacy, it is  
vital that you remain knowledgeable of ballot requirements and drop box locations; don’t let  
misinformation reclaim your right to vote.  
Art by Yui Kita for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 10/27/2020 Is it Okay to Pirate Movies? - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020   Justin Cho
Pirating films is highly associated with broke college students. However, how much does  
piracy actually affect creators?
On Aug. 14, 2020, the most visited pirate site on the internet, KissAnime, and its sister 
site, KissManga, shut down. A recently revised Japanese copyright law finally ended its 
monumental eight year lifespan. According to SimilarWeb analytics, KissAnime reached a 
shocking 108 million visits in April 2020, more than three times the 30 million average 
visits that Pirate Bay, what many consider to be the most renowned pirating site, receives 
a month. 
Copyright laws take down streaming sites all the time, but this one was special. 
KissAnime was not only popular, but also the central hub of a community that became 
very vocal about their loss, once again sparking a recurring conversation about piracy. 
Perhaps the most obvious question to ask is, how much does pirating actually affect 
creators?Accessed: 10/27/2020 Is it Okay to Pirate Movies? - UCSD Guardian
According to the Motion Picture Association, quite a lot. In 2005, the MPA teamed up with  
LEK consulting to conduct a now well-known research study  on how much  piracy is 
negatively affecting the U.S. film industry. The results claimed studios lost as much  as $6.1 
billion in 2005 alone. The study also illuminated the demographics of pirates. 80  percent of 
piracy happened overseas with the highest contributors being China, Russia, and  Thailand. 
Given this data, the MPA confidently claims that “piracy is the biggest threat to the  US 
motion picture industry.”
However, there are some reasons to be a bit skeptical of this study. In 2008, an  error was 
discovered in the data: They initially claimed that 44 percent of financial losses to piracy 
were  attributable to college students, but that number was found to actually be around 15 
percent. 
In addition, critics challenged the study’s shocking $6.1 billion loss, as they believe 
many pirates wouldn’t have paid for the films even if they had to, especially in places like 
China where legal access to some movies is slim.
Along with this study, the MPA is an active force in the fight against piracy, creating a  
number of controversial anti-piracy campaigns throughout the years, such as the “Who  
Makes Movies” advertisements in 2003 and the slogan “you can click, but you can’t hide” in  
2004. 
However, the company itself has been involved in a number of contentious copyright 
infringement cases, bringing into question the sincerity of its anti-piracy campaigns. For 
example, in 2006 the MPA admitted to creating illegal copies  of the documentary “This Film 
is Not Yet Rated” for its employees. Award winning film critic Roger Ebert commented, “that, 
of course, would be precisely the kind of bootleg piracy the [MPA] is waging war against.”
Although the MPA has some history, it is worth noting that, despite the presence of skeptics, 
no other statistic from the study has been officially proven wrong in the 12 years since 2008, 
and most experts agree that piracy is likely hurting creative industries, even if the precise 
amount is ambiguous.
Despite potential financial losses, most students that were interviewed seemed to agree that 
the losses weren’t as relevant for bigger films.
“If it’s a small artist or filmmaker, I do believe that you shouldn’t pirate because it takes away 
from their potential exposure and they need your financial support,” Eleanor RooseveltAccessed: 10/27/2020 Is it Okay to Pirate Movies? - UCSD Guardian
College senior Jahfreen Alam said. “In comparison, let’s say it’s a big artist like Beyonce. I  
have no qualms over pirating something like Lemonade.” 
This implies that many don’t see piracy as simply right or wrong. It depends on what you’re  
pirating – some properties don’t need your cash. However, piracy may affect more than just  
profit.
“I think piracy can be good,” ERC senior Joshua Hoangt, said. “It gives more access to  
different media … and it’s removing that class boundary among [those who can and can’t  
afford it].”
Theatre fans have made similar remarks. Theatre is a medium associated with high class and 
often requires individuals to be physically present in order to watch live performances. When 
a recording of the performance isn’t sold, a financial barrier is created, and those who cannot 
afford to attend must turn to pirated recordings as a way to appreciate the art.
In the discussion of art forms that have specific reasons to pirate, we must return to anime, a  
medium with a fascinating history and conversation behind its pirating culture. 
Studios and producers have always made anime primarily for a Japanese audience, and in 
the 70s and 80s, very few shows were translated and sold in Western languages. Dedicated 
fans overcame this lack of availability by illegally copying videos, subtitling them, and 
distributing them via tapes and torrenting. 
This effort is what allowed anime to develop a fanbase at all in the West. Although we see a 
recent renaissance of availability through platforms like Netflix, for much of anime’s history, 
the Western audience has largely been alone. The community was built from the ground up 
on pirating when there was no other option, and as a result, pirating became an important 
part of its culture. The aforementioned prominence of KissAnime is a manifestation of this, 
and the site’s fans often defend the use of piracy websites. 
A common pro-piracy argument centers around the idea that although quick access piracy 
may result in short-term financial losses, the exposure may provide benefits in the long-term. 
Many in the anime community started watching when they were young and could not afford 
to pay, but some of these young fans grow up to become supporters of the industry once they 
are willing and able to pay for art they appreciate. 
The Western anime industry is itself evidence of this phenomenon; what began as a small,Accessed: 10/27/2020 Is it Okay to Pirate Movies? - UCSD Guardian
ragtag group that pirated when there was no other option eventually grew to become a viable  
industry through exposure.
Additionally, the current landscape of the internet may give exposure related arguments  
firmer ground to stand on. The web spreads thought rapidly in a time period where exposure  
is paramount to relevancy. 
Large corporations like Amazon and Google take advantage of this reality through the release  
of products like Amazon Alexa, which are intended not only to make profit, but also to  
increase public awareness for the brand.
While the financial effects of piracy are still controversial, some would argue that, even if it  
does hurt creators, sometimes that’s exactly the reason you should pirate.
“I think the fact that piracy happens opens up the conversation of why it’s happening in the  
first place,” ERC senior Konami Masui said, “I think piracy is more of a byproduct than an  
issue itself.”
Even though pirates founded the western anime community, many attribute the persistence 
of piracy culture to the industry’s inability to adapt. To this day, anime makes the majority of 
its profit through DVD and Blu-Ray sales, and fascinatingly, “Blu-Rays sold” is the standard 
metric that Japanese corporations use to compare success. 
Anime Blu-Rays are typically marketed towards a niche, hardcore audience and are often 
priced anywhere between $50 to $200 for 6 to 12 episodes. While the dedicated collectors in 
Japan feel the prices are reasonable, the same can’t be said for Westerners. When online 
streaming started to become popular, many thought the Anime business model would 
change. 
However, many producers failed to see the value in licensing their shows to be streamed –
they believed that an $8 subscription was too cheap considering their Blu-Ray prices. Going 
into the mid-2000s, legal streaming platforms struggled to secure licensing deals, and many 
shows ended up unavailable to stream. So while the existence of streaming certainly did 
increase accessibility, it did not radically shift the anime business model as some expected. 
Many who support pirating anime claim the industry is stuck dwelling on outdated business 
practices and fans should pirate so that these corporations get the message – if they want our 
money, they have to correctly play the game of economics and provide a good service. Accessed: 10/27/2020 Is it Okay to Pirate Movies? - UCSD Guardian
Digibro, a controversial figure in the online anime community, is known for saying that they  
would be willing to see the anime industry burned down and rebuilt on its ashes if it meant  
that the business would evolve for the better. 
Those in this party see pirating as a form of economic protest as opposed to simple theft. 
Given the nature of the internet, regulating piracy won’t become easier anytime soon. There  
is simply too much decentralized pirating happening, and whenever a KissAnime falls,  
successors will appear to replace it. This is a phenomenon with potentially deeper  
implications than simply the profits of creators, and while corporations can choose to tighten  
their grip on the internet, it is  us that will ultimately decide what goes and what doesn’t.
Art by Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/27/2020 Diversity, Equity, and Bulls- UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020  Genie Wungsukit
Ten years ago on Feb. 15, an infamous, racist party was thrown at UC San Diego by 
members of the “Pi Kappa Alpha” fraternity known as “The Compton Cookout.”
The Compton Cookout hosts told the guests they will be able to experience “the various 
elements of life in the ghetto.” They had stated this racist event would be honoring 
Black History Month, but it was actually mocking Black culture.
The members of the PIKE fraternity who hosted the events were never penalized for 
hosting this racist event, as the university claimed the event was hosted off-campus 
and was never endorsed or sanctioned by UC San Diego. Once again, a sign that UCSD 
administrations tolerates racism on campus. 
Racial hostility towards the Black, Indigenous, and people of color students on campus 
has only continued to increase after The Compton Cookout. The aftermath was a series 
of protests led by students of color. The protestors wanted to make sure that there 
would be  consequences to racism at UC San Diego, and they demanded the Accessed: 10/27/2020 Diversity, Equity, and Bulls- UCSD Guardian
administration change the  campus culture and climate to where it would be diverse, 
equitable, and inclusive.
One of the “wins” that the students organizers achieved was the University agreeing to  
institute the “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion” requirement for all undergraduate students  
starting the following year.
UCSD requires “all candidates for a Bachelor’s degree who begin their studies at UC San  
Diego in lower-division standing in Fall 2011 or thereafter, or in upper-division standing in  
Fall 2013 or thereafter,” to have knowledge on “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” which is  
how the DEI requirement came about.
One of the first classes I took at UCSD was a DEI course, and up to this day, it is still one of  
my favorite courses that I have taken. The class was set up in a seminar style where 
everyone  had a chance to talk. It was an open dialogue about our racial identity and racism 
— a conversation we don’t usually get to have in an academic setting. 
I remembered vividly when I first walked into the class and looked at the instructor who was  
white and thought, “what does this white man have to say about my race and my identity?”  
To my surprise, the first thing he did was acknowledge his racial identity and that he is  
coming from a place of privilege. He acknowledged what he represented as a white  
heterosexual man in academia, and I truly respect him for that. 
Looking at the current list of DEI approved courses, there are a wide variety of topics that 
are being taught under the umbrella requirement. Interestingly, the majority of the 
professors and instructors who teach the DEI approved courses are mainly white. I was 
lucky enough to have an instructor who acknowledged his position of privilege in order to 
have a candid discussion about race. But what about other students of color who had to 
experience internal conflict and racial hostility from the difference in power dynamic 
created by the school’s institutional-racial inequality?
UCSD chooses to define diversity as “the variety of personal experiences, values, and 
worldviews that arise from differences of culture and circumstance. Such differences 
include race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, language, abilities/disabilities, sexual 
orientation, socioeconomic status, and geographic region.” 
However, most of the DEI courses’ mode of delivery is the students being lectured at about 
“Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.” I don’t believe that being lectured about DEIAccessed: 10/27/2020 Diversity, Equity, and Bulls- UCSD Guardian
incorporates UCSD’s definition of diversity or inclusion at all.
Right now, the DEI requirement is nothing more than just an “antiracism effort” without  
UCSD’s investment or commitment in dismantling the systemic racism that led them to even  
consider the creation of the “DEI” requirement in the first place. 
The DEI requirement needs to be so much more than just another requirement students  
want to rush through. 
I have talked to a student in John Muir College who was taking to fulfill the DEI requirement  
about what he thinks about the requirement. He said that he pushed the completion of the  
DEI requirement to his last year at UCSD because everyone of his friends told him that they  
hated their DEI class. He then said, “and I agree, I am dreading this DEI course.”
DEI courses have to be courses where students want to engage in the conversation of  
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. They have to focus on making a campus culture where all  
students feel welcome and safe.
DEI courses need to make the BIPOC students feel like they are reflected in the curriculum  
and make those students not familiar with the BIPOC experiences understand the values that  
have been perpetuated, which have led to the exclusion of the BIPOC perspective.
DEI courses at UCSD have to deeply examine how the existence, realities, and voices of the 
BIPOC students on campus have been dismissed and held in less regard than the white 
dominant narratives counterparts.
As UCSD promises it is working on an anti-racism effort hoping to dismantle the system that 
thrives under the ideas, stereotypes, and biases of white supremacy and racism, the few 
BIPOC students in the lecture halls should not be tokenized just because the university is 
trying to dissolve its institutional notions of perpetuating discrimination.
Students of color do not need to experience microaggressions because of other people’s 
ignorance under the excuse that they “did not know better.” Lack of knowledge and empathy 
should never be an excuse for BIPOC students not feeling respected, heard, valued, and safe. 
I don’t believe that the UCSD administration passed the DEI requirements in 2011 because 
they felt they needed to educate the campus population on being more equitable and 
inclusive. I don’t believe that the administration prioritizes making a campus culture andAccessed: 10/27/2020 Diversity, Equity
, and Bulls- UCSD Guardian
climate where students of color are valued. I do believe that the DEI requirement was created  
because the university’s administration felt the media pressure from national news coverage  
to respond politically.
Regardless of how the DEI requirement came about, it has so much more potential to help  
create the “conducive learning environment” that UC San Diego said they provide (or rather  
wish they could provide) for students, especially BIPOC students. 
The key to making a meaningful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive course is the instructor and  
the institutional commitment. Suppose UCSD and all the instructors believe their classroom  
pedagogy is diversity, equity, and inclusion — I would encourage them to also hold that value  
outside the classrooms. Staff, faculties and students are the campus culture keepers, and we  
need to all carry the commitment to being diverse, equitable and inclusive in our heart, mind,  
and actions, both within and outside the classroom.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.Accessed: 10/27/2020 How Have NFL Teams Helped Their Rookie Quarterbacks So Far this Season? - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020  Hayden Wellbeloved
Back in April, four quarterbacks were selected in the first round of the 2020 NFL Draft.  
Through six weeks of the season, it has become evident that each coaching staff has utilized  
their own unique philosophies and gameplans to instill confidence in their signal callers.  
However, while these coaches have, in theory, adopted schemes and play calling ideologies  
to assist their young quarterbacks, by overcommitting to assisting their development they 
have in turn hurt their teams’ offenses and ability to win games.
Joe Burrow, Tua Tagovailoa, Justin Herbert, and Jordan Love were all drafted in the first 
round back in April, and all but Love will get or have gotten the majority of starts for their 
team. What makes this group of quarterbacks very interesting is that all four had differing  
college careers and were drafted for different talents. Burrow may have been a one-hit  
wonder at Louisiana State University, but through his two years starting in Baton Rouge, he  
proved his pinpoint accuracy and elite pocket poise. Tagovailoa, along with his platoon of  
All-American receivers at the University of Alabama, had great success where he displayed 
his superior anticipation and strong accuracy in leading the Crimson to a championship in  
his true freshman season.Accessed: 10/27/2020 How Have NFL Teams Helped Their Rookie Quarterbacks So Far this Season? - UCSD Guardian
At the University of Oregon, Herbert had his ups and downs, but made his arm strength  
known throughout the Pac-12, as he was good for at least one deep bomb per game. And  Love, 
while seen as a project quarterback, demonstrated he has the tools needed to succeed  at the  
next level, given his ability to throw from any platform, mobility, and arm strength. It  is 
evident that all these prospects have strengths, but like all rookie quarterbacks, they also  need 
to be surrounded by the right coaching staff and supporting cast to succeed.
First, let’s look at Burrow’s time so far with the Cincinnati Bengals. Despite going number  one 
overall in the draft, Burrow actually landed in a system with a strong roster of skill  players. 
With Tyler Boyd and Joe Mixon paired with A.J. Green and budding star Tee Higgins  on the 
outside, supposed offensive guru and coach Zac Taylor should be able to at least show  some 
promise on offense — which they have. Taylor and offensive coordinator Brian Callahan  have 
eased Burrow into the NFL by implementing schemes similar to those where Burrow  excelled  
in college. At LSU, Joe Brady’s offense consisted of a lot of heavy wide receiver sets,  and 
excelled at spreading out teams defensively. Through six games, the Bengals have used 11  
personnel, which uses three wide receivers, one tight end and one back, 77 percent of the  time  
for a league-high 332 plays. This style of offense has created a sense of familiarity for  Burrow 
and has undoubtedly helped his transition to NFL ball.
Joe Burrow became the first QB to throw for 300-plus yards in each of their first three  games, 
and has additionally put the team in prime position to win games against the  Cleveland  
Browns, the Indianapolis Colts, and the Philadelphia Eagles. But, like most teams  SLFNLQJILUVW
LQWKHGUDIWWKHWHDPDVDZKROHODFNVWKHWDOHQWDQGH[SHULHQFHWRFORVHRXWWKHVHJDPHV
'HVSLWHWKHWHDP¶V±±UHFRUGLWLVHYLGHQWWKHUHLVVRPHWKLQJEXLOGLQJLQ&LQF\DQGWKHUHLV
ORWVWREHH[FLWHGDERXW
To me, the most intriguing, yet also most frustrating, of all these quarterbacks is Justin  
Herbert. Back at the University of Oregon, it was clear Herbert had elite traits, but many  
questioned his decision making and accuracy, and it ultimately led to him being the third  
quarterback selected in the draft. In an article I wrote back in early summer, I discussed how  
many quarterbacks are misevaluated in college, as the college offense and play calling can  
often suppress a quarterback’s talents — this was the case with Herbert. Under head coach  
Mario Cristobal, who was an offensive line coach at Alabama, the Oregon offense was a basic  
run-first offense. Many of the passing plays, additionally, were one-read routes, meaning the  
pass was designed to go to one receiver, and if he wasn’t open, Herbert had to make do with  
whatever he could manufacture himself. And while his arm talent was clear, this outdated and  
simple offense didn’t do Herbert any favors. Accessed: 10/27/2020 How Have NFL Teams Helped Their Rookie Quarterbacks So Far this Season? - UCSD Guardian
Fast forward to today and we’ve seen a completely different quarterback for the Los Angeles  
Chargers. He’s made some unreal throws and completed multiple 60-plus yard bombs. The  
rookie has also gotten into shootouts with the best of them including Brady, Mahomes, and  
Brees, and, like Burrow, he has put his team into position to win these games. However,  
unlike the Bengals, the Chargers have the talent to close out these games, but the coaching  
staff has failed Herbert and the team as a whole. Offensive coordinator Shane Steichen and  
head coach Anthony Lynn have done some good in tailoring deep play action shots and 
seam route concepts to best utilize Herbert’s talent, but overall, both have inexplicably kept 
the training wheels on Herbert and the offense. The Oregon product has proven he’s already 
a top-half NFL quarterback with good decision making and poise under pressure, but Lynn, 
a former running back coach, has made it a top priority to run the football. However, they 
are running so often and so much on first down that it has become a detriment to the team. 
This year, the Chargers have run the ball 33.6 percent of the time on first down — 9th in the  
NFL — and have had abysmal efficiency on all runs, ranking 31st in rushing DVOA per  
Football Outsiders. To put this into context, last year, the Chargers had both Austin Eckler  
and Melvin Gordon at running back, and ran the ball only 25.7 percent of the time. This year  
they have a rookie running back and a career backup and yet, they are running more often.  
I’m not sure if Lynn and Steichen think that running the ball on early downs is supposed to  
help their young quarterback, but they need to change up their ideology, because this is just  
putting Herbert in tougher third and long situations that end up hurting both Herbert and  
the team. Herbert looks like a surefire star, but through these six games, the coaching has 
certainly held him back. The Chargers coaching staff needs to adapt quickly or they may find 
themselves looking for work next year.
One of the more unpredictable quarterback situations we’ve seen this year involved Tua 
Tagovailoa. The Miami Dolphins drafted him fifth overall and have let Tagovailoa get 
healthy from his hip injury and eased him into the starting lineup when ready. Earlier this 
week, Brian Flores announced Tagovailoa would be the Week 8 starter after the team’s bye, 
which surprised many considering how well Ryan Fitzpatrick had played. But out of 
Burrow, Herbert, and Tagovailoa, I think the Dolphins have created the best situation for 
their young quarterback to succeed. While nursing that hip injury, Tagovailoa has likely 
been coached up by the staff and NFL vet Fitzpatrick; even just five weeks on the bench, 
learning and watching the game from a different lens, will be very helpful for the Alabama 
product. 
Over the first few weeks, the Dolphins have let their rookie offensive linemen adapt to the 
learning curve and have now actually proven to be a solid offensive line – a good, youngAccessed: 10/27/2020 How Have NFL Teams Helped Their Rookie Quarterbacks So Far this Season? - UCSD Guardian
offensive line will keep Tagovailoa safe and allow him to pick apart defenses with his great  
timing and anticipation. Young receivers Mike Gesicki and Preston Williams have come into  
their own this year and will continue to aid Tagovailoa’s development at the helm of the  team. 
All the decisions Flores and company have made have been to give Tagovailoa all the  
confidence and support around him to succeed. Even though the lefty quarterback may be  the 
least physically gifted of all these rookie quarterbacks, I’d be surprised if he isn’t  successful 
given the fantastic job Miami has done preparing him and setting him up for  success in the 
pros.
All these quarterbacks are undoubtedly talented as we’ve seen flashes of greatness from  
Burrow and Herbert already. Burrow has a place to succeed in his early career, and Miami  
has catered their franchise to building a perfect place for Tagovailoa to succeed on Day 1. And  
on the other hand, Herbert is playing at a Pro Bowl level, quarterbacking the Chargers to a 1–
4 record because of the team’s inept coaching. These quarterbacks were selected in the first  
round for a reason, and while a strong supporting cast and great play calling can certainly  
help these young guns, Anthony Lynn has taken it to the point where he’s handicapping his  
team. Chargers coaching staff, if you’re reading this, you know what to do — pass the ball on  
early downs, please and thank you.
Art by Kalo Grimsby for The UCSD GuardianAccessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD’s Inaugural Season of Big West Basketball Set to Begin Jan. 1 - UCSD Guardian
 October 25, 2020  Praveen Nair 
On Wednesday, Oct. 21, the Big West Conference, UC San Diego’s new home in their first  
season in Division I, announced their men’s and women’s basketball schedules. Both 
teams will play their inaugural Big West matches against California Polytechnic State  
University, San Luis Obispo on New Year’s Day. While UCSD’s non-conference schedule  
is still to be determined, the basketball season will not start until at least Nov. 25 per 
recent NCAA guidelines, and spectators will not be allowed to attend for the foreseeable  
future.
Both the Triton men and women had their seasons cut short prematurely with the  
cancellation of the 2020 Division II national tournament. The men’s team had their best  
season in school history, earned a Number 1 seed in the tournament, and was ranked  
fourth nationally by the National Association of Basketball Coaches, racking up a 
blistering 30–1 record that included a 22-game win streak on their way to a fourth  
straight California Collegiate Athletic Association title; coach Eric Olen was honored as  
NABC West Region Coach of the Year as well as CCAA Coach of the Year.Accessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD’s Inaugural Season of Big West Basketball Set to Begin Jan. 1 - UCSD Guardian
The men’s team has had notable offseason losses in Christian Oshita, Scott Everman, and  
Chris Hansen, among others, but they will still have last year’s leading scorer in redshirt  
junior guard Tyrell Roberts, who notably put up 45 points and a game winner in the CCAA  
semifinals in March. Roberts’ 45 points was the second-highest-scoring game in Triton  
history, and his 111 three-pointers on the season set a new UCSD record. Other returning  
Tritons include senior guard Gabe Hadley, who often provided a spark off the bench with his  
long-range shooting, redshirt senior Mikey Howell, who broke the UCSD record for assists  
last season, and senior forward Marek Sullivan, who had a viral dunk against California State  
University, East Bay last year to go alongside an excellent rebounding season.
Meanwhile, Heidi VanDerveer’s women’s squad had themselves a stellar season as well,  
winning a share of the CCAA regular-season title for the fifth year in a row and the  conference 
tournament title for the fourth year in a row. The team was set to take on  Northwest 
Nazarene University on March 13 as a third seed in the NCAA tournament, until it  was 
cancelled just one day before, due to the coronavirus pandemic.
VanDerveer’s team will have five of its six leading scorers return to the court this season, led  
by junior guard Julia Macabuhay, who was a Women’s Basketball Coaches Association All-
American and CCAA Player of the Year last season. Macabuhay, who also led the Tritons in  
assists and steals, had a game-high 27 points in the CCAA title game. The Tritons will also  
have Tyla Turner, who was second on the team in scoring and had a double-double in the  
CCAA title game, their co-captain and minutes leader in junior guard Brianna Claros, and  
junior guard Sydney Brown, who led the Tritons in field goal percentage, three-point  
percentage, and blocks.
In the Big West, UCSD enters a conference that features four other University of California 
campuses — Irvine, Santa Barbara, Davis, and Riverside — in addition to five California State 
University campuses and the University of Hawaii. While the Big West is only ranked 24th in 
the nation according to RPI, it has seen some success, notably with 13th-seeded UC Irvine’s 
upset over 4th seed Kansas State in the 2019 NCAA tournament, and it opens a new chapter 
with the introduction of commissioner Dan Butterly taking over for Dennis Farrell, who led 
the conference for 27 years.
Both the men’s and women’s teams from UCSD will play the same teams in the same order, 
beginning with Jan. 1 contests against Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. To reduce travel, teams will 
play consecutive games on the same court, usually on a Friday and Saturday, instead of the 
usual home-and-home round-robin format.  Consequently, the Triton men open their season 
on the road at Cal Poly, while the women will do so at home. There will be no spectators forAccessed: 10/27/2020 UCSD’s Inaugural Season of Big West Basketball Set to Begin Jan. 1 - UCSD Guardian
the opening games of the season, according to the Big West; the conference has also  
announced that if cases of COVID-19 force a team to quarantine, the games they miss will not  
be rescheduled.
Basketball is the first UCSD sport to have an announced schedule — understandably, since  
upwards of 90 percent of NCAA revenue comes from men’s basketball alone. When the non-
conference portion of the basketball season begins is up to UCSD, as these matches are  
scheduled mutually by individual schools as opposed to by conferences. While the Tritons  
have been at or near the top of the CCAA for most of the last half-decade, they will be  
entering a new conference and a new division of play, making this one of the most important  
but also most uncertain seasons in the program’s history.
Photo courtesy Steven Calista / UC San Diego Athletics