Accessed: 10/9/2020 Peaks and Previews: October - UCSD Guardian
Peaks and Previews: October
 October 4, 2020  Colleen Conradi 
Welcome back to school fellow Tritons! This quarter certainly looks different than any other  
Fall Quarter we’ve ever had. While it is a bummer that many of the on-campus events we look  
forward to won’t be offered this year, that doesn’t mean that there are no events at all! Check  
out some of these virtual events to make the most of this month.
At Home Scavenger Hunt (Oct. 6):  Bored at home? Check out this scavenger hunt you 
can do from your own home! Once you register, all you need to do is send an email to receive 
a PDF of your scavenger hunt. From there, the challenge is in your hands. Happy Hunting!
You can register  here .
1920s Night (Oct. 8): Interested in vintage fashion and make up? Register for this event to 
watch tutorials by Chicago Movie Tours on how costumes, make up, and hair were put 
together for movies in the 1920s. Follow along for a night of film history and fun! You can 
register here.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 10/9/2020 Peaks and Previews: October - UCSD Guardian
Virtual Game Night (Oct. 9): Join in on this event to answer trivia questions, play  
charades, and draw in a special game of Pictionary. The trivia questions include categories  
such as Disney, ‘90s music, movies, and even a special round about yourself based on a  
questionnaire. Also, for those Tritons who are over the age of 21, there is an option to play  
these as drinking games as well! You can register here.
Speed Dating (Oct. 11):  Quarantine got you feeling lonely? There’s no doubt that living in  
a pandemic can make it a lot harder to meet other people and include some romance in your  
life. If this is something you can relate to, check out this online speed dating event! Once  
you’re in, the host will arrange for you to briefly meet others in private breakout rooms. Make  
note of those you like so you can keep in touch after the event! You can register  here.
Virtual Escape Room (Oct. 15):  Looking for a challenge? Join this virtual escape room to  
test your problem solving skills in addition to just having a good time! This event, put on by  
Roger Revelle College, is only open to the first 25 students, so register now! You can register  
here.  
Coping with Covid (every Monday):  Living in the midst of a pandemic is stressful  
enough on its own, but being a student on top of that can feel like a lot! One way to try and  
take good care of yourself is to drop in on this workshop put on by Counseling and  
Psychological Services here at UCSD. This workshop will run every Monday for the entire Fall  
Quarter. You can register here. Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Approves Asian American & Pacific Islander Studies Minor for Fall 2020 - UCSD Guardian
UCSD Approves Asian American & Paci c Islander 
Studies  Minor for Fall 2020
 October 4, 2020   Vivian Yang 
The UC San Diego Institute of Arts and Humanities officially launched the Asian American  
and Pacific Islander Studies minor on Thursday, Sept. 17. The minor aims to expand the  
knowledge of its students and to contextualize Asian American and Pacific Islander studies  
within the San Diego community. 
The minor will have 21 faculty members from a variety of majors, ranging from ethnic 
studies and history to music and visual arts. Until this year, UC San Diego was one of the 
only two UC campuses that did not have an undergraduate Asian studies program, with the
 
other campus being UC Merced. 
The Coalition for Critical Asian American Studies  is a non-profit, student run organization 
whose purpose is to advocate for Asian American studies at UC San Diego, and has 
contributed
 to many efforts to build support for the Asian American and Pacific Islander
 
community. In an open letter to the university in 2014, CCAAS made a list of demands to 
the university to provide for more resources and opportunities for Asian and Pacific  
Islander students.Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Approves Asian American & Pacific Islander Studies Minor for Fall 2020 - UCSD Guardian
The open letter called for the creation of an Asian American Studies Minor program, an Asian  
Pacific Islander Middle Eastern Desi American Research and Resource Center, increased  
funding for ethnic study programs, and other requests for increased investment in student  
resources.  
While CCAAS has organized mixer events for the last few years and garnered support from  
students and faculty, there had been no movement on getting an AAPI minor approved.  
According to UC San Diego Associate Professor of History and AAPI Studies Program  
Director Simeon Man, the turning point came this year when the university finally found a  
place to house the minor. 
Man said having the academic program allows students to see the history and experience of  
one’s culture and creates a space for students to find the group they identify with. 
Moreover, Man hopes to continue to build and strengthen relationships with Asian American  
and Pacific Islander communities beyond campus.  This will be done partly through the Race 
and Oral History Project, which connects UC San Diego  students with grassroots 
organizations representing San Diego’s racial and ethnic  communities. 
Ryan Okazaki, an Eleanor Roosevelt College alumnus who graduated in 2019, agreed that 
there was a need for greater academic representation of the histories of traditionally 
marginalized communities.
“There was a lack of [educational] resources for our history and students were teaching each 
other about the history in [organizations like CCAAS],” said Okazaki, “I want to see my family 
history and my community history represented in education.” 
“Establishing [an] AAPI minor is a formal step for the university to build communication 
with the students and will help students establish community,” Okazaki added.
Despite the successful establishment of the new minor, Man said that a challenge is ensuring 
that the minor receives greater support and attention from the university.
“Establishing the AAPI Program is an important step, but in order to grow and sustain it and 
to make a truly supportive program for students, the university will need to allocate more 
resources,” said Man. “For example, Pacific Islander studies remains severely 
underrepresented on this campus. I would like to see the university commit to hiring more 
faculty in this field and to recruiting and retaining more Pacific Islander students.”  Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Approves Asian American & Pacific Islander Studies Minor for Fall 2020 - UCSD Guardian
Man added that the timing of the minor’s approval coincides with calls for racial justice and a  
need to stand in solidarity with other marginalized groups.
“It is important to recognize the moment we are in, and the fact that the minor is being  
established at a time when the Black Student Union is making demands for the university to  
address systemic racism in concrete ways,” Man said. “One of their demands is for UC  
divestment from the Thirty Meter Telescope at Mauna Kea. It’s an eloquent reminder that  
movements are always built in coalition with others. The AAPI program does not exist in  
isolation from these other struggles, and we must help amplify each other.”
The first two events for the AAPI Program are a faculty and student mixer on Thursday, Oct.  
15, and a panel event titled “What Does an Abolitionist Asian American Politics Look Like?”  
on  Friday, Oct. 16th. Students who are interested in learning more about the program can  
visit the minor’s website  and can fill out this form to sign up for email updates. 
Art created by Angela Liang for The UC San Diego Guardian .
This article was last updated on October 4, 2020 at 7:25 PM.Accessed: 10/9/2020 On Pause: The UCSD 2020-21 Season - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Wesley Xiao
School is back in session. Last week, UC San Diego welcomed 5,730 undergrads to campus,  
including hundreds of new athletes. But it’ll be months before we can see these new Triton  
athletes in their first games. In fact, they may not be able to practice or even meet their new  
teammates until much later in the year.
Since mid-March, UCSD Athletics have been put on pause because of the ongoing 
coronavirus pandemic. On Mar. 12, the athletic department, along with the Big West 
conference, UCSD’s new Division I conference, and the California Collegiate Athletics 
Association, its old Division II conference, announced that all athletic activities would be 
suspended in response to COVID-19. The NCAA and the CCAA would go on to cancel all 
remaining winter and spring championships. The men’s and women’s basketball teams 
could not cap their season with visits to the Division II NCAA tournament, and the men’s 
volleyball team were unable to play out their first winning season in 14 years. And with that, 
the 2019-2020 season came to a disheartening close.Accessed: 10/9/2020 On Pause: The UCSD 2020-21 Season - UCSD Guardian
UCSD originally planned to have athletes come back to campus in early August. But as  
coronavirus cases have remained steady with few signs of slowing, they’ve since pushed that  
return date back to the end of September, having athletes return with the rest of the student  
body.
So, when will sports be back? Probably not anytime soon. On July 29, the Big West  
Conference announced that all fall sports would be postponed until at least the end of the  
calendar year. This puts the season on hold for cross country, soccer, golf, tennis, and  
women’s volleyball. UCSD has not made additional comments on the status of the athletic  
season since they suspended sports back in March.
But not all hope is lost. In the announcement that delayed all fall sports, the Big West made  
sure to note that one winter sport was still on track to return: basketball. Basketball was  
singled out because it is the most popular and profitable college sport, second only to  football. 
It reflects a national push for college basketball’s return. Though they may have  mishandled 
the return of college football, the NCAA has taken a more proactive role in  restarting the 
basketball season. On Sept. 25, the NCAA released guidelines for the upcoming  season, with 
details on scheduling, safety standards and March Madness.
March Madness is a big reason why college basketball is coming back. It’s the most profitable  
college sports event — over three quarters of the NCAA’s yearly revenue comes from the  
men’s tournament alone; schools want a shot at the tournament, and the added visibility and  
prestige it’ll provide their programs. The Big West also stands to get a cut of “the basketball  
fund”: a pool of over 60 percent of March Madness profits — in 2019, that was about $560  
million — that is distributed to conferences based on their tournament success. UCSD is not  
eligible for participation in March Madness until the 2024-2025 season, as part of their  
transition to Division I. Nonetheless, as a full member of the Big West, UCSD will be included  
in the efforts of the conference and other member schools to get to the tournament.
Nov. 25 is the first official day of regular season competition. So far, the Big West has not 
released details on the 2020-2021 basketball season. But there’s still plenty of time for the Big 
West to schedule and plan a season in time for March Madness. As it stands, it’s more than 
likely that we’ll be able to see the Tritons take to the hardwood in early 2021. 
If there’s any silver lining for UCSD, it is that there is no risk of sports being cut due to budget 
shortfalls, which many schools faced after the cancellation of big-ticket sports seasons like 
football. UCSD athletics are 90 percent funded through the Intercollegiate Athletic Fee of
$259.04 per student per quarter, securing it from the majority of COVID-related losses.Accessed: 10/9/2020 On Pause: The UCSD 2020-21 Season - UCSD Guardian
Outside of basketball, some sports seem set to come back later in the year. The NCAA  
Division I Board of Directors recently approved a plan to allow fall championships to be held  
in the spring, which makes the prospect of fall sports being rescheduled for later in 2021  
seem more probable.  Women’s volleyball has already officially moved their championship to  
the spring; for sports without clear plans to return, like soccer and tennis, shifting their  
seasons to the spring also seems like the most probable route.
Like everything else in 2020, UCSD sports are going to be radically different this season. For  
now, most sports are looking to resume in the spring, but the situation is extremely fluid. But  
even if many of the plans to return are driven by money, whatever plans are drawn up should  
ultimately prioritize the health and safety of players and the student body.
Photo by Steven Calista / UC San Diego AthleticsAccessed: 10/9/2020 An Unusual NFL Season Has Parallels in 2011 Lockout - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Hayden Wellbeloved
Players, owners, teams, and fans alike had many concerns and questions heading into this  
2020 NFL season, with COVID-19 posing a serious threat to all involved. Through the  
condensed offseason and first three weeks of the season, there have been a significant  
number of serious injuries to notable players, an increase in passing success and 
efficiency,  and a boom in overall offensive scoring. Yes, we have not seen a global event 
like COVID-19 and its effects on any sports season, let alone a NFL season before, but we 
don’t have to go far back in league history to realize that maybe we should have seen all 
these injuries and the offensive explosion coming.
In the 2011 offseason, the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) and the NFL owners were in a 
stalemate on agreeing to a new Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). As a result, from 
Mar. 12 to Jul. 25 of that year, there was no regularly scheduled offseason as free agency, 
organized team activities, and all events at team facilities were suspended. With such a 
prolonged period of time away from team practice and training, players were left to work 
out on their own, which prevented many from getting into the necessary football shape for 
the season. The effects of the lack of conditioning were felt almost immediately, as within 
the first 12 days of training camp, there were 10 Achilles ruptures and numerous otherAccessed: 10/9/2020 An Unusual NFL Season Has Parallels in 2011 Lockout - UCSD Guardian
significant injuries that shattered the record set the previous year.
Similarly, this year, once the coronavirus struck in March, teams began to conduct their team  
meetings and practices virtually, and they didn’t have access to their facilities until late July  
when rookies and quarterbacks were finally able to start camp. Again, players were primarily  
left on their own to stay in shape — but without the physical conditioning of live practice, any  
preseason games, and workout sessions held by weight coaches, these players didn’t get  
nearly as much preparation for the grueling NFL season as they should have. And as you  
would’ve guessed, through the first two weeks of the season, there has been an influx of  
injuries. 
But during this season, however, injuries have taken an unprecedented amount of franchise  
cornerstones, including the likes of Nick Bosa, Christian McCaffery, Von Miller, Courtland  
Sutton, Saquon Barkley, Michael Thomas, and more. Teams like the 49ers, Eagles, and  
Broncos have also been absolutely decimated by injuries — the 49ers played the Giants with  
just 40 percent of their starters, the Eagles are missing four out of five starting offensive  
linemen, and the Broncos, well… the Broncos are so injury-ridden they nearly lost to the New  
York Jets on Thursday Night Football. Without giving teams the necessary time to ramp up  
their conditioning to get their players into the shape they need, the NFL is setting up players  
and teams to fail. Yes, sprints and pushing sleds are great, but there is no way to simulate  
getting hit by a linebacker crashing through a gap. Five weeks is not enough time for players  
to prepare and get conditioned for a 17-week long season.
Another similarity to the 2011 season is the offensive explosion we’ve seen around the league. 
Back in the lockout season, we saw Tom Brady, Drew Brees, and Matthew Stafford all throw 
for over 5,000 yards — something that had only been done twice before. There were also 
double the amount of 4,000-yard passers compared to the season before. Aaron Rodgers won 
league MVP that year, and to this day, his career bests in yards, touchdowns, and passer 
rating are from that 2011 season.
Why might this be? One theory is that while an offense can hold smaller, unofficial practices 
to run routes and work on plays, a defense cannot practice by itself as it needs an offense to 
go up against. Also, teams, specifically offenses, with heavy continuity through the offseason 
will have a head start on defenses that are acquiring new pieces or schemes which may take 
more time to develop a sense of chemistry.
Through three weeks of the 2020 season, teams are, on average, scoring 25.6 points per 
game, which is the highest mark since 1948. Yes, it is likely this number may regress a bitAccessed: 10/9/2020 An Unusual NFL Season Has Parallels in 2011 Lockout - UCSD Guardian
once defenses find their footing, but from what we’ve seen so far there will be no stopping  
Russell Wilson or Patrick Mahomes. One of the biggest offseason grumblings was that the  
Seahawks were finally going to “Let Russ Cook,” with Wilson coming off of a stellar 2019-20  
season. Seattle offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer has done just that, and Wilson  
has exceeded any and all expectations as he has thrown for an NFL record 14 touchdowns  
through three games while sporting an astounding 139 passer rating. Mahomes, on the other  
hand, has 9 touchdowns to zero interceptions, and is on pace for 4,800 yards through the air  
after putting on a clinic against the Baltimore Ravens. 
But it’s not just the stars that are showing up — quarterback play has also been improving  
around the league; through three weeks, 17 quarterbacks have a passer rating over 100 while  
only 12 reached this mark a year ago. Almost everyone — sorry New York football fans — is  
having offensive success. Even the projected worst team in the league, the Jacksonville  
Jaguars, have had Gardner Minshew have two games with 3 touchdowns and no  
interceptions. What can you say? 2020 is a weird year.
In such an unpredictable season where COVID could strike a team at any time — indeed, we  
are starting to see more players testing positive in the leadup to Week 4 — it’s hard to know  
what to expect. The 2011 lockout season indicated that injuries may spike due to players  
lacking a full offseason, and that passing and offenses would dominate defenses. Hopefully,  
as the season progresses and players get into better shape, injuries become less common. But  
for the rest of the season, don’t be surprised to see passing records broken and high scoring 
offenses gain the upper hand. As a fan of the game, though, I’m just glad we have football 
back.
Art by Yui KitaAccessed: 10/9/2020 A College-Student Journalist's Disappointment with National Debate Coverage - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Jack Dorfman
This article was written immediately after the first presidential debate on Tuesday  
September 29, prior to the knowledge that all future debates may be canceled due to 
President Trump testing positive for COVID-19.
Millions of voters sat down and watched the first presidential debate of 2020 on Tuesday 
night. Millions more took to social media during and after to provide their own spin of 
what went down. I took the opposite approach. Ignoring social media, I immediately went 
and turned on Fox News to hear its initial reaction to the debate. 
This was a reaction that the team at Fox had the opportunity to carefully craft, hone, and 
execute. Right at 11 p.m. EST, Fox anchor Sean Hannity came on the air and spoke to his 
audience. In doing so, he consciously chose exactly how he’d frame the debate. Accessed: 10/9/2020 A College-Student Journalist's Disappointment with National Debate Coverage - UCSD Guardian
Deftly avoiding, or completely ignoring, what seemed to me to be the newsworthy differences  
in opinion on white supremacy, racial sensitivity, climate change, healthcare, and law and  
order, Hannity instead brought up his view that President Donald Trump “steamrolled” a  
weak and “cranky” former-Vice President Joe Biden. 
Biden’s infirmity was the very first thing Hannity brought up to his audience. In making that  
choice, Hannity, and by proxy Fox News as a network, signaled to viewers that the limited  but 
contentious substance of the debate was less important than “reporting” to viewers that  
maybe Biden had performed poorly because it was “past his bedtime.”
Then I flipped over to CNN.
Five analysts from across the political spectrum, but most with an undeniable anti-Trump  
lean, brought up all of the aforementioned hot points from the debate. Within the first ten  
minutes of their conversation, they argued over Trump’s behavior while also calling out the  
pair on moments they felt were detrimental to their campaigns and potentially to the  country.
My unpolished first reaction is that CNN did a great job, at least within its initial coverage, of  
avoiding discussing the time spent during the debate  attacking Hunter Biden  and Trump’s 
deflection on the question of personal federal income taxes, amongst other digressions  that 
occurred within the debate. I believe CNN stuck to the key issues for the most part. 
But then again, portions of the commentators’ argument drifted, centering at times around  
what talking points the pair of presidential candidates failed to take advantage of. They spent  
time arguing over missed opportunities by Biden to attack Trump and even more time  
arguing about the destructive psychology of the sitting president.  
CNN then followed up this discussion with questions for Vice Presidential Candidate Kamala 
Harris, an interview which, as strongly as I’ll support the Biden-Harris ticket come 
November, I feel produced little-to-no useful analysis of either candidate. 
I wish I’d stayed put on the couch and watched more coverage from both sides, but I wanted 
to get my thoughts down on paper. And I didn’t want my memories of this debate to be 
reduced to the clips I’d see on Twitter the next day. I wanted to remember as much of the 
debate as I could so that I could accurately contextualize the content of Fox’s, and to a much 
greater extent, CNN’s post-debate coverage.Accessed: 10/9/2020 A College-Student Journalist's Disappointment with National Debate Coverage - UCSD Guardian
All told, both Hannity’s immaterial attack on Biden during Fox’s introduction and CNN’s  
initial post-debate analysis of the “success” of the candidates disappointed me. These two  
networks employ journalists with some of the nation’s loudest megaphones, journalists who  
can shape social discourse surrounding this debate for days if not weeks. Their coverage can  
change minds, or at the very least start conversations that change minds, and they have  
direct electoral impact. 
As a college journalist, with a relatively meager audience of students on just one campus, I  
didn’t feel that I could provide much meaningful insight into the substance of that debate, or  
even fairly and accurately analyze the debate or the candidate’s messages in comparison to  
what national outlets and seasoned journalists will produce over the coming days.
However, I did feel I had a role to play. I felt that my impact could come through urging  
students, even just the few hundred or thousand that read this article, to critically analyze the  
media and its coverage of events that affect hundreds of millions of people. If we want to see  
change, we need to not only become media members and voters ourselves, but we need to  
become more broadly entrenched within these conversations every day.
Instead of simply accepting Fox, CNN, or any national news coverage because we trust that  
their views align closely with our own, when we disagree with their coverage we should take  
on some of our own research and start different conversations on social media, in our college  
newspapers, or even in discussions with friends and family. I feel we need to force journalists  
and politicians alike to talk about what we feel is important. 
And even if that can be performed from the ballot box with this election, there is more work 
that can be done. So many people, young and old, have become disillusioned with politics 
because they feel a lack of agency. They feel that their vote doesn’t matter, that their issues 
aren’t being represented, or more generally, that they can’t impact politicians, the same 
politicians that purport to serve them and alter their everyday lives. 
My intention in writing this article is to try to inspire college students and any other readers I 
have to push back against the narratives that surround us, even if they’re from sources we’ve 
chosen to trust and align with. If the national media tell a story you feel doesn’t accurately 
reflect the debate for example, talk about it. If your city fails to pass legislation creating 
community oversight of policing, yell about it. And if you don’t feel represented, speak up.
Photo by Element5 Digital on UnsplashAccessed: 10/9/2020 Asian Solidarity Collective Hosts Virtual Conference in Support of Proposition 16 and Affirmative Action - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Troy Tuquero
The Asian Solidarity Collective hosted a virtual panel discussion titled  “Shaking the  
Foundation”  on Friday, Sept. 25 that sought to educate the Asian Pacific Islander 
community of San Diego on the  upcoming vote on Proposition 16 and affirmative 
action.The San Diego grassroots organization educates Asian Americans on social justice 
and promotes solidarity with marginalized communities.
Prop 16 refers to a California ballot initiative that asks voters if they are in favor of 
amending the state constitution to repeal Proposition 209.  The 1996 proposition prevents 
the state government from considering factors such as race, sex, and national origin in 
public education, employment, and contracting. Proponents of the repeal say that it 
would allow for state institutions, such as the University of California, to adopt affirmative 
action, or measures that would encourage greater representation of disadvantaged 
minority groups.
The event began with a land acknowledgement, stating that San Diego County is located 
on indigenous Kumeyaay land. It was followed by a moment of silence.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Asian Solidarity Collective Hosts Virtual Conference in Support of Proposition 16 and Affirmative Action - UCSD Guardian
The event was moderated by Grace Shinae Jun, a co-founder and principal member of the  
Asian Solidarity Collective. The panelists included Associate Professor Affiliate Dr. OiYan  Poon 
of the University of Illinois at Chicago’s department of educational policy studies, local  San 
Diego activist and organizer Jean-Huy Tran, Education Equity Director Victoria “Nikki”  
Dominguez of the Los Angeles branch of Asian Americans Advancing Justice, former Vice  
President of Program Strategy at the Los Angeles branch of Asian Americans Advancing  Justice 
Reshma Shamasunder, and UC San Diego Associate Professor of History Simeon  Man. 
Man provided historical context to affirmative action in his opening remarks and argued that  
the United States is structurally built around an ongoing system of white supremacy.
“The United States is built on white supremacy. That is the foundation on which the struggle  
for affirmative action is being waged,” Man said. “By white supremacy, I do not mean only  
certain people believing and acting on the belief that they are superior because of their white  
identity… But I also mean white supremacy as a structure that has conferred tangible  rewards 
to people for no other reason than because of their claim to that white identity.”
Man went on to talk about how Asian-American opposition to race conscious policy is centered 
around the model minority myth, a stereotypical narrative that sees Asians as innately talented 
and as successful, boot-strapping immigrants.
“[The model minority myth] was born in the midst of black freedom movements of the 1960’s 
as a way to delegitimize black struggles and to prevent coalitions from being formed,” Man 
said. “The portrayal of Asian Americans as bootstrapping overachievers has gone hand in hand 
with the subjugation of black and brown folks in this country. These tired tropes are distracting 
and they are effective; the fact that we are having this panel at all speaks to that effectiveness.”
The panel then answered a series of questions regarding Prop 16 such as how they have 
meaningful conversations about the measure and its potential economic ramifications. The 
discussion also focused on the panelists’ views on how the proposal is a meaningful step 
towards uplifting the black community.
Shamasunder touched upon the impact of structural racism on Asian-Americans, citing 
increases in hate crimes amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and calling for solidarity with other 
communities of color.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Asian Solidarity Collective Hosts Virtual Conference in Support of Proposition 16 and Af
firmative Action - UCSD Guardian
“More recently, in the wake of [COVID-19], Asian-Americans are a direct target of anti-Asian  
violence, both [state violence] as well as individual one on one violence,” Shamasunder said.  
“It is the result of a shared system that is creating systemic violence against various  
communities, including ours. Standing together with black advocates, with brown advocates,  
is critical if we want to confront this in a holistic way.”
The event concluded with a speech by San Diego City Council Member Monica Montgomery  
Steppe. She commented on the personal impact of Prop 209 on her family and called  
attention to the challenges that Prop 16 supporters face going forward.
“Speaking from the Black perspective, we have built up a country that never has granted us  
reparations for [the work of African Americans],” Steppe said.“We are up against a mentality,  
what we have learned through this white supremacist system, and through nuts and bolts  
messaging. I think that we can do it, but we just have to know what we are up against.”
The Asian Solidarity Collective is currently working on a ballot measure campaign called  
TAKE ACTION that aims to engage with the San Diego Asian American community through  
panels and webinars ahead of the November election. The group will also be hosting an event  
on Wednesday, Oct. 14 to discuss their stances on other propositions.
Seventh College Assistant Director of Residence Life Joanne Song Engler will be hosting a 
UCSD workshop on Thursday, Oct. 8 titled “Facts not Fiction: Prop 16 and Anti-Racist 
Policies,” to further discuss the implications of Prop 16 and affirmative action. Students who 
are interested in attending are encouraged to reach out to Engler at  jsengler@ucsd.edu .
Prop 16 is on the ballot for the presidential election on Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2020 and requires a 
simple majority to pass. To learn more about Prop 16, please consult the Official Voter 
Information Guide on the California Secretary of State’s website.
Photo provided by Carmela Prudencio of the Asian Solidarity CollectiveAccessed: 10/9/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: Registration & The Census - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Sabrina Wu 
This article is part of a new UCSD Guardian series on the 2020 United States elections. We  
will be discussing registration, state propositions, and  various elections from the local to  
federal level. Tune in every Tuesday on Facebook or Instagram to see the latest article.
Election day is Tuesday, Nov. 3, but this year’s voting process is markedly different because 
of the public health risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. UC San Diego students will be 
able to vote in person at various on-campus polling locations, but all registered voters in 
California will automatically receive a mail-in ballot starting on Monday, Oct. 5. 
Assistant Registrar of Voters for San Diego County Cynthia Paes helps to oversee the 
administration of local and statewide elections and encourages voters to take advantage of 
the mail-in-ballots.Accessed: 10/9/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to V
oting In San Diego: Registration & The Census - UCSD Guardian
“We really want people to take advantage of that, voting safer at home,” Paes said in an  
interview with The UCSD Guardian. “They can mark their ballots and make voting 
decisions  in the comfort and safety of their home, and then drop it in the mail. So, that’s 
what we’re  encouraging. But we will still have in-person polling places.” 
According to a press release  by the UC San Diego News Center, UCSD campus voting 
locations following social  distancing guidelines will be available from Oct. 31 to Nov. 3 for 
those who would prefer to  vote in person. On-campus polling locations will be open at 
RIMAC for students that are  registered to vote with their campus address. Mail-in-ballots 
can also be dropped off at this  location.  
Students who prefer to vote by mail are able to return their ballots so long as they are  
postmarked before or on Tuesday, Nov. 3. The Registrar of Voters has also made available  
various mail ballot drop-off locations around San Diego County  that will operate between 
Oct. 6 and Nov. 3.
The UCSD Associated Students’ Civic Engagement Office is encouraging students to visit  
TurboVote, a non-partisan website designed to make voting easier.  The CEO has developed 
a card that links to the TurboVote website which will provide  students with any information 
regarding the voting process. Students will be able to check if  they are filling out their forms 
correctly, or if their state allows online registration.
Executive Director of the CEO Janelle Eley has helped spearhead voter related efforts  
through the TurboVote site to reach out to all students and create ways for everyone to stay  
involved in the political process.
“With Turbovote, we can include all students in the election process– even our 
international student population or students who cannot vote in the United States for some 
other reason,” Eley said. “Those who sign up can receive updates and information about the 
election giving students who cannot vote a way to still feel civically engaged.”
Paes also said students should check and update their voter registration, depending on 
where they are and what state they want their vote to count in. As voting information is sent 
to students based on their housing status, important updates could be missed if their 
registration is not current.Accessed: 10/9/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting In San Diego: Registration & The Census - UCSD Guardian
“To participate, you need to know where you’re at,” Paes said. “That’s the biggest problem we  
have with students is they’re constantly moving around, and they don’t keep their  registration 
up to date.”
Over the past few months, workers for the U.S. Census Bureau have begun the constitutional  
task of completing the census, or the counting of individuals in the country. Each household  
is required by law to participate in providing census information which will determine  
congressional representation and federal funding allocation.  
Students are encouraged to register  to vote as soon as possible since the deadline to register 
both online and by mail in California is  Monday, Oct. 19. Paes said that the importance of 
voting starts at the local levels and  students should realize that their vote does count. 
“It’s more trying to educate students, make them aware of their choices and that their vote  
matters,” Paes said. “The local impact is so important. Really pay attention to those local  
races.”
The CEO launched the Tritons Vote Coalition, which is open to any student organization that  
has interest in civic engagement and wants to stay updated with voter information. Members  
will bring information they learned about election details, voter registration, upcoming  
events to their student organizations. To join, students can email Eley at asceo@ucsd.edu  or 
find them on Instagram @asucsdceo. 
As election day approaches, the CEO plans on hosting virtual debate watching events and  
doing social media challenges to keep students civically engaged. To stay connected for  
important information about the election and registration, students are encouraged to sign  
up for UCSD’s TurboVote website. 
Art created by Yui Kita for The UC San Diego Guardian
This article was updated on Monday, Oct. 5 at 12:05PM to reflect further information 
provided by the UCSD Associated Students’ Civic Engagement Office about TurboVote.Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Welcomes Students Back to Campus - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020    Andrew Hae
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, UC San Diego laid out the Return to Learn program to 
ensure the  safety and wellbeing of students and faculty on campus by mitigating the spread of 
the virus. This includes required face-coverings,  wastewater monitoring, frequent 
symptomatic and asymptomatic testing, case isolation, and contact tracing. Many facilities and 
resource  centers are now either closed or at reduced capacity to follow COVID-19 safety 
protocols. 
One of the most rigorous plans to curb the spread of the virus on a university campus in the 
United States, Return to Learn’s effectiveness  will be tested in the coming year. The first 
hurdle to welcoming students back for Fall Quarter has yielded promising results. 
As of Oct. 4, UCSD has  tested over 18,000 students for COVID-19 and has concluded that only 
89 of those students were positive for the virus, which is approximately 0.48 percent positive. 
According to cumulative summary reports maintained by UCSD Health, only 1 percent of the 
nearly 24,000 UCSD campus and health employees tested positive as of Sept. 26 .Although once again open for students, on-campus housing has seen a downtick in residents. 
According to a  San Diego Union Tribune  article, approximately  5,700 students moved onto 
campus housing in the past few weeks but over 1,800 who had reservations did not show up.  
Housing Dining and Hospitality has developed new stringent COVID-19 rules such as wearing 
a mask when inside the common space of your own unit,  further staggering the move-in 
process, and minimizing large congregations of people.
“[UCSD’s move-in plan] was up and down,” Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Sam 
Ivezich said. “They have a pretty solid plan, but I  can’t really say the same for the execution. 
There’s some pretty hefty rules, but they seem to be broken pretty often by students on campus.  
They’re even threatening suspension and cancellation of the housing contract if you’re caught
 
with too many people in your space who don’t  live there, but it’s a little unclear what the official 
standings or punishments are for certain things.”
UCSD has set-up designated facilities for on and off-campus students to  be tested  periodically 
for the virus. As of Sept. 29, students living on campus are required to take asymptomatic 
COVID-19 tests every two weeks with no more than 16 days in between each test. All students
 
residing in the greater San Diego area are recommended to take daily symptom and exposure 
screenings. 
Students living on or near campus who have symptoms of COVID-19 can be tested for free,  
regardless of healthcare provider, at Student Health Services or any UCSD Health location.  
Students without symptoms who want a test may schedule with the university to do so and are 
encouraged to get retested in 12 to 16 days. 
If tested positive with symptoms, please seek medical attention. Asymptomatic individuals 
should self-quarantine for at least 14 days to ensure that they do not spread the virus. 
UCSD has made available specialized isolation housing for on-campus individuals who have 
tested positive. They would live there at no additional cost to their housing contract for the
 
recommended isolation period while being provided with meals three times a day. Meals
will be billed accordingly to the individual’s UCSD housing account. 
“Our Return to Learn approach is guided by three key pillars: risk mitigation, virus detection  
and intervention,” UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla said in a press release. “During the spring 
and summer, we successfully tested this approach on our campus with limited number of
 
students, researchers, faculty and staff. The adaptability of our plan is key to our continued 
success. If necessary, our campus operations will shift should we see significant changes in the
 
public health of our campus or of the larger San Diego community.”Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Welcomes Students Back to Campus - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Welcomes Students Back to Campus - UCSD Guardian
To promote more efficient contact tracing, the state of California has developed new 
software with Apple and Android phones to alert  individuals if they have come into contact 
with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus. The California Notify Program is still 
in its pilot but it is now being used to  inform people of possible exposure. 
Although most facilities and student resources are still available, many are at reduced 
capacity or have closed offices. The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office  has limited 
availability for visitation and highly recommends that students schedule an  appointment for 
virtual counseling rather than going to the office in person. Telephone hours have also been 
reduced to only  Tuesdays and  Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
However, Counseling and Psychological Services  continues to be fully  operational in order to 
support students with their mental health. Although meetings will be conducted via video or 
phone, the office has  extended their hours to be more flexible to students’ schedules and 
differences in time zones.
UCSD Dining Halls, other common areas, and transportation will follow typical San Diego 
public health orders to maintain social  distancing and a clean environment through frequent 
sanitation. Dining Halls now have shortened hours and require that students order on the 
mobile app Triton2Go  and enter the building only when the food is ready. When using UCSD 
facilities, it is  always recommended that students keep a 6-foot distance from others and 
wear a facial cover. 
UCSD Recreation has developed the Return to Rec program for students to register for 
free temporary membership to use select facilities on a reservation-basis. Various rules are 
set depending on the facilities used and the nature of the workout, but all information 
can be found on the aforementioned website. 
All student resource centers, including Raza, Black, Women, LGBTQ, and Cross Cultural 
Resource Centers, are closed until further notice  due to coronavirus concerns. However, all 
can be reached via their respective emails or on social media.
“It feels different [to return to UCSD], but nice,” Ivezich said. “It’s nice to see things start to 
kind of build back up again after everything just sort of ended last year. It sucks not being 
able to have as much of a social sphere and do things in person still, but it is nice to see 
people after a while, even if distanced. The biggest positive is that nothing has a giant line 
anymore since campus is at quarter capacity. Although most of my classes are online, it at 
least feels more like school rather than just doing everything at home.”Accessed: 10/9/2020 UCSD Return to Learn Program Welcomes Students Back to Campus - UCSD Guardian
To learn more about UCSD’s Return to Learn program, please visit their  website. If you 
would like to  receive possible exposure notifications, refer to  California COVID Notify. 
If you or another UCSD student would like to take an asymptomatic test, you can schedule an 
appointment with the university for free. If a family member or friend not a  part of the UCSD 
community is concerned about having the coronavirus, please contact your healthcare 
provider and get tested at one of  the locations  listed on the San Diego county website. 
Photo taken by Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
Summer ’20 Top Hits
 October 4, 2020   Guardian Sta ff
Summer might be dead, overthrown by the inevitable rule of the quarter system, but that  
doesn’t mean that the songs and shows that sustained us during this hot quarantine season  
have to be forgotten as well. From A&E to you, here are some of our staff-favorite rewinds  
to reminisce about 2020’s warm summer nights. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
I remember, years ago, reading about the debut of “Hamilton” in the back of a “TIME”  
magazine. During Barack Obama’s presidency, it had sounded revolutionary: a Broadway-
musical retelling of Alexander Hamilton’s life featuring hip-hop, rap, and a predominantly  
non-white cast. With lively, memorable songs like “My Shot” and “Alexander Hamilton”  
breaking into the mainstream, Lin Manuel-Miranda’s “Hamilton” became the introduction to  
musical theatre for many, and spawned a worldwide following that has been sustained,  
thanks to Disney+’s recent release of a live stage recording, to today.
But today is another story. In the midst of a pandemic, an election year, and Black Lives  
Matter protests, what was once a political statement and a proud reclamation of a racist  
history is now a tone-deaf romanticization of America’s founding fathers. Being cognizant of  
these two polar-opposite perspectives and contexts, as well as the musical’s overall hype, I  
went into “Hamilton” — now finally accessible — with eagerness, apprehension, and high  
expectations.
As pure entertainment, it certainly lives up to expectations. Following along to the rapid-fire  
lines is certainly a feat for the untrained ear, but it is ridiculously easy to get lost in this one-
stage world where people sing and dance in period costumes. Multi-talented actors like Leslie  
Odom Jr. (Aaron Burr) and Daveed Diggs (Marquis de Lafayette) steal the show with their  
verses and voices. Even more impressive are the musical’s seamless choreography and  
lightning-quick scene transitions. So many songs had me scrambling to Spotify, most notably  
“The Room Where It Happens,” a jazzy number revealing Aaron Burr’s motivations, “You’ll 
Be Back,” King George III’s catchy comic-relief tune, and “It’s Quiet Uptown,” an aching 
ballad of grief and forgiveness.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
It’s all dazzling, good fun — until the finale. Slack-jawed and awed, I watched as emotions  
flared, guns were drawn, and the musical truly elevated itself into something great. Yet after 
the hype, the sold-out tickets, and the backlash, I can’t help but remain conflicted. My  
appreciation of craft and enjoyment of pop musicals and period costumes clash with critiques  
of faux progressivism, and I’m left thinking of the musical’s big question: Who tells your  
story? To some, “Hamilton” is a story about one man’s legacy. To others, a symbol of racism’s 
legacy. Only time will tell how the story of “Hamilton” ends.
— Natalie Tran, Senior Staff Writer
In previous summers, my friends and I would typically go out to the beach and maybe some  
ball games and concerts. However, Summer 2020 will go down in my book as the strangest  
summer ever because of how we spent our time together: in space doing tasks … in “Among  
Us.” “Among Us”is an online multiplayer game developed by company InnerSloth, originally  
released on June 15, 2018. Similar to party games like “Mafia,” there are two teams:  
crewmates and impostors. The impostors’ main goal is to kill crewmates and not be caught,  
while crewmates must go around the map and complete tasks in order to win. The premise of  
the game is very simple, and to be quite honest, a lot of the tasks are very mundane and  
annoying. However, the main charm and highlight of this game comes from when a player  
reports a dead body and initiates the discussion of the impostor’s identity. Just from one 
summer alone, I have been able to obtain so many fond memories of me and my friends 
arguing about whether someone is or is not the impostor. I feel like this game brought us 
closer in a time when we are all distant from each other due to the pandemic. “Among Us” 
offered an escape from reality by making the interactions among people the core of the game. 
“Among Us”is proof that game developers do not need a lot in order to create something 
amazing, evidenced by the fact that the team who created the game was composed of only 
three people. “Among Us”gives me hope for future indie developers and the games they will 
produce.
— Hector Arrieta, Senior Staff Writer Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
My first introduction to Sen Senra was his newest single “Perfecto,” a tune about being 
involved with another, both emotionally and physically. Sen Senra delivers his lines with a 
staggered flow, speeding up and slowing down to match the melancholy drums pulsing in 
the background. The music video features him clad in a matching jacket-and-pants duo 
reminiscent of the Calvin Klein Raf Simons 2018 collaboration, surrounded by darkness and 
dancing on water. The simple, yet unique aesthetic of the music and its video quickly led me 
down a rabbit hole as I tore through one video after another, taking in Sen Senra’s short 
YouTube catalog. 
Senra hails from Vigo, Spain, and he currently has three full-length albums out on 
streaming platforms. Most of the music videos I watched belong to his third studio album,
“Sensaciones.” Senra’s first two albums, “Permanent Vacation” and “The Art of Self-
Pressure,” are an assorted mix of songs sung in both Spanish and English. However, while 
these two albums are enjoyable enough, they feel incomplete, lacking the interesting artistic 
choices that make Senra’s latest album so enjoyable.
While his first two albums were a decent, slightly generic mix of English and Spanish, 2019’s 
“Sensaciones” is Senra’s first all-Spanish album. This album is where Senra seems to find 
his voice, taking a sharp turn into reverb-heavy indie rock and R&B. Interspersed 
throughout the album are hints of synth-pop and hip-hop drums, which, when mixed with 
Senra’s versatile vocals and soft guitars, deliver a deeply satisfying performance. I found 
myself discovering and rediscovering hidden gems within the 42-minute project, often 
leaving with a new favorite song. Even though Sen Senra only has about 410,000 monthly 
listeners on Spotify, he is definitely someone to keep your eye on.
— Elías Román, Staff WriterAccessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
Charlie Kaufman’s “I’m Thinking of Ending Things” simultaneously over-saturates, 
deconstructs, and re-merges the barriers between time, thought, dream, touch, movement, 
and song. It is both a sensory overload and stark realization through the eyes of a tragically 
lonely high school janitor, propelled by his consumption of artistic media. With a particular 
dependence on the classic Rodgers and Hammerstein musical “Oklahoma!,”  the film makes 
use of the musical’s famous dream ballet sequence, capitalizing on its fantastical narrative 
force to underscore the protagonist’s struggles. It feels like a distant sequel to his acclaimed 
2004 film “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” embodying the somber experience of 
losing control to an amalgamation of memories to stitch together an imagined reality. 
Although the language of the film might otherwise seem pretentious in the quantity of its 
allusions, it ultimately leaves you with a feeling of intentional emptiness. It overloads your 
senses as a final attempt in catharsis. It takes you through the initially confusing numbness 
of another’s nonlinear timeline until you are forced to acclimate to what you cannot fully 
make sense of. You must crawl yourself out of someone else’s psyche, but a psyche that was 
falsely constructed as a coping mechanism. The journey is not an easy one, but the 
disorientation feels necessary. Full of uncanny closeups, unstable lighting, unpredictable 
uses of musical theatre, and jarring track shots of multiple speeds, this film is sure to take 
you on an unparalleled ride through tainted, fantastical nostalgia.
— Marina Lee, Contributing WriterAccessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
With the world locked away in their homes, Summer 2020 proved to be the perfect time for  
all production companies to release their content. Week after week, new seasons of shows 
were released, and I am here to review as many as I can.
First, we have “Pose,” which is not on many viewers’ watchlists despite being out for two  
years. “Pose” gives an inside look into the ball culture scene of New York City during the ‘80s.  
The best aspects of this show are the costuming and the writing, as well as the deep look into  
the AIDS epidemic that struck NY during this time. The costuming is inspired by  
underground ball culture, which subsequently created on-screen out-of-this-world themes,  
outrageous voguing, and mesmerizing makeup. The writing of the show has been criticized  
for being too dramatic and is often compared to how plays are written; this critique, however,  
does not stand. The writing of the show is overdramatized in order to highlight the fact that  
members within the New York Ball scene often speak with elegance and drama to grab  
attention. This show should be added to all watchlists because of the exposure it gives to an  
important aspect of queer culture to viewers who might not have otherwise ever been  
enlightened on this part of history. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
Next, we have “Insecure,” which just finished its fourth season in June. “Insecure” follows a  
modern-day black woman trying to keep her head above water while handling her  
interpersonal relationships, career conflicts, and personal development hiccups. Two special  
components of “Insecure” are the carefully-curated soundtrack of mainly black artists and  
the carefully-laced exposé of Los Angeles’ gentrification problem. Issa Rae delivers the best  
comedic writing on television, perfectly embodying the subtle specialities of mundane day-
to-day interactions. For anyone interested in writing good onscreen comedy, or just in need 
of really good music, “Insecure” is the show for you.
Third, we have “Ramy,” a show giving an inside look at the inner workings of an immigrant  
family living their American Dream. The plot follows Ramy, a man lost in his own navigation  
of a reality split by his heritage and the culture that surrounds him. Beautiful  
cinematography is paired with a soundtrack of Arabic, French, and English music, and the  
witty writing from the characters keeps the plot fresh and interesting. One of the first  
predominantly-accepted shows dedicated to displaying the Middle Eastern immigrant  
experience, Ramy is a must watch for any viewer interested in different cultures.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
Lastly, we have the show “Pen15.” The show follows the life of two middle schoolers trying to  
survive school drama and puberty mishappenings. With witty writing and horrifyingly  
accurate depictions of that one time in middle school when the guy that constantly bullied  
you asks you to go to the gym closet, “Pen15” comes back full force in its second season. A  
special quality about this season is the deeper delve into middle school experiences such as  
navigating a toxic relationship without having ever been in one, a dabble in witchcraft, and  
expanding your interests. For anyone really just wanting to turn off your brain and have  
some laughs, “Pen15” is the show for you. 
— Hanaa Moosavi, Senior Staff Writer
2020 has undoubtedly been a momentous year in bringing forth social change and  
uncovering the sometimes uncomfortable but necessary truths that had been left buried for  
far too long. One unexpected ramification from this shift is the drastic impact these  
movements had on the music industry. This summer, dozens of formerly-loved indie artists  
and bands were exposed for their predatorial and problematic behavior, causing an  
explosive response from the media and fan bases. A common complaint from those who  
continued to support the accused artists was that it was difficult to find creators who  
weren’t “cancelled,” and while I understand this sentiment to a certain degree, there are  
countless talented artists in the indie music scene who are also actual good people. So  
without further ado, here are my top three certified summer bops from my current favorite  
non-problematic, under-hyped, rising artists. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
The Bay Area collective “Peach Tree Rascals” (Dom, Isaac, Tarrek, Joseph, and Jorge) have  
been releasing underrated bangers such as “Mango,” “Mariposa,” and “Summa,” for a while,  
but are just now finally starting to get their well-deserved break for their feel-good, upbeat  
music. Several of the members are second-generation Americans with immigrant families,  
and their journey from being unrecognized artists struggling to pay rent, to where they  
managed to get to today, is an inspiring call to action to all music creators. This summer, the  
group released their EP “I can’t wait for you to come my way,” — the title of which also  
happens to be lyrics to “Mariposa” — and much to my surprise, surpassed the already-
immense hype I had constructed for it in my head. My personal favorite track is “Deer,” in  
which they sing “I’m in need of some love today / It can’t seem to roll my way / I’ve felt like  
I’m rollin’ on roller skates.” 
Although they fall into the alternative/indie genre, their music bends labels with their new 
groovy sound that was perfect for summer, and can best be described as sounding like yellow 
flowers and late night summer car rides with friends. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
BENEE, the artist most known for her song “Supalonely,” exploded onto the music scene this  
year with a little help from TikTok, but her other songs are just as catchy as her most popular  
single, if not more. The track “Snail” that she released in August is a perfect example of her  
fun, alternative, pop vibe, and I strongly recommend it for those who want to be introduced  
to her music, or listen to more of her songs. Once you hear the first few notes drop, I promise  
you’ll catch yourself singing “I’m like a snail, you’re a guy / Kinda mad I can’t fly” for a week  
straight as you absentmindedly dance around in your kitchen. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Summer '20 Top Hits - UCSD Guardian
I have a deep, dark confession to make: I was a Brockhampton stan from 2017 to 2019. All  
jokes aside, I no longer support this group due to their problematic history, but the influence  
they had on alternative hip-hop and pop rap is undeniable, and I found myself missing their  
sound as I scrolled on Spotify endlessly this summer, hoping to find a group with a similar  
vibe. This is when I would like to introduce the one and only *drumroll* AG Club! AG Club is  
a hip-hop collective from the Bay Area composed of Loui (production, vocals), Baby Boy
(vocals), Jody Fontaine (vocals), Manny (design), and Mick Anthony (vocals, guitar). They  
came out with “Memphis (Pt. 2)” on Aug. 28, which was revealed to be a track off their  
forthcoming album “FYE.” This single is a remix of their most popular song “Memphis” and  
features NLE Choppa and A$AP Ferg. It is actually scientifically impossible not to nod your  
head to every beat of the track, and get sucked into the rabbit hole of their charismatic and  
catchy music. Their sound is reminiscent of a “Saturation” era Brockhampton, and I can  
almost guarantee you will fall in love with their music if you also enjoy artists like A$AP Mob,  
Kenny Mason, and 99 Neighbors. Although Odd Future and Brockhampton’s influence can  
definitely be felt through their music, it is important to remember that AG Club is their own 
unique group with their own vision, and while comparisons can be helpful to find other 
artists, their individuality should ultimately be respected.
AG Club’s music feels special, not just because it takes you back to a memory where you and 
your friends couldn’t stop laughing with each other at the park before life stopped being so 
simple, but also because you know that listening to their music makes you a witness to the 
start of something huge.
— Hemmy Chun, A&E Editor
Images as they appear courtesy of: YouTube, USA Today, Steam, Genius, IMDb, Collider, 
IndieWire, SceneArabia, IndieWire, Arts + Culture – Affinity Magazine, Stereogum, Genius.Accessed: 10/9/2020 Checking Out New Study Spots - UCSD Guardian
 October 4, 2020   Nelson Espinal
The status of Geisel Library is still uncertain. On the official UC San Diego website, the only 
in-person activity available is an in-person consultation with a librarian for help with 
research. There is no access to the various study spaces that Geisel offers. The library 
instead offers a long list of remote services now, including an online reserve for books. 
Students will have to turn to alternative study places for this upcoming quarter. 
The research points to the impact of closing the school library as something that really 
affects the learning process of students. The Australian Council for Educational Research 
published a study  in 2008 that attempted to figure out what impact the school library has 
on the student’s feelings towards the school. 
“There’s very strong evidence to suggest that students tend to be more engaged with 
learning on the whole if they engage with library resources, interact with library staff, and 
spend time using libraries,” ACER said in its published study. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Checking Out New Study Spots - UCSD Guardian
ACER’s results point to a correlation between how much students learn and how often they  
are at the library. The way students learn comes from the information stored in the books  
and the study spaces that the school offers.
Geisel Library offers different types of studying spots. The first two floors are meant for  
groups of students to talk among themselves at a normal volume. It creates a floor full of  
chatter, with desks and tables for individual students that want some background noise. 
The third floor offers a more quiet experience, with noise turned down to whispers and desks  
facing windows that allow students to view Warren College, Price Center, or some tall trees.  
The layout and noise is the same all the way up to the seventh floor. The top floor is labeled  as 
“silent,” with no talking or eating allowed and is made for students that want absolute  silence 
so they can read or study. Study rooms are sprinkled all throughout the building,  which can 
be reserved ahead of time or used if they are open in between appointment times. 
While providing all the features to be a productive study space, it is difficult to determine  
how useful studying at the library is. Dr. Katharine Hall, who published “Silent and  
Independent: Student Use of Academic Library Study Space,”  led a study to quantify  what 
students do at the school library and how often they come back.
“The purpose and place of libraries on university campuses is changing. Only 35% of survey 
respondents come to the library to borrow material while 84% visit the library to use the 
quiet study space,” Hall said in her study. “The majority of respondents use the library 
several times per week (77.6%). A good number of them (37%) also need to meet in teams on 
a weekly basis as part of their school work.”
Additionally, students use study rooms that are created for groups to study together. These 
rooms are remote and quiet so there can be communication within. Students use these as a 
way to get multiple classmates or a few friends in one room outside of class to study together. 
Hall found that there was a significant portion of students that took advantage of these 
specialized rooms. 
“The frequency with which students meet for group work with 37% of respondents meeting 
weekly (1-7 times per week), another 21% meeting 1–2 times per month, and 42% meeting 
rarely or never,” Hall said in her study. “This is somewhat different from Brown-Sica’s 
findings, which had a higher frequency of group work with 50% of participants meeting 
weekly, 36% monthly, and 14% meeting rarely (226).”Accessed: 10/9/2020 Checking Out New Study Spots - UCSD Guardian
School libraries’ group-setting provides a social advantage that few other study locations can  
offer. Roger Revelle College junior Zack Kumar spoke to The UCSD Guardian about this  
specific advantage that Geisel holds above other options. 
“I would go to Geisel due to the social environment that would form by studying with  
friends,” Kumar said. “I am going to miss that aspect of it, but it won’t really affect my grades  
or studying habits too much. The vibes at that place were always nice to be around.”
Geisel’s closure affects students that live off-campus and spend long periods of time on  
campus. Revelle College junior Charlie Le addressed the impact that Geisel being closed  
down has on off-campus students. Some students rely on Geisel as their go-to study spot  
because of the long periods of time that they are on campus in between classes or events. 
“I have a lot of friends that are really bummed out that there will not be a library to go study  
at,” Le told The Guardian. “They all live off-campus, which meant that they would spend a lot  
of time at Geisel whenever they had class or something else to attend.” 
Several Tritons did not frequent the library until they had built up a large backlog of work  
that needed to be done. Revelle College Junior Hieu Trung relied on Geisel in order to do  
some intense studying before a test or a large amount of homework. 
“Geisel was one of the places that I went to in order to get some serious work done,” Trung 
said. “I wouldn’t go often, but it was really reliable whenever I needed to get some stuff done. 
I still did the majority of work in my room, so I have to be able to be that productive in my 
room now.”
Now, students will turn to alternative study locations in order to achieve academic success. 
One of these alternatives is the bedroom. Every student has access to one and it will be what 
they mainly rely on. Le is one of those students that would simply use his room whether 
Geisel is open or not. 
“I studied in my room for spring and I’m going to do that again this year. It is where I am the 
most comfortable,” Le said. “I have done really well in my room so there is no reason to 
change what isn’t broken.”
Le isn’t the only one that has a preference for his bedroom when it comes to studying. Kumar 
is going to be studying alone in his room for the upcoming quarter. Accessed: 10/9/2020 Checking Out New Study Spots - UCSD Guardian
“I studied in my bedroom for the previous spring quarter. I studied at my desk for the  
majority of the school year before Covid,” Kumar said. “I plan on doing so this upcoming  
quarter since there is still no other option with Geisel being closed. I am most comfortable  
studying alone and I only used Geisel as a change of pace.”
Research shows these two students are not unique in their preference for studying in their  
rooms. Ronald Beckers did a study on where students decide to study. His article, “Why do 
they study there,” features a  conclusion that highlights what students value. 
“Study respondents also suggest a strong desire for quiet, private to semi private, individual  
space to work alone,” Beckers said in his study. “Across work/study modes, ‘working out in  
the open’ was considered least desirable, indicating that visual and acoustical privacy are  
important. To accommodate these needs, providing a combination of spaces, including 
space  set aside for quiet/silent, private, individual work, is necessary within the larger 
learning commons design, something that is evident from this study’s results as well as other 
recent  studies.”
Additionally, Beckers found certain advantages to an isolated study environment. Students 
can take advantage of the privacy that being alone in a room brings by listening to music or 
taking breaks with their own means. There is also time saved from either driving or walking 
to the library on certain days which they don’t have classes. 
Zoom sessions among students are used to replicate the social advantage that the library 
has. Students can talk to each other and have similar conversations to those in person. All 
UCSD students have access to the premium version of Zoom that allows them to have a call 
as long as they want. While not being the same as meeting in person, it allows students face-
to-face collaboration on assignments and study sessions.  
Geisel Library is closed for the foreseeable future. It presents challenges for students that 
enjoy studying with other students in person or simply like studying at the library when they 
have a lot of work to do. Others will simply continue grinding their schoolwork from their 
own room. In a time full of adjustments, some UCSD students are losing their favorite study 
spot for another quarter, while first-year students won’t be able to figure out if Geisel is their 
favorite spot. 
Art by Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.