Accessed: 6/4/2020 COVID-19: Fall Quarter 2020 Courses to be Offered Remotely and In-Person; Tuition and Fees to Remain the Same - UCSD Guardian
 April 28, 2020   Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information 
on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click  here.  
UC San Diego Chancellor  Pradeep Khosla announced in an email to students that 
classes for the  upcoming 2020  Fall quarter would be  offered both  virtually and in-
person in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on Tuesday, April 28. This  
comes shortly after the university  announced on April 9 that all Summer Session 
2020 courses would be held remotely.
Khosla stated in the announcement  that a combination of in-person and online 
instruction would be offered throughout all levels of the university.
“We recognize that some students may not be able to safely travel to campus for fall  
quarter,” Khosla wrote. "We plan to continue to offer remote instruction as part of 
our approach for fall 2020 in a way that ensures students who cannot be present are  
still able to have a rich and high-quality educational experience."
on April 9 that all Summer Session 2020 courses would be held remotely.
Khosla stated in the announcement (https://coronavirus.ucsd.edu/#current-status) 
that a
combination of in-person and online instruction would be offered throughout all 
levels of the
university.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here → The email also stated that tuition would not be affected for any students, and that 
campus-based fees would “continue to be collected and [would] not be refunded.”
Marcus Chan, a Thurgood Marshall College junior majoring in Studio Art, expressed 
his emotions on the announcement in an interview with the UCSD Guardian.
“I’m sad that I’ll be missing out on more ‘real college,’” Chan said. “But, our lives are 
all getting  disrupted and we don’t get to choose how.”
UCSD is the first major university in San Diego County to offer online coursework for 
the remainder of the calendar year.  According to the San Diego Union-Tribune, the 
California State University San Diego and San Marcos campuses are currently  
determining whether or not to make a similar move.
Likewise, it is anticipated that the University of San Diego and Point Loma Nazarene 
University will do the same, although neither of those private universities have made 
any public statements on the matter.
The university has not publicly stated as to whether or not the spring 2020 
Commencement ceremony would be canceled or postponed. As of the time of this 
article’s publication, UCSD is one of two University of California campuses to have 
not altered graduation plans.
Students are encouraged to continue practicing social distancing measures 
throughout the pandemic. Those experiencing COVID-19 symptoms should contact 
Student Health Services immediately.Accessed: 6/4/2020 COVID-19: Fall Quarter 2020 Courses to be Offered Remotely and In-Person; Tuition and Fees to Remain the Same - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/4/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Host Virtual Commencement, In-Person Event to be Determined - UCSD Guardian
 April 30, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
This article was written with UCSD Guardian writer Niloufar Shahbandi, and is a 
part of our  news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how to 
prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
The Spring 2020 Commencement ceremony will be held virtually as a result of the 
COVID-19  pandemic, according to an announcement made by Associated Students 
Senator Annika  Manlutac during the April 29 AS Council meeting. The change 
comes shortly after the university  announced that Fall Quarter 2020 courses  would 
be offered both virtually and in-person.
According to Manlutac, the virtual event will be held on Saturday, June 13, 2020 at 
9 a.m., and will feature a 30-minute livestream. This is the same day that the 
original in-person event was  slated to take place.
Students who had previously registered for Commencement 2020 will receive 
refunds for any registration fees they have already paid. Likewise, a new registrationform will be released later  in the quarter for the virtual event. Students who had 
previously registered will have to do so  again on this new form.
Later in the quarter, the university will release further information about placing 
orders for regalia, including caps and gowns.
Additionally, Manlutac stated that the 2020 Commencement Committee has not 
yet determined when an alternate, in-person event would be held.
“A postponed commencement ceremony is still in the works,” Manlutac stated in a 
follow-up with The UCSD Guardian. “It’s just that given the uncertainty of the 
current situation, they’re not able to establish a solid date.”
AS Financial Controller Ethan Christensen spoke with the UCSD Guardian after 
this article’s publication, expressing the intentions behind the Commencement 
decisions.
“I think it’s clear that campus is taking these actions to protect the health and 
safety of students and I think that’s a commendable effort,” Christensen said. 
“Obviously, this isn’t the situation any of us wanted to be in but it’s the situation 
we face nonetheless. It’s fair to be disappointed, I’m obviously disappointed, but 
none of my frustration is directed to campus. They’re doing the best they can with 
an incredibly difficult situation. I think by attempting a virtual commencement 
they’re doing the best they can to provide seniors with something like a graduation 
now, and the fact that they’re attempting to host an in person commencement at a 
later date is also positive.”
The June event was slated to have Bill Whitaker, an Emmy Award-winning 
correspondent for 60 Minutes, as the keynote speaker. The university confirmed 
that Whitaker will still address the student body during the virtual ceremony, 
according to an update sent out by the university at 4 p.m. on Thursday, April 30.
UC San Diego is not the first University of California campus to have canceled or 
altered official graduation plans. As of the time of this article’s publication, UCLA 
and UC Davis have opted for a virtual ceremony, UC Irvine has canceled its 
commencement ceremony, and UC Berkeley, UC Santa Barbara, and UC Merced 
have postponed their in-person ceremonies. No decisions have been made in 
regard to the commencement ceremonies for UC Santa Cruz.Accessed: 6/4/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Host Virtual Commencement, In-Person Event to be Determined - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/4/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Host Virtual Commencement, In-Person Event to be Determined - UCSD Guardian
The university is expected to make a formal announcement to the student body on 
this decision  later today or tomorrow.
The UCSD Guardian has reached out to the university for comment, and will 
continue to monitor this story as it develops.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.
This article was updated at 1:58 p.m. to include a quote by AS Financial Controller 
Ethan Christensen.
This article was updated at 4 p.m. to include that the university has confirmed that 
the virtual  ceremony will include a speech by Bill Whitaker .Accessed: 6/4/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Approx. 12,000 Students Eligible for COVID-19 Monetary Aid - UCSD Guardian
 May 1, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
Associated Student Senators heard a presentation by Vice Chancellor of Student 
Affairs Allyson  M. Satterland regarding plans for the allocation of emergency cash 
grants through the  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act during 
their weekly meeting on Wednesday,  April 29. UC San Diego has  acquired 
approximately $35 million through the act, $17.4  million of which is dedicated to 
graduate and undergraduate student aid.
According to the U.S. Department of Education, the CARES Act  provides 
“funding to institutions to provide  emergency financial aid grants to students 
whose lives have been disrupted, many of whom are  facing financial challenges 
and struggling to make ends meet.” This funding is a part of the Act’s  Higher 
Education Emergency Relief Fund, which provides more than $6 billion dollars to  
public colleges and universities throughout the country.
At UCSD, an estimated 12,000 students with the “highest level of need” will be 
eligible for monetary aid from the CARES Act. $1.5 million has been set asideAccessed: 6/4/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Approx. 12,000 Students Eligible for COVID-19 Monetary Aid - UCSD Guardian
specifically for students  whose situations may have unexpectedly changed due to 
COVID-19 using students’ financial aid  forms to determine their eligibility.
According to Satterlund, if students “anticipate a need,” they should reach out to the 
Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships. Certain students may be eligible for awards 
of up to $1500 in  the form of a grant that will not have to be paid back.
Satterlund went on to share that the distribution of the CARES fund is 
based on federal guidance.
“[We’ve] received very specific guidance from the Department of Education as to 
how those dollars can be distributed,” Satterlund said. “[Due to these guidelines] 
some specific communities of students will not be eligible for the [CARES Act] 
dollars.”
The university is working with their alumni foundations and philanthropy 
partners to provide money for international and undocumented students. 
The campus proposal has also dedicated ten percent of CARES funds to 
graduate students and stated that the Graduate Division Dean will be addressing 
these funds.
UCSD has additionally set money aside for Summer retention grants for students 
who will need to take online classes in order to graduate in a timely manner. They 
are also using the funds to provide triton tech kits to give laptops to students who 
need them to complete their online classes. Satterlund explained that UCSD is 
considering continuing the laptop lending program beyond the pandemic.
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/4/2020 A Homeschooler’s Perspective on Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020   Hannah Rosenberg 
In the summer months before my kindergarten year, my parents toggled between 
sending me to  the neighborhood elementary school versus taking the nontraditional 
route of homeschooling.  At the time, homeschoolers were much fewer and far 
between than they are now in 2020, but  still my parents decided to take the path 
less traveled. I could go on about the details of what  prompted their decision, but 
ultimately they chose this journey because they viewed education  as something that 
extended beyond a four-walled classroom. Homeschooling guided my  thinking 
patterns to be those of constant curiosity and exploration as I was never taught a  
distinction between what was considered a classroom and what was considered the 
rest of the  world. I didn’t hear a bell ring everyday that signaled when my brain 
should power up because  everything was school: home, the great outdoors, and 
everything in between. I was, and still am  a student of life, not strictly of a series of 
textbooks piled up with deadlines to accompany them. 
There was always a purpose to the things I did or else I didn’t do them. There was 
always an answer to the “why.” If it didn’t matter, my mom didn’t have me do it, 
point blank period. No ifs, ands, or buts. If enrolling me in traditional school wasn’tAccessed: 6/4/2020 A Homeschooler’s Perspective on Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
going to teach me anything new  academically that first year because I had completed 
most kindergarten subjects in the months  before, I wasn’t going to do it. Looking at 
this now, I can see a correlation to my mom’s days  working in the US Senate because 
her work there was very purpose driven. 
I spent the days of my childhood following this rhetoric. I was always highly aware of 
why I was learning whatever I was learning. Why was I learning fractions? So that I 
could bake. Why was I learning about government? So I could be a better citizen. 
Why was I writing persuasive essays?
So I could more effectively communicate my wants. So I could get my ideas across. 
So I could do something and be something in the world. Yada yada yada. Busy work 
ceased to exist. My “whys” were kindly met with an answer, always. 
While my college experience has been adventurous and filled with opportunity, it has 
also been a time of academic burnout, a feeling I rarely felt before college. During my 
time as a homeschooler, I had modules that I had to satisfy for each subject each 
month, but how I wanted to satisfy them was up to me, which is a method that’s 
foreign to the traditional American school system. To me, the world was a limitless 
place that was there for the taking, so I spent my days following my interests down 
their own respective rabbit holes, and then followed them some more. I did as much 
as I could with what I had because my passion for asking “why” ran endlessly 
through my veins, highly concentrated like oxygen in blood. 
With age came new chances for my curiosity to stretch further than before. 
Somewhere along the lines of my mid teenage years, as interests became serious 
passions, I gave myself one rule: if I felt even an ounce of interest towards something, 
I HAD to pursue it, for not pursuing it would drive me to the territory of not knowing 
what could have been. It was during this time that I started to understand the power 
of destroying the idea of the arbitrary 4-walled classroom that we started with. It was 
then that interests I hadn’t thought much of previously were given the space to 
expand in ways I didn’t know were possible. Where others saw impossibility, I saw 
opportunity.
At the start of quarantine, I admittedly felt stuck. In the first days and weeks I didn’t 
do much besides grieve the life we were supposed to have, the events we had worked 
all year for, the final quarter with graduating senior friends we were supposed to 
enjoy. I’m undoubtedly still grieving those things, however as time began to pass, IAccessed: 6/4/2020 A Homeschooler’s Perspective on Quarantine - UCSD Guardian
was able to resort back to my old ways of  treating my unscheduled time like the 
playground it was. I realized that quarantine has gifted  me the breeding grounds for 
whatever I choose to make of it, and that I have a lot to relearn  from my younger, 
homeschooling self who read books in the Jacaranda tree, dragged yarn  through the 
house in an attempt to crochet the world’s longest jump rope, and who would spend  
hours doing research on wildlife conservation efforts. Through chasing my curiosity 
once again, I have felt the return of the zest for life I thought I might’ve lost. I want to 
recognize that this  experience is coming from someone who has the privilege of 
staying home which I know not  everyone has.
While there’s a thick feeling of desperation in the air to break out of our houses to 
return to our  normal lives, I encourage you to consider all of the roads worth 
exploring right here, right now,  that you abandoned somewhere along the way. 
While capitalist America is pouncing on you to  be productive and commodify 
yourself, instead try taking the time to reconnect with the things  that make you feel 
alive, whether you’ve already identified them or they are still awaiting your  discovery 
around the corner. COVID-19 has turned lives upside down and inside out, taking 
our sense of control with it, but one thing we do have some amount of control over is 
how we choose  to make the most out of this unique time. Your current and future self 
will thank you.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Taking Time to Take Stock - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020   Jack  Dorfman 
No two days are exactly alike. That’s one thing that’s surprised me so far during my five 
weeks  at home. No two days have been exactly alike.
Each day obviously has a lot of the same underlying elements, namely that the 
COVID-19  pandemic is getting worse by most metrics, at least in the U.S. and 
specifically where I am now  situated in Los Angeles.
But other than that, and other than the fact that I’ve got one or two Zoom meetings a 
day, every day pretty much is wide open to differences. Some days, especially now that 
we’ve hit midterm  season, are all studying and then trying to get my mind off studying.
But especially during the first few weeks of quarantine, a lot of my days have been 
completely  different, which is helping keep my spirits up in whatever limited way they 
can be. As a disclaimer, like many of the other “Quarantine Chroniclers” you’ve read up 
to this point, my  experience is coming from a place of privilege. My family is still in a 
position to put food on the  table and luckily can work and learn from home with 
adequate internet access. I am very  thankful and grateful for this and hope that this 
article helps people in any and all situations  work through this period in our lives.Before I saturated my days with studying and the cyclical recovery period of playing 
“Madden”  or “MLB The Show” at the end of the day — that’s where being the sports 
editor comes in I guess— , each day was unlike any other I’ve really experienced before, 
filled with a whole new host of  occupants.
In the beginning, almost everything was related to being home for an extended period 
for the first time since the summer with no option of going outside to find distractions. 
Normally, I’m not into stopping and reflecting and planning. I like to go, go, go, 
especially when I’ve been home for winter or summer breaks since leaving for college. 
My ideal day doesn’t involve spending any time in my room outside of sleeping. I’d be 
hiking, or at the beach, or really anywhere.
But without this option — and yes, I know some people are still doing these things, but 
I’m a pretty risk-averse person, I’ve been doing a lot more introspection.
Initially, I turned my sights to cleaning out my desk. Over the years, I’ve sort of saved 
everything with any shred of sentimental value, something quickly realized by anyone 
who’s made it past the doorway. Most of what I save has gotten stuffed indiscriminately 
into a dark recess of my desk or closet or bookshelf. Basically, cleaning my room was an 
undertaking, and I’m still not done.
Most of the heavy lifting was fairly easy. I recycled all the newspapers I’d saved. That 
cleared up so much space because “all the newspapers” literally was every single issue 
I’d been published in from high school on, which, as I write it down, sounds a little 
psychotic.
But moving right along towards the point of my story, the cleaning process brought me 
face to face with all sorts of memories, good and bad. I found all of my old yearbooks 
and got to remember some friends I haven’t talked to enough in the intermediate years 
between the publication of that yearbook and today. I even called or texted some of 
them, finding various degrees of enthusiasm on the other end.
Between the yearbooks and the old newspapers, plenty of my high school experience 
came back to me, and it motivated me to look back through all the places where 
memories could be of that time. I went through my phone and computer, scouring all 
the pictures and videos, sharing those moments with friends. Obviously, most of those 
memories are skewed towards the good times and are definitely not full pictures of the 
past. But they’re a pretty good start, and good memories are about all I can handle right 
now anyways.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Taking Time to Take Stock - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/4/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Taking Time to Take Stock - UCSD Guardian
Those are the most obvious sources of memories, but the most impactful ones have 
come from random things I’ve been doing at home. I found the ticket from my first 
concert and remember  how cool it was to walk into the Hollywood Bowl for the first  
time and see Mac Demarco open  for Phoenix, and to take the bus back to the Valley  
with the throngs. I found old second place  trophies and thought about my entire  
sports life, and the moments I wish I could go back and  change. I watched the 2016 
World Series between the Chicago Cubs and Cleveland Indians  being rerun on TV 
and I remember how I watched it during the three weeks I spent home from  school 
during my bout with mono. I found my 7-11 receipt with 11 Slurpees on it and 11 “free  
Slurpee” subtractions on it — one of my biggest triumphs. I found the old baseball a 
minor  leaguer tossed to me in the stands after I talked to the bullpen guys for the first 
few innings. I found the first books that made me cry and the first books that I re-
read. I found old birthday  cards with silly inscriptions, and then pored over all of my  
old yearbook signatures, wishing to  know how I signed other people’s. I picked up an  
old press pass from a high school football  game and thought of the countless hours I 
spent broadcasting games all over LA, which led to  my friends recovering some  
embarrassing sound bites and footage of me.
None of it is inherently any more valuable than the random homework I still had.  
And a lot of it  got recycled right alongside it. I decided that as great as all of it was,  
there were just some things  I couldn’t hold onto forever. The physical manifestations 
of these memories are amazing, but I  can’t practically hold onto these shreds of my  
old life forever. Of course, there are some things I  have no plans on parting with, but  
I’ve learned that I’ve got to start somewhere. And there  doesn’t seem to be a better 
time than now, when each day brings back a new memory, and a  new recycling pile.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Film Review: "The Willoughbys” - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020   Steven Zhou  
The Willoughbys” is a heartwarming and hilarious film that takes a progressive look 
at the true meaning of family.
Warning: spoilers ahead
Based off Lois Lowry’s 2008 children’s novel of the same name, “The Willoughbys” at 
first glance seems like it would follow a plot similar to “Mary Poppins” or “Nanny 
McPhee,” where a  dysfunctional household is magically fixed through some epiphany 
from the well-intentioned  but ineffective parents. Actually, the movie is much more 
intricate. When all of its colorful  graphics and yarn-like animations are pushed aside, 
“The Willoughbys” is a tug-of-war between  two definitions of family: one based on 
bloodline, tradition, and honor, and another based on  choice, circumstance, and 
uncertainty. 
At the heart of this conflict are Tim Willoughby (Will Forte) and Jane Willoughby 
(Alessia Cara), the two eldest children of their hopelessly selfish parents Mr. and Mrs. 
Willoughby (Martin Short and Jane Krakowski). Despite receiving the brunt of hisAccessed: 6/4/2020 Film Review: "The Willoughbys” - UCSD Guardian
parents’ punishments,  Tim holds the Willoughby family heritage in great esteem, 
going as far as talking to portraits of  his ancestors for advice on how to handle his 
parents and bring glory back to the family name.  Jane, on the other hand, feels much 
less beholden to her parents. With her parents constantly  silencing her singing, Jane 
seeks an environment where she is loved and supported for who she  is. As such, when 
she and her siblings successfully trick their parents into going on a dangerous  world-
wide vacation in an attempt to become orphans, she is much more excited about Linda  
(Maya Rudolph), an eccentric yet loving nanny, joining the household than Tim, who 
sees the nanny with distrust and as an obstacle to returning the Willoughby house 
back to its historical success. 
The nanny slowly but surely becomes a stabilizing force in the house, receiving the 
acceptance of twin brothers Barnaby A and B (Sean Cullen). Over time, even Tim 
begins to warm up to her. However, this all changes when Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby 
inform the nanny that they would be selling the house and never returning. Incorrectly 
assuming the nanny was compliant with his parents’ plans, Tim calls Child Protective 
Services. The nanny, revealed to be an orphan herself, is devastated and runs away 
while the four siblings suddenly find themselves separated into different foster homes. 
Tim is especially distraught as he realizes the reality of life as an orphan is not as 
glamorous as he once thought. 
The beauty of this film stems from how it does not give a clear answer on what a 
perfect family is. Under the lax but loving circumstantial guardianship of the nanny, 
one misunderstanding broke the trust between the family. However, in a heavily 
regimented and sterile environment under Child Protective Services, life was not as 
enjoyable,with the exception of the twins, who seemed to adapt better than their older 
siblings. When push came to shove and the siblings decided to save their travelling 
parents to prove they weren’t orphans, the movie again remained ambiguous on 
whether staying together was worth the cost of having terrible parents. These heavy 
ideas don’t take away from the family-friendliness of the movie, as they are expertly 
shrouded in a veil of whimsical humor and childish fun. 
Despite the children’s efforts to get their parents back, Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby 
remain conceited as always, rejecting their children’s emotional pleas. Ultimately, it is 
the Nanny —with the help of a candy factory owner Commander Melanoff (Terry 
Crews) — who saves the children and takes on the siblings as her own, forging a new, 
unconventional family. It is this imperfectly perfect ending that makes the usage of 
yarn imagery throughout the movie clear. Family, like knitting, can get tangled andAccessed: 6/4/2020 Film Review: "The Willoughbys” - UCSD Guardian
messy depending on what you start with, but it can be  constructed into something that 
works for you. 
“The Willoughbys” comes at an apt time as everyone is instructed to stay at home. 
Some lucky  people may have a loving, stable, safe home environment to go back to 
while others may not be  so lucky. Don’t blow off “The Willoughbys” as just another 
kids movie. It is well worth a watch  as we all spend time with our families and reflect 
on what it means to be “home sweet home.”
Grade: A
Release Date: April 22, 2020
Produced by: Netflix from Bron Studios
Image courtesy of The New York Times.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Chloe's Nostalgia Watches and Reads for Socially Distanced Quaran-teens - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020   Chloe Esser 
So you can’t see your friends. Maybe it’s time to hang out with your younger self. 
For many of us, this is a time of sitting in our childhood bedrooms, surrounded by the  
decorations and books we left behind after high school, while desperately trying to 
maintain  who we are as adults. We have the setting of a school break with none of the 
substance, trying to  keep up the priorities we left behind, cope with a global pandemic, 
and still use this as an  opportunity for personal improvement. We are meant to see 
our houses as cocoons that we can  emerge from post-quarantine, completely in shape 
and with freshly baked bread in hand.
But in this uncomfortable, uncertain time, there’s also something to be said for 
looking at what surrounds you. When I moved back home, I didn’t finish any of the 
bucket list items that I was certain I would finally have time to check off. Instead, I 
found myself reflecting on the strangeness and bitter nostalgia of being in my old 
hometown with most of my favorite childhood spots still beyond my reach, with my 
high school friends seemingly just as separated from me now as they were miles away.So without really thinking about it, in looking for  something familiar, I returned to 
some even older friends: my childhood bookshelf.
I started with the “Hunger Games,” and I was amazed with it. Despite having read the 
series countless times as a kid, I was still continually impressed by what it had to offer. 
If anything, reading this series from an adult perspective made me fully appreciate 
how well thought out and just plain smart the books were. As a tween, I loved the fast-
paced action, the romance, the flash and lights of the story. But it also made me reflect 
on heavy topics I never would have otherwise as a child — the role of propaganda, the 
value of a human life, and how I would react if I was ever put into Katniss’ position. 
Returning to it as an adult, I was pleasantly surprised by how nuanced each of these 
points remained from an adult perspective, and how these perspectives only grow 
when looking at them with a more mature point of view. I was impressed; this was a 
series I had started reading at 12 — an entire decade ago — and I was just as 
enraptured reading at 22. 
This isn’t to necessarily tell you to reread “The Hunger Games,” although I do 
recommend it, but to return to the pieces of media that defined your own childhood. 
Replay the video game  you loved, go back to the “Vampire Diaries” or “Doctor Who” or 
“Naruto.” Pull your old  favorites from your childhood bookshelves. Find the book you 
tried to write at 13 and see if any  of the ideas still work. It may be easy to write off what 
we loved in middle school and high  school as “immature,” but a lot of what we read as 
children wasn’t necessarily childish — we  liked it for a reason. There’s something to be 
said for trusting the tastes of your younger self,  and a return to something you’ve 
stepped away from for so many years can often be just as  valuable as consuming 
something new for the first time. Noting the things you loved, and if time and 
experience have made you love them more or less, allows you to explore the person 
you were then, and the person you’ve become. 
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Chloe's Nostalgia Watches and Reads for Socially Distanced Quaran-teens - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/4/2020 Graduating into an Uncertain Job Market — Is Anyone Safe? - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020Justin Cho
As the world faces one of the worst global recessions in history, upperclassmen 
graduating this spring are finding themselves thrust into an uncertain job market.
We all seem to know at least one person whose summer internship was cancelled or 
postponed;  the loss of our precious internships have been endlessly memed on 
Facebook, and many F’s were indeed typed in the chat.  Everyone has been affected in 
some way by the global economic recession caused by COVID-19.  For younger 
students, the delay of internships has been just a small taste of our quarantined  
economy, but for our upperclassmen here at UC San Diego, this uncertain job market 
is a reality  that they will soon face head-on.
At this point in time, although the fate of the economy as a whole remains unclear, 
certain industries have already taken significantly more damage than others. 
Industries such as  transportation, hospitality, employment services, and travel have 
been  hit the hardest because they are reliant on human interaction and leisure. 
Many other types of businesses that are suffering major losses are considered “non-Accessed: 6/4/2020 Graduating into an Uncertain Job Market — Is Anyone Safe? - UCSD Guardian
essential,”  as opposed to those that are “life-preserving.” Numerous big-name 
companies of the former  category, such as Express, H&M, Olympia Sports, Sears, 
Walgreens, and many more, have been  forced to shut down stores across the country, 
and many Americans are losing jobs as a result.  According to ABC News, as of April 
16, a shocking 20 million  Americans filed for unemployment insurance in only three 
weeks, and experts believe it’ll only  get worse. For many seniors, what was supposed 
to be one of the strongest job markets in  decades to graduate into has become one of 
the most unpredictable.
Interestingly, the pandemic has affected every industry in a very unique way, and 
every major is looking at a very different market.
“So I’m an international business major,” Matthew Misogas, an Eleanor Roosevelt 
College senior, said. “So because of quarantine there is no international, there’s no 
between countries, they’re keeping everything very isolated. Granted, there’s aid, and 
we’re trying to cooperate with other countries in various ways. But as far as trade 
goes, my major’s in an awful position.”
On the other hand, Biology, the single most popular major at UCSD, is looking at a 
variety of potential outcomes. One particularly relevant field for these majors is the 
prospect of being part of a research lab, a large focus at UCSD. Most labs have 
completely stopped activity, and with the many financial challenges that universities 
and the government face, the amount of funding that labs will receive in the future 
remains unpredictable.
With every college major finding itself affected in some way, many upperclassmen are 
forced to either commit to their preexisting plans or attempt to switch paths on short 
notice.
“There’s a lot of pressure right now,” Brandon Lee, an ERC junior majoring in 
cognitive science, said. “My plan is still to work over the summer and then find a job 
for next year, but I’m worried I’ll have to go to grad school if I can’t.”
Although some may find success in temporarily escaping the job market through 
graduate school, it may not necessarily be a secure option.
As many students know first hand, universities have become chaotic with the coming 
of the pandemic, and this will surely affect the endeavors of many graduatingAccessed: 6/4/2020 Graduating into an Uncertain Job Market — Is Anyone Safe? - UCSD Guardian
undergraduates wishing to continue pursuing  education. The logistics of many 
graduate programs still seem to be under review, with updates  only coming bit by bit, 
and many admission results have been delayed. This delay could prove to  have large 
ramifications in the career trajectories of many students, particularly those wishing  
to enter medical or law school.
 “A lot of us are waiting with bated breath because all of our applications for grad 
schools and  jobs are essentially put on hold, and job offers have pretty much stopped, 
which sucks because  our deadlines are coming up regardless of what happens” Avery 
Coble, an ERC senior majoring  in marine biology, said. “A lot of us are just kind of 
waiting to see what’s in store for our future.”
Along with the programs themselves, many students may find their families in 
difficult financial  situations as a result of the recession, potentially either dissuading 
them from applying or  making them unable to afford the program altogether. The 
pandemic is likely to financially  affect students and families in the lower and working 
class harder than any other social class,  and many are even currently going through a 
housing crisis. Low income and working class individuals already face  unique barriers 
to educational and professional opportunities, and it is likely that the looming  
recession will only make things more difficult. While it is largely advised that we stay 
patient  and wait out the quarantine, many of those in this class may find themselves 
in a financial situation in which they cannot simply wait. Although UCSD is renowned 
for the social mobility  of its students , such mobility may be difficult with the nation’s 
economic state during the pandemic, and many  believe class gaps overall will widen. 
However, even after the economy starts to recover, those in these classes may 
continue to struggle from the aftereffects of the pandemic. Mark Muro, a senior 
fellow at The Brookings Institution think tank, believes it is likely that the current 
trend of automation and machine learning replacing human workers will accelerate 
as a result of this crisis, because the sudden reopening of businesses will require 
many companies to find employees very quickly despite their declined revenues. He 
argues that this environment might encourage many companies to turn to cheaper, 
more efficient roboticworkers that will replace blue-collar jobs, becoming another 
barrier to social mobility and education among lower-income students while 
potentially increasing jobs for those in the tech industry.
Even amid the chaos and uncertainty of the job market, many point to careers in the 
tech industry as some of the few that will not only survive, but also perhaps thrive, asAccessed: 6/4/2020 Graduating into an Uncertain Job Market — Is Anyone Safe? - UCSD Guardian
tech is one of  the only industries whose market isn’t shrinking but actually getting 
bigger. Giants in this field such as Facebook, Amazon, Google, and Apple have largely  
benefitted from the world’s increase in indoor activity because it has given them an 
even bigger  market to work with. Many students from UCSD will potentially be 
entering this industry or one  related to it, as 17.9 percent of total UCSD students are 
studying an engineering major, with more than half of these students in the 
computer science and engineering or electrical and  computer engineering 
department. 
However, although the hype for the tech industry is more prevalent than ever, is it 
really the  endless repository of jobs that some believe it to be? According to Burning 
Glass Technologies,  an analytics software company that uses artificial intelligence to 
model and analyze the labor  market, job postings in the field of Information 
Technology went down by as much as 42  percent between March 2  and March 30. 
This is only barely lower than the nation’s overall drop of 43 percent. Similar  fields 
such as software engineering, computer user support, and network administration 
have likewise had large drops in job postings. Although the tech industry as a whole 
may be thriving relative to other industries, that does not seem to indicate how many 
new employees they are  deciding to hire, which perhaps removes the safety of even 
those majoring in a tech related  field.
At this time, with even the mighty tech industry not being a perfect safety net, 
uncertainty  seems to be an unavoidable part of the current economic situation for 
almost every  upperclassman. Many had plans or career trajectories in mind that have 
since been struck off  course. Among those I interviewed, anxiety and stress often 
came packaged with this  uncertainty, and many feel as if they have little control over 
their future. 
“It’s a weird, stressful environment, not so much because of physical stress. It’s 
something a lot  less tangible, kind of psychological,” Konami Masui, an ERC junior 
communications major said. “It’s one thing to just be scared of the things you don’t 
know, but this one carries a lot of impact  because it directly affects whether or not we 
get paid … we’re basically isolated, looking at the  same room every single day, and 
that makes it even worse.” 
With nothing but theories about what the job market will look like, it’s no wonder 
that many upperclassmen are anxious. At the moment, there isn’t much that those 
preparing to graduate can do to prepare for whatever becomes of our society. 
many upperclassmen are anxious. At the moment, there isn’t much that those 
preparing to graduate  can do to prepare for whatever becomes of our society. 
However, analyzing what has occurred  so far and speculating on what may happen in 
the future can give us insight on the market,  class, and maybe even ourselves.
Art by Susan Sun for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Graduating into an Uncertain Job Market — Is Anyone Safe? - UCSD Guardian
However, analyzing what has occurred so far and speculating on what may happen in 
the future can give us insight on the market, class, and maybe even ourselves.
Art by Susan Sun for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/5/2020 Influencers Need to Support Users’ Mental Health During Quarantine | Guardian Opinion - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020 Zara Irshad 
Accessed: 6/5/2020 On the Brighter Side: Quarantine is Leading to a More Well-Read World - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020  Megan Cox 
In elementary school, I was the kid who skipped recess to sit in the classroom and read 
— I loved exploring new worlds and experiencing fantastic realities different than my 
own. Throughout high school, however, school and extracurriculars saturated my 
schedule, pushing  reading out of my life. In this age of self-isolation, however, I and 
many others are using the free  time as an opportunity to take up reading as a hobby. 
Amid the tragic circumstances of the  COVID-19 pandemic, books are becoming more 
accessible, and people are buying and reading  more books than ever. 
As people are turning to reading as a quarantine hobby, book sales and the number of 
readers across the word are skyrocketing. In addition to a rise in paperbacks novel 
sales, children’s educational books sales have jumped 234 percent, and  “juvenile” 
book sales have increased 80 percent. It seems likely with this boost in book sales that 
the number of readers has surged with it, which in turn has exciting implications for 
the progress of society. Frequent readers tend to be more successful because of their 
long attention spans, they acknowledge different perspectives, and have heightened 
creative talents. As quarantine pushes more people to pick up a book or two, the 
world’s collective intellectual capability expands. Accessed: 6/5/2020 On the Brighter Side: Quarantine is Leading to a More Well-Read World - UCSD Guardian
In addition to physical books, e-books, a more accessible form of literature, are also 
thriving during quarantine. Because people can easily read something digital without 
ever leaving their home, companies like Waterstone have been selling  four times  more 
online books than they did before the pandemic. Meanwhile, many online services like 
JSTOR and Scribd are opening their digital libraries up for free,  providing the public 
with thousands  of e-books and audiobooks. The general public now has access to 
literature in a way they have never had before. This is an opportunity to explore new 
books online and learn new information in a way that is more convenient and cheaper 
than ever.
Beyond digital books, independent bookstores are working hard to remain accessible. 
Before this age of isolation, independent bookstores created a real-world hub where 
like-minded readers came together to seek new books and share ideas. Now, these 
“nonessential” bookstores are hurting from both physical closures and the rise and 
accessibility of e-books. Despite these setbacks, many independent bookstores are still 
finding ways to continue providing the public with books and earn enough funds to 
stay open post-pandemic. For example, programs like Bookshop are working to keep 
independent bookstores alive by giving them a platform to continue selling books 
online for full profit. Amid the pandemic, Bookshop’s sales  have increased  forty-fold 
— they are now making around $150,000 in daily book sales. That money, in addition 
to the funds of the #SaveIndieBookstores initiative, is helping independent  
bookstores stay afloat. The #SaveIndieBookstores movement has raised over 
$750,000 and continues to collect donations. Despite their exceptionally difficult 
circumstances, independent bookstores are still finding ways to keep selling books 
and contribute to the rise of reading. Whether or not these bookstores are open to the 
public, they are a hub for the rise of knowledge throughout communities. 
Book sales of all types are rising which means knowledge is flourishing. During the 
tragedies of the COVID-19 pandemic, books can be a silver lining among the 
increasing population of readers. While everybody remains inside, reading is a way to 
continue exploring new places and expanding your mind. 
Whether it’s flipping through paperbacks or appreciating a free online audiobook, if 
you can take an opportunity to read, do so. You will be contributing to a more well-
read and insightful world.
Artwork by Angela Liang of the UCSD Guardian Art Department. Accessed: 6/5/2020 The NCAA Has Finally Begun to Change, But is it Too Late? - UCSD Guardian
 May 3, 2020   Praveen Nair 
The National Collegiate Athletics Association might be the most sprawling 
administrative body  in all of American sports, serving as an umbrella for 460,000 
athletes competing in 24 sports,  across 1,268 colleges in the United States, and 
raking in around a billion dollars a year. But as it  has come under fire in recent years 
for issues such as image rights, player payment, and the  growth of alternatives to 
college athletics, the NCAA has been forced to adapt far more rapidly  than before. 
Increasingly, fans are wondering whether the NCAA’s monopoly on amateur  
athletics will continue to hold, and more pointedly, whether it should.
This week saw a massive change in NCAA policy, as the organization will now let 
college athletes profit from their images in commercials, on social media, and at 
autograph sessions beginning in the 2021-22 season. This ends one of the most 
ridiculous NCAA policies, whereby student-athletes could not even independently 
make money off of their own work, or even mention their student-athlete status in a 
business capacity. And surely, for the Joe Burrows and Zion Williamsons of the 
world, this revenue stream could be incredibly lucrative — after all, for star 
basketball and football players, they’re already worth millions, often by the time theyAccessed: 6/5/2020 The NCAA Has Finally Begun to Change, But is it Too Late? - UCSD Guardian
 step  on campus. 
But image rights, although the most moderate concession the NCAA can make, will 
have little to  no impact on players who don’t have their own brand. The new rules 
still prohibit players from  selling their likenesses as a group — that means no NCAA 
Football 21 video game, unfortunately— cutting out non-superstars and players in 
less popular sports from a piece of the pie. Indeed,  group licensing and bargaining 
can never happen with the current “student-athlete” structure,  as these things 
require unions, and the National Labor Relations Board has repeatedly denied  
college athletes status as employees, and therefore the right to a union.
———
In 2014, University of Connecticut’s Shabazz Napier was the best point guard in the 
country, leading UConn to a national title, and earning honors such as consensus All-
American and Most Outstanding Player in the Final Four. Yet, Napier told reporters 
he was not even able to afford food while he earned millions for the university on the 
court: “When you see your jersey getting sold … you feel like you want something in 
return …There are hungry nights when I go to bed and I’m starving.” Napier’s 
comments, a public relations disaster for the NCAA, helped pass new rules allowing 
schools to provide free meals and snacks to athletes. These sorts of stories naturally 
lead many to consider the holy grail of college athletics: direct payment and revenue 
sharing for student-athletes. 
The NCAA even took a step in this direction in 2015 by allowing schools to offer a 
$2,000 to $5,000 stipend along with their scholarships, which goes a long way for 
many athletes. But these stipends are both optional to the college and well below a 
living wage, and the likelihood of a real, universal wage for student-athletes is slim, 
and not just due to the NCAA’s resistance to change. It should also be noted that top 
recruits for football and basketball are routinely paid five or six figures in illegal 
bribes to attend certain schools, although these under-the-table payments are 
available to very few. College sports is already a losing proposition for all but the 
most elite of schools, and, frankly, it’s a legitimate question if there’s enough cash to 
go around to both subsidize non-prestige sports and have enough left to pay players. 
In any case, the very least the NCAA can do is to remove its barriers from allowing 
players to make the little money they can off of their athletic accomplishments, given 
the intense time commitments and physical toll of college sports.Accessed: 6/5/2020 The NCAA Has Finally Begun to Change, But is it Too Late? - UCSD Guardian
———
Unfortunately for the NCAA, the limits on what it is able to offer prospective student-
athletes are starting to matter more than ever, as many athletes, especially basketball 
players, are beginning to seek alternatives to the college athletics route. The league 
has repeatedly expressed interest in once again allowing players to enter the draft 
right out of high school. International basketball leagues in Europe and Australia are 
beginning to attract top-ranked American recruits; LaMelo Ball and RJ Hampton, 
both expected to be first-round picks in this year’s draft, both spent their last seasons 
playing in Australia’s National Basketball League. 
Meanwhile, the NBA has been beefing up its developmental G League, increasing 
maximum player salary, improving conditions, and providing a one-year professional 
pathway in which top prospects could earn $500,000 in their sole season. Just this 
week, three five-star athletes chose to forgo the NCAA to commit to this pathway. 
One of them, guard Jalen Green, who ESPN ranks as the top prospect in the nation, 
will have the opportunity to be the star of a new Southern California G League 
franchise. And, in a poetic twist of the knife for the NCAA, the G League will provide 
Green with one more perk: a full-ride college scholarship to allow him to get his 
degree whenever he wants to. G League will also provide Jalen Green with a full-ride 
college scholarship: “It’s not really that I’m missing out on college because I can go 
back and finish whenever I need to,” Green said.
———
The first, and longest-tenured, executive director of the NCAA was Walter Byers, who 
made the organization into the behemoth it is today. But upon his retirement, Byers 
began to strike a very different chord. In his book “Unsportsmanlike Conduct”, Byers 
called the NCAA “a nationwide money-laundering scheme,” indicated that the term 
“student-athlete” was invented to prevent the NCAA from having to make disability 
payments, and concluded: “Collegiate amateurism is not a moral issue; it is an 
economic camouflage for monopoly practice… an air-tight racket of supplying cheap 
athletic labor.” Byers’ condemnation indicates a reality hundreds of thousands of 
college athletes are all too familiar with: the NCAA has never not been about making 
cash hand over fist on the backs of unpaid labor. Having coasted on monopoly for 
decades, the NCAA will now face the fight of its life to defend to fans and to athletes 
the reason for its own existence.Accessed: 6/5/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez - UCSD Guardian
A May 3, 2020   Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information 
on how to  prevent the spread of the virus, click here. This interview has been 
condensed and edited for clarity.
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a number of changes to San Diego, including the 
closure of beaches and parks, the cancellation of upcoming  events, and a significant 
departure from the normalcy of living in San Diego. With these  changes have come 
heightened emotions and unrest, which at times have boiled over beyond  the social 
media sphere into in-person protests.
Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez (D-San Diego) has been a prominent figure 
throughout this pandemic. Gonzalez joined a group of activists on Friday, April 24 to 
deliver approximately 1,000 masks and gloves to detainees at the Otay Mesa 
Detention Center, but was turned away. Likewise, Gonzalez has been vocal about the 
lack of law enforcement at the various San Diego anti-lockdown protests. Recently, 
she called out the Sheriff’s department on Twitter for ticketing Immigrations andCustoms Enforcement protestors at the aforementioned detention center but  not 
those at the anti-lockdown protests in Encinitas, downtown San Diego, and Pacific 
Beach.
The UCSD Guardian sat down with the Assemblywoman via Zoom to discuss the work 
she has been doing in regards to the ongoing pandemic, both within the California 
State Assembly and on the ground in San Diego.Accessed: 6/5/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez - UCSD Guardian
Lorena Gonzalez@LorenaAD80
Starting tomorrow, everyone in @SanDiegoCounty  must wear face 
coverings anywhere in public they come within 6 feet of another 
person. Let's keep doing our part to #FlattenTheCuve! 
Learn more from @CDCgov about how to wear and make your own 
face covering: bit.ly/2So5AhK
8 4:38 PM - Apr 30, 2020
30 people are talking about this
Lorena Gonzalez:  Mainly I am continuing to do my legislative package, which tends 
to center  around workers … We’re working with other members on making sure that  
essential workers  will be paid sick days beyond the state law [so that] if they get  
diagnosed they can stay home, or  if they are in quarantine they can stay home and still  
be paid.
[We’re also working to ensure] the right for workers after the pandemic to get their  
jobs back.  What we’re seeing is that there are some big employers who have told 
workers that they’re going  to have to reapply for their job, which could [cause them to 
lose] seniority or they may not make  the same amount, so the right to recall and  
retention is important. We’re doing bills on worker’s  compensation to make sure that  
workers who get the virus at work [are protected financially].Accessed: 6/5/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez - UCSD Guardian
LG: There are groups that have been working with the Otay detention facility for a 
while, and they’re in touch with family members on the outside. These detainees 
have been calling out, and  that’s where we knew there may have been deficiencies of 
[personal protective equipment] that  they had inside of the detention facility. We 
also knew that they had over 124 positive cases  between workers and detainees.
[The organization] had invited me to try to come deliver a thousand masks to the 
detention  center since that is something that the detainees had been calling their 
family members about.  The warden wouldn’t come out and meet with me and he 
wouldn’t accept the masks, so we’ve  been calling since then. I finally got him to call 
me back yesterday. He told me that they have  plenty of masks, and that they have 
7,500 masks and any detainee that asks can get one. I don’t  know if that’s a new 
feature, but clearly that’s important. We also asked about soap because we  had heard 
that there wasn’t enough soap, and I was willing to purchase soap for the detainees if 
that was necessary. He said that it was unnecessary and that they had plenty of soap 
and that  it’s up to the detainees if they want to social-distance.
He made a lot of assertions, so I asked if I could come and see the facility and he said 
he couldn’t authorize that and that I’d have to go through ICE. So we called ICE and 
made a formal request to view the facility. In talking to Congressman [Juan] Vargas, 
who had a while ago viewed the detention facility, he said that he doesn’t think they 
have the ability to social-distance, and that’s a huge issue. We’re still working and 
putting pressure on that. We’re also supporting the ACLU’s lawsuit to release 
nonviolent detainees.
[The detention center] insists that they have the resources and they blame it on ICE 
that they can’t accept [these donations] You would hope that people aren’t that cruel, 
that they just care so little about humanity that they’re unwilling to take donations. 
The entire premise of the detention center is that it is for people who have presented 
themselves legally to seek asylum, so that alone is an issue.Accessed: 6/5/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez - UCSD Guardian
Lorena
@LorenaSGonzalez
Dear @SDSheriff  — I’d like to know the justification for ticketing 
protestors in their cars at the Otay Mesa Detention Center last 
week, while coddling those in Encinitas protesting by violating 
social distancing this weekend.636 12:14 PM - Apr 20, 2020
297 people are talking about this
LG: One of our biggest issues was that people weren’t being treated the same. Having 
engaged in civil disobedience in the past, there are consequences for that. If people are 
going to face consequences they should apply equally. We were assured by the 
Sheriff’s department that the honking tickets that were given in Otay Mesa [for the 
anti-ICE protest] were repealed, so that was their way of dealing with it.
I think law enforcement’s in a tough position. They are trying to contain these 
protests, there’s a political agenda behind them, but yet at the same time [the protests] 
attract a wide variety of folks — you have a lot of Trump folks, you have people who 
are putting themselves and others in danger, but they have a right to first amendment 
speech. I think during these times we need to be a little more diligent about not 
allowing people to put themselves in danger because what they do affects all of us. 
Whether or not they or someone else gets infected, it’s something that they should 
have to take into consideration.
LG: So we on an almost daily basis send out emails to our constituents on everything 
from where to get free food, how to sign up for CalFresh, how to get your 
unemployment insurance  checks, how to get relief from rent, how to get legal and 
healthcare services. There are so many  needs right now. Everyone’s individual 
situation is different. There are some people still getting  their paycheck, there are 
some people out of work but are getting unemployment with an  additional $600 so 
they’re doing okay financially. And then there are some people who are still  waiting on 
their [unemployment insurance] who got nothing.What I think is one of the most devastating things is, in my community where there is 
a lot of mixed-status households, people who are undocumented not only don’t get 
unemployment insurance despite the fact that it’s been paid into for them, but they 
also are unable to get the stimulus check. If they’re married to a citizen, that citizen 
doesn’t get the stimulus check. We do have people who not only have no income, but 
have no foreseeable way to [receive it]. So one thing we’ve been working hard on with 
the Latino Caucus and the governor is to provide money for undocumented workers 
who are left without a safety net during all of this.
We have a lot of questions about school, everything from Pre-K and childcare all the 
way up to college students who don’t know what [education] is going to look like 
[and] how long it’s going to look like this. [For me,] my 8-year-old is doing okay, with 
my 11-year-old with middle school it’s been really tough getting all of that work done, 
and my 11th grader is doing fine, like a lot of it is just writing. But we have all of the 
resources we need. We have a computer for each kid, we have internet access, we have 
a room where they can do work. Those are struggles that a lot of working class parents 
are facing right now.Accessed: 6/5/2020 A Conversation on COVID-19 with Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez - UCSD Guardian
LG: I think we’ve got to look at this as an opportunity, and that’s really where your 
generation  comes in. We’re going to come out of this, and the world will look different, 
and what do we  want that to look like. Right now our air is clean, we’ve reduced 
greenhouse gas emissions, we’re  looking at a climate that would be more sustainable.
How do we come out of this pandemic and adopt some of the policies, whether it’s 
work from home policies, utilizing transit more, reinvesting in our neighborhood 
schools — what changes  in behavior can we make, what kind of protections can we give 
low wage workers who are  essential workers during all of this and ensure that, you 
know we call them critical and essential  workers and heroes and yet we’re thinking 
about suspending increases to the minimum wage …What are we going to demand as 
far as a world as we would like to see it?
Artwork by Anthony Tran for the UCSD Guardian.