The University of California 
Office of the President announced 
on Jan. 21 that undergraduate enrollment in the UC system had 
grown for the fourth consecutive 
year in Fall Quarter 2019.
For the 2019-2020 school year, 
the UC system enrolled 185,559 California undergraduate students 
across all of its campuses. This is 
up from the 175,630 Californian students enrolled in the 2016-2017 school year, fulfilling the UC system’s goal to enroll an additional 
10,000 Californian undergraduates 
over the following three years 
beginning in 2016.
For the academic year of 
2019-2020, the UC system also 
admitted the highest number of 
freshmen and transfer students 
in its history. 108,178 freshmen were admitted out of 176,695 
applicants, while 28,752 out of 
41,282 transfer applicants were accepted. Conversely, graduate student enrollment also grew for the seventh consecutive year to 
58,941 in the UC student body. 
In a press release, UC President 
Janet Napolitano spoke on the 
importance of enrolling more 
students into the university system.
“ A growing student body means 
expanded opportunities for a new 
generation of young people, ” Napolitano said. “The University Following vocal opposition from the 
University of California Student Association, the UC Board of Regents 
postponed voting on actions that would increase UC student tuition and fees the day before their Jan. 22 meeting. The delay came just six days after the UC Regents announced that they would vote between two potential models for increasing revenue from tuition and fees for the following 5 academic years starting in Fall 2020.
The first model proposal is a standard, 
yearly adjusted for inflation tuition increase for incoming and returning UC students. The second model consists of a cohort-based model for undergraduate students. Under this second model, tuition and fees would be determined for each incoming class of students, and then remain that set price for a suggested six years. 
The proposal states that the revenue raised 
from increases in tuition and fees will assist UC students in the form of financial aid. It cites that one-third of university funds generated via tuition and fees is dedicated toward needs-based financial aid, including recipients of the Cal Grant. 
“The University believes any tuition increase 
must be justified and rightly accompanied by more financial aid to ensure UC education remains within reach for every California family, ” a UC Office of the President representative said in a statement to the UCSD Guardian. “Therefore, the University sets aside 33% of new revenue from undergraduate tuition increases for need-based financial aid. ” 
The statement explained that the remaining 
two thirds of funds are allocated towards the university’s operation costs. 
The UC Regents meeting took place weeks after California governor, Gavin Newsom, announced his 2020-21 State Budget, which proposes allocating further funds to the University of California. These funds include an ongoing general fund augmentation of $217.7 million, as well as an one-time general fund of $53.3 million.
According to a November 2019 Los Angeles 
Times article, the UC system had originally requested a one-time fund allocation of $450 million for facilities upgrade and an extra $447 million in continuing state support for the upcoming fiscal year. 
The UCOP expressed to the Guardian that 
were their original funding requests met, a tuition and fees increase may not be necessary. 
In response to the proposed increases, the 
UC Student Association created and circulated a petition against the proposed tuition increases. As of the evening of Jan. 21, the petition had approximately 1,700 signatures. 
The UCSA argues in the petition that 
while the university’s increasing tuition would ultimately allow for more money to enter the financial aid system, they have doubts as to whether that would actually increase the overall affordability and accessibility of education for students who are not eligible for financial aid due to nonresident or middle income statuses.
In response to the cohort-based tuition 
model, the UCSA recognizes that this plan would allow students to more easily predict their yearly due amounts, but does not support this model either. Their petition cites concerns such as tuition incongruence between students, and hindering nonresident students’ access to UC education. They also critique the plan’s reliance on the state of California providing VOLUME 53, ISSUE 14  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 27, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
STUDENT
UC Undergraduate Enrollment Increases for 4th Consecutive Year
Absolute Zero dance team performance at the Asian Night Market 2020 // Photo by Nithish Narasimman
By  daisy  scott   Editor-In-ChiefUNIVERSITY
UC Regents Postpone Vote on Potential Tuition IncreasePHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Although the issue is 
only making headlines 
now, the harsh reality is 
that climate change has 
been threatening society 
for a while now."
VENMO
SEX  EDUCATIONSecurity  and  safety
TV   REVIEWFeatures,  Page 6
A&E,  PAGE 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"For the many legions 
of Los Angeles sports 
fans, there may be 
no more fervently 
followed figure than 
Kobe Bryant. His name 
is synonymous with 
winning...”TUESDAY
 H 67 L 49
THURSDAY
H 66 L 51
WEDNESDAY
H 68 L 50
FRIDAY
H 69 L 54
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.....2
STEM SUPERIORITY?....4
HALSEY ..........................8 
TIME MANAGEMENT.....12
BASEBALL & D1............16Jack Dorfman
 Triton Timeout: Kobe Bryant
 PAGE 4This comes a fter the university set a three year goal in 2016 to enroll an additional 10,000 students.
BY  Madeline  Leon 
and  Zhuoying  LinOPINION:
CLIMATE CHANGE
Opinion, page 4
See ENROLLMENT,  page 2See TUITION,  page 3
RIMAC Set to 
Re-Open in Late 
February
A portion of the complex closed 
down due to flooding from a system 
malfunction.
UC San Diego Recreation 
announced that RIMAC gym will 
reopen in late February 2020, following a sprinkler malfunction that flooded portions of the facility.
The system failure which 
caused the sprinklers to go off occurred on Jan. 16, 2020, which ultimately led to the closure of the gym. Because of the pressure in the valves, the water could not be shut off until all of the pressurized air had left the pipes. 
Richard Mylin, the director of 
UCSD Recreation, spoke with the 
UCSD Guardian regarding the 
events that occurred in the gym. 
“Fire sprinkler malfunctioned, 
water starts pouring out, ” Mylin said. “We weren’t sure the alarm goes off so we were evacuating the building, and staff were walking around the building shutting off valves, but what you have to remember are all sprinklers are pressurized so we had to wait for all the water to leave this broken head. ”
The gym initially had to be 
closed for the staff members to assess the damages and drain the water outside of the gym. Because of the design of RIMAC, the water released from the pipes drained into the pit of the weight room. 
“In the pit, we were fortunate 
that the head wasn’t above any equipment, so we didn’t lose equipment, ” Mylin said. “But, all of the flooring and drywall are looking to be replaced. ”
Inside of the pit, all that 
was left behind following the flooding was concrete because all of the paddings were too soaked to be salvaged. On top of that, according to Mylin, for a few days, the squash court underneath the pit was not usable because the water had soaked through the concrete to the lower levels. As of 
now, however, the squash courts 
are ready to be used again.
Mylin spoke about plans to 
fully reopen RIMAC, with a repaired pit area that will allow for more people to be able to work out during peak hours of the day while maintaining the same design as before. 
However, Mylin emphasized 
that it may take longer than the predicted February deadline to open because of the extent of the damage.
“We’re just drying out the 
concrete because while it’s still damp we won’t be able to put flooring and adhesive, ” Mylin CAMPUS
BY  sepand  rouz
Contributing writer
See FLOOD,  page 3of California is looking forward 
to providing these talented, 
hardworking students a world-
class education, while expanding 
access for future Californians. ”
The top three campuses with 
the largest enrollment boost are 
UC Riverside with an additional 1,622 students, UC Irvine with an 
additional 876 students, and UC 
San Diego with an additional 849 
students from the previous school 
year.
According to the university’s 
“Fall Enrollment at a Glance” 
website, a tool that can be used to gauge enrollment with 
varying demographic factors, 
undergraduate enrollment at 
UCSD has increased by nearly 
6,000 students in the 5-year period 
between Fall 2014 and Fall 2019, 
admitting 24,810 in 2014 and 30,794 in 2019.
Despite this growth, the San 
Diego Union-Tribune reported in Oct. 2019 that UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla had hoped that any enrollment increases for the 
San Diego campus would stay 
between 300 and 500 new students. 
“Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
told the Union-Tribune earlier 
this year that he hoped enrollment 
would increase by no more than 300 to 500 so that the campus 
would have time to absorb the 
billions of dollars of expansion 
that it has carried out, ” the article 
stated.
Despite the 300 to 500 new 
student goal, enrollment 
increased by over 800 students at the university in Fall 2019 from 
the previous year. This increase 
comes after UCSD announced in 
Jan. 2019 that it had broken its 
record for the highest number of 
applicants ever, receiving 118,372 
applications from prospective freshmen and transfer students.
In a 2018 interview with the 
Union-Tribune, Khosla had stated that UCSD had not been prepared to receive as high of a number of applicants as it has gotten in recent 
years.
“We weren’t expecting it, ” 
Khosla said last year. “We need 
to be a little more measured and 
controlled. ”
While UCSD has been taking 
steps to accommodate its growing numbers with the construction of 
several new on campus housing 
developments, some argue that 
overcrowding is still an issue.
In the same 2019 Union-
Tribune article, it was reported 
that UCSD had struggled in recent years with having sufficient 
space to house its undergraduate 
student body. The university made 
judgement mistakes in Fall 2017 
and Fall 2018, which led to them 
scrambling to find housing for 400 
and 1,200 students in those two years respectively.
UCSD Associated Students 
Senator Ian McKeever, who currently lives on campus, spoke to the UCSD Guardian about overcrowding at the university.
“Overcrowding at UCSD is a 
huge problem and will continue to 
be just one of the many challenges 
we and future students will have to 
face, ” McKeever said. “With plans 
to add yet another college and to become the largest residential 
college in North America, it’s 
unclear how the administration 
plans on dealing with pressing 
issues such as parking or long wait 
times at campus facilities. ”
Even so, the UC system as a 
whole anticipates continued growth in spite of any growing 
pains. UCOP concluded its press 
release by announcing that it had 
set a goal of granting 200,000 
degrees over the next ten years.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Please apply to 
design, or opinion, or features, or news...
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Divya Seth, Daniel Li, Abigail Hora, Athena Skoufias,
Benjamin Balster, Niloufar Shahbandi, Sophia Nguyen
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 The University of  California Office of  the President is aiming to grant 200,000 degrees over the next 10 years.
▶ ENROLLMENT , from page 1
jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.org
Sunday, January 19
3:59 a.m. Animal Call - 
Thornton Pavilion
Patient in emergency room with 
two dogs that are growling and 
patients are uncomfortable. 
Canceled.
5:32 a.m. Welfare Check - 
Galathea Hall
Subject with a history of suicidal 
ideations told friend he felt 
depressed. Checks OK.
9:17 a.m. Theft - UCSD Medical 
Facility Hillcrest
Bowl of oatmeal stolen from 
cafeteria. Hospital security report 
taken.
12:54 p.m. Hazard Situation - 
Bates HallSwarm of bees. Referred to other 
UCSD Department.
7:42 p.m. Fire Alarm - North 
Torrey Pines Rd/Pangea DrPile of clothing on fire. 
Referred to the San Diego Fire 
Department.Monday, January 2012:05 a.m. Disturbance - Fight - 
Tioga Hall
Report of female yelling and two 
subjects trying to hold her back. 
Report taken.
2:49 a.m. Person Down - 
Biomedical Library
Adult female appears to be 
sleeping on ground. Field 
interview.
11:24 a.m. Tamper with Fire 
Alarm - Revelle ApartmentsUnknown subject(s) willfully 
activated fire alarm pull station 
in absence of actual emergency. 
Report taken.
6:00 p.m. - 9:00 a.m. Petty Theft 
- CAL IT2Unknown subject(s) stole a 
digital camera, credit cards, 
and Nintendo gaming gear out 
of unlocked office, loss $1,157. 
Report Taken.
Tuesday, January 21
1:00 p.m. Injury - Rady School 
of ManagementSubject fell off of a bicycle and 
was bleeding from the eyebrow. 
Transported to hospital.
5:58 p.m. Disturbance - 
Humanities and Social Sciences
2 males arguing about pizza. 
Unable to locate.
6:55 p.m. Traffic Hazard - 
Scholars Dr South
Disabled vehicle in the middle of 
the roadway. Gone on arrival.
Wednesday, January 22
6:57 a.m. Smoke Check - 
Thornton Pavilion
Reporting party saw smoke at 
Thornton from his apartment. 
Checks OK.
10:59 a.m. Injury - Sequoyah 
Hall
Pedestrian got hit with a 
bicyclist’s backpack causing a 
laceration above her left eye. 
Transported to hospital.
12:10 p.m. Citizen Contact - 
Student Services Center
Male holding sign yelling about religion. Checks OK.
2:02 p.m. Criminal Threat - 
Thornton Pavilion
Subject got confrontational with 
a valet attendant that was giving 
parking instructions. Service 
provided.
4:44 p.m. Medical Aid - Rebecca 
and John Moores Cancer Center
Male having a reaction to iron. 
Referred to other agency.
12:42 p.m. Medical Aid - La 
Jolla Farms Rd
Nine month old fell out of high 
chair. Referred to the San Diego 
Fire Department.
2:27 p.m. Information Only - 
North Torrey Pines CtReporting party receiving 
unwanted emails. Report taken.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
consistent funding over the course of the 
next few years.
Additionally, multiple UCSA 
members expressed that they felt the UC Regents should have allowed for more than a week between the initial announcement of the models and the vote, so that students could have a sufficient amount of time to provide feedback. It was this complaint that ultimately prompted the UC Regents to 
postpone their vote on tuition and fee 
increases to a yet to be determined time.
“The University of California has 
chosen to move the Board of Regents’ vote on the tuition proposal from this Wednesday, Jan. 22, to a later date,” a representative from UCOP said in a statement to the Guardian. “We 
understand and take seriously the 
concerns by students who have requested more time to consider the proposed plans and welcome ongoing productive 
conversations with them. ”
UCSA President Varsha Sarveshwar, 
who attended the Jan. 22 meeting, spoke to the Guardian about how the 
discussion on tuition went.
“I think the Regents had a 
productive conversation, though from our perspective, it’s clear that there is significant momentum behind passing a tuition increase at an upcoming board meeting, ” Sarveshwar said. We’ll continue to advocate to hold tuition where it is. ”
UCSD Associated Students President 
Eleanor Grudin expressed to the UCSD Guardian before the postponement that she felt that the UC Regents did not provide enough time for consideration. She also commented on why she is against both tuition increase models.
“I have many concerns regarding 
the proposed tuition plans from the 
UC Regents, ” Grudin replied. “These 
increases place the most significant burdens on students from both in and out-of-state who do not qualify for 
financial aid. These proposed increases 
will become severe barriers to entry for middle-class families and non-residents. ”In their statement to the Guardian, 
UCOP expressed that they anticipated a “comprehensive discussion” regarding tuition in their Jan. 22 meeting that would provide them with more information for a vote at a later, undetermined date. Sarveshwar addressed the UC Regents during this meeting to express the UCSA ’s concerns. 
The date of the vote on the proposed 
tuition and fees increase models is yet to 
be determined. To learn more about the 
UC Regents meeting agenda and read the details of the proposed models for tuition and fees increases, visit regents.universityofcalifornia.edu. To learn about the UCSA and their stance against both increase models, visit ucsa.org.
THAT ONE!
By Michi Sora
The two proposed tuition-increase models will be voted on at a later , yet to be determined date.
▶ TUITION , from page 1
said. “We’ve reviewed and we’re going 
to put in new flooring and new drywall. My hope is sometime later in February because it takes four weeks to ship products but I don’t have it yet from my vendor. ”
Many students who frequented 
RIMAC have been frustrated with having to use alternate on-campus facilities. Main Gym and the gym portion of the Canyonview Aquatic Center, which are also run by UCSD Recreation, are significantly smaller than RIMAC.
Armin Momen, an undergraduate 
student at UCSD, voiced his frustrations towards RIMAC’s facilities not being fully operational to the Guardian. 
“When I first found out [about] the 
incident, I was a little upset about the situation, ” Momen said. There aren’t many options on campus because places like Spanos have been closed to accommodate only student-athletes. ”
Momen explained that he was forced 
to find other places to work out because there were not machines or weights at the other UCSD Recreation facilities that worked for his exercise patterns.
“I can’t get anything done at the Main 
Gym really because they don’t have the equipment I need that suits my body type, ” Momen said. “ And I’ve been forced to go to 24/7 Fitness, pay the membership fees, and take time out of my day to commute there because RIMAC being on campus made everything so much easier. ”
While no date has been given for 
when RIMAC will fully reopen, Mylin anticipates an announcement will come soon.
Some students have resorted to going off campus in order to utilize specialized workout equipment.
▶ FLOOD , from page 1Daisy  Scott   editor@ucsdguardian.org
sepand  rouz   srouz@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
While many of us may remember and may have 
even participated in the climate strike that was held on 
campus and worldwide back in September, the harsh 
reality is that it is easy for an issue like climate change to sink to the back of our minds a fter the fact. Typically 
people are not directly a ffected by climate change; thus, 
there is no tangible evidence to remind them. It seems illogical that people will strive for change when they cannot directly see the e ffects of an issue and fail to 
recognize the imminent threat according to. 
That being said, over the course of the last few weeks, 
climate change seems almost inescapable. Between reports of around 17.4 million acres of land burning in Australia to 16-year-old climate change activist Greta Thunberg making headlines, it has become more and 
more di fficult for people to overlook this global issue. 
Although the issue is only making headlines now, the 
harsh reality is that climate change has been threatening society for a while now. According to the BBC, studies conducted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 2019 report that the last decade has been the warmest yet, and temperature projections for the next five years estimate a continuous increase in 
temperature. 
Still, some people question the relevance of increasing 
temperatures on society. The effects are numerous, 
but some of the most prominent include an increasing number of extreme weather events, ice melting, glacial retreat, and rising sea levels. However, there is still hope. While humans cannot stop the e ffects of global warming 
completely, there are countless things they can do daily to slow the process. 
 However, whether it is due to the circulation of fake news, denial, or lack of education, a large portion of society remains ignorant to its impact on the environment 
and the fast deterioration of the planet. I believe the best 
solution to this ignorance toward climate change is for the government to implement large-scale conservation policies that a ffect daily life, like the California plastic 
bag ban. These policies will make people think twice 
about their impact on the environment and encourage them to get educated. The Single-Use Carryout Bag 
Ban was implemented in California in 2016, and was a monumental step in terms of governmental conservation efforts. This policy taught people the dangers that single-
use plastic bags pose to the environment, especially sea life, and in turn made them more self-aware of their impact. A fter the ban was implemented, an approximate 
86 percent of customers brought their own reusable bags with them to stores according to studies conducted by the Surfrider Foundation in August 2019. 
Although some may argue that the government 
should not pass legislation on climate change, the issue at hand is escalating at such a fast rate the need for climate change legislation becomes an issue of fact, not opinion. This issue is di fferent than other controversial 
issues like free speech or bilingual education, because of its extreme urgency; the human race contributes the most to the rapid deterioration of our environment. With many people le ft uneducated about their impact on 
the environment, and roughly seven billion people on this earth, our carbon footprint becomes more and more prominent as time goes on. Without more government interference in or at the very least acknowledgment of climate change, I fear that many people will continue to ignore their impact on the environment. Although college students at UC San Diego and 
sister campuses cannot lessen an entire company’s 
carbon emissions or come up with new legislation to 
implement, they can stay educated by keeping up to date with policies regarding climate change and the impact of their actions. This is crucial. According to Psychology 
Today, a combination of awareness and caring evokes action, and that’s why the government’s role in climate change education is so crucial. If people realize that the issue of climate change has escalated so much that an important power like the U.S. started passing legislation about it, then they may be more compelled to learn about why that is. Legislation a ffects most individuals 
in society, and if their daily lives change, it is likely that they would take the time to understand why. If the government is getting involved, then society may finally 
realize climate change is worth caring about. No matter how big or small, making changes in the way we live, even if it be one person at a time, is what will slow down global warming rates and preserve the earth. 
Climate change should not be a le ft-wing versus right-
wing issue. It a ffects everyone, regardless of their political 
party, so the very least we can do is support government policies on climate change reform and education, and do our part to lessen the issue. In fact, Congressman  Scott Peters has compiled “ The Climate Playbook” which lists 
out legislation that both Democrats and Republicans agree on. By focusing on our commonalities, spreading awareness, and taking steps to eliminate waste and pollution, we can lessen the looming climate threat. As Greta Thunberg stated at the Global Climate Strike last 
September, “we deserve a safe future. And we demand a safe future. Is that really too much to ask?”
Pay Attention to Climate Change
By: Zara Irshad // Contributing Writer
UC San Diego is a school centered on Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Math. Sure, the statement is technically debatable, but at a school where a majority of the students are in STEM fields, it is practically fact. 
According to UCSD’s data for 2017-2018, approximately 64 percent of undergraduate students were enrolled in a science or engineering field. Such an overwhelming 
majority brings about countless issues for non-STEM students, departments, and faculty. It also creates problems for STEM students because a STEM-centric campus means large impersonal classes and cut-throat competition for students. Furthermore, a STEM-centric campus trivializes non-STEM subject areas. While the trivialization’s e ffect on non-STEM students seems 
obvious, what is o ften left out of the conversation is its 
impact on STEM students. O ften, UCSD’s STEM-centric 
culture and systems encourage STEM students to treat liberal arts and humanities courses as “extras, ” preventing students from gaining the necessary knowledge they need understand the impact of their subjects in a real-world context and responsibly work in their fields. 
Currently, STEM students are required to take non-
STEM courses to round out their education in the form of general education requirements and electives. However, they are rarely taught that those courses are o ften as 
relevant to their careers as their major requirements. After all, science, technology, and medicine are not 
practiced in vacuums. They are practiced in institutions 
and organizations created by people and thus, a ffected by 
the very social, political, and cultural forces that shape human beings. For example, social and cultural biases determine the data we choose to study, the knowledge we consider valid enough to include, the way we treat people in our fields, and the problems we choose to solve. 
Moreover, societal and political institutions determine how research is implemented and who has access to science and technology’s bene fits while who su ffers the 
consequences. 
Still, many STEM students treat their liberal arts 
and humanities courses as easy As. Part of the reason is that UCSD’s cut-throat STEM classes make it almost impossible for students to maintain competitive GPAs without excessive studying, depriving them of the time and effort necessary to engage with their other classes. 
For example, some of the school’s most popular STEM majors such as biology and computer science use “weeder” courses to challenge students to the point where they either fail out of or leave their respective majors. Thus, 
even though UCSD requires undergraduates to take writing courses and interdisciplinary electives, it fails to ensure that STEM curricula leave room for students to prioritize those courses enough to gain knowledge from them.
Still, some argue that STEM students make the 
decision to treat their non-STEM class as less useful and important. While that may be true, it is necessary to note that some of those biases are fueled by a campus culture and curriculum that ignores the value of the arts, humanities, and social sciences. Furthermore, the fact that the humanities, social sciences, and art departments have courses that o ffer easy As only feeds into this devaluing. 
For example, several Political Science courses taught by Professor Victor Magagna have an average grade of an A-minus, with more than 90 percent of students receiving the grade according to Course and Professor Evaluations. While it can be easy to blame the departments for 
creating such courses, it is important to note that 
certain department funding is dependent on enrollment numbers. For example, according to the Executive Vice Chancellor of Resource Administration’s website, only courses with 20 or more students count towards a department’s funding for teaching assistants. Of course, the existence of easy-A courses is not inherently bad, as such classes act as a refuge for over-stressed students looking for a fun, interesting and stress-free class. They 
only become a problem if they are the only exposure people get to necessary subject areas, which is o ften the 
case for STEM students. A fter all, easy-A classes allow 
students to receive stellar grades without engaging with the material, which means students have less incentive to learn and thus, become unable to incorporate the class’s concepts into their lives and careers. 
 Nevertheless, the emphasis on STEM goes beyond 
individual department coursework and stems from UCSD’s general lack of focus on interdisciplinary learning. The sheer amount of requirements STEM 
departments attach to their degrees prevents students from supplementing their education with liberal arts and humanities classes. Of course, the focus on technical subjects makes sense to some degree because STEM students need technical knowledge to perform in their careers. However, the problem arises because STEM major requirements fail to adequately incorporate social and cultural perspectives, treating those as separate and unnecessary even though STEM students need awareness of the communities, cultures, and people they work with. For instance, according to a 2019 study published in the Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved, all doctors evaluated for implicit bias showed a strong bias for white Americans over black Americans. Some e ffects of this bias are doctors treating pain in black patients less seriously and seeing black patients as less cooperative. The results show that social and cultural biases continue 
to be a blind spot for STEM professionals, pointing to the need for STEM education to incorporate sociocultural perspectives to account for them. 
However, STEM, social sciences, arts, and humanities 
departments at UCSD rarely collaborate, if ever, to create courses that ful fill requirements among 
several departments and further a more holistic understanding of their disciplines. For example, even though the philosophy department o ffers a course titled 
“Technology and Human Values, ” it does not ful fill 
any computer science degree requirements. However, if the course had been created through collaboration between departments, it would be more likely to ful fil 
requirements for both STEM and social sciences degrees. Consequently, a lack of collaborative courses hurts both non-STEM and STEM students by preventing them from learning from each other and gaining a well-rounded perspective on their disciplines. To make matters worse, the real-world impacts of the lack of liberal arts emphasis are signi ficant. As is the case with medical students who 
are deprived of sociocultural understandings of their professions, when computer science students do not learn about technology’s connections to society, they fail to see how social media contributes to polarization and hate speech and fail to tackle the racial, gender, and economic biases that persist in the tech world. In other words, interdisciplinary perspectives are key to shaping innovators and responsible citizens, which is why STEM students should not be le ft out of interdisciplinary 
education.
Therefore, UCSD needs to encourage its STEM 
students to take liberal arts classes by prioritizing interdisciplinary learning in all of its programs. To start o ff, it needs to incentivize cross-departmental 
collaboration, make departments augment classes and curriculum so that STEM students can make room for liberal arts perspectives, and properly fund its liberal arts departments. Fortunately, change has already begun with the emergence of interdisciplinary departments such as the Global Health program. So, if UCSD genuinely wants to break things better, it needs to start by breaking the arbitrary barriers separating departments and preventing students from becoming real-life game-changers.
Toxic STEM Culture Harms STEM Students Too
By: Pankhuri Kohli // Contributing WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your Winter Quarter 
U-Pass today! Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.
Valid January 1 through 
March 25, 2020.Almost every time at the beginning of the quarter, 
I often see fellow students post on Facebook, Twitter, 
and Snapchat complaining about how much they had to 
spend on textbooks for the term. Despite hearing and seeing first-hand the struggles of spending so much on 
textbooks, that did not stop the increases on the prices of textbooks and the new strategies for companies to create access-only homework and textbooks. However, 
as textbook prices are increasing and as companies start 
using access-only strategies, students would opt to find 
cheaper or free versions, or even to opt out completely.
As a student from a financially disadvantaged 
background, I would o ften find myself selecting only a 
few required materials to buy and rent used if applicable. Though because only a few select pages of the textbook 
are assigned throughout the course, I eventually end up feeling like I wasted my money that I could have used for more necessary needs such as food.
Upon reading Daisy Scott’s article called Buried 
in (Text)Books, I ended up relating and agreeing to much of what she says, especially on her solution to the issue. She says that if “professors are able to pay for the reproduction rights to create print course readers with excerpts of readings, they should be able to place that same content online. ” The idea of online content 
would be faster for students to access, eliminate the burden of carrying textbooks around campus, and thus bene fiting the professors because of the higher 
probability that students will have such access to enrich their understanding of the course. 
As a member of the CALPIRG chapter at UCSD, we 
took Scott’s solution a step further by introducing a new alternative: open source textbooks. Professors will also be granted money in order to write textbooks that can contribute to the open source. We already have access to online databases, let’s take a step further for free access to textbooks.Paint a picture. You just got into a place of your 
dreams. But to get in, you have to pay $4,000. You think it’s over but then you have to pay $200-250 every few months on top of the $4,000. College textbooks have increased in prices 812% since 1980. That is 4x faster 
than the rate of in flation. Over 2x the rate of college 
semesters and quarters. 
In my time, I have had to use four access codes since 
community college. One class even had an access code listed in their course materials, I bought it, then when I got to the class, they said I didn’t need it at all. Access codes aren’t bought back, so it was all for nothing. Why should someone pay $50 just to get their homework done? The teachers want the homework, why do students 
pay for it?
Online PDFs will always be replaced with a new 
more expensive version that literally just changed a few problems and words, claiming to be improved. Which is why we need to move to open textbooks as mentioned in Daisy Scott’s article “Buried in (Text)Books. ” I’m an intern with the student organization CALPIRG. We work to get faculty to agree to online textbooks. They 
are faculty-written, peer-reviewed, and open-licence textbooks that can be published online. They are free to 
read and cheap to print. Best thing is students can keep them a fter their classes.
The California community colleges have done a good 
job implementing these textbooks. It is time for the UC’s to follow the same path.I didn’t realize the gravity of the situation until 
I found myself skipping meals on the day-to-day. Balancing classes, extracurriculars, and a job in attempt to gain experience for internships and better-paying work, I found myself sacri ficing a few meals here and 
there to alleviate the growing financial burden of my 
education. My total expenditure during my first two 
semesters at UCSD was roughly over $300 for textbooks 
and homework alone- not including tuition, housing, 
meal plan, amenities, living conditions such as laundry, and transportation.
 The fact is, I could only a fford to purchase one 
textbook, the rest were assignments I had no other option but to purchase with the fear of taking monumental dips in my grades for classes that required them. Assignments cost around $55 per class with textbooks ranging from about $200-400. An estimated $600 would be spent by an individual per year on textbooks and homework assignments combined. However, no student should be subjecting themselves to 1 meal a day just to a fford 
educational resources.
Textbooks written under an open license or 
funded by grants from the UC system would generate better performance from students, and create equal opportunity for those who have already worked hard to gain admittance to a competitive UC school. Following the example of schools like Salem State University or UMass Amherst with free textbooks, would aid in the financial struggle countless UC students undergo 
costing them more than a dip in their grades. 
As a member of CALPIRG, a non-pro fit organization 
working to further the voice of students on large issues, I wish to broaden the representation of students struggling with the finances of our education starting 
with a ffordable textbooks and assignments. Through 
our campaign to get the UC system to start a grant for free and a ffordable textbooks, the financial and 
academic future of leading generations will gear towards 
prosperity.
By: Diana Trinh                                                          By: Aaron Balutch                                                          By: Rena DeCastroFollowing Editor-in-Chief Daisy Scott’s recent article “Buried in T ext(books), ” three members of CALPIRG sent in responses and calls to action.Letters to the Editor
Eleanor Roosevelt College Junior                                          Earl Warren College Junior                                    Earl Warren College Freshman6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Everyday, hundreds of dollars are effortlessly exchanged across 
college students under the innocuous appearance of an endless stream of inside jokes. Humor so complex they are nearly impossible 
to decipher by any outsider. Monthly rent is paid among roommates with a poop emoji. Food trips around 3 a.m. are split with winky faces and smiles and people cannot seem to get enough of it. If you have ever needed a ride somewhere, had to split carne asada fries because you couldn’t finish them by yourself, purchased something homemade, or are between the ages of 
18 and 30, you have most likely used Venmo.
Since its launch in 2009, the money-railing company Venmo has 
become one of the most popular money-transferring services, growing to 
serve over 40 million users as of 2019. The social media savvy app has more 
accounts created than that of some of the U.S. ’s largest financial institutions such as Bank of America Corporation and Wells Fargo & Company. Not only is it beating banks in terms of usage, but Venmo stands out from their own competitors such as Square Inc. ’s Cash App, which reported more than 15 million monthly active users.
Venmo began when co-founders 
and college friends Andrew Kortina and Iqram Magdon-Ismail were at a funk concert in Philadelphia in 2009. At the concert, the pair watched from a balcony and talked about the idea of 
sending money to other people just by 
using their phones because they were “too lazy” to go downstairs to tip the house band after a good performance, Magdon-Ismail said in an interview with Entrepreneur in 2016. 
Flash-forward, the e-commerce company Braintree purchased the 
mobile payment service in 2012 for $26.2 million. PayPal then bought Braintree in 2013 for $800 million. Today, Venmo has processed more than $27 billion of transactions in 2019 alone.
Venmo allows you to get back that $5.75 for that boba your friend owed 
you that one time. Transactions are connected through friends, whether that be through your Facebook contacts or through your phone when you first sign up. Users can connect from their bank account or rely completely on a Venmo balance that they can transfer from a card or bank account. Transfer fees may occur when putting money back and forth between the balance and your debit card but free if directly connected to your bank 
account. Money sent or received can be as little as $0.01 or as much as 
$2,999.99 after confirming your account and identity. No more having to worry about leaving your wallet at home as long as one of your friends got it covered. No more wire transfers. No more waiting for transfers as Venmo charges come instantly. And if privacy is such a concern, Venmo allows for users to make transactions private from your social feed, allow 
for only friends to view, or publically visible. 
Venmo is especially popular among younger people and college 
students. Splitting Ubers and paying for squads of seven has never been easier. According to Statista, 82 percent of users of both PayPal and Venmo 
are between the ages of 18 and 34, with 50 percent of Venmo users to be 25 to 34–that is, millennials. In a recent survey by Sallie Mae and Ipsos, 86 percent of U.S. college students use mobile payment apps and as the top method of payment on campuses. Specifically, PayPal and Venmo are apparently the superior app of choice as they lead the pack ahead of Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, and Square Cash.  
With all these numbers and net worth, and most often no transaction 
costs when linking directly to your bank account, how does Venmo make its millions? One way is through partnerships. Venmo partners with fast-food chains like Chiptole, White Castle, and food-delivery services like 
Munchery and UberEats where customers can pay directly from their 
Venmo accounts. Venmo would then take its standard cut of 2.9 percent, plus a small flat fee. This is at the higher end of what businesses pay for a typical credit-card transaction and of not just in-app purchases like these, but of in-person transactions at physical checkout counters, where 
customers spend trillions of dollars a year. 
But what sets Venmo apart from 
other transfer apps like Zelle, Apple Pay, and Android Pay? It’s all in the social media feed. In an interview with The Atlantic, Richard Crone, who 
runs a payments-focused firm called 
Crone Consulting, claims that these businesses have greater incentives paying for the built-in advertising more than money the transferring service itself. “You walk into any retailer, any 
restaurant, any service provider— what do they want you to do? Like them on Facebook, follow them on Twitter, ” Crone said. “Because the retailers spend far more trying to get you to like them on Facebook and follow them on Twitter and all these other things that they could just get as a byproduct of the payment. ” In other words, friends seeing what their friends eat, even in the form of an emoji, increases business. This desire for social clout that already exists among us is now made a business for these fast-food chains as well as Venmo to profit off of. 
Other money-transferring apps could, in theory, adapt to the business 
style of publicly viewable purchases, but could possibly risk the very base of their branding and purpose such as privacy. Zelle, for example, is 
another digital payment network that allows large transfers across banks 
such as Capital One, JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank. When it comes to banks, Crone says, there is an expectation for privacy and security, that is, to keep the nature of transactions confidential. Venmo is designated for public view. This makes the app more than a business based on money-railing and one built on user information. This has enabled Venmo to lead 
the pack of peer-to-peer money transfers, as other businesses can cash in  
Can  I  Venmo  You?  The  Workings  of 
the  Money-Transferring  App
Processing more than $27 billion worth of transactions in 2019 alone, Venmo has made 
spending and splitting much easier for college students. But how does the company make money 
and can it be trusted?
By Lanlill y  nguyen   staff writer
See VENMO,  page 7“But what sets Venmo 
apart from other transfer 
apps like Zelle, Apple Pay, 
and Android Pay? It’s all in 
the social media feed.”
ART BY SUSAN SUNART BY SUSAN SUNFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kita
 on the personal data for where customers are spending their money. Other P2P 
services, where individuals are mutually and equally privileged participants in the application, such as Zelle are limited in their ability to partner with merchants and businesses with their reputation as a bank.
However, basing a business on such immediately available user data has 
its downfalls. Security issues have become a major topic of concern with the dramatically increasing number of users. Rent and utility payments, for example, can reveal who lives with whom. The timing of purchases can reveal one’s whereabouts and where they’re eating out and who they’re with. While the point may be to show off who’s hanging out with whom, the actual transactions may not be so secure. 
Breaches in user security have put Venmo in hot water. The Federal Trade 
Commission launched an investigation due to complaints over the company’s privacy policies in 2016. One claim in particular was against an auto-friending feature that instantly pulled contacts from users’ phones. Another one pointed to a setting that made all transactions public by default. The FTC made the claim that Venmo should not inform users it offered “bank-grade security, ” if it were not true. On the issue, FTC Chairman Maureen K. Ohlhausen noted that Venmo had “misled consumers about how to keep their transaction information private. ” PayPal didn’t settle the FTC’s charges until 2018.
As of today, Venmo’s own website claims that the company offers bank-
grade security and encryption to ensure the safety of accounts and their information. It also allows users to enable a multifactor authentication PIN 
code in the app. While Venmo itself may be apparently secure for keeping a 
balance directly from your card or bank, this does not inherently stop others from abusing the app.
Venmo scams are something that may be out of the company’s control 
as it offers no buyer or seller protection. According to Fast Company, as a payment service, Venmo is legally required to do its best to offer protection to prevent money laundering and fraud, but the service launched with rather weak regulations built into it. In its early days, Venmo had not even verified its users through proper identification like with a Social Security number or Tax Identification Number. This resulted in schemes like users creating more than one account and logging off when the account got into the red.
Before its acquisition by Braintree, scammers would hook up stolen credit 
cards to the app and cash out entire lines of credit. For example, one scammer would send a text message to Venmo users saying their Venmo account is about to be charged, and if they want to cancel the withdrawal they need to log on and decline it. Another popular scheme was for scammers to pay for purchases, and then pull the money back through Venmo right after the item 
shipped.
Such ploys are a worst nightmare for low-wage college students, such as for 
one UC San Diego global-health major. I asked for her thoughts about trusting 
Venmo with their transactions.
“No way. That’s why I didn’t even get Venmo for my first whole year [of 
college], ” Roger Revelle College senior Mariela Martinez said. “But then it’s 
like, I was forced —forced— to use it because of my friends, where I used to 
just pay them in cash whenever we went out. ”While social media platforms may be more concerned with backlash about 
user data and information, Venmo must manage an even larger challenge: holding your bank account number. However, the appeal of the convenience of Venmo has pressured many, such as Martinez, to continue using these platforms, regardless of these concerns. The pressures of Venmo usage has made some to have no other choice but to compromise on the issue.
Security and data privacy have additionally become an issue for many top 
tech companies such as Facebook and Google. In what came to be known as the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal, in early 2018 it was revealed that political consulting company Cambridge Analytica had harvested millions of people’s Facebook profiles without their consent for the purpose of political advertising. Following this data breach, Google ran into issues of its own when 
engineers had noticed a software bug that had led to over 500,000 Google+ 
users private data open to the public. 
The purpose of these social media tools is to some extent use your 
information, your whereabouts, and what your interests are in order to optimize the service these companies provide to you. It seems we want to have these products made exactly for us, but to a blurred point that does not surpass the point of “creepy, ” or at least malicious. And if it’s safe and protected by hundreds of engineers and developers working with our data, what is there to worry about? Many find bliss in this ignorance.
“I really do trust Venmo, ” Thurgood Marshall College senior Faith Yi 
said. “It’s owned by PayPal, which I also use and they seem to put up a lot of 
protections to make sure their customers are safe. ”
Where Venmo may make its best efforts with bank-grade encryption on 
transactional information to keep your data safe, social feeds, and whatever 
is put on public can still leave accounts susceptible to fraud. Convenience and connection comes with a price. However, these online platforms provide ways to ensure you can optimize your user experience.
Venmo continues to draw in more and more new users, making it 
increasingly more popular and convenient than other money-transferring competitors. While this also possibly means more scammers and hackers that can run awry and easily log off with your money without a trace, Venmo users can implement safety practices to prevent becoming a victim of fraud.
One option is to perhaps avoid making large transactions up to the 
thousands. Users viewing your feed are unable to see the exact dollar amount of each transaction anyway so maybe leave it to the banks for the heftier stacks. Another way is to always know who you are transacting with. Profiles may look similar so double-check if it really is your friend Tommy and not just someone who obscurely looks like him with the same username. Perhaps use 
indecipherable emojis to name your purchases so someone viewing your feed 
is not exactly sure what you’re up to. 
There are many ways to keep you and your money safe. But people make 
mistakes and while Venmo can sometimes be liable for data breaches and privacy issues, users will always need to hold their own accountability when using these services, hence the need for terms and agreements. You did read 
those right? So really, if it is any concern to you, make sure to check your 
privacy settings.▶ VENMO , from page 6
Lanlill y  nguyen   lmn015@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Halsey jumps into 2020 headfirst 
with “Manic, ” an album that she explains is a product of her 
“leading with emotion rather than logic. ” Unlike her previous albums “BADLANDS” and “hopeless fountain kingdom, ” “Manic” feels like a more organic creation directly from Halsey’s heart. Packed with Halsey’s fantastic emotive skills, “Manic” takes listeners on a journey through Halsey’s mind where love, heartbreak, mental health, 
sexuality, and identity clash yet coexist. 
In fact, Halsey seems to acknowledge 
the intimacy of this album with the album’s 
opener. “ Ashley, ” named after her birth name, is a slow but liberating song where she cries out her feelings of inadequacy and her desire for change in her life. Fittingly, the track’s electro-pop style adds another dimension of familiarity as it is the style most people associate directly with Halsey. While she admits the difficulty of making any changes in her identity in the second chorus — “I told you I’ d ride this out/It’s getting harder every day” — she nevertheless ends the song empowered and free with a quote from “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, ” her favorite movie: “I’m just a [f-----] up girl lookin’ for my own peace of mind. Don’t assign me yours. ”
While Halsey spends the rest of the 
album “looking for her peace of mind, ” it’s clear from her lyrics that Halsey doesn’t really know who she is or what she aspires to be. Dichotomies pervade the album; “clementine, ” one of the lead singles, reflects 
this best in its chorus, where Halsey sings, 
“I don’t need anyone/I just need everyone and then some. ” Between songs, these differences are especially conspicuous as Halsey flip-flops through situations in a state of mania. In “3am, ” Halsey conveys a sense of desperation with her personal relationships, lamenting about how undesirable she is. Y et “Y ou should be sad, ” the other lead track of the album, showcases a completely different, confident Halsey who isn’t afraid to stand up for herself and break off a problematic relationship. 
Halsey’s lack of a cohesive lyrical theme for “Manic” is reflected by the compositional styles she uses as well. The only thing that unifies all of the sounds in “Manic” is that all the songs can be classified as “pop. ” However, it’s hard to believe that “ Ashley” and “Graveyard, ” both heavily synthesized songs, would be in the same album as the softer, more acoustic songs “Forever … (is a long time)” and “Finally // beautiful stranger. ” In line with her goal of discovering herself with this album, Halsey 
takes on a mishmash of genres through her 
featured artists. From the grungy vibes of Alanis Morissette to the hip-hop and R&B influences of SUGA from BTS, “Manic” is a conglomeration of various influences tossed together into a product akin to a glass mosaic. 
While the idea of diversifying one’s 
musical style may seem like it would be detrimental to the overall quality of each song, as a testament to her musical versatility, Halsey shows that it’s possible to both be a jack-of-all-trades and a master in all of them. It’s hard to pinpoint exactly which song Halsey shines the most in because the reality is that her voice easily melts into any style thrown at her, whether it calls for emotional belts like in “Y ou should be sad” or the whispery vocals in “SUGA ’s Interlude. ” Moreover, the disjointed nature of the music on the album adds to, rather than detracts from, the overall artistic message that Halsey tries to convey to her audience — that finding oneself is a messy, painful, and beautiful process. 
As Halsey puts it in the closing track 
“929, ” “I’ve got a long way to go until self-preservation. ” While she hasn’t succeeded in deciding who she is yet, from “Manic” we see a brilliant artist ready to emerge from her shell.
 
—  steven  zhou
 Senior Staff Writer
Manic
by   Halsey
Release Date  January 19, 2020ALBUM   REVIEW
A-Halsey takes an introspective moment with “Manic. ”After a hit initial release, season two of Net flix original “Sex Education” gives fans exactly what they want.
Comedy-drama “Sex Education” — a show following 
the lives of Moordale High School teenagers as 
they discover sex and navigate through complex 
interpersonal relationships — released its second season 
on Jan. 11. Although the title would suggest that the main 
focus is, in fact, sex, there are also a myriad of issues that the 
show brings to the screen that are not usually depicted on television. With the brilliance of the show’s production value and its wonderful way of introducing difficult topics in every 
episode, “Sex Education” falls under a must see Netflix show 
for any binge-watcher. 
The amazing cinematography and production value of 
“Sex Education” enhances any night in of television watching. With various overhead establishing shots, creative closeups, and the surprise dutch angle here and there, many viewers 
are reminded of the aesthetically pleasing trademark Netflix 
is known for in shows like “Dear White People” and “Black Mirror. ” Each episode utilizes more and more interesting shots creating different ways of conveying the plot to the 
audience. Something else that catches the eye immediately 
is the show’s extremely vibrant color scheme. The location of the show has natural greens from the forests around and 
beautiful architecture in the remastered buildings that add 
to the overall display of the show. Bright neon colors and 80’s inspired outfits give a curt nod to the aesthetic so widely 
cherished and makes the audience eager to see more. 
A major standout of the show is the many different plot 
lines that are incorporated throughout every episode. While each episode follows a different couple and their problems 
in the sex department, “Sex Education” still maintains 
the linear plot of Otis, payed by Asa Butterfield, as well as 
overarching subcharacter development stories. Although it seems like there might be too much going on plotwise, the 
producers weave each story through flawless writing and 
seamless cuts, allowing the audience to follow each plot with ease and little confusion. 
A great addition to the plot of the show is the overall 
diversity of the show’s representation. The diverse cast of characters allows for any viewer to find themselves in the world of Moordale. Ncuti Gatwa plays Eric Effiong, best 
friend to the main character Otis, who is a gay man trying 
to understand and accept the person he is as well as the love that he deserves. His character goes through a struggle 
of heart and self-acceptance in the eyes of a gay man, a 
narrative not often explored in mordern media. Another standout LGBTQ+ exploration done in the show is Jackson’s non-biological mother’s relationship and her insecurity 
about not being Jackson’s biological mother. A hardship 
not often known to the media is the struggles of a same-sex family and the role the non-biological parent has in the 
childs life. With so many different representations of people 
of color and LGBTQ+ relationships and issues explored in the show, it seems as if there is something for anyone that 
watches the show. 
Another excellent part of the writing in the show is the 
female representation included. The next part of this article contains spoilers, so please proceed with caution. In one of 
the episodes, Aimee Gibbs — the former popular girl who 
is sweet, soft spoken and played by Aimée Lou Wood — 
experiences sexual assault on the bus on her way to school. The show follows her through the act of reporting the assault, 
understanding what happened to her, and the trauma that 
follows. Women, daily, are faced with sexual harassment and “Sex Education” used its platform to speak on behalf of the women that do not get to speak their truths. Towards the end 
of the season, there is a powerful point where Aimee works 
with a group of girls in detention to find their common interest. In turn, all the ladies begin to share stories about 
their experiences with sexual harassment am become allies 
in their shared experiences. The vulnerability and severe truth emitted in this episode is so powerful and displays 
so famously the raw talent in this show. When a television 
series takes the time to have every story heard, accurately and in such great detail, it deserves all the recognition it can get. “Sex Education” is for any person wanting a little diverse 
adventure in their watching experience.
—  Hanaa  Moosavi 
Contributing Writer
TV   REVIEW
SEX  EducationSEX  EducationPHOTO COURTESY OF CAPITAL FMPHOTO COURTESY OF CAPITAL FM
Created by   Laurie Nunn
Starring  Asa Butter field, Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa, Emma Mackey
Release Date  January 11, 2020
Rating  TV-MACaA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
UCAL.US/REGISTERThe Circle is a surprisingly wholesome development in the cutthroat world of reality television.
In the first episode of “The Circle, ” 
Netflix’s new reality show based around 
a faux-social media simulator, we 
meet Shubham, a baby-faced virtual reality 
designer who immediately expresses his 
distaste for all of social media and all of the 
alleged fakeness that comes with it. In his introduction, Shubham earnestly professes, “ Although I despise social media,by me 
going into the Circle [and] being myself 100 
percent authentically, it can show you don’t have to be fake. Y ou can be yourself and that 
is good enough. ” 
It’s a sweet enough sentiment, but as a 
seasoned reality TV viewer, hardened by the drama and backstabbing nature of “The 
Bachelor” and “Big Brother” year after year, you can’t help but think “Oh, kid. Y ou’re going to be eaten alive. ”
“The Circle” is an unapologetically silly 
concept; it claims to be exploring social media, but the reality is just weirdly insular. 
The show takes eight contestants, puts them 
each in a private apartment in a shared building, but never allows them to see each other or interact face-to-face. Instead, contestants must do all their communication 
through the “Circle” — a game-specific social 
media that allows players to create profiles, post photos, create status updates, and chat with other players; whether they’re playing 
with their own photos or someone else’s is completely up to them. At the end of each 
day, the players will rank their peers’ profiles 
from best to worst — but there is always the 
question of whether what they’re seeing is the truth. 
Ultimately, and especially at the beginning 
before the players have found their groove, these game mechanics can make very little sense. Most of the gameplay seems to 
culminate in rating each other’s profiles, but 
on what? With no established system, the decision seems to vary drastically from player 
to player. Likewise, the players only benefit 
if they are one of the two highest-ranked, meaning they get the power to “block, ” or 
eliminate another player. Low-rated players 
might have a slightly higher chance of being eliminated, but only because the other players clearly didn’t like them very much, meaning 
that the rankings don’t actually serve much of 
a purpose at all. 
Likewise, catfishing seems to be the main 
alternative strategy open to players, but whether someone is catfishing or not has no effect on the other players. This is perfectly fine, except for the other players’ strange fixation on rooting out and eliminating the 
catfish, despite it having almost no effect 
on their actual ability to win the game. Ultimately, despite its strong overall concept, many logistics of the game often feel 
extraneous or purposeless, like maybe the design needs to be streamlined for future 
seasons.
If this sounds like a critique, well, it 
is, but it’s not meant to be a particularly condemning one. If it feels like the players 
aren’t being properly strategic, that’s partially 
because it also feels like they aren’t really playing to win. Instead, the players really do seem like they are trying to rate the other 
players based on who they seem to like best, 
rather than anything else. There is one really wonderful moment later in the season when 
a player realizes he strategically shouldn’t give 
his in-game best friend his number one spot, and instead guiltily moves him down, not to 
a bottom ranking, but to number two. 
In contrast, all the players who enter 
the game determined to falsely flatter and 
manipulate to get to the top are more often 
than not quickly eliminated by the other 
players, who are not, in fact, playing the game the way more cynical contestants believe they 
could be.
This isn’t to say “The Circle” doesn’t have 
drama, but it’s a different variety than other 
shows. The players aren’t afraid to question each other’s authenticity to their faces and 
behind each other’s backs, but there is still 
a sense of “no hard feelings” despite the $100,000 on the line that surrounds these interactions. Unlike when shows like “The 
Bachelor” gather the contestants for a tell-all, when the contestants on “The Circle” 
meet at the end of the show, those who 
were on the longest all still seem like good 
friends, no harm between them no matter what may have transpired. Instead, most 
of the entertainment value for “The Circle” 
comes from the humor, the bizarre online flirtations, and the deeply awkward jokes that either only work online or fail miserably. 
In future seasons, “The Circle” may 
very easily work out its gameplay kinks and come out with something a little more 
logistically sound. But I’m not sure that that 
will necessarily make for a better show. The real heart of “The Circle, ” the real reason 
the viewer keeps coming back episode after 
episode, are the players. The structure of “The Circle” definitely has the potential to become a much more cutthroat game with 
the right players, and while that certainly 
has the potential to stand on its own, it will certainly be a different kind of show. 
Who knows the direction future seasons 
will take “The Circle” in? But for season one at least, we were gifted with a surprisingly 
wholesome breath of fresh air.
—  Chloe  esser
A&E Editor
TV   REVIEW
The  CircleThe  CirclePHOTO COURTESY OF WIREDPHOTO COURTESY OF WIRED
Created by   Tim Parcourt
Hosted By  Michelle Buteau
Release Date  January 1, 2020
Rating  TV-MACB10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  2 7 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Alternatives for Stress Cravings
by Tori Anderson Lifestyle Contributing Writer
Let’s talk about stress cravings. The pile 
of stress that can come with the thought 
of midterms and future assignments often times makes us want to turn to sweet or salty stress relievers. So, I want to share with you some alternatives that I have found to fulfill these cravings all while staying with healthier snacks.
So, let’s explore these alternatives: 
Below I have listed the three tastes we typically acquire and what we can substitute. 
Sour
I want to start with sour because it is 
something people crave even though they 
might not necessarily realize it. When 
we have our sour cravings, one of the first things we think of is sour candy. But when this craving occurs you can have a delicious treat that’s healthier: sorbet! You can also drink some lemon or lime juice, or have an orange. Citrus fruits help curve this craving. Lastly, you can have yogurt or kombucha, which are great sources of protein and antibiotics. 
Salty
While most salty foods are not 
necessarily “bad” or less nutrient-dense, there are a few that just depend on portion control. Some go-to snacks we typically are attracted to are chips, pretzels, pizza, burgers, and fries. Instead you can opt for a cup of popcorn, healthy chips such as the brand Popchips, seaweed, celery, and peanut butter. 
Sweet
Lastly, this is what many people crave 
when our moods change and stress occurs. A sweet tooth can make us crave a numerous amount of foods, but for this specific taste, I’ll only name a few: ice cream, chocolate, and numerous different types of candy. Great alternatives that provide those micro and macronutrients include peanut butter, grains, and fruits such as strawberries, raspberries, pineapple, and dates. The majority of the time I get that sweet tooth craving I grab some fruit. It’s delicious and makes me forget about that ice cream desire. However, the last two alternatives that I will provide are lower in calories, satisfy your cravings, and are the specific items you desire: frozen yogurt and chocolate! When you desire ice cream, choose 
frozen yogurt instead; it’s just as good but 
healthier. Now, when you crave chocolate or candy bars, choose at least 70-percent cocoa chocolate bars. That way, you get what you want but the benefits are higher. Those two options are what I do when I absolutely have my mind set on ice cream or chocolate and do not want to opt out for anything else. I’m personally happier satisfying my sweet tooth this way.
Most importantly, these are just food 
alternatives. You could also simply utilize some of your free time to do things that make you happy. In previous articles of mine, I mentioned to plan out some free time from your busy day to relax and or do something that makes you happy, such as: walk the beach, look at the sunset, hang with friends or pets, or watch Netflix. By doing something that makes you happy, it will distract you from those cravings and 
also help you de-stress! 
ART BY SUSAN SUNART BY SUSAN SUNLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 11am-4pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-5pm
Friday: 1 pm-4pmWINTER 2020
Adulting 101: Tips For Time Management
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
Ah, time management: the bane of every student’s existence. I considered myself 
a good time manager in high school — I juggled AP classes, theatre, soccer, and 
journalism with minimal breakdowns — but, when I got to college, I realized that the methods I developed and used all throughout my educational career weren’t going to work anymore. While high schoolers stick to relatively the same daily schedule, every day in college can look different. Also, while there’s teachers, counselors, and parents reminding you about deadlines and tracking your progress in grades K through 12, most of that goes away once you reach university, and it’s kind of up to you on how you 
choose to spend your time. 
Over the past few years, I’ve developed a system to keep myself on track. To give 
some context, I usually take three to four classes every quarter, have a part-time job, 
and am active in four organizations, so I’m sometimes balancing a lot of different things. If you’re having trouble managing your time or just feel like you’ d like to be more on top of your life, here’s what helped me. 
Plan Out Every Day
It might sound tedious and overwhelming to plan out every minute of your day, 
but it makes a big difference. Input your mandatory commitments first — like class, work, meetings, or practices — then fill in the rest of the time with when you’re going 
to do other tasks, like homework, exercise, or work for your organizations. Don’t forget 
to schedule in time to eat and take breaks, because taking care of yourself is a really important part of time management as well. 
Creating a comprehensive schedule assures that I will always have time for 
everything I need to do and helps me plan ahead. You can choose to do this digitally, by creating blocks on Google Calendar, but I prefer to do it physically. I have a notebook that I call my “schedule book, ” where each page is dedicated to one day. I split up a page into two sections — my schedule at the top, then my to-dos for the day at the bottom. At the end of the week, I have a page dedicated to “weekly to-dos, ” where I write out anything that doesn’t have a finite deadline, but needs to be done within the week, and slot them into my days whenever I have time. 
I prefer to write things down because it makes me more aware of my schedule and I 
like the physical act of crossing something off my to-do list. Plus, I get to go shopping for a cute notebook at the beginning of the year, which is always fun. However, feel free to play around with different methods to figure out what works for you. 
Always Be Aware Of Important Dates
We’ve all been here: It’s a Friday afternoon, and you’re going to be away all weekend 
for an org retreat. You’re really excited, but you just realized you have a midterm on 
Monday you actually really need to study for. The inevitable cramming session ensues, 
but if you had just realized this earlier, you wouldn’t have to sacrifice your grades or hanging out with friends. We can change that!
At the beginning of the quarter, put all important school dates — midterms, 
projects, papers — into your calendar once you’ve received the syllabus. Again, I choose to do this physically; in addition to my schedule book, I have a planner that has a large month-by-month section where I can write in major events. I color code them by class, and then I input important dates for my organizations — events, retreats, photoshoots — in a different color, and then dates for personal things — birthdays, trips, dinners — in another color. Doing this allows me to see exactly when things overlap so I can plan in advance. 
 
Stay On Top of Homework 
Homework is a pesky thing that sometimes slips my mind, because it’s often due 
outside of class times. Aside from writing homework down in my “to-dos, ” I sometimes use a website called myHomework, where I can input all the readings, assignments, and projects I have to do by class. At the beginning of the quarter, if my professors have homework schedules listed on their syllabi, I’ll input them into myHomework so there’s one place that has all the information. This website is especially helpful when all my professors aren’t using Canvas, because myHomework allows you to see all the homework that’s due in a certain week or certain month. 
Stick To The Plan
So, you’ve done all the planning. What’s next? Hold yourself accountable to the 
schedule you’ve created, and stick to it! This is possibly the hardest part, especially when you get home from a long day and would rather scroll through Tik Tok than do Literature readings, but getting into the habit of following a schedule is going to help in the long run. I try to dedicate part of my Sunday to planning for the upcoming week 
— I’ll write out the dates in my schedule book with my favorite pens and will fill-in 
the to-dos that I already know, and it’s become a good ritual for me. There were times where I felt so overwhelmed and I was always worried I was forgetting to do something, but this method has made me feel more in control of my day-to-day life. That being said...
Understand Your Limits 
If you find that you’ve gone a week without making time to eat lunch or are 
continually getting home from campus exhausted, maybe it’s time to take a step back and reflect on whether the amount of commitments you have is appropriate. Nobody is superhuman, and even the best time managers can get burnt out. I know that college is a really exciting time and it comes with a lot of amazing opportunities, but they should never come at the cost of your mental and physical health. A big part of time management is being honest with yourself and understanding how much you can handle — and how much is too much. 
I hope these tips helped or at least inspired you to take more control over your time 
management planning. Best of luck, Tritons — you can do it!12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  2 7 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
Five Quick and Important Reads Around Mental Health 
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
As someone who often struggles with their mental health, I like to try out lots of 
different things to get me through a tough season. Besides therapy and medication, I 
have tried or currently use essential oils, listening to music and podcasts, writing, and even more simpler things such as coloring books, painting my nails, or curling up with a nice episode of “Parks & Recreation. ” Lots of these things can help, especially the first two, but if you’re still looking for ways to self-soothe either just on bad days or through a real tough time that seems to be more long-term, there is one other resource that I often turn to: reading. 
Yes, I know as college students we all have what feels like a million pages of reading 
a week as it is, but just as you’ d still make time in your schedule for a friend, you can leave some time for yourself. And yes, I know some of you — especially those STEM majors out there — claim you hate to read, but this isn’t the same as reading primary sources from the deep, dark archives of Geisel Library or some lab report: this is about finding books written by people who have been where you were or maybe are now. So, if I can convince you to give turning to reading as a mental health resource a try, then try starting with some of these titles: 
“If You Feel Too Much” by Jamie Tworkowski 
This book has been by my side since I was 16. Written by the nonprofit, To Write Love 
on Her Arms, Tworkowski writes about his experience starting the organization, his 
relationships with family members as well as with friends and past romantic partners, in addition to his experience with depression. The book is broken up into shorter stories within each chapter and there are many written around specific holidays. 
Personally, I read Tworkowski’s entry about Thanksgiving every year before joining 
my family around the table. His openness and honesty around such tough subjects have helped thousands of people, including myself, feel less alone. So if you, too, find yourself even relating to the title of the book, go ahead and pick it up! 
“Reasons to Stay Alive” by Matt Haig 
This book is a sort of memoir written by Haig, a British author, about what he refers 
to as his first major breakdown. The book begins with Haig describing a moment in Ibiza where he was ready to end his life, but chose to seek out help. What I love about this book is that it is not linear in the conventional, happy ending way; Haig takes his readers through every part of his recovery, which includes the ups and the downs. He talks about his time on medication, the effects his depression and anxiety have on his relationships, and all types of coping methods he tried, including the good and the bad. This book is a good inspiration to those really struggling because Haig is able to reflect on his experience in great detail while also constantly reminding the reader that it will 
not always be this hard. He got through it and so can you. “The Bell Jar” by Sylvia Plath
Okay, I know some of you might be thinking that including this novel might be a 
total cliché. And you might be right. But, once you start to read this famous narrative, 
you’ll see that a story about a disillusioned, depressed college student in the 1950s isn’t such a foreign concept when compared to 2020. Plath has a beautiful way to describe the ugly lows of depression that feel real, and not like the way it can become romanticized in some popular writing that appears in the media today. In this novel, Plath touches on depression, suicide ideation, therapy, and electro-shock therapy in 
the life of a college student as she struggles to balance school, relationships, family, and 
finding the right treatment for her mental illness. 
“ Am I There Yet?: The Loop-de-loop, Zigzagging Journey to Adulthood” by Mari 
Andrew
This book, an illustrated memoir, takes the reader through the ups and downs 
of Andrew’s journey through her 20s. This is a very quick read and is probably the most relatable to all college students compared to the other novels in this list. Andrew uses humor and watercolor painting to share stories of young love, heartbreak, first apartments, jobs, travel, and all the emotions that come with trying to find your true self while in the midst of the “greatest years” of a person’s life. Andrew’s writing is funny, 
touching, and relatable in a way where there is something for everyone. She reminds all 
of us 20-somethings that we are not alone in feeling like we need to have it all together and pretend that we are fully functioning, independent adults to the rest of the world. This book gives us all permission to let ourselves be messy and curious young adults! 
“Notes on a Nervous Planet” by Matt Haig
Yes, I have already included a book by Matt Haig, and yes, you need to read this one, 
too. A sort of sequel to “Reasons to Stay Alive, ” this book focuses on the experience of depression and anxiety, but mostly as it pertains to our current society. Haig presents interesting questions and provokes thoughts around how today’s society, especially when it comes to the internet, social media, and the advancement of technology, affects our mental health. This book is not written in a linear way; it is broken up into short entries that are informative, relatable, and inspiring. One of my favorite pages is written as a sort of poem in the voice of the ocean, titled “ A Note From the Beach, ” which reminds the reader that the ocean does not care about your bathing suit or how you look in it, contrary to what social media might tell you. This book is a refreshing and informative read for anyone who owns a cell phone or computer and needs a reminder that social media is not real life and that you don’t need anyone’s approval to be yourself!CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
A.I.M. BY KYLE ABRAHAMTHURSDAY, JANUARY 30
Balboa Theatre • artpower.ucsd.edu
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM - GSA 
GRAD LOUNGE
A supportive drop-in space for graduate and 
professional school students seeking strategies for resilience, perseverance, and flourishing. 
Common themes include: stress management, 
sustaining motivation, recovering from set-backs, 
work/life balance, and navigating interpersonal challenges ( personal and professional). Location: 
GDA Grad Lounge Contact : Dr. Miriam 
Adrianowicz, Psy.D 858-534-3456 or 
Madrianowicz@ucsd.edu 
3pm
CAPS SELF -CARE STRATEGIES - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, 
MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to balance your personal and 
academic life at UCSD? Dr. Andy Nguyen and a 
Wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help 
you achieve wellness! Topics will include: 
self-care, stress management, mindfulness, self- 
compassion, and effective communication. 
Location: Student Health Services, Murray's Place Week 2-10 Tuesday's. Contact: Ann010@ucsd.edu 
858-822-4977 . Website: 
3:30pm
COMING OUT GROUP - WOMEN'S 
CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
The Coming Out group is a place to meet and gain 
support while discussing your sexual and/ or gender Identities in a confidential setting. This group is for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, straight, or questioning folks who are coming out, considering coming out or may already be out. Topics are determined by group participants and can include stress, fear, anxiety, loneliness, family/ cultural issues, excitement and celebration with regard coming out. The group is open to new members the first 3 meetings of each quarter and then closes to maintain safe space.
,3pm
CAPS MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY 
LIVING - STUDENT HEALTH 
SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
If you have been curious about mindfulness, this 
workshop is a perfect way to explore it. Mindfulness can help you reduce stress, anxiety, and depressive mood. You will engage in various Mindfulness exercises, so you incorporate them into your life. All students are welcome to attend this workshop, no matter your level of experience with mindfulness. Contact: ssweetwood@ucsd.edu 858-822-0134 Website: https://wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPS/Pages/default.aspx
8pm
A.I.M BY KYLE ABRAHAM - BALBOA 
THEATRE
The magnetic dancers of A.I.M (New York Times) 
demonstrate a diverse range of choreography, all created by Artistic Director Kyle Abraham. Repertory includes: The Quiet Dance, a quintet set to Bill Evanss sentimental rendition of the Bernstein classic Some Other Time; Show Pony, an energetic new piece performed by Princess Grace Award winners Tamisha Guy and Marcella Lewis; Meditation: A Silent Prayer, a group work featuring voice-over recording by Carrie Mae Weems, MFA 84 and visual artwork by Titus Kaphar; Drive, a high energy, propulsive work set to thumping club beats; and a duet excerpt from Dearest Home, Kyle Abrahams 2017 evening-length work that explores the concepts of love, longing, and loss. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduTUE1.28
THU1.30MON1.27
12pm
TOES TO HEAD: A FULL BODY 
TREATMENT WORKSHOP - RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 3
In this workshop well use a variety of therapy 
balls to treat yourself to full body relaxation. We'll learn how to excavate tension from every nook and cranny of the body, relieve aches and pains, and discover a deeper level of relaxation and physical comfort while refining anatomical fluency of bony landmarks and learning about applicable fascial science. We will self-massage from toe to head being sure to delve into techniques for common areas of challenge such as the jaw, neck, shoulders, and low back. This workshop is not only a great way to relieve stress but the techniques learned can help you feel better and thrive. Contact: mcc030@ucsd.edu
7pm
REED FAMILY CONCERT: 
BEETHOVEN INTERPOLATIONS - CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Building on the classical notion of interpolation 
to shed light on Beethovens impact on 20th and 21st music, we will nest among the movements of Beethovens mercurial First Symphony (1800) newer work that contains 20th and 21st century echoes of Beethovens mind. Weberns Symphony, Dallapiccolas Una Piccola Musica Notturna, and new music by PamelaZ and Anna Thorvaldsdottir help reveal the often unseen Beethoven: his formalism, penchant for lyricism, and wicked sense of humor. SAT2.01WED1.29
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS @ THE ZONE - 
THE ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the 
opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to 
incorporate state of the art technology for stress 
management! You'll learn strategies such as 
progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress 
as well as learn about some cool technology. 
We'll have free giveaways each week AND you 
can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! See you on Wednesdays! Week 2-10 Location: The Zone. Contact: Ebartelmar@ucsd.edu 858-822-0155
7pm
WEDS@7: PREBYS CHAIR CONCERT 
- CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
To honor the memory of generous philanthropist 
Conrad Prebys, and to commemorate the establishment of the Endowed Conrad Prebys 
Presidential Chair in Music five years ago, the 
Department of Music presents a concert of the 
music of Rand Steiger, the current holder of the Chair, and two new works written by graduate composers Anqi Liu and Alex Stephenson that will be conducted by Steven Schick. Program: Simple Gifts (Variations for Conrad Prebys) - Rand Steiger (Aleck Karis, piano) Cyclone - Rand Steiger (Kleb Kanasovich, clarinet) How Light Arrives (premiere for Ecosphere ensemble) - Anqi Liu Cantus (premiere for Ecosphere ensemble) - Alex Stephenson Beacon - Rand Steiger (Wilfrido Terrazas, flute) Ecosphere - Rand Steiger [DSP] Contact: xuan@cloud.ucsd.edu 858-822-0160 Website: http://music-web.ucsd.edu/concerts/cms_index.php?now=1&query_event_code=20200129-WEDS7Prebys2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM 
- WOMEN'S CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
Starting week 2, join CAPS and the LGBT 
Resource Center for conversations about our experiences as gay men. This forum addresses relationships, sexual health, community building, and more! We meet during weeks 2-10( excluding holiday) in the Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters on, in the Women's Center Small Group Room. Come join us! Contact : Dr. Greg Koch, Psy.D. 858-534-3585 gkoch@ucsd.edu Contact: gkoch@ucsd.edu 858-534-3585
5pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCT ) - GREAT HALL IN 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Language Conversation Tables (LCT) is a weekly 
event where students can learn/practice a language in a casual and fun setting by conversing with a host. LCT has been one of I-House most popular events. It allows everyone to study a new language without too much time commitment. Furthermore, LCT participants can at the same time connect with people and cultures from all over the world. Time: EVERY TUESDAY, from 5-6PM Location: Great Hall of International House. Languages offered: Amharic, Dutch, English, Farsi, French, Irish, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Russian, Spanish Please RSVP before coming to your desired session: https://tinyurl.com/LCT-W20 Come join us for some language fun!
FRI1.31
5pm
SCI-FI V.S. FANTASY MASQUERADE 
BALL - CHE CAFE
Coming this winter quarter to the Che Cafe is a 
one-of-a-kind experience that brings the best of fiction into one huge event. The Sci-Fi Vs Fantasy Masquerade Ball is at the Che Cafe, as hosted by Darkstar Library, with amazing activities, foods, drinks, and more! Enjoy tasteful decorative hot cocoa and cakes made special by Creme & Sugar in Del Mar, Cybernetic Body Paintings, Futuristic Mocktails, Tarot Card readings, a Dance Lesson, and more! Costumes, cosplay, and masks are always encouraged, but never required. Find us on Facebook and order your tickets today, for January 31st is gonna be a blast!
7pm
TRITON FEST AND UCSD 
RECREATION PRESENT: RECESS AT RIMAC
Triton Fest and Recreation invite you to take a 
recess break! Offering free food, popular fitness classes like cycling, zumba, flowlift yoga, and free DIY goodies. When you participate in 3 classes or more, you'll be entered into a raffle for the chance to win epic prizes! In addition to classes, students can check out archery tag, dodgeball, and an obstacle course for free! Event is open to current UC San Diego undergraduate and graduate students with valid school ID.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
JAN 27 - FEB 2
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
GOOD MANNERS
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Tree branch
5. Comely9. Attire
14. Diva’s forte
15. Afresh
16. Heart artery17. Actress ____ Hepburn19. Fable’s lesson
20. Opposite of WSW
21. Bookie’s concerns
22. North ____ (state)23. Madrid cheer24. Mr. Gershwin et al.
26. Beet’s color
27. Mailbox item
30. Pig’s comments32. Fails to include33. Opening wager
34. Barrel
38. Festive candy containers
40. Perfume42. Brood43. Hit-or-____45. Bother46. Remain48. Rains ice49. ____ Angeles52. Yachting53. That man’s54. Entry56. Comparison word58. Mister61. Embossed emblems62. Chess tie64. Costly fur65. Female voice66. Divisible by two67. Beginning68. Abound69. “Finding ____”DOWN
1. WPlacid, e.g.2. Persia, now3. Tick’s kin
4. Scrooge’s word
5. Vocation
6. Army division7. Emotional stress8. Sheep mom
9. Heavy linen
10. Chess piece
11. Blooper12. Declare13. Lettuce dish
18. Most skillful
22. Copenhagen natives
23. Canada’s capital25. Ceremonies27. Trims (off)
28. Send forth
29. Fork point
31. Play parts33. Apart35. Novelist ____ Rice36. Kilt wearer37. Lock openers39. Off kilter41. Briny44. City in Washington47. Small hound48. Hebrew greeting49. Cowboy’s rope50. Atlantic or Pacific51. Nature’s bandages55. She, in Bordeaux57. Detest58. Preserve59. Detail60. Divorce city62. Rested63. Chess piecesFULL-TIME JOBS
Entrepreneurial Outside Sales 
Representative - Symmetry Financial Group is seeking motivated, career-mind-ed individuals to join our team, helping American families protect their homes. We are currently looking for representa -
tives ranging from entry level to experi-enced professionals seeking a different, more rewarding career ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Account Manager/ Order Processor - 
RemX has an exciting career opportu -
nity with a well-established company in the East County area for an experienced Account Manager / Order Processor with previous experience working for a manu -
facturing company. Client offers a stable environment and culture….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Engineer I - As an entry level Engineer, 
you will work with Senior Engineers, Project Managers and project teams helping develop gas pipeline and station engineering projects from planning and design through construction and close -
out. Engineers assist different teams of professionals in the execution of this work depending on the ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
New 7 Speed Beach Cruisers - Men and women seven speed 26” Greenline Beach Cruisers. Retail Price: $289, that’s $100 off! Features:- 3-Piece Crank Set- Extended Deluxe Beach Cruiser Frame- Body Colored Fenders- Body Colored Aluminum Alloy Wheels- Shimano “Revo” SL-RS41-7 Shifter- “Internal Headset “Colors Available:- Purple- Flat Orange….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Haro ICS 4.0, 2003 Men’s Front-Suspension 
Mountain Bike (27 Speed) - Haro ICS 4.0, 2003 Men’s Front-Suspension Moutain Bike27-Speed, Aluminum frame, Shimano components, Rock Shox Pilot fork, addi -
tional Michelin road tiresCondition: Excellent - original ownerHistory: Used primarily for street and trail riding; kept indoors - no serious mountain biking, acci -
dents, or weatheringIncluded: Complete 
bike without saddle ….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more informationMoutain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, Womens - Terrific Condition. Hasn’t been ridden in 5 yrs due to being over seas. Size smallCom -
ponentsComponent Group: Mountain MixFront Derailleur: Front DerailleurRear Derailleur: Back DerailleurBrakeset: Promax aluminum brakes, alumi -
num leversShift Levers: Shimano Alivio RapidFireCrankset: Bontrager Sport, 22/32/42 teethPedals: Aluminum….  ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
CARS
2015 Mini Hardtop 2 Door Cooper 2dr 
Hatchback  - The vehicle is Grey with a 
Carbon Black interior. It is offered As-Is, 
extended warranty is available. - Air 
Conditioning, Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate Control, Cruise Control, Power Steering, Power Windows, Power Mirrors, 
Leather Steering Wheel….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information2018 Mini Countryman Plug-in Hybrid 
Cooper S E All4 AWD Cooper S E All4 4dr - 
The vehicle is Melting Silver Metallic with 
a Carbon Black interior. It is offered with 
a full factory warranty. - Air Conditioning, Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate Control, Cruise Control, Power Steering, Power Mirrors, Leather Steering Wheel, Power Drivers Seat, Power Passenger Seat, Memory Seat Position, Clock, Tachometer, Telescoping Steering Wheel, Steering Wheel Radio Controls, Driver Airbag….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 Mini Hardtop 4 Door Cooper  - The 
vehicle is Other with a Other interior. It is offered with a full factory warran-ty. - Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate 
Control, Cruise Control, Power Steering, 
Power Mirrors, Leather Steering Wheel, Clock, Tachometer, Telescoping Steering Wheel, Steering Wheel Radio Controls, Driver Airbag, Passenger Airbag, Side Airbags, Rear Defogger, Intermittent Wipers, AM/FM….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
7
8
5
191
32
3
6
44
79
88
4
32
613
7
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
2 FREE LYFT RIDESMajor sports figures are the 
subjects of so much passion. 
Entire generations of people 
draw unquantifi able amounts of 
emotion from the exploits of the stars of their favorite teams. When 
they fail, they are the subject of 
derision and burned jerseys; when they succeed, statues are erected 
and banners unfurled. 
For the many legions of Los 
Angeles sports fans, there may be 
no more fervently followed figure 
than Kobe Bryant. 
His name is synonymous 
with winning, with unmatched 
confidence backed by unbelievable 
results, and with the game of 
basketball as a whole. Thousands 
of fans named their children a fter 
him, millions made his jersey the 
first their child ever owned, and his shoes their most cherished gift. 
An entire city lift ed him up when 
he beat the Boston Celtics in 2010, giving many young LA fans the first 
championship for their city that 
they could remember, cementing 
his place as the favorite basketball star of at least one fifth grader, 
who told anyone who would listen that there was no chance Kobe 
would lose. Kobe starred as the 
centerpiece of an entire decade of 
city-bonding teams, from his days 
with Shaquille O’Neal to those 
with Pau Gasol. 
As a Lakers fan who grew up 
during the prime of Kobe’s career, there was no day during my time 
in elementary school or middle 
school where he didn’t make an 
appearance. Every time someone 
got up to throw anything away, despite desperate pleas from 
teachers to simply drop it in the 
can, all of us aspiring Lakers fans 
would yell “Kobe!” while flailing 
around in an uncoordinated attempt at a signature Kobe fade 
away with our balled up piece of paper.
Bryant, 41, and his 13-year-
old daughter GiGi passed away 
Sunday morning on their way to basketball practice, and the 
basketball world will never be 
the same. Tens of millions will never forget where they were that 
morning, and many millions more 
will be unable to shake the dark 
chills that came with finding out 
the news for the first time. 
The pair embodied so much 
of what makes sports so special, even in their tragic death. Kobe would bring GiGi to NBA games, 
sitting courtside with her and 
breaking down the game with his 
oldest child. He was her basketball 
coach, dedicating his post-NBA 
days to spending time with his 
biggest fan. 
His death came in the news 
first, along with reports that his family was not in the helicopter 
with him. Then, reports told the 
already-mourning sports world that his daughter had passed as 
well. 
That’s when the chills began to 
hit me hardest. 
I immediately began to think 
of how many times my parents 
and grandparents have taken me 
to practices and games. There is 
so much love embedded within these acts. Taking a child to practice over and over goes so 
underappreciated, and yet parents, 
with so much support and love in 
their hearts, continue to repeat the 
act, with no need for recognition. 
Kobe and GiGi’s connection 
through basketball is mirrored within the parent-child 
relationship of so many billions 
of people over hundreds of years. 
Seeing videos of Kobe running 
through drills with GiGi and then 
seeing GiGi hit a Kobe-style shot 
in her own games reminds me of playing catch with my grandpa or 
dad and trying to throw as hard 
and as perfect as I could to make 
them proud. Hopefully, his death 
inspires fans to keep their loved 
ones closer, even just for today, 
and helps bring the city together one last time, just as he did in his 
life.Triton 
Timeout
Kobe Bryant filled 
the hearts of my 
generation far 
beyond sportsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu
In MemoriamPHOTOS COURTESY OF STEPHEN SYLVANIEPHOTOS COURTESY OF STEPHEN SYLVANIEIt’s not about the game 
anymore. Baseball takes a 
back seat to renewing old friendships and absorbing all of the knowledge you can from the past generations of UC San Diego baseball players during the program’s Alumni Game, a tradition that goes back more than 30 years. Now, with the move into the NCAA ’s Division I on the horizon, the game bridges three distinct eras of Triton baseball for one relaxed and meaningful night.
Some of the alumni come 
donned in jeans with their families in tow, content to simply be around the program that meant so much to them growing up; others relish the chance to lace the spikes up and take the field at Triton Ballpark once 
again.
“I don’t think I’ve ever missed 
a game, ” said Rick Nowak, class of 1990. “It’s really about getting together with the guys; This is 
the one time where a lot of us get together and see each other. ”
The game is almost entirely 
an excuse to bring together the older generations, the ‘Founding Fathers’ of the program from the Division-III era of dirt roads and hidden fields and 
the College World Series teams of the Division-II era with the current team. And even though a few decades divide the playing careers of the two teams involved in the game, so much of their experiences can be relatable. Even without scholarships or televised games, Tritons of the ‘80s and ‘90s were being dra fted 
into the MLB, just as they are 
today.
“Every year we had guys 
getting dra fted from Division 
III, now we’re Division II and 
clearly moving towards Division I, but [over the years we’ve had] pro ball-players. I was dra fted by 
the Phillies out of here. We had two other guys from my team play minor league baseball, ” said Erik Judson, who graduated from UCSD in 1990 a fter being dra fted 
by the Philadelphia Phillies.
Alumni get the chance to be 
a part of something that helped formulate their identity back in their college days, and current collegiate athletes, even if they don’t quite grasp the gravity now, get a chance to pick the brains of men that had moved through the program and had manufactured a future for themselves based on some of the principles picked up on the field at UCSD. Without 
the contributions of the many 
generations of alumni, Triton 
baseball would not have the foundation it has today that will allow for a smooth transition into Division I.
“When I look at all of the 
accomplishments we had, I think we made baseball recognizable [on campus], ” said Nowak. “It’s a real sense of pride to know that I helped build that. ”
Even if the event is less about 
the actual baseball being played than a normal game, that doesn’t mean those involved don’t care about competing, or that they won’t remember the score or deciding moments from the game decades later. Current players and alumni alike fanned out over the field just as the sun 
began bathing the field in pink, 
taking batting practice, playing catch, and working on fielding 
ground balls almost two hours before first pitch. 
Despite all of the catching up 
and sharing how their lives have gone in the interim between their 
playing days and the Alumni 
Game amongst teammates, moments from the games themselves still stand out to some alums. Those who got a chance 
to watch former-MLB catcher Bobby Natal, the ‘Babe Ruth’ of Triton baseball as Nowak refers to him, distinctly remember his shining moment in the Alumni game decades ago.
According to legend, Natal 
and alumni team were chasing the current players heading into the bottom half of the final 
inning. Despite having downed a 12-pack of beers, Natal, the star of his squad, was called upon to try and extend the contest. Like Kirk Gibson of the 1988 Los Angeles Dodgers, Natal stepped onto the field without 
the physical abilities of his prime (though unlike the injured Gibson, Natal’s hindrance was that his inhibitions were low and that he had swapped his cleats for tennis shoes prior to his at-bat). But despite the odds, Natal carried his team just as he’ d done back in the day for UCSD. A fter 
being armed with an aluminum bat, the program’s brightest star rewarded his club by hammering a home run to straight away center field, over 400 feet away, 
to end the game and give the Alumni the win.
“It’s about what happens on 
the field, but really it’s what 
happens outside the field and the 
events that surround it that give us the most legendary moments, ” said Judson, who’s been able to get out to more than 20 Alumni games over the years even while working for the San Diego Padres organization.
But the program has moved 
far beyond the days of Natal’s dominance at UCSD. The 
glittering ‘palace’ that is the Triton Ballpark of today, which Nowak refers to as a “monument to baseball, ” is nothing like the field that the teams of the ‘80s 
and ‘90s competed on. Far away 
from classrooms, the old field was 
tucked in the middle of a grove 
of Eucalyptus trees, much like everything was back in the days when the student population never approached today’s surplus of over 30,000.
 “First of all, we used to have 
to tell people there was a baseball team, ” said Nowak, class of 1990. “Second of all, they’ d ask us ‘Where’s the field?’ because you couldn’t see it. There were no 
lockers [either], so we changed in the parking lot or came dressed from our dorms. ”
With the beautiful facility and 
an imminent move into Division I, there is a general feeling around the program that the baseball team is prepared, in large part due to alumni contributions, to make the jump into the highest level of competition.
“I think Division II baseball 
is one of the best-kept secrets in the NCAA, ” said Kellen Lee, a member of the College World 
Series teams at UCSD back in 
2009 and 2010. “Since there are so many quality teams at the Division II level, it’s preparing all of these guys for when they become Division I athletes next year. ”
Even with all of the talk of 
moving into Division I, the Alumni Game provides a perfect example of why sports make a university special, regardless of the NCAA distinction. Every alumnus I talked to was so visibly happy to be around the team and to be able to, in talking to me, express just how much the program means to them even though they are so far removed from their days as students.
“You see an intermingling of 
the generations, which gives way to building stronger bonds in the program and it helps people to realize that they’re part of a bigger thing, ” said Nowak. “It feels really good to get the recognition and to be able to continue to be a part of this team. ”
Alumni from the baseball 
program, years a fter moving 
on from their playing days, still participate not only in this game, but with the baseball program and with the Athletics Department more broadly.
Judson is on the Triton 
Athletes Associate Board and he helped develop Triton Ballpark. Nowak helped design the new clubhouse at Triton Ballpark and was named to the UCSD Hall of Fame back in 2016. Lee provides UCSD baseball players with the same mental skills lessons he provides minor league ball players in the San Francisco Giants organization.
“When I was a player, I made 
it a point to connect with the alumni, learning about life and leveraging their willingness to give their time, ” said Lee, who has never missed an Alumni game since graduating. “Now, as an alumni, in the other dugout, I take pride in sharing whatever 
I can for them. I want to pay it 
forward to ensure that Triton baseball stays the way it is. ”
Without the baseball program 
and the upkeep of the Alumni game, players of eras past would not get a chance to reconvene and stir up memories of their golden years. Without the Alumni game, old players would lose their chance to pay forward the gifts the game and the school 
gave them during their formative years.
“The greatest bene fit that 
they’ll get out of this is just seeing what it’s like to be on the other side, when they’re gone” said head coach Eric Newman, who has kept the alumni event going since he took over eight years ago. “It’s good for our players to see the guys that came before them that helped build the tradition of the program and know that one day they’re going to be on that side and feel that same sense of pride. ”
All of the emotion and 
thoughtfulness of the alumni signifies just how important not only the game or the baseball program, but collegiate athletics at UCSD has been over the years. And now that the school is moving into the Division-I era, a whole new generation of athletes will have a chance to bring that same culture of thankfulness and respect captured within the Alumni Game to an even wider audience, something that the players toiling on the secluded field in the ‘80s, separated from 
the main campus by a freeway and a forest, could never have imagined.
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 27, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Princeton
vs Humboldt Statevs Humboldt Stateat Northwest NazareneUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball
Softball6PM
5:30PM7:30PM
11:30AM1/281/301/301/31
Bringing Generations of Triton Baseball 
Together Heading into the DI Era
Jack  dorfman  sports@ucsd.eduPHOTOS BY MARIYAH SHADPHOTOS BY MARIYAH SHAD