Accessed: 6/10/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to 'Take BOLD Action to Support Students Instead of Celebrity’s Bank Accounts' - UCSD Guardian
In this letter to the editor, Alex Rickard, former Director of Marketing and Vice President  
Internal for Warren College Student Council presents his take on the current state of A.S  
and student councils . Letters to the Editor do not reflect the opinions or beliefs of the UCSD  
Guardian.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  
pandemic, click here
 May 18, 2020   Alex Rickard(https://ucsdguardian.org/)Accessed: 6/10/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to 'Take BOLD Action to Support Students Instead of Celebrity’s Bank Accounts' - UCSD Guardian
Saturday’s Letter to the Editor asserting that the Associated Student council is not doing  
enough for the students reflects a position on student government that completely  
misrepresents the reality of working in student government at UC San Diego. Though the  
letter mainly talks about the BOLD slate’s campaign spending, it misplaces frustration with  
the council in regard to what the administration allows them to do. As someone who has  
spent a large chunk of my college career trying to work within the broken system, I can say  
firsthand that rather than blaming Associated Students for any frustrations with student fees,  
criticisms should be directed at the UCSD administration for failing the students. 
In the year and a half I spent as the Warren Council Director of Marketing and Vice President  
Internal, the biggest obstacle I encountered when trying to do my job was none other than  
non-student staff designated to support the council. My biggest undertaking (alongside  
others) was the establishment of three student murals in the Warren College residential area.  
In an ideal world, this project would have taken three months from start to finish. Instead,  
the project lasted 18 months from Spring 2018 to Fall 2019. Throughout the entire process,  
our faculty advisor and other administrators stonewalled us and dragged their feet  
constantly. This  included such memorable moments as forgetting to buy any white paint
(and then not using our allocated budget to ever buy any) and asking me to commute to  
campus to carry a paint bucket 50 feet. At every step of the journey, administrators  
encouraged us to downsize the scale of the project because it meant less work for them. These  
adults are designated as support staff for the council yet make no effort to support student  
initiatives. Our project was completed in spite of them rather than because of
them.Throughout the entire process, the students were the ones that had to deal with the  
criticism that came from the constant delays and struggles. Saturday’s letter shows the same  
desire to blame the scapegoated students rather than those truly at fault.
Largely due to the fact that it felt like the students were shouldering the burden of the  
administrative work in addition to their own, I ended up resigning from the council. In my  
experience, the members of the administration are more concerned with finding excuses to  
have catered meals than with trying to support the students that pay for those meals.  
Students are left to their own devices to figure out how their position works from scratch  
without the proper institutional support. This also extends to the higher level of the  
Associated Students professional support staff and the organizations they work with. The  
administration expects the student government to be a figurehead that does not try to enact  
change and resists any effort by the students to do what they were elected to do. From the  
various Facebook posts and Instagram stories cataloguing the huge amount of effort that theAccessed: 6/10/2020 Letter to the Editor: A Response to 'Take BOLD Action to Support Students Instead of Celebrity’
s Bank Accounts' - UCSD Guardian
members of Associated Students have put into student benefit initiatives during this crisis,  we 
know that they are doing their best with what they have. The weight of the blame should  be 
placed on the administration for failing to support both the Associated Students council  and 
the student body as a whole.
I realize that this letter reads as a rant about the ineffectiveness of the administration rather  
than a true response to Saturday’s letter about Associated Students. My experience  represents 
an example of the frustrations that any member of UCSD student government  knows well, 
frustrations that should not be inherent to the system that we rely on. 
As voting opens for next year’s Associated Students council, we should vote for students who  
have proven that they will work for the students as well as put pressure on the administration  
to actually allow these students to represent us.
Alex Rickard – Former Director of Marketing and Vice President Internal for Warren College  
Student Council
Photograph courtesy of Hazel Leung of the UCSD Guardian Photography Department.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
 May 19, 2020 
Last week, the UCSD Guardian editorial board interviewed individuals running for positions  
with A.S. Council. The editorial board consists of our editor-in-chief, managing, news,  
opinion, and features editors. Below are our endorsements for each position. We reached  
these decisions through our interviewing process, research into their past actions and  
experiences, candidate’s official and slate statements, and attending the A.S. debates 
Monday night via Zoom. These endorsements were made on an individual basis, and not in 
accordance with any particular slate. This being said, we did take into account larger slate 
goals when we felt they were inextricable from an individual’s position.
All of our interviews with candidates are available on Youtube for your convenience and 
personal reference.Guardian StaffAccessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
President
As an editorial board, we chose to not endorse either candidate for A.S. President for the  
following reasons:
Running on a platform of deconstructing the bureaucratic status-quo, Patrick Miencharoen  
wants to make A.S. Council more transparent, accessible to the student body, and reduce and  
reallocate the budget. Nevertheless, the editorial board takes great issue with the goal to  
merge the Office for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion with the Office of Environmental Justice  
Affairs, as his Forward! slate stated on Reddit and defended during Monday’s debate. We at  
the Guardian believe both offices have significant and separate responsibilities that are  
indispensable to the UC San Diego community. We appreciate his goals and acknowledge  
that A.S. Council has been out of reach to students and self-enclosed to their hierarchical  
structure, but we cannot overlook his slate’s plans to merge the aforementioned offices,  
eliminating their individual power and roles. Additionally, we are concerned that  
Miencharoen’s plan to dramatically rework the A.S. constitution amidst our tumultuous  times 
will lead to increased internal instability during a time when students need support.  
Miencharoen’s radical yet pragmatic approach to restructuring and adding transparency to  
A.S. Council are indicators that he will make substantive change in the governing body, but it  
will unfortunately come at the expense of crucial offices and A.S. Council efficiency. Given  
this, the editorial board does not feel confident that Miencharoen is fit to serve as A.S.  
President.
Although Kimberley Giangtran is well-spoken and experienced, we as the editorial board  
cannot in good conscience endorse her given past  allegations  of abuse of power; it is a poor 
reflection of how she would behave as A.S.  President. Her campaign initiatives regarding 
outreach, inclusion, tuition, and sustainability are powerful reminders of the problems the 
university still faces, however, most of these have previously been discussed to no avail in 
prior elections. The board does appreciate her policy in responding to COVID-19 and creating 
a designated task force to address global emergencies. Nevertheless, Giangtran comes from a 
long line of career senators who make ambitious and appealing promises, but fail to live up to 
expectations. Her lofty, five-platform campaign is unfortunately too broad for her to 
reasonably accomplish in one year, and we believe that Giangtran would be able to achieve 
more if she narrowed her focus. Giangtran may be a qualified candidate, but she lacks a 
specific enough vision to actually make structural change in A.S. Council to best support the 
students. 
Giangtran represents the continuation of business-as-usual, which, in the editorial board’s 
perspective, is no longer viable.  Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
Vice President of Campus Affairs
As an editorial board, we do not feel confident enough in either candidate to give an  
endorsement for the Vice President of Campus Affairs position.
We admire Sam Fleet’s goal to create systemic change within A.S. Council, and admire his  
candor for being an outsider. That said, Fleet lacks concrete policy proposals which would  
otherwise show how he would achieve some of his more lofty goals like increasing  
transparency or enacting a referendum to overhaul the current A.S. Council constitution. We  
appreciate Fleet’s emphasizing the need for A.S Council to connect with students remotely  
via online platforms in the debate Monday night. However, in his interview with the  
Guardian he heavily centered around social and cultural events, which will not be as much of  
a priority this academic year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Likewise, during the debate,  
Fleet’s explanation on why the Office of EDI and the Office of Environmental Justice Affairs  
should be combined was insufficient, and would negatively affect the minority students  
served by both of these offices.
Hannah Kreitman brings a great deal to the table with prior experience as Advocate General,  
which she referenced in her interview, to explain how she would enact change through the  
existing A.S. Council structures. Likewise, Kreitman demonstrated strength during her  
interview, and during the debate, when she emphasized the importance of maintaining the  
separation of certain A.S. Council offices which serve different marginalized communities.  
However, we cannot overlook the  allegations  of two former A.S. senators  who stated that 
Kreitman allegedly attempted to abuse her former position ahead of the  current election. 
Additionally, Kreitman’s slate BOLD has been criticized by the student body for their use of 
candidate funds to pay for celebrity endorsement videos. Kreitman did address her slate’s 
spending in the Monday night debate, acknowledging her slate experienced an error of 
judgement and explaining that their intention was to improve student awareness of the 
elections. Ultimately, though, given Kreitman’s leadership in BOLD, we find her slate’s 
campaign spending choices to reflect poorly on her ability to utilize student funds in a 
manner beneficial to the student body within the capacity of VPCA.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
Vice President of External Affairs 
After deep discussion, we are endorsing Harry (An) Huang for Vice President of External  
Affairs. We admire Huang’s proven commitment to increasing accountability. For example,  as 
an Arts and Humanities Senator, Huang put forward measures to provide out-of-state and  
international students with better representation in the Senate. While Huang was criticized  in 
the debate for not providing substantial enough change on behalf of arts and humanities  
students, the editorial board feels that Huang behaved in a manner that showed consistent  
dedication to making arts and humanities students feel represented. Huang also  
demonstrated extensive experience negotiating with others to pass policies. We also resonate  
with Huang’s desire to increase transparency and accessibility within the External Office to  
students outside of A.S. Council. In our interview, Huang demonstrated an advanced ability  
to explain A.S. Council proceedings and the workings of the VPEA office. We believe Huang’s  
skills will best ensure increased transparency in, and non-A.S Council student utilization of,  
the External Office. Finally, the Guardian appreciates Huang’s concrete plans to increase  
diversity in the External Office. With cogent plans, proven leadership abilities, and a strong  
desire to serve, the editorial board feels Huang will create real, lasting, and positive change in  
the Office of External Affairs. 
Campuswide Senator
Tommy Jung: The editorial board endorses Tommy Jung because we admire his focus on  
improving the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination, and dedication to  
upholding Title IX policies. In our interview, Jung emphasized the OPHD’s lack of public  
statistics and spoke of increasing the office’s transparency if elected. This desire for  
transparency was a consistent theme of his platform, which highlighted the importance of  
holding campus offices accountable for clearly communicating with students. Combined with  
his experiences as an orientation leader and working with first year and transfer students, the  
editorial board ultimately feels that Jung has a concrete, focused platform with a strong idea  
of how to work toward these goals. 
James Callahan:  The editorial board endorses James Callahan as we felt his plans to 
redirect money from A.S. to services that directly help students, predominantly the Triton 
Food Pantry, will be imperative in the upcoming academic year. This idea speaks to his larger 
goals of changing the way A.S. currently operates and improving student culture within 
UCSD. It should be noted, however, that the editorial board does not agree with the language 
the Forward! platform uses to discuss the pantry on their Facebook page, specifically 
referencing “bringing it into the 21st century.” We feel that this language, while indicating a Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
desire to help the food pantry, neglects the reality that the UCSD pantry is a revolutionary 
model for colleges across the country wanting to start their own pantries. The editorial 
board’s endorsement of Callahan is for him as an individual, not a reflection of support for 
the larger Forward! platform’s language. 
Angel Quiora:  The editorial board endorses Angel Quiora for his commitment to diversity,  
equity, and inclusion. We admire his plan to empower resource centers by pushing for better  
distribution of resources and education on what they offer. In addition, his view of UCSD as  
one university, as opposed to one made up of several colleges, reinforces the idea of broader  
campus unity instead of separation. Both of these campaign focuses are just narrow enough  
to be properly addressed during a year-long term, and we admire his dedication to a few  
specific areas instead of redistributing his energy to give mediocre focus to several areas. His  
plans will be necessary to improve a post-COVID return to campus and we are confident that  
he will do his best to improve the campus experience for all students.
Off-campus Senator
The editorial board endorses Chitra Kulkarni for the position of off-campus senator for her  
commitment to providing students with legal information. Due to the current pandemic  
causing insecurities with housing and daily life, the editorial board feels that it is more  
important now than ever that students living off-campus are aware of their legal rights. In  
addition, Kulkarni, as president of UCSD mock trial, possesses the knowledge and local  
connections that will allow her to assist students living off-campus. Moreover, Kulkarni’s  
desire to spread awareness for off-campus legal struggles through fairs and information  
sessions leads the editorial board to believe that Kulkarni will be able to fulfill the duties of  
off-campus senator well and innovatively. 
Arts & Humanities Senator
The editorial board endorses Deena Gharibian because she provides a fresh perspective to 
student government while having had prior experience related to the functionings of a 
democratic organization. Gharibian serves on the executive board for UCSD Mock Trial, and 
has the goal of increasing access to resources for those who are not science, technology, 
engineering, and math majors. We found Gharibian’s lack of formal A.S. Council experience 
to be an asset to her campaign, as she expresses a desire to represent non-STEM students like 
herself rather than the traditional politically-inclined senator. We also found her idea to 
expand non-STEM major and minor offerings to be a worthwhile cause that would be a 
benefit to the community as a whole.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board: A.S. Election Endorsements - UCSD Guardian
Biological Sciences Senator
The editorial board endorses Mihir Pandya because we appreciated how he addressed the  
specific concerns of students in the biological sciences department in his interview with the  
Guardian. For example, he talked about wanting to join the course services and materials  
committee in order to reduce course material costs for laboratory classes required not only  
for students in the biological sciences department but also others. His experience in A.S.  
Council as a Senator and in Revelle College Council supported the editorial board’s belief that  
he could be a strong voice for the students of the biological sciences department, as he stated  
in his interview.
Physical Sciences Senator
As an editorial board, we choose to not endorse a candidate for this position. Isabella Ying is  
running unopposed for Physical Sciences Senator. Based on her candidate statement and bio  
on her slate’s website, Isabella wants to address long waitlists for core Physical Sciences  
classes and increase opportunities for career development. However, Ying offers no concrete  
policy proposals to achieve these goals. As an editorial board, we would have liked to see  
innovative approaches to these problems, which have been ongoing, rather than a  
continuation of alumni mixers which for the most part already exist in some capacity.
Social Sciences Senator
The editorial board endorses Jamila Francisco because of her focus on improving a sense of  
community within social sciences majors. Francisco has a personal perspective into this issue  
as a social sciences major, and will offer a new perspective into A.S Council. We also believe  
Francisco’s plans to host networking events and career fairs will provide valuable  
opportunities for non-STEM students, as most career resources on campus have been 
directed toward STEM majors. The editorial board feels Francisco’s plans will allow for a 
greater sense of community and increase in resources for social sciences majors.
Art by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Proposes Eighth College Dormitory to be One of the Tallest on the West Coast - UCSD Guardian
The UC San Diego administration has proposed to build one of the tallest dormitories on the  
West Coast as a part of the future Eighth College, according to an article by the San Diego 
Union-Tribune released on Monday, May 18. If built, the 21-story dormitory could house up 
to 2,050 new undergraduate beds.
The new mixed-use project will be referred to as the “Future College Living and Learning 
Neighborhood,” and will include five new buildings, a theater, a conference center, and space 
for retail and dining. The new college will be located next to the La Jolla Playhouse and south 
of Roger Revelle College. May 19, 2020 Jacob SutherlandAccessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Proposes Eighth College Dormitory to be One of the Tallest on the West Coast - UCSD Guardian
The push for a new college to be built immediately after the opening of Seventh College in  
Fall 2020 is a result of the increasing undergraduate student population.
“While UC San Diego’s steady state has been projected at 32,000 undergraduate students by  
2035, unprecedented yield in the past several years has our campus currently at over 30,000  
undergraduates,” the May 11 project proposal states. “Thus, the 2035 target is almost a reality 
in 2020.”
Eighth College will center around the theme of “Engagement & Community” within its core  
curriculum and college philosophy.
“In this context, the notion of ‘engagement’ entails that students will develop an  
understanding of their own identities vis à vis broader communities,” the proposal states.
“Through the program’s interdisciplinary content, students will be able to engage in areas  
that are of community relevance. Here, ‘community’ is broadly construed, ranging from  
dimensions intrinsic to a student’s own experience and then expanding to much broader and  
new connections beyond.”
General education requirements within the college will be unique in that core curriculum  
courses will be spread out throughout the entirety of a student’s academic career.
“The Eighth College curriculum engages students through a series of four college engagement  
courses: three lower-division and one upper division experiential, project-based course,” the  
proposal states. “These courses emphasize engagement in interdisciplinary approaches to  
areas of relevance to the local communities and beyond. These four college-based courses are  
supplemented with nine curated alternative courses from arts, humanities, social sciences,  
natural, sciences, and quantitative reasoning.”
A proposal workgroup for the new college was created during Winter Quarter 2020, and if all 
goes according to plan, Eighth College will welcome its inaugural class Fall Quarter 2023. The 
workgroup is expected to submit an academic plan or the college to the UC Office of the 
President for approval later this year. However, this all may change due to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic.
The university as of this article’s publication has not stated whether or not the project will be 
delayed.
Image courtesy of UC San Diego.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Khosla Among UC Chancellors to Take Voluntary 10% Pay Cut Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how  
to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here .
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla will join UC President Janet Napolitano and nine other UC 
Chancellors in taking a voluntary 10 percent pay cut for the 2020-2021 fiscal year, according 
to a letter by Napolitano. This comes as a part of a UC systemwide effort to make up for the 
financial losses estimated to occur as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Chancellor Khosla himself had a gross salary of $477,384 in 2018, which is the most recent 
official data available. This suggests that Khosla will be taking an approximately $48,000 pay 
cut. May 20, 2020 Jacob SutherlandAccessed: 6/10/2020 Khosla Among UC Chancellors to Take Voluntary 10% Pay Cut Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Napolitano’s letter also discussed how there will be systemwide freezes on salaries for policy-
covered staff, and freezes on salary scales for non-student academic appointees who are  
policy-covered.
“Like many other organizations, UC is facing significant financial impacts as a result of the  
pandemic,” Napolitano wrote. “From mid-March through April alone, we estimate that  
systemwide financial losses totaled nearly $1.2 billion, and we anticipate these losses will  
continue to climb in the months ahead.”
The university anticipates that these changes will help to alleviate some of the financial stress  
caused by the pandemic, and may offset the proposed 10 percent cut in state funding as  
outlined in Governor Gavin Newsom’s latest budget proposal .
“We continue to work closely with the State of California and the federal government to  
secure any and all additional funding available to help address the shortfalls,” Napolitano  
wrote. “Much of this funding is designated for student financial aid, and while we are grateful  
for the funding, we do not anticipate full reimbursement for our losses.”
UC San Diego has already begun to modify its expenditures as a result of these anticipated  
financial challenges. Khosla released a statement  on May 7, 2020 which outlined his 
prediction that the campus would lose hundreds of  millions of dollars throughout the 
pandemic.
UCSD has already begun to  reduce  expenditures by  cutting down on hiring and halting 
construction on any projects that are in the design phase.
The UC Office of the President will work with campus administrations in the coming weeks 
to develop new budget scenarios which account for any anticipated budget cuts, as well as 
reaching out to union leaders and looking for ways to reduce spending on items such as non-
essential travel.
The UCSD Guardian has reached out to the university for comment, and will continue to 
monitor this story as it develops.
Photo courtesy of the UCSD Office of the Chancellor.
This article was updated at 11:20 am to include Chancellor Khosla’s 2018 gross salary.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Open Letter: Our Campus Community Needs you to Vote for A.S - UCSD Guardian
Guest Writer
Fellow Students,
Today marks the last day you can vote in our campus-wide elections. Before reading further, 
go to TritonLink and vote.
But, if you are still with me and need more convincing… read on.
Over the last four days you may have seen a barrage of Facebook posts from me, as your 
Associated Students Elections Manager, encouraging you to vote. I probably emailed your 
student organization, texted you out of the blue, or even sent you an Instagram DM to vote. May 21, 2020 Accessed: 6/10/2020 Open Letter: Our Campus Community Needs you to Vote for A.S - UCSD Guardian
On the last day to vote, however, I wanted to write a candid letter to the student body about  
why you should vote from me, a fourth-year ERC student, not from me, your AS Elections  
Manager.
I took UCSD for granted my freshman and sophomore year. I wasn’t involved. Quite frankly:  
I didn’t vote in our student government elections either.
Last year, I ran for AS on the slate Tritons United, and eventually as an independent  
candidate. I was openly disappointed when I lost the race to be one of your campus-wide  
senators. However, I realized that an election loss simply means your constituents believed  
they would be better represented by another individual. Beliefs that were reflected in their  
vote. This is what truly matters.
What is most important is getting our student body the leadership they believe they need.  
That is something no one other than you can decide, and only you can vote to make that  
decision a reality.
What do YOU need? WHO do you think will recognize, respect, and advocate for those  
needs?
Vote for them.
I want to leave UCSD with the best representation our students believe they can have. I  
firmly believe every student would want that same goal if they knew they could achieve it  
through their vote.
Civic engagement might take initiative on your end, but voting allows your elected officials 
to take initiative on your behalf.
Vote to open the door to your voice being heard.
Vote to make it clear to your candidates that you want your voice heard.
As your AS Elections Manager, I apologize for all the incoming Facebook and Instagram 
posts you may be seeing from me over the next three hours. I am going to promote this 
election until the second the ballot closes because I want it to be impossible for any of you to 
not know it is your time to vote.
Take the initiative.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Open Letter: Our Campus Community Needs you to Vote for A.S - UCSD Guardian
Vote for the candidates you believe will advocate for what YOU need.
We may all be miles apart, but our campus community needs you to be present in this  
election: our campus community needs you to vote.
Sincerely,
Danielle Viviani – A.S. Elections Manager
Photo by  Element5 Digital  on Unsplash.Accessed: 6/10/2020 A.S. Council Brief: $1 Million to be Distributed to Students Vulnerable due to Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Associated Student Senators discussed Governor Gavin Newsom’s proposed budget cuts for  
the UC System, heard a special presentation regarding the Return to Learn Program, and  
approved a $1 million fund to support students throughout the COVID-19 pandemic during  
their May 20 meeting.
A.S. president Eleanor Grudin discussed her support for the UC Davis letter objecting to the 
proposed budget cuts by Governor Gavin Newsom. Newsom announced the budget cuts on 
May 14, which would result in a $338 million cut to the University of California budget. 
Grudin and A.S Vice-President of External Affairs Kamron Williams encouraged senators to 
research and support the UC Davis letter opposing the budget cuts.   May 23, 2020 Niloufar ShahbandiAccessed: 6/10/2020 A.S. Council Brief: $1 Million to be Distributed to Students Vulnerable due to Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
The senate also passed two financial bills that would distribute $1 million to help vulnerable  
students during the COVID-19 pandemic. The money would provide funds for undocumented  
students, international students, mental health initiative funds, and COVID-19 Emergency  
relief grants. Each of these four groups will be allocated $250,000.. 
Financial Controller, Ethan Christensen explained that the funds are coming from the fees  
collected for Spring Quarter programs and events that were cancelled due to the COVID-19  
pandemic. He emphasized that the funds are a one-time occurence and will aid “students  
who were left in the cracks by the federal and state government.”
Additionally, A.S. stated that the Undocumented Student Services Center requested to be  
included in this fund due to the fact that undocumented students were ineligible for CARES  
Act funding. Grants for international students will be available to help them with acquiring  
basic needs such as airfare and housing.
Senators also heard a presentation by the Interim Executive Director of Health & Wellness  
Angela Scioscia about the implementation of the Return to Learn Program on campus. The  
Return to Learn program will undertake mass screening  of students for COVID-19 and plans 
to have all students,  faculty, and staff self-swab for testing. 
There was also a question and answer session with UC San Diego Health infectious disease  
specialist Doctor Robert Turner Schooley which allowed senators to ask questions about the  
present state of UC San Diego in regards to the pandemic. Schooley explained the research  
and modelling that is occurring to assess the capacity for students’ return in the Fall Quarter.  
He also explained that instructors who don’t feel comfortable coming back for Fall Quarter  
will have the option not to do so.
“For professors and TAs there’s a process in place to ask people if they feel comfortable 
coming back to teach. For those who don’t, they will not have to come back and teach 
physically, they can teach virtually,” said Schooley.
Schooley and Scioscia emphasized that UCSD researchers are working diligently to prepare 
for students and faculty to return to campus for Fall Quarter 2020. 
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Judicial Board Dismisses Grievance Claiming AS CAPS Fee Referendum was Unconstitutional - UCSD Guardian
Physics graduate student Petia Todorova Yanchulova Merica-Jones has alleged that the 
Counseling and Psychological Services fee  referendum, which passed  by a narrow margin 
during the 2020 A.S. Council elections, violates the  A.S. Council Constitution and Election 
Code. After a series of emails sent back and forth between Yanchulova Merica-Jones and  
several members of A.S. Council, an anonymous student filed a formal grievance on the 
matter, which was later dismissed by the  Judicial Board.
Yanchulova Merica-Jones outlined in an email to The UCSD Guardian three alleged violations 
against the A.S. Council constitution. The first two allegations centered around Article VII 
Section 3, which outlines Election Procedures. May 23, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
Accessed: 6/10/2020 Judicial Board Dismisses Grievance Claiming AS CAPS Fee Referendum was Unconstitutional - UCSD Guardian
“The CAPS Fee Referendum language change undertaken on March 6, 2020 made by A.S. 
leaders changing the original CAPS Fee Referendum language approved by the A.S. Senate on 
March 4, 2020 is unconstitutional,” Yanchulova Merica-Jones wrote on the first violation. 
“This is because the change was made past the March 5, 2020 deadline to make such changes 
as stipulated in A.S. documents, on the A.S. website, and expressly stated by the A.S. Director 
at the A.S. Senate meeting on March 4, 2020.”
The second alleged violation was specifically in regards to the amended elections procedures 
to the constitution which were put in  place on March 12, 2020 in response to the university 
transitioning to remote learning due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Yanchulova  Merica-Jones 
stated that this amendment violated Article VII Section 3 because “it was made during a 
period outlined in the  Constitution when amendments to the Election Procedure are 
prohibited.”
The final alleged violation was in regards to Chapter VI, Referenda, Section A.3.ii of the  A.S. 
Council Election Code , which states that a “fee  referendum question shall be eligible to appear 
in a special election if approved by the Senate no later than six weeks before the first  day of 
voting.”
Yanchulova Merica-Jones argued that the CAPS fee referendum violates this code because it 
was not directly approved of by the Senate, but rather by the Emergency Committee which was 
created in March in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Yanchulova Merica-Jones filed a grievance against the A.S. Council for these alleged violations 
on Wednesday, March 20 at 6:39 p.m. Yanchulova Merica-Jones claimed that the grievance 
was dismissed less than an hour later on the grounds that the allegations did not fall under the 
realm of Elections Complaints and instead warranted a grievance to be filed with the A.S. 
Judicial Board. However, only undergraduate students are allowed to file such grievances.
In emails obtained by The Guardian, A.S. Elections manager Danielle Viviani explained to 
Yanchulova Merica-Jones why the initial grievances were denied.
In regards to the first two alleged violations, Viviani told Yanchulova Merica-Jones that: “You 
fail to cite a violation made by an individual candidate running, pro/con statements, or the 
ASUCSD Election Code. Therefore, it needs to be submitted as a formal grievance to the AS 
Judicial Board by an undergraduate student if it was believed that Associated Students 
violated any rules.”Accessed: 6/10/2020  Judicial Board Dismisses Grievance Claiming AS CAPS Fee Referendum was Unconstitutional - UCSD Guardian
In regards to the third alleged violation, Viviani told Yanchulova Merica-Jones that: “You 
allege the ‘decision by an entity … other than the Senate to move the CAPS Fee Referendum 
to a special election is a violation’ … As we are utilizing the Amended ASUCSD Election Code, 
the decision by the emergency committee is valid. If you question the Amended ASUCSD 
Election Code’s validity, you must do so through a formal grievance to the AS Judicial Board 
by an undergraduate student if it is believed that Associated Students violated any rules by 
enacting this.”
This sentiment was later concurred in subsequent emails to Yanchulova Merica-Jones from 
Hannah Grunwald, the Graduate Student Association Elections Commissioner, and Heather 
Belk, the Director of the Associated Students Administration.
Yanchulova Merica-Jones later emailed her concerns to the GSA Council on Friday, May 22, 
urging them to file a grievance on the matter. She also urged them to not vote either way on 
the proposed fee to prevent the 20 percent voter turnout required for the vote to be eligible 
to pass. At the time of this article’s publication, the GSA Council had not responded to her 
email.
The ruling by the Elections Committee was later appealed to the Judicial Board for review. 
The board concurred with the original decision on Friday, May 22.
“The A.S. Judicial Board upholds the Election Committee’s reasons for dismissal,” the ruling 
read. “The Elections Committee followed the proper procedure by informing the 
Complainant that they were not eligible to file due to being a Non-ASUCSD member by 
Article III of the ASUCSD Constitution; the Complainant’s grievance was also fully reviewed 
by the committee three hours before the dismissal was given, showing it was fully reviewed. 
We advise that A.S. fix up their automated email system, as it is their official filing system, to 
delineate a clear argument as to why complaints are dismissed to help account for issues like 
this in the future.”
A second complaint was filed by an anonymous student shortly after in regards to the nature 
of the CAPS fee referendum violating Chapter IV, Section G of the A.S. Election Code, which 
outlines the rules for Special Elections.
According to Viviani, the Elections Committee dismissed the complaint as it fell outside of 
their jurisdiction, and the Judicial Board denied an appeal to review the complaint.Grunwald 
and Belk could not be reached for comment. Outgoing A.S. President Eleanor Gruddin 
declined to comment on this story.The CAPS fee referendum has been the center of controversy since its inception in January, 
2020. The Triton filed a grievance against A.S. after the council  went into a closed session to 
hear a presentation on student mental health and subsequently voted unanimously to approve 
language  for a potential fee referendum which became the CAPS fee referendum. The 
grievance was later denied by the Judicial Board on Feb.  19, 2020.
The new CAPS fee will be charged at $20.71 quarterly beginning Fall Quarter 2020. The fee 
will increase marginally every academic  year thereafter. Among other things, the fee will 
predominantly “be allocated to funding personnel and programming for CAPS and  Health 
Promotion Services aimed at the prevention, education, and support of the mental health 
wellness of students throughout the  calendar year.” The full details of the new fee can be 
found here .
Photo by Mariyah Shad for the UCSD Guardian.Judicial Board Dismisses Grievance Claiming AS CAPS Fee Referendum was Unconstitutional - UCSD Guardian