Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
 October 26, 2020  Valentina Du Pond 
This article is part of a new UCSD Guardian series on the 2020 United States elections. We  
will be discussing registration, state propositions and  various elections from the local to  
federal level. Tune in every Tuesday on Facebook or Instagram to see the latest article.  The 
propositions and measures article has been divided into two parts. This article will cover 
Propositions 14-20.
On the ballot for the 2020 United States elections, 25 propositions will be presented to 
voters in the state of California. Propositions are initiatives to change California law codes, 
modify articles of the California Constitution or change other laws by adding or removing 
statutes. In addition, San Diego residents will also have the opportunity to vote on five 
measures for the city of San Diego that can similarly alter laws or the city charter. To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic,  click here →Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
Proposition 14 – Stem Cell Research Institute Bonds 
Proposition 14 aims to increase stem-cell medical research by investing $5.5 billion from  
bond sales. Stem-cells can be manipulated to become any chosen type of cell, such as heart or  
kidney tissue cells, and are valuable in treating diseases such as Cancer, Alzheimer’s, kidney  
disease and heart disease.  
Bonds will be sold by the government to investors, and paid back with interest from the  
General Fund, which is generated by tax revenue. These bonds will not be paid until five  years 
after the proposition passes. $1.5 billion will be specifically allocated to brain-related  
research. 
According to the campaign website  in favor of the measure, Prop  14 aims to continue the 
work of Proposition 71 which was approved by California voters in  2004. Proponents argue 
that the initiative funded over 90 clinical trials and close to 3,000  published medical 
discoveries since then.
The opposition argues that the real cost of the proposition will be close to $8 billion, which  
would strain an already suffering government budget during the pandemic. 
“[Prop. 14] funds a state agency with management challenges and poor results after $3  billion 
already spent. Servicing debt of Prop. 14 could increase pressure for higher taxes or  layoffs of 
nurses, first responders and other public employees,” named opponent in the  California 
Voter Information Guide John Seiler wrote. 
Proposition 15 – Change Tax Assessment of Commercial and Industrial to  
Increase Education and Local Government Funding 
Proposition 15 proposes that commercial properties worth more than $3 million be taxed at 
the current market rate, resulting in approximately $2.6 billion in overall revenue for the 
state, and a calculated $675 million for San Diego County. Current commercial properties are 
taxed at the rate of the time of purchase which neglects any rise in market value due to the 
passage  of Proposition 13 in 1978. 
Advocates for the measure hope to raise money primarily to provide further funding to public 
education and local governments, specifically citing increases for health care services, cleanerAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
drinking water, preparation for natural disasters and combating homelessness. The Yes  
campaign argues that Prop 15 would protect small businesses by  exempting properties valued 
under $3 million and businesses ran from home. 
“This measure will close an egregious loophole and begin to restore basic fairness in our tax  
system. Corporations in California have been using loopholes to avoid paying their fair share  
for far too long while our schools and communities have suffered as a result. This funding  
will go a long way in ensuring that our communities have what they need to thrive,” San  
Diego County Supervisor Nathan Fletcher said in a statement. “Reclaiming this funding will  
have a positive impact across San Diego — and California — into perpetuity without raising  
taxes while protecting homeowners.”
The opponents of Prop 15  argue that the measure will harm  minority businesses the most by 
increasing rent and causing closures in the midst of a global  pandemic and economic 
recession. Concerns have been raised about transparency, with  some opponents claiming 
that the raised revenue will go to funding bureaucratic systems  before it goes to education 
and other areas. 
Proposition 16 – Constitutional Amendment to Allow Race to be Considered as a  
factor in Public Employment, Education, and Contracting Decisions. 
Proposition 16 calls for a repeal of Proposition 209, a measure approved by California voters  
in 1996 that prevents the state government from considering factors such as race, sex, and  
national origin in public education, employment, and contracting. By repealing Proposition  
209, state institutions such as the University of California would be allowed to consider these  
factors in hiring and admissions and could adopt affirmative action, taking measures to  
encourage greater representation of minority groups. 
The campaign supporting Prop 16  states that passing the ballot initiative would help  “level 
the field” for large numbers of African Americans, Latinos and women in California by giving 
them more access to jobs and education. Advocates also argue that Prop 209 was not 
effective in fighting discrimination due to a lack of accountability for institutions pledging to 
promote diversity. 
The campaign presents statistics demonstrating that businesses owned by women and people 
of color have lost $1.1 billion annually in government contracts since affirmative actionsAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
were banned due to Proposition  209.  Additionally, admissions for Latino and Black students 
at University of California  schools has dropped by 26 percent since 1996.
“In states that allow affirmative action, women and people of color compete on equal footing  
for state contracts. But right now, California is one of just nine states that bans affirmative  
action,” the campaign website states.  “Proposition 16 is our chance to change that. It gives us 
the tools to fight discrimination,  without quotas, so we can take a step towards equal 
opportunity for all families in  California.” 
“It eliminates a ban, allowing governments to act responsibly to address college admissions  
inequities, to hire people from teachers to police officers that better reflect their communities  
and to better ensure equal opportunity contracts, The San Diego Union Tribune  Editorial 
Board added in an article endorsing the measure. “And it does so directly while  
acknowledging that considering race to address discrimination is not the same thing as  
considering race to discriminate.” 
The campaign opposing the measure, “Californians for Equal Rights,” argues that reinstating  
affirmative action would not fight discrimination, but rather  “make it legal.”   They claim that 
affirmative action would permit  institutions to decline employment or admission to 
individuals of one race in order to fill a  quota for individuals of another despite merit and 
qualifications. 
The use of racial quotas in university admissions was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme  
Court in University of California v. Bakke in 1978, but also ruled that affirmative action  
programs to increase the acceptance of minority applicants was constitutional in some  
circumstances. 
The No campaign  provides statistics that claim that UC schools have tripled the admission of 
Black and Hispanic students and increased underrepresented minority graduation rates by 
78 percent since the passage of Prop 209. 
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Volunteer Co-Chair of Orange County against 
Prop 16 Stephen Miller stated that the UC system already practices affirmative action in the 
form of outreach and support programs which he says have been beneficial in ensuring 
minority representation.
“I just want to emphasize that Prop 209 did not ban all affirmative action” Under current 
law, we still have affirmative action in outreach and tutoring programs, and various things.Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
The UCs have the largest affirmative action program program ever,” Miller said.  “That’s 
why  you see the number of Hispanic students has quadrupled since Prop 209 and the 
number of Black students has tripled, it’s been increasing the Black and Hispanic 
populations. So Black  and Hispanic students are better represented now than before Prop 
209 passed.” 
Proposition 17 – Restore Right to Vote After Completion of Prison Term 
Proposition 17 would grant voting rights to individuals who have completed a prison  
sentence and are on state parole. Currently, such individuals are not allowed to vote until  
they complete their parole sentence after release. 
The campaign for Prop 1 7 claims that reinstating voting rights for the  50,000  individuals in 
California who are unable to vote due to their parole status would  allow them to transition 
fully into society by granting them a say in the country’s democracy. 
The campaign website raises concerns of racial and ethnic biases in the prison system and  
argues that it is a method of voter suppression. 
“Biases in the criminal justice system mean that poor people and people of color are more  
likely than others to be convicted of crimes and to lose their voting rights, while wealthy  
people can always afford the best lawyers,” the campaign argued on its website. . “Stripping  
the right to vote from formerly incarcerated people is a form of voter suppression that is  
deeply out of step with our values.” 
The opposition raises a concern that Proposition 17 would strip victims justice by allowing 
their offenders to vote, and allowing individuals who have committed crimes such as murder 
and rape to vote with an incomplete “debt to society.”  
“While on parole, a former criminal’s liberties, such as movement, association, activities and 
even ownership of certain items are still heavily restricted and regularly monitored by the 
system,” the Election Integrity Project California stated in opposition to the initiative. “Any 
misstep results in immediate re-incarceration. In other words, an individual on parole has 
not regained the full trust of the society at large, nor the privilege to participate as a full 
member of that society.”Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
Proposition 18 – Primary Voting for 17-Year-Olds Constitutional Amendment 
The constitutionally provided legal voting age is 18, which restricts 17-year-olds who  turn 18  
before the general election from voting in the primary and special elections leading up to the  
November  election. Prop 18 seeks to modify this restriction to grant voting rights to 17-year-
olds in the primary and special elections as long as they meet the requirement  that they will  
be 18 by the time of the general election. 
Advocates for the proposition contend that passing Prop 18 would grant first-time voters the  
ability to fully participate in a complete election cycle, regardless of where their 18th birthday  
lands in an election year. 
“Young people are those most affected by election issues such as climate change, gun laws,  
student debt, healthcare, and the economy,” the campaign website  states. “They deserve the 
right to vote in  primaries because they are the generation most impacted by election 
outcomes.”
Supporters argue that young individuals will be able to work, pay taxes and enlist in the  
military, and thus should also be allowed to vote in the complete cycle. Additionally,  
advocates affirm that voting is  habit-forming, meaning that they would continue to do so in 
future elections and contribute to the  democratic process. 
The opposition argues that 17-year-olds are still under certain restrictions, such as extra  
restrictions on their ability to drive, because they are still legally children. There should be no  
exceptions in the voting process, they argue.
“[Seventeen year-olds] are almost all still living at home and under the strong influence of 
their parents.,” the Election Integrity Project California stated.  “This is not conducive to 
independent thought and voting without undue pressure from their immediate 
superiors.“17-year-olds will almost always still be in high school, and under the strong 
influence of their teachers. This again makes it less likely that they would be expressing their 
own, independently thought-out choices were they to be allowed to vote.” 
Proposition 19 – Changes to Property Tax Rules
Proposition 19 promotes the protection of disabled residents,   individuals over the age of 55, 
and wildfire-victim homeowners from high rises in their property taxes when they moveAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
houses. When homeowners move to a new property, they pay the market-rate property tax  
for the new property, which can usually result in a sharp hike from the purchase value taxes  
of their former residency. 
The Yes campaign supports the idea that the proposition would make it easier for the  
disabled and elderly to move closer to family or medical resources. Additionally, in the  
instance that homeowners are forced to move due to wildfires, Prop 19 hopes to ease the  
property tax financial burden on these families.
The advocates say that the increased revenue from closing inheritance tax “loopholes” can be  
used to provide further government funding for education and local services. 
“By closing unfair loopholes on inherited property that have resulted in billions in lost  
revenue for schools and local governments, Prop 19 will deliver needed funding for cities,  
counties, and school districts when they need it most,” the campaign page  states. “Prop. 19 
will generate hundreds of millions in annual  revenue for fire protection, affordable housing, 
homeless programs, safe drinking water, and  other local services and dedicated revenue for 
fire districts in rural and urban communities to  fix inequities that threaten life-saving 
response times to wildfires and medical emergencies.”
The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association is one of the major groups in opposition of Prop 19  
and has raised concerns about the impact on children who inherit their family properties.  
While currently those who inherit residencies continue to pay taxes at the purchase price,  
taxes would rise to the market value at the time of inheritance under Prop 19. 
“Proposition 19 is a billion-dollar tax increase on families,” the HJTA wrote. “It takes away 
one of the best tools parents have to help their children — the right, enshrined in California’s 
Constitution since 1986, to pass their home and other property on without any increase in 
property taxes.”
Proposition 20- Criminal Sentencing, Parole and DNA Collection 
Proposition 20 hopes to amend several laws dealing in the areas of criminal sentencing and 
DNA database collections. These proposed changes can be summarized in the following four 
points.Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part I - UCSD Guardian
1. Prop 20 seeks to increase the jail time for individuals who commit theft-related
crimes, such as shoplifting or petty theft.
2. It expands the list of violent crimes for which early release from prison is not
available, such as rape of an unconscious person, trafficking of a child for sex, felony
domestic violence and “other similiar crimes.”
3. The proposition would also seek out changes to parole, including the requirement of
parole committees to consider an individual’s entire criminal history, rather than just the
recent offenses when determining a parole sentence.
4. Lastly, Prop 19 promotes the reinstatement of required DNA sample collection for
crimes that currently do not require them due to their misdemeanor status.
The campaign for Prop 20 looks to create a “safer California” by approving these changes to 
the current justice system. 
“Proposition 20 closes a loophole in the law that now allows convicted child molesters, 
sexual predators and others convicted of violent crimes to be released from prison early,” the 
argument in favor of the measure on the California Voter Information Guide states.
“Proposition 20 also expands DNA collection to help solve rapes, murders and other serious 
crimes, and strengthens sanctions against habitual thieves who steal repeatedly.”
Opponents of the proposition  claim that “Proposition 20 will roll back effective criminal 
justice reforms and waste tens of millions of taxpayer dollars on prisons.” Additionally, the 
proposed changes to theft sentences are labeled by the opposition as “extreme.” They argue 
that taxpayer dollars would be redirected to spend on supporting more inmates, causing cuts 
to rehabilitation programs, mental health programs, education, housing and victim support. 
“Prop. 20 means petty theft — stealing a bike —could be charged as a serious felony,” the 
campaign website states. “That’s extreme, out of line with other states, and means more 
teenagers and people of color could be locked up for years for low-level, non-violent crimes.”
For more information on Propositions 21-25 and Measures A-E, please visit this article.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego:
California State Propositions & Measures Part II
 October 26, 2020   Valentina Du Pond 
This article is part of a new UCSD Guardian series on the 2020 United States elections. We  
will be discussing registration, state propositions and  various elections from the local to  
federal level. Tune in every Tuesday on Facebook or Instagram to see the latest article.  The 
propositions and measures article has been divided into two parts. This article will cover 
Propositions 21-25 and Measures A-E.
Proposition 21- Local Rent Control 
Proposition 21 allows local governments to establish rent controls on residential properties 
older than 15 years that differ from state-wide rent controls. Rent control refers to 
government programs that limit the amount of money that a landlord can demand from a 
tenant for the leasing or renewing of a residential property.
Advocates for Prop 21 state that the measure would help fight homelessness and keepAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
families in their homes. They support a limit to annual rent increases, while incentivizing the  
construction of new affordable housing and guaranteeing landlords a fair profit. Additionally,  
it hopes to protect “Mom and Pop” landlords by exempting single-family homeowners,  
meaning that the proposition does not apply to individuals who rent out only a second  
residential property or room in their house. 
Those against Prop 21 assert that the proposition would only make the housing crisis in  
California worse. 
“Prop 21 will force rentals off the market,” the campaign page  states.  “It has no plan to build 
affordable housing and 21 allows landlords to raise rents on  the lowest income Californians 
by more than 15%, while doing nothing to prevent evictions.” 
The opposition also argues that the proposition is unnecessary. Governor Gavin Newsom  
already signed into law establishing state-wide rent controls. Newsom argued that  
Proposition 21 would run the risk of reducing the availability of accessible housing in the  
state. 
Proposition 22- Exempts App-Based Transportation and Delivery Companies  
from Providing Employee Benefits to Certain Drivers
Proposition 22 would classify app-based drivers, such as those working for Uber, Lyft and  
similar services, as independent contractors as opposed to employees. This initiative hopes to  
create an exemption to California Assembly Bill 5, a bill passed in 2019 that argued that most  
workers are to be considered employees instead of independent contractors and are thus  
entitled to further benefits and protections.
The proposition would block any legislation from making it illegal for app-based driving 
services to hire individuals on independant contracts, which supporters argue will keep app-
based driving platforms available by allowing hired individuals to choose their own working 
hours, protect thousands of jobs created by the industry and implement more safety 
regulations. 
The Yes campaign says that app-based drivers support Prop 21 by a  4:1 margin  and that 
keeping app-based driving available helps lower the rates of DUIs in communities. 
“Drunk driving is the number one killer on California roads,” Mothers Against Drunk DrivingAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
President and Proposition 22 supporter Hellen Witty said in a press release “We know that  
access to ridesharing helps reduce drunk and drug-impaired driving, keeping our roads and  
communities safe. Simply put: Voting Yes on Prop 22 will save lives.” 
Those against the  initiative are concerned that app-based drivers would not be able to access  
crucial employee benefits, such as health care and paid sick leave, as independent  contractors. 
The opposition website  claims that app-based  driving companies have been using the status of 
independent contractors to “unfairly”  exempt themselves from offering these benefits. 
“App companies built a billion-dollar empire on the backs of drivers, while refusing 
to provide them with the basic protections and benefits they are owed,” the site states. “These  
drivers – 78% from communities of color, and 70% working more than 30 hours a week – are 
essential, helping California through the global pandemic. The billion-dollar companies don’t 
want to pay, so they’re buying themselves a special exemption in the law to avoid ever having  
to pay their fair share to keep drivers safe on the job.”
Proposition 23- Dialysis Clinic Requirements Initiative 
Proposition 23 would impose three requirements to the process of treating dialysis patients:  
requiring that doctors be in the room when dialysis takes place, prohibiting clinics from  
turning away patients based on their health coverage and forbidding the reduction of clinic  
services without state approval beforehand. 
Today, roughly 80,000 Californians rely on dialysis treatment for kidney failure .
The campaign website  for Prop 23 outlines concerns about accountability and hygiene in the 
dialysis process, citing issues with rushed workers who take shortcuts and safety concerns that 
go ignored. The advocates emphasize that this can cause serious health repercussions to 
dialysis patients and that requiring an on-site doctor could prevent these issues from 
persisting. 
The No campaign raises concerns that Proposition 23 will cause a doctor shortage and 
increase taxpayer healthcare costs. They argue  that the cost of dialysis would increase by 
$320 million annually,  which could put clinics at risk of closure and reduce access for 
patients. 
“The federal and state governments already extensively regulate dialysis clinics,” the campaignAccessed: 10/27/2020  The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian  
writes.  “According to the Federal Centers  for Medicare & Medicaid Services, California 
dialysis clinics outperform other states in  clinical quality and patient satisfaction.”
Proposition 24- Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act Initiative
Proposition 24 would change privacy laws by allowing consumers to prohibit companies 
from sharing personal information, limiting the use of sensitive personal information and  
correcting inaccurate information. The enforcement of privacy laws would be conducted by a  
new state agency.
Supporters of the proposition claim that businesses continually abuse the privacy of  
consumers, often without notice, and that more enforcement is needed to stop the unfair  
sharing and use of personal data. 
“The world’s largest corporations are buying and selling your most personal information,  
often without your knowledge or permission,” Californians for Consumer Privacy said in a  
statement. “They track every place you’ve ever visited, every private online search you’ve ever  
made, and even collect private health information about you and your family. They also sell  
that information to third parties who make decisions about your credit score, your insurance  
choices and more. Many of these companies are trying to undermine the basic rights afforded  
by the California Consumer Privacy Act, and we need a real enforcement arm to protect our  
rights.” 
The opposition campaign is concerned  that the proposition would establish a “pay for 
privacy scheme,” by which the responsibility of privacy and safety is shifted to the consumer, 
and can leave consumers vulnerable based on their financial capabilities. 
“Those who cannot afford to pay more for privacy may get inferior service, worse 
connections, slower downloads and pop-up ads,” the opposing page  states.  “It’s an internet 
version of freeway express lanes for the wealthy and traffic jams for everyone else. Pay for 
privacy has racially discriminatory impacts, disproportionately pricing out working people, 
seniors, and Black and Latino families.” Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
Proposition 25- Referendum to Overturn a 2018 Law That Replaced Money Bail
System with A System Based on Public Safety Risk   
The last state-wide proposition on the California ballot concerns itself with the cash bail  
system. Proposition 25 would overturn a 2018 law that banned cash bail for arrested  
individuals and instead looks to a system of computer-generated assessed risk of committing  
another crime.  
The Yes campaign argues that the current system favors the wealthy who can afford to pay  
their way out of jail time while awaiting trial. It cites that the proposition would save taxpayer  
money by reducing spending on holding inmates, creating safer communities by only  allowing  
those who are considered safe to receive bail and creates a system that  “doesn’t base  freedom 
on the ability to pay.”  
Those against the referendum cite three major problems with its  contents  
1.The proposition would harm minorities the most because the “assessed risk” would be
computer generated, using algorithms found to be biased against minorities.
2.The proposition would put safety at risk by overburdening police officers and risking
individuals on parole not attending their court sessions.
3.It would cost taxpayers as  more trials would arise that would argue against the
algorithm’s results.
Local Measures 
MEASURE A: City of San Diego Affordable Housing Bond
Measure A would allow the city of San Diego to issue up to $900 million in general 
obligation bonds (bonds guaranteed to be paid back using all government funds 
available) and raise property taxes to build low-cost housing. The housing would be 
provided to low to extremely low income families, veterans, the elderly, the disabled, the 
youth, the homeless, and those recovering from mental illness or substance abuse. 
The proponents of Measure A argue that it will help to address the homelessness crisis, 
which includes 5,000 homeless individuals in San Diego, by providing safe housing.   The 
measure also aims to provide affordable housing to other vulnerable populations such as 
those who are low-income or suffer from substance abuse illnesses.Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
“[Measure A will] provide housing for chronically homeless where they can get supportive  
mental health services, drug and alcohol treatment, job training and placements,” the 
campaign page states.
Those against the measure are concerned about an increased tax burden up to five hundred  
dollars more in property taxes. They claim that this is too much of a burden to place on San  
Diegans, particularly since the current pandemic has left many financially challenged. 
“Given that such housing costs on average more than $400,000 per unit — and that only a  
small percentage of the needy would actually get shelter if the measure passed — this is an  
extravagantly expensive and underwhelming approach to a problem that has much cheaper  
solutions,” The San Diego Union Tribune  Editorial Board wrote. 
This measure needs a two thirds majority vote to pass. 
MEASURE B: San Diego Commission on Police Practices
Measure B would replace the current Community Review Board on Police Practices with a  
new oversight committee, the Commission on Police Practices. Its members would be  
appointed by the San Diego City Council and would have sweeping powers to issue  
subpoenas, independent legal counsel in order to investigate police officer misconduct,  review 
complaints against police officers, and make recommendations on discipline for police  
officers found guilty of misconduct.
Advocates of Measure B argue that the current measures in place to review instances and 
complaints of police misconduct are insufficient and must be replaced by a more extensive 
and independent system. They argue that the current Community Review Board on Police 
Practices is  biased  because it uses investigators and legal officials associated with the San 
Diego Police Department to investigate police officers accused of misconduct.
The opponents of the measure argue that the measure would be expensive and unnecessary, 
stating that the system in place currently is effective, as written in a San Diego Union Tribune 
Editorial by Nancy Vaughn. 
“[The Community Review Board on Police Practices] already embodies significant core 
elements of [the Commission on Police Practices]. New elements within CPP greatly increaseAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
expense. This may not be the right time to embark on a seemingly desirable form of civilian  
oversight for SDPD given the low cost of CRB, survivor of multiple budget crises,” Vaugn  
wrote. 
This measure requires a majority vote — 50% plus one — to pass. 
MEASURE C: San Diego Unified School District District-Only Elections for  
School Board Members
Measure C would change elections for school board members of the San Diego Unified  
School District. The current system allows five board members to be elected in a sub-district  
for a primary election, and the two board members with the most votes move on to a general  
election where they compete for votes within the entire district, not a sub-district. Measure 
C would modify this system to ensure that both the primary and general election are held  
within the specific sub-district that an elected board member wants to represent. 
Proponents of Measure C argue that keeping elections for represented officials within a sub-
district, rather than opening up  the general election to the entire district, would level the 
playing field for local candidates  and have a better probability of the communities’ chosen 
official to be elected as a  representative. 
The Editorial Board of The San Diego Union Tribune  announced its support of the initiative, 
arguing that it would allow for greater representation on the school board.
“District-only elections are also preferable as a matter of policy,” the statement said. “They 
don’t just remove obstacles for candidates of color in a school district that has had only three 
Latino and one Asian-American trustees in its history. They are, simply put, fairer.”
The opposition argues that the measure is “deceptive,” because it would reduce the ability 
for voters to vote for all five district members to just one. This would cause a disparity in the 
elected officials who affect all San Diego schools, regardless of sub-district. 
“Board members from other communities will be able decide what happens to your 
neighborhood school. They could move teachers, nurses and counselors in or out, or close 
schools – even over the objections of the board member representing your area. The present  
system balances community needs and larger concerns, ensuring every board member cares 
about all the kids in every neighborhood in San Diego Unified,” the official argument on the 
Measure C ballot document reads. Accessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
Additionally, the opposition wrote  that the measure would harm low income families and  
students because of the imbalance in voting. 
This measure requires a majority vote —50 percent plus one — to pass. 
MEASURE D: San Diego Unified School District Procedures to Remove  
Members and Fill Vacancies on School Board
Currently, the San Diego Unified School District does not fall under San Diego City Charter  
laws that apply to local government officials, including the Mayor, City Attorney and City  
Councilmembers, by which they  can be removed from office for a cause, fill vacancies and  
govern succession of their office.   SDUSD board members cannot be removed from their 
seat unless l they resign or are recalled. 
This situation already occurred in 2019, when four of the five SDUSD members publicly 
called for the resignation of the fifth member due to sexual assault allegations. They were 
unable to remove the reported board member despite the allegations because of the current 
system. 
Proponents argue that this will hold officials in the SDUSD accountable to the same 
standards as city council and government officials. There is no fiscal impact associated with 
the measure because it calls for only an alteration of the system of accountability for the 
school board. 
There is a lack of strong opposition for Measure D; no official arguments have been 
submitted to voter guides and no website has been created against the measure. 
This measure requires a majority vote —50 percent plus one — to pass. 
MEASURE E: Removing 30-foot Height Limit in Midway-Pacific Highway 
Community Plan Area in San Diego
Measure E would exempt the Midway-Pacific Highway Community Plan Area in a coastal 
zone from the 30-foot height limit on buildings. Buildings constructed at the Midway 
District in San Diego could be taller than 30 feet, if passed. 
Those in favor, such as The San Diego Union Tribune, argue that Measure E would allow forAccessed: 10/27/2020 The UCSD Guardian’s Guide to Voting in San Diego: California State Propositions & Measures Part II - UCSD Guardian
a community to grow in the area, bringing in funding for government spending, creating jobs,  
creating affordable housing and entertainment. 
“San Diego voters approved a 30-foot height limit on new construction in communities west  
of Interstate 5,” the San Diego Union Tribune  Editorial Board wrote. “But that arbitrary rule 
has also governed the 1,300-plus acres in the Midway District — not  remotely a coastal 
community — and prevented it from becoming the thriving community it  should be. 
Supporters say it [Measure E] is a smart step toward adding a new local gem, one  that calls to 
mind the transformation of the Naval Training Center, San Diego into Liberty  Station.”
The opposition asserts that the area should not be exempt from the height limit because it 
would cause crowding and congestion on the highway andthe beaches and would limit 
parking. 
“Measure E is a turning point in San Diego history,” a Times of San Diego eEditorial  stated. 
Past generations recoiled at the thought of becoming like Los Angeles. Every effort was made 
to preserve a low-lying, accessible coast that welcomed everyone. We were known as the 
people’s beach city. Yet bit by bit, public coastal land has been lost to private development 
from the Bayfront Hilton up through the Naval Training Center and beyond..  Passage of 
Measure E will exacerbate these bad planning decisions.”
This measure requires a majority vote —50 percent plus one — to pass. 
For more information on Propositions 14-20, please visit this article.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/3/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Thrive, Support for Armenian Students, NY Times Partnership - UCSD Guardian
 October 28, 2020  Troy Tuquero
Week 2
At UC San Diego A.S. Council’s Week 2 meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 14, senators discussed 
the new Thrive program, a resolution supporting Armenian students at UCSD, and also 
condemned the Azeri attack on Artsakh. The body also approved the charter for a new 
oversight committee that will review A.S. Council stipend reforms and promote 
accountability.
The A.S. Office of Health and Wellbeing began the meeting with a special presentation on 
Thrive, a new student-peer health program. Professionally trained peer-coaches will host 
one-on-one sessions with their peers to provide emotional support, connection and 
interpersonal guidance.
The presentation emphasized the core values of the program as wanting to createAccessed: 11/3/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Thrive, Support for Armenian Students, NY Times Partnership - UCSD Guardian
empathetic  interpersonal spaces among students and prioritizing the needs of the diverse 
student body.  Over the next year, the Office of Health and Wellbeing will develop Thrive’s 
training modules, expand its brand through campus partnerships, and begin the process of 
hiring and training the first cohort of peer coaches. 
Office of Health and Wellbeing Chief of Staff Jennifer Vu said that the passage of the  mental 
health fee referendum  last school year shows that there is a need for an  additional health 
service to help alleviate the demand for UCSD Counseling and  Psychological  Services.
“As few known resources outside of CAPS are for mental health, we think that there should  
be another level between students and CAPS,” Vu said in her concluding remarks.  
“Sometimes, we don’t need treatment, but you might just need someone to talk things out  
loud with, which is the point of peer health coaching.”
The A.S. Senate then moved to discuss a resolution, co-sponsored by Arts and Humanities 
Senator Deena Gharibian and Thurgood Marshall College Senator James Terzian, to 
condemn the attacks on Artsakh and calling for solidarity with the Armenian community at 
UCSD. The resolution passed after a roll call vote with 27 votes in favor and one abstention.
While nominally a part of Azerbaijan, Artsakh has a mostly Armenian population and has 
been under de facto Armenian rule after the region declared its independence on Sept. 2, 
1991. Artsakh, also known as Nagorno-Karabakh,  became the site for renewed  hostilities  
when Azerbaijan launched a military operation against the region on Sept. 27, 2020 in 
response to alleged Armenian artillery shelling.
The legislative body then passed the proposed charter for a new A.S. Committee on Stipend 
Transparency, Accountability, and Reform. According to the document, COSTAR is a 
response to student concerns about an inefficient system of checks and balances, a lack of 
transparency, and justified compensation of A.S. Council members.
The new committee would be charged with developing recommendations for Standing Rule 
changes and other items to ensure “fair and equitable” compensation of A.S. Council 
members. It also pledges to reach out to student constituents and to help implement an 
efficient checks and balances system in student government.
In the subsequent discussion, Campus Wide Senator Tommy Jung brought up the possibility 
of including A.S. Judicial Board members in discussions about furthering accountability and 
reform.Accessed: 11/3/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Thrive, Support for Armenian Students, NY Times Partnership - UCSD Guardian
“Last week,  when we were discussing the issues of transparency and  accountability, we were  
talking about increasing the role of J-Board in AS functions,” Jung  said. “I think the 
Committee on Stipend Transparency, Accountability, and Reform is a prime  example of one 
way that we can include third-party voices that are not necessarily directly  affiliated with  
[A.S. Senate].”
In response, Sixth College Senator Zaccary Bradt said that there is merit in further inclusion  
of J-Board in A.S. bodies such as COSTAR and could be explored at a future time.
“I understand the concerns about J-Board and I think that is something that we should look  
into, so I would be open to… considering [making amendments] in the future as the  
committee gets going,” Bradt said. “I think the more we involve more parts of our  
government, the better we can make it.”  
Week 3
On Wednesday, Oct. 21, the A.S. Senate had its third meeting to hear about an opportunity 
for a potential partnership with The New York Times. Additionally, they discussed a new  
Global Human Rights and Freedom Committee that would focus on global affairs and 
raising awareness.
The A.S. Senate began with a special presentation by Todd Halvorsen, a higher education  
manager for the New York Times. He discussed the possibility of UC San Diego and the NY  
Times creating a subscription partnership that would provide students complimentary 
electronic access to the newspaper and its archives stretching back to 1851. This would also  
include all NY Times eligible apps and mobile games.
In the following Q&A, Biological Sciences Senator Mihir Pandya asked Halvorsen about the  
monetary benefits of this partnership to students as opposed to individually paying the $1 
weekly subscription fee. In response, Halvorsen said that the NY Times is offering a low-
cost, high-value deal to students.
“We actually take a hit in our revenue [by pursuing the partnership] and we are good with  
that,” Halovorsen responded. “We are always focused on the greater good and hopefully…
students go on and support our journalism later. What we are asking for with this 
partnership is just to offset our losses, which equates to 65 cents per year per student.”Accessed: 11/3/2020 A.S. Council Brief: Thrive, Support for Armenian Students, NY Times Partnership - UCSD Guardian
The A.S. Senate then listened to a presentation by John Muir College Senator Corliss Lam on  
the newly proposed  Global Human Rights and Freedom Committee. According to the 
document outlining the committee’s charge, it hopes to  identify issues relating to 
international human rights, advocate for the needs of groups who  are affected by these 
issues at UCSD, and make recommendations to campus areas on  policies and procedures to 
better support international students.
In the following discussion section, Campus Wide Senator Ben Lonc asked Lam to provide  
more detail about what the committee could tangibly do for students and whether its  
objectives could be fulfilled by an already existing body such as the A.S. Office of Academic  
Affairs. In response, Lam said that having a separate committee would streamline the  
legislative process and would be more focused on international issues.
“[The Global Human Rights and Freedom Committee] will be dedicated to spreading  
information specifically about human rights issues that are affecting our community,” Lam  
said. “You’re right, external affairs can work on these things, but external affairs is not  
focused on human rights… it is more focused on [community issues]. This committee is 
focused on international [affairs].”
Near the end of the Q&A, Social Sciences Senator Jamila Francisco suggested that the 
committee could instead be a task force. Senator Lam responded that formatting the body 
into a task force was not an option that she had looked into, but promised to study further 
before next week’s meeting. 
A.S. meetings take place every week and are open to the public. Students can be a part of 
these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S.  website .
Art courtesy of Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated on Nov. 8 at 5:09pm to elaborate the original start date of the 
Thrive program and its founder.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Peeks and Previews: November - UCSD Guardian
Peeks and Previews: November
 November 1, 2020   Colleen Conradi
So long, spooky season, and welcome to November! Even though this month tends to be full  
of midterms and stress, you’ve got to make sure you carve out time to do something fun.  
We’re all still online only, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t any events going on this  
month!Check out some of these Zoom meets:  
Online Zumba Party (Nov. 7): If you’ve always wanted to try out a Zumba class, but 
were scared of embarrassing yourself in front of other people then this one’s for you! Join  
this Zumba class to have fun while getting some exercise in the comfort of your own home!  
The class begins at 10:30 a.m. and more information can be found here.
Managing Stress During COVID (Nov. 16):  It’s no secret that living in the midst of a  
global pandemic takes a toll on our mental health. If you’re finding yourself even more  
stressed than usual, try joining this workshop put on by Counseling and Psychological  
Services, where you can learn tools for coping with stress and/or anxiety and vent. Sign up  
here.  Accessed: 11/3/2020 Peeks and Previews: November - UCSD Guardian
Resilience of Black Women Art Show (Nov. 5):  Join this event to celebrate Black  
women and Black culture. There will be featured art from Marianata Sylvaince and much  
more. Register here.  
iHouse Global Trivia Night (Nov. 12):  Come to global trivia night to test your world  
knowledge and meet some new friends. Not only will you be able to hold bragging rights if  
you win, but there is also an Amazon gift card available as a prize! Find information and  
Zoom link here.
Post-Election Community Space (Nov. 4): Join this meet the day after the presidential  
election to have a space to share your feelings or concerns regarding the results of the  
election. Remember to be respectful of everyone’s thoughts and feelings if you join! Find  
more information here. 
KSDT Open Mic Night (Nov. 7):  Are you missing going to open mics on campus? If so,  
this virtual open mic night put on by KSDT is just the event for you! Get your act ready to  
perform or get comfortable on the couch to watch all the talent from home. You will be able  
to find the live stream on the KSDT Instagram account, @ksdtradio.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Things My 6th Graders Say That Just Make Sense - UCSD Guardian
Things My 6th Graders Say That Just Make Sense
 November 1, 2020   Colleen Conradi 
For the last four summers I have worked as a summer school instructor at a middle school  
back home in the Bay Area. Normally, because I go to school in San Diego, I am never able to  
stay on during the school year to work for the after-school program. However, because of  
remote learning, this year I have my own class of sixth graders that I see on Zoom every  
Monday through Friday and it is never dull! Remote learning is definitely not anyone’s 
favorite, but all of their 11-year-old personalities make all of the challenges of the job worth 
it. In the last two months or so I have done my best to keep track of some of the best quotes I 
hear during class. Here are some highlights: 
•“So like, I could write that Joe Bayden (Biden) thinks that Black Lives Matter should, 
like, matter?”
•“My birthday is this weekend, but my cousins aren’t coming because we don’t talk to 
them anymore…but it’s okay because I’m getting an ice cream cake.” Accessed: 11/3/2020 Things My 6th Graders Say That Just Make Sense - UCSD Guardian
•*in the Zoom chat *
•Me: Girl, get some homework done!
•Student: no <3
•“I’m really sorry to ask, Ms. Colleen, but what is binder paper?”
•“Ms., can I go to the bathroom?” — while on Zoom inside their own home
•Me: Yeah, so next week I’ll be driving back down to San Diego (from the Bay
Area).
•Student: Why don’t you just have your mom drive you? That way it’s  free!
•“You wear Converse?! People wore those in, like, the 1980s.”
•“Ms. Colleen what was it like to go to middle school back in the early 2000s?”
•“Mr. Josh was just wonderful, but you’re one percent better.” – student
talking about their substitute when I was out sick
•Me: Okay everyone, it’s homework time, so let me know what you’re working
on!
•Student: I told you already, I’m working on myself.
Clearly these kids have awesome personalities and very curious minds. Thankfully it’s 
only November, which means we have around nine more months to get many more 
quotes where that came from! Until then, please continue to enjoy and ponder those 
listed above.  – Ms. Colleen
Artwork courtesy of Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian November 1, 2020   Megan Cox 
This past week “Borat Subsequent Moviefilm” has made international headlines and will 
be remembered as one of the year’s most talked about films . The film follows Kazakh 
reporter Borat (Sacha Baron Cohen) and his daughter Tutar (Maria Bakalova) as they 
adventure through America. While Cohen and Bakalova are in character, they interact 
with real people. Instead of a premeditated plot, the film is a collection of earnest reactions 
from their encounters. Among other things, there seems to be a national debate over 
whether this film’s satire is impressively poignant or childishly offensive. This debate has 
followed Sacha Baron Cohen for about two decades now, and, as a politically aware comic 
writer and improviser, I have been following it very closely. While his work may be 
offensive in the present, Sacha Baron Cohen will go down as one of the greatest comedians 
of our time. 
To understand the discrepancy between Cohen’s intentions and how people perceive him, 
it is first important to understand what comedic literacy is. I use the term comedic literacyAccessed: 11/3/2020  Sacha Baron Cohen is a Comedic Genius, But Not Enough People Are In On The Joke - UCSD Guardian  Accessed: 11/3/2020 Sacha Baron Cohen is a Comedic Genius, But Not Enough People Are In On The Joke - UCSD Guardian
as a person’s ability to use subtext and background knowledge to infer the explicit and 
implicit meaning of a joke. The world’s collective comedic literacy rises as we evolve, and 
jokes are able to become more nuanced. For example, when Mark Twain first published “The  
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” it was  widely misunderstood: People  found the dialogue 
crude and the characters unlikeable. Today, however, comedic literacy has  risen. People are 
better able to recognize the book as a satire, and “The Adventures of  Huckleberry Finn” is 
now widely recognized as one of the greatest novels of all time.
Cohen’s biggest supporters argue that Cohen is a historically great comedian because he does  
his comedy for a higher purpose. His techniques succeed in creating tangible political 
change. For example, President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Guiliani’s reputation was 
deeply hurt  by his inappropriate behavior in “Borat Subsequent  Moviefilm.” This is not the 
first time Cohen’s humor has had a deep political ripple effect. In  2018, Cohen had a TV 
Show “Who is America?” where he played several characters including  a terrorist-defense-
training specialist. During a staged training session with lawmaker Jason  Spencer, Cohen’s 
character convinced Spencer to participate in many damning activities,  including screaming 
the N-word. After the episode aired, Spencer was forced to step down. Most comedians’ 
priority is making people laugh, but Cohen’s main  intention is to expose toxic political 
figures and strip them of their power.
Comedians, especially those who brand themselves as “edgy,” have a long history of  
disguising bigotry as humor. Jokes that are defined as “edgy” are  scientifically proven  to be 
more emotionally damaging and less funny, than jokes that aren’t. At first, Cohen’s humor 
comes off as just that: off-color, crass, and offensive. For example, his character in the Borat 
franchise is an anti-Semetic, sexist, ableist foreigner. A majority of punchlines in the film 
come from bigoted jokes, such as when Borat explains that women shouldn’t drive by saying, 
“Only man and bears are allowed inside cars.” Comments like this aren’t only discouraging to 
women, but perpetuate the deep-seated stereotype that all foreigners are tasteless, ignorant, 
and uneducated. As xenophobia runs rampant in President Trump’s America , 
characterizations like this can be especially harmful if people don’t understand the bigger 
picture of the joke. 
Here is where the poignancy is often lost in Cohen’s films: Cohen is intentionally drawing 
from false American stereotyping to push the boundaries of what people will believe. The  
satire of the film is not how Borat acts but how real people react to his antics. In one scene of 
the film, Borat goes to a March For Our Rights rally where he encourages behavior like  
injecting Obama and Fauci with “the Wuhan Flu.” The audience cheers loudly and someAccessed: 11/3/2020 Sacha Baron Cohen is a Comedic Genius, But Not Enough People Are In On The Joke - UCSD Guardian
members even Nazi-salute the character. While many audience members may just laugh  
along at the ridiculous lyrics of the song, Cohen intends the atrocious reactions to be the  
highlight of the scene. In this sense, there is a gaping disparity between Cohen’s intentions  
and some audience’s interpretations.
Overall, Sacha Baron Cohen’s humor requires an amount of comedic literacy that a small  
portion of the public possesses, as evidenced by the  wake of outrage  the film has left. So if 
“Borat Subsequent  Moviefilm”  is smashing box offices, but only a small portion of people are 
getting the joke,  where does that leave us? Unfortunately, it means this film stands for 
bigotry because that’s  what it’s perpetrating. In perhaps the saddest story surrounding 
Cohen’s newest film, Borat  goes into a synagogue dressed as an offensive Jewish caricature. 
In real life, Sacha Baron Cohen is proudly Jewish. He speaks fluent Hebrew and works with  
the anti-defamation league “Stop Hate For Profit.” He chooses to play this  character to 
expose internalized anti-Semitism in others, not because of his own prejudices.  In this movie 
scene, however, Borat meets a Jewish woman who reveals herself to be a  Holocaust survivor. 
This woman, Judith Dim Evans, soothes Borat and explains to him that  Jewish people are 
kind and worthy of respect. Her kindness is truly touching. Unfortunately,  when Evans 
learned that Borat was just a comedic character and not a real person, she was outraged. She 
believed the film to be bigoted, anti-Semitic slander—even though Cohen’s intention was 
just the opposite. Evans tragically passed and her estate sued the film. She died not being in 
on the joke. 
“Borat Subsequent Movie Film” simultaneously has the best intentions of any 2020 comedy, 
but it falls short because not enough people are in on the joke. The majority of Borat’s 
audience is not comedically literate enough to step away from the cheap bigotry and 
tokenization to see the big picture: Sacha Baron Cohen’s character holds a mirror to our own 
internalized bigotry. It is truly a film ahead of its time, and hopefully more people will 
understand the comedy better as time progresses. For now though, despite good intentions, 
Cohen’s newest film seems to elicit offense more than appreciation. 
Art by Yui Kita for the UC San Diego Guardian Accessed: 11/3/2020 Online Proctoring Methods Prove Ineffective, Damaging to Students - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020   Mehda Upadhyay 
I don’t cheat. Part of the reason is that I have never struggled so much in a class that I felt  like 
cheating was my only option – the much larger reason, though, is that I would simply die  of 
mortification if I were ever caught. I don’t know how well that first stipulation will hold as  I 
enter my first year at UC San Diego, but the second is definitely here to stay.
Still, even a straight-laced student like myself can see several glaring holes in online testing 
formats. And after taking my first two tests at UCSD, one of which was a midterm, it seems 
pretty clear that teachers are struggling to uphold academic integrity in an environment 
where students feel utterly disconnected from their classes. This, in turn, could lead to an 
unfair playing field among students and even lower the overall quality of students’ education.
One of my tests took place over Zoom, where we kept our microphones and cameras on and 
were supervised by the teaching assistant. Once our work time was up, we had to take 
pictures of our work and upload it onto Gradescope, which obviously led to a lot of sudden 
movement and noise and made it a lot harder for the TA to watch everyone carefully.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Online Proctoring Methods Prove Ineffective, Damaging to Students - UCSD Guardian
My midterm, on the other hand, was a take-home test that we completed on a lockdown  
browser. It involved a very invasive AI that would flash warnings at me if I dipped my head  too 
far down, and it recorded the entire test for my teacher to review, along with a full view of  my 
entire bedroom, just to prove that I was alone. Despite all this, my professor did not seem  
happy with the results, which were apparently skewed way too high for her tastes.
The main issue here is not that these tests are complicated, confusing, and stressful, although  
they certainly are. It is that all of these hurdles are probably doing very little to reduce  
cheating. Having students keep their microphones on or making them use lockdown  browsers 
may help to eliminate some of the more rudimentary cheating tactics, but you can  only get so 
many answers through Google or by yelling questions out to your siblings. As the  math 
cheating ring from Winter Quarter  2020 made clear, students are on their home turf with 
online learning and are demonstrating  unprecedented creativity in finding ways around the 
rules put in place. In the most basic  terms: students who chose to cheat during in-person 
learning will continue to do so when  they are at home.
Getting rid of assessments is not a feasible solution, but fairly testing students during virtual  
school is not an easy task. For example, students are attending class from around the world,  
which is why take-home tests are so helpful. On the other hand, this means that some  students 
will take advantage of this to spread the questions to people who haven’t taken the  test yet. 
This doesn’t, however, mean that we should get rid of take-home tests; it is unfair to make a 
student take an exam at 3 a.m. just because some of their classmates think it’s cool to leak the 
exam questions. There are, fortunately, ways around this challenge.
“I think the best way to avoid cheating in online testing is to make application questions that 
can’t be found on the internet, and to make various versions of the exam so students have 
different problems,” Seventh College freshman Shreya Repakula said. “Of course, none of this 
is a perfect solution, but i think it’s a favorable way given current circumstances.”
One possible solution is to offer open-note tests and slightly decrease the time allotted for the 
test. Even if a student has all their resources with them during the test, it would take far too 
much time to search up every question. Students would have to compile clear and concise 
notes, which would demonstrate a thorough understanding of the subject. 
“I think if students are allowed to use their notes they’ll be less inclined to try and cheat,” 
Seventh College freshman Claire Williams said. “Most of the questions that are being asked on 
these assessments are very concept-based, meaning that if you don’t understand those 
concepts using your notes, the internet probably won’t even help.”Accessed: 11/3/2020 Online Proctoring Methods Prove Ineffective, Damaging to Students - UCSD Guardian
Meanwhile, a tighter timeline would force students to practice similar problems beforehand  
so that they can move quickly on the test.   
“Since the professors can’t necessarily regulate who does what during an exam, they’ve  mostly  
been open note,” Repakula said. “However, since it’s still possible to give them a time  limit,  
memorization is incredibly helpful. In this way, I think tests might just be a little  harder now, 
even if they are open-note.”
Another idea is to do away with examinations altogether and grade students solely on more  
intense projects. These assignments would tackle many concepts and be more challenging  
than regular homework assignments. This would push students to explore new types of  
problems and give them a chance to broaden their understanding of the subject.
Many classes have embraced one or both of these tactics as an alternative to traditional tests,  
and it seems to be working relatively well.  
Of course, the goals of every course are unique, and requirements vary widely across the  
board. There is no one-size-fits-all solution, but the fact remains that we are living through 
unprecedented times and it is unrealistic to expect things to be the way they used to be. Tests  
just cannot possibly be the same benchmarks of learning that they used to be, especially as we 
grudgingly settle down with online learning for the rest of the school year.  
Students and teachers alike are struggling to adapt to online learning, but stricter tests are not  
the answer. We must remember that the goal is to check students’ understanding of the  
material, not to come up with the perfect test. Implementing more and more regulations for 
online testing does little to prevent cheating and just makes a difficult situation even worse. 
Students and teachers alike should focus on methods of assessment that push students to  
achieve and present their mastery of the subject. The problem of assessments during virtual  
school is one that schools across the country must confront, and it’s not clear where the  
solution lies. Still, it is one we must solve if we hope to keep up the reputation and value of  
our education. 
Art by Malo Grimsby for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 11/3/2020 Album Review: Ariana Grande's "Positions" - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020  Erin Chun
An album imbued with Ariana’s insecurities about love , merged together with explicit  
themes of sexual empowerment, “Positions” is a project to summate her public traumas,  
and it doesn’t take itself too seriously — but maybe it should have. 
2020 has no doubt been a monumental year in history: a worldwide pandemic broke out 
that shifted the very concept of normality for modern society; wildfires raged through 
thousands of acres of land; political tensions reached an all time-high; killer bees were 
also a thing —but perhaps the most significant event that occured this year was the 
release of Ariana Grande’s new album “Positions.” Her latest project features 14 tracks 
and is her sixth studio album following the drop of “Thank U, Next” in 2019. Grande’s 
vulnerability with her listeners has become a trademark of her music that makes for an 
intimate listening experience, but here, the pop artist takes her honesty one step further.
“Positions” is the most sexually-charged project released by Grande thus far, and it bears 
no shyness in its presentation. This is where I find my first critique, not for the singer, 
but for  those who criticize her sexual content: Grande is a grown woman who was able toAccessed: 11/3/2020 Album Review: Ariana Grande's "Positions" - UCSD Guardian
convert her real life experiences into art. It is natural that part of that experience would 
include her love  and sex life. Critics of her new sexually-charged music turn indefinitely-
blind eyes to the  explicit content produced by contemporary male rappers and artists, but 
when women are  sexually empowered and create music to reflect that, they immediately are 
labeled as  promiscuous, and their music is branded as “lazy.” However, Grande does not 
need me to  defend her. “Positions” opens with the track “shut up,” where she directly 
addresses her  scrutinizers with “How you been spending your time? / You be so worried 
‘bout mine,” “You  know you sound so dumb / so maybe you should shut up.” The opening 
lines in the first verse  also address the difficult times she had in the previous years, including 
the bombing of her  Manchester show, the death of Mac Miller, and her breakup with fiancé 
Pete Davidson, all of  which were extremely public: “All them demons helped me see shit 
differently / So don’t be  sad for me.” This sets the tone for the rest of the album to be not of 
one reflection and  heartbreak like “Thank U, Next,”  but one of finding inner peace and 
strength. 
One of the most musically-exciting elements on the album presents itself within the first few  
seconds of “shut up” as well, as the song introduces the album with orchestral strings  
reminiscent of the iconic first track “Honeymoon Avenue” off her album “Yours Truly.” It is a  
thrilling reference to catch, and these instrumental features and iconic layered vocals  
commence “Positions” on a high note — pun intended. However, there are not too many  
mind-blowing moments on this project. The album is more consistent than some of Grande’s  
previous ones, but offers no explosive bangers or any insanely-catchy single. The titular song  
“Positions” is an okay listen, but is in no means groundbreaking in its production. Whereas I  
wanted to see Grande’s growth and experimentation with her pop and R&B sound, she  
delivered musically-adequate songs with nuance and honesty. The song is about finding  
intimacy and reclaiming it in the ways she knows how, and while it may not be the most 
musically impressive, it neatly wraps up the theme of the entire album, fulfilling its purpose 
as the title track. 
The remainder of the album is riddled with both small heaps of victory and some sleepy, 
forgettable bouts of music. “34+35” has a catchy, upbeat mix that is rendered ironic by its 
juxtaposition against the lyrics, but in a purposeful way that was intended to be absurd. The 
dirty lyrics oppose the pure strings, and the song is a fun bop to sing along to in the car while 
your parents zone out and miss the meaning of the track, distracted by the innocent melody. 
However, immediately following is the track “motive” featuring Doja Cat, one such moment 
in the album that is neither particularly good or bad. It truly pains me to say this, but this 
song sounds like cheap glitter body spray, unicorn Starbucks drinks, and Forever 21. ItsAccessed: 11/3/2020 Album Review: Ariana Grande's "Positions" - UCSD Guardian
funky pop sound is generic, and Doja Cat’s verse is disappointingly simple. Doja’s typical  
clever and fun wordplay skipped town for Ariana’s track, and was instead replaced with  
unimpressive and bland lyrics that don’t say a whole lot: “Can you promise me you’ll bring it  
all tonight? / ‘Cause I need you to be wise / Tell me everything that’s on your mind.” 
The fourth track on “Positions” is “just like magic,” which I consider to be one of the highest  
points in the entire project along with “off the table,” featuring The Weeknd. The production  
on “just like magic” creates a dream-like aura that encompasses the two-minute song, and  
Ariana displays her lyrical creativity in the chorus, “Middle finger to my thumb and then I  
snap it.” The Weeknd’s feature was perfect for “off the table,” and with his signature  
melancholic R&B sound, the pair created a tear-jerking song about being able to find love  
again that left me sniffling in my living room, daydreaming about heartbreaks I’ve never even  
had. 
“Positions” ends with “pov,” a bittersweet summation to Grande’s journey of accepting love  
and finding love for herself. Grande sings “I wanna love me / The way that you love me / for  
all of my pretty and all of my ugly too / I’d love to see me from your point of view,” accepting  
that although this is the end of her album about receiving new love, this is only the beginning  
in her newfound relationship with herself.
Grade: B 
Release Date:  Oct 30, 2020
Image courtesy of That Grape Juice.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Dodgers Defeat Arozarena, Tampa Bay in a World Series Like No Other - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020   Praveen Nair
The Los Angeles Dodgers’ win in the World Series last week felt like a long time coming, and  
not just because the team hadn’t won a championship since 1988. The Dodgers have been  
Major League Baseball’s best team without a title over the last decade — their .629 winning  
percentage, including playoffs, over the last four seasons is the highest for any team in any 
four-year span since the introduction of the wild card in 1993. After a decade of high-payroll, 
big-name teams that lost to the eventual champions for the last four years running, the 
Dodgers finally have a trophy to take back to Chavez Ravine.
In the end, the Dodgers just had too much talent in too many places for an underdog Tampa 
Bay Rays team. Shortstop Corey Seager, the eventual series MVP, showed up big by hitting 
8-for-20 (.400) with two home runs and five runs batted in; the 26-year-old Seager was also  
the MVP of the NLCS, where he took Atlanta Braves pitchers deep for a remarkable five  
home runs. On the mound, the tandem of Walker Buehler and Clayton Kershaw put up 1.50  
and 2.31 earned run averages, respectively. If Kershaw, by most accounts the best pitcher of  
the 2010s, is out of his prime, he didn’t show it last week; the 32-year-old put up two winsand passed Justin Verlander for the most career postseason strikeouts, with 207.
As is customary for basically any baseball record, there will forever be discussions about 
whether there will be an asterisk alongside this season’s champion, given the shortening of 
the regular season from the customary 162 games to just 60. By the way, the concept of the 
asterisk to denote an undeserved record in baseball originated when Roger Maris broke Babe 
Ruth’s single-season home run record, but did so in 162 games rather than the 154 Ruth 
played. With the notion of the asterisk now associated with steroids, sign stealing, and a 
pandemic-shortened season, the controversy over Maris’ record now just feels quaint.
While it might be tempting to place that asterisk alongside the Dodgers’ title — extremely so 
for the Giants fan writing this article — there is little justification to do so. Unlike an all-time 
record, we aren’t comparing between seasons here; all a championship means is that the 
Dodgers were the best team this season, and given the fact that they were the best regular-
season team, played a full postseason, and defeated the American League’s best team, it 
certainly seemed like it. If we start putting asterisks next to seasons like this one, we might as 
well do so for teams that won the World Series when there were half as many MLB teams 
and only one round in the postseason. The Dodgers did everything they could to show they 
were the best team in the MLB this season – leave the asterisks to the cheaters.
Despite the Dodgers’ success, however, the biggest revelation of the postseason was the Rays’ 
rookie left fielder Randy Arozarena, who may have just had the greatest offensive playoff run 
in MLB history in just his first full season. Arozarena broke all-time records — not rookie 
records, mind you — in home runs (10), hits (29), and total bases (64) in a single postseason; 
while the postseason was slightly extended with the addition of a wild-card series, 
Arozarena’s total bases record was a whole 14 more than the runner-up, and his 10 home 
runs beat out the previous record by two. Not bad for just his first full season in the league.
Of course, no discussion of this World Series can really be complete without mentioning the 
ending of Game 4, one of the wildest plays in recent sports memory. On a two-out single into 
the shallow outfield by Brett Phillips, a little-known defensive substitution, Kevin Kiermaier 
scored to tie the game for the Rays. But then, Dodgers outfielder Chris Taylor failed to pick 
up the ball, sending Arozarena, the winning runner, around third. But as Taylor sent the ball 
to cutoff man Max Muncy, Arozarena, rounding third base too fast to keep his balance, 
stumbled to the ground.
Seeing this, Muncy’s throw home was a bit soft, but catcher Will Smith still thought  
Arozarena was on his way home, so he tried to make the quick tag but missed the ball, whichAccessed: 11/3/2020 Dodgers Defeat Arozarena, Tampa Bay in a World Series Like No Other - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 11/3/2020 Dodgers Defeat Arozarena, Tampa Bay in a World Series Like No Other - UCSD Guardian
bounded towards the backstop. Arozarena, already heading back to third after tripping, 
turned around and slid home to win the game. Twelve long seconds of utter perfection and 
utter chaos — in other words, baseball at its finest. As an out-of-breath Phillips said after the 
game, “Man, baseball is fun. Wow.”
Yet, as has happened all too often in sports this season, the outside world broke in. We 
learned after the Dodgers clinched the victory in Game 6 that third baseman Justin Turner 
had been pulled from the game in the eighth inning after testing positive for COVID-19, the 
first positive test of the playoff bubble. Turner returned to the field of his own accord after the 
game to celebrate with his teammates and refused to leave when asked by security. Turner 
gave out several hugs, kissed his wife, and took off his mask in the team picture. There’s not 
much to say about Turner’s behavior that isn’t obvious; it was irresponsible, reckless, and 
selfish, especially since family and team employees were part of the celebrations and there’s 
no indication anyone was aware of Turner’s diagnosis.
Turner’s carelessness shouldn’t overshadow the accomplishments of his teammates or of the 
ascendant Arozarena, nor should they be all we take away from a relatively successful 
postseason, in terms of COVID cases, entertainment, and Astros losses. But his actions are 
nevertheless telling of how our broader attempts to weather the COVID-19 pandemic are 
often beholden to the naked self-interest of an uncooperative few, not to mention the 
absurdity that the playoff bubble burst just one inning from the end of the last game of the 
World Series. But to paraphrase, and with apologies to, the great Scottish poet Robert Burns, 
the best laid schemes of mice and Manfred go oft awry.
Photo courtesy Carol M. Highsmith Collection / Library of CongressAccessed: 11/3/2020 UCSD One of Three UC to Not allow P/NP Option for Major Requirements - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi
UC San Diego, along with UC Berkeley and UC Santa Barbara, remains as one of the few 
UC campuses not altering any of the  Pass/ No Pass grading policies for students. Although 
many universities have made exceptions to their standard grading  policies to 
accommodate students’ different living conditions and remote learning during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, UCSD remains firm with their standard policies.
In March 2020, the UCSD Academic Senate issued a campuswide notice  allowing 
departments, programs, and colleges to allow  students to take major, minor, or general 
education requirement courses with the P/NP grading option for the Spring  Quarter 2020. 
However, for Fall Quarter 2020,  UCSD maintains the 25 percent limit on P/NP courses, as 
well as standard deadlines for changing grading options, dropping classes, and 
wiwithdrawing from the quarter.
In a statement provided to The UCSD Guardian, the Academic Senate referred to a 
statement from Steven Constable, Chair of the San Diego Divisional Academic Senate.Accessed: 11/3/2020 UCSD One of Three UC to Not allow P/NP Option for Major Requirements - UCSD Guardian
“At UCSD, the decision to accept a P/NP grade for a major requirement is left to Departments, 
which are best situated to  assess whether this is in the best interests of the students for their 
particular majors,” Constable said.
The statement further explained why the Academic Senate believes Spring Quarter had 
different circumstances than Fall  Quarter. 
“The Spring 2020 exceptions for the 25 percent P/NP limit and the extension of the deadline to 
select P/NP options were  intended to reduce the stress on students who were suddenly  
confronted with the new requirement to take remote classes  they had already enrolled in,” 
Constable said. “By Fall 2020, it was expected that students would be aware of the  
ramifications of remote instruction, and in some circumstances would be able to take some in-
person classes. This, coupled  with the fact that there are considerable unintended consequences 
for some students who take too many P/NP classes (loss  of student aid, accreditation issues, 
etc.), the Academic Senate chose to allow the status quo to stand.”
However, while lockdowns and nationwide restrictions have been continuing for many months, 
the effects of the pandemic  continue to loom heavily as the U.S. sees record-breaking highs of 
COVID-19 cases this week. This is in addition to the rising tensions  of the upcoming U.S. 
presidential elections. 
Earl Warren College sophomore Leonardo Gonzalez expressed his thoughts on the different 
conditions affecting students.
“It’s been a tough time right now, there’s so much to wrap your mind around,” Gonzalez said. 
“There’s the elections, protests,  and many of us have obligations outside of school, like taking 
care of family, work. This is not a good time to increase  homework, it’s a time to help out 
students because we’re not in regular times. It’s best to go easier on us. That could happen
if we had P/NP and decreased the workload.”
The following are the different Fall 2020 grading policies across the UC campuses:
UC Berkeley announced on Nov. 5 that the College of Letters and Science will allow their 
students to use courses taken as P/NP for major/minor requirements, major prerequisites, and 
college-level course requirements for Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 semesters. The Associated  
Students of the University of California of Academic Affairs also stated that they will be  
working to implement P/NP policies with other UCB colleges. This comes after a recent  student 
petition  demanding a P/NP grading option for all classes garnered more than 5,000 signatures. Accessed: 11/3/2020 UCSD One of Three UC to Not allow P/NP Option for Major Requirements - UCSD Guardian
UCLA has allowed  departments to accept P/NP courses toward major and minor requirements. 
Undergraduate students in good standing may  enroll in one P/NP course while a student in 
good standing who has not elected the P/NP option in a preceding term may  take two P/NP 
courses.
UC Irvine is not counting P/NP courses for the 12-unit overall  graduation cap. UCI is also 
encouraging deans and departments to allow P/NP courses to fulfill school and major  
requirements. They are allowing students to change their grading option to P/NP through Nov. 
25, the day before the  Thanksgiving holiday. Additionally, students on academic probation 
may also enroll in courses with the P/NP option. 
UC Davis is exempting all P/NP Fall Quarter  units from the overall P/NP units caps. However, 
these grading amendments do not override additional college or major  limitations on the use 
of P/NP courses for degree requirements. UCD has also extended the deadline for selecting P/
NP grading for courses to Dec. 11.  
All UC Merced  undergraduate programs have agreed to accept P/NP grades. 
UC Santa Barbara has returned to regular divisional rules and will not be allowing any of the 
extended P/NP policies from Spring Quarter 2020. 
UC Riverside  will give students until the end of Week 8 to change their grading options from a 
letter grade to S/NC, although not all courses will offer S/NC grading. Additionally, courses 
taken for an S/NC grade during Fall 2020 and Winter 2021 will not count toward the 1/3 
overall limit. 
UC Santa Cruz students may change their grading option to P/NP up to Week 9 of instructions, 
although there are some classes that only offer letter grades. 
The last day to have changed grading options for UCSD students was Oct. 30. The deadline to 
drop a class with a ‘W’ will be Nov. 13. 
This article was updated on November 6, 2020 to reflect UC Berkeley’s change in P/NP 
policy. There are now only two UCs who will not allow P/NP, to some extent, for major 
requirements.
Artwork courtesy of Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Racing to the Bottom with the NFC East - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020  Wesley Xiao
How bad is the National Football Conference East Division? Through seven weeks, they are a  
combined 7–20–1. Excluding matchups within the division, they’re 2–15–1. None of those  
wins came against a team with a winning record. By Week Six, the NFC East was flirting with  
the all-time worst division record, but their one tie kept them from breaking it. If the San 
Francisco 49ers — the worst team in the best division — were in the NFC East, they would 
lead the division by 1.5 games.
So, yeah. The NFC East is pretty bad.
The Philadelphia Eagles lead the division at 2–4–1. Their one tie holds off the 2–5 
Washington Football Team and Dallas Cowboys. The New York Giants bring up the rear at 1–
6, just 1.5 games away from the top. The NFL isn’t a stranger to bad divisions. The Tom 
Brady-led New England Patriots dominated a lowly American Football Conference East for 
years. But it’s rare to see an entire division lay down like the NFC East has. Based on their 
season so far, an average team could easily sweep the NFC East, but it doesn’t look like there 
is one of those in this division.Accessed: 11/3/2020 Racing to the Bottom with the NFC East - UCSD Guardian
There’s no single answer for the NFC East’s sharp downturn. A combination of injuries,  
ineptitude, and bad luck has led this division to their historically bad season. Washington  
and New York were never expected to amount to anything, but Dallas and Philadelphia were  
projected to be at least average. The Philadelphia Eagles have, once again, been decimated by  
injuries, which explain some, but not all, of Carson Wentz’s regression. America’s Team’s  
2020 season has gone as well as America’s 2020. Dallas lost their starting quarterback, Dak  
Prescott, for the season because of a broken ankle in Week Five. The Cowboys have fielded  
the 32nd ranked defense, whose 34.7 allowed points per game is in contention for the worst  
defense in NFL history.
No matter how poorly they play, we will be subjected to the NFC East. This division still  
dominates the primetime schedule, with five more NFC East Sunday Night Football  
matchups. But what’s worse is that this team still has a postseason spot. Meaning whoever  
manages to climb to the top of this dumpster fire of a division will be in the playoffs.
Mathematically, the NFC East can be won with a 4–12 record. ESPN predicts that there is a  
66 percent chance that the division winner has seven or fewer wins. FiveThirtyEight has the  
Eagles making the playoffs at 7–8–1, while Football Outsiders gives the Cowboys the highest  
odds of winning the division. Regardless, none of these teams deserve to make the playoffs.  
Whatever team limps out of this division with a seven-win losing record is not one of the best  
teams in the league and should not take a playoff spot from a better team. That fact that this  
could happen feels wrong.
The league should change the rules of playoff qualification, and treat every playoff spot like  
the wild card. Records, not division championships, will determine if a team qualifies for the  
postseason. Division titles will mean a bit less, but division games will still matter since they 
make up over a third of teams’ schedules. Competitive conferences will have more teams  
qualify and noncompetitive divisions are kept out of the spotlight.
For now, we’ll be stuck with the NFC East. Maybe by next season, we’ll come up with a way to  
relegate them to the XFL.
Photo courtesy Flickr / All-Pro ReelsAccessed: 11/3/2020 Target Opens New Location on UC San Diego Campus - UCSD Guardian
Target Opens New Location on UC San Diego Campus
 November 1, 2020  Victoria Bracco 
The second level of the Price Center has re-opened as a new Target store. Opening on  
Sunday, Oct. 25, the retail store aims to make the UC San Diego campus more livable by  
expanding the types of products available for students to purchase on campus, including  
health and beauty, eye-care, food, apparel, and home decor products.  
The store represents one of five small-format Target stores within the San Diego area.  
The modified Target on campus provides essential goods more tailored to college  
student needs. 
The introduction of this store marks a dramatic shift for students as the distance to get 
to a Target has dramatically shortened. The nearest Targets prior to the campus location  
were approximately both a 20 minutes drive away in Clairemont or Mira Mesa.  Accessed: 11/3/2020 Target Opens New Location on UC San Diego Campus - UCSD Guardian
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Emily Ramond commended the new store for 
making  more groceries and supplies accessible to students. 
“I believe having Target on-campus is beneficial as a whole to on-and off-campus students,” 
Ramond said. “The accessibility of the pharmacy, personal hygiene items, different foods,
UC San Diego
last Thursday
There’s a new Target store on campus! Centrally located on the second floor of Price
Center West, the small format store of approximately 19,000 square feet is tailored
to the needs and preferences of our community offering:
✔  Groceries, fresh produce and a CVS Pharmacy.
✔  An assortment of health, personal care and beauty products.
✔  Easy ordering of supplies for campus departments with the campus Procurement
Card.... See More
Accessed: 11/3/2020 Target Opens New Location on UC San Diego Campus - UCSD Guardian
and other necessities makes it less stressful for students to obtain these items. It saves time  
that I would have to spend planning bus routes to make it to the closest target or grocery  
store.”
Target is hiring students employees to staff their stores starting at $15.00 an hour, which  
puts the wage higher than the current minimum wage of $12.00 for the state of California  
and $13.00  for UCSD student workers. The majority of employees at the new retail  store are 
UCSD students.
Like the rest of the San Diego community, Target is taking precautions against the pandemic  
by requiring masks, various signs, and audio reminders to maintain socially distancing, and  
frequently cleaning their store. Store hours may vary but are typically Monday through  
Saturday 7 a.m.-10 p.m. and Sunday 8 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Photo courtesy of Kimberly Novobilsky  for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 11/3/2020 San Diego Convoy District Designated as Pan-Asian Cultural and Business Hub - UCSD Guardian
 November 1, 2020  Sabrina Wu 
The San Diego City Council has voted on Tuesday, Oct. 20 to designate a pan-Asian cultural  
and business hub located at the Convoy District in Kearny Mesa. This area has been named  
and officially chosen by the city council as the “Convoy Pan Asian Cultural and Business  
Innovation District” to signify the culture and diversity in San Diego.
Councilman Chris Cate represents Kearny Mesa in District 6 and said that the pan-Asian 
moniker is to bring attention to the area with its many businesses and diverse 
representation. 
“In that area based on the business owners and types of businesses that exist, we’re just 
here to celebrate that and promote that,” Cate said in an interview with The UCSD 
Guardian. “[The designation will] also help bring attention to the fact that the Asian Pacific 
Islander community within San Diego is very strong and that this area helps represent 
that.”Accessed: 11/3/2020 San Diego Convoy District Designated as Pan-Asian Cultural and Business Hub - UCSD Guardian
The Convoy District was chosen mainly to signify the area as an all-inclusive Asian cultural  
hub for locals and tourists who visit. It is well-known for its growing restaurant and  
entertainment businesses. Over the last number of decades, immigrants that became  
business owners “gravitated to the area” to find opportunities to promote the Asian Pacific  
Islander community, according to Cate. 
“As a whole we started getting really amazing businesses and restaurants and entertainment  
type of businesses to locate there,” Cate said. “Consumers really started gravitating towards  
that area.”
The city plans on raising funds to put up a marquee and other identification signs over the  
Convoy street and freeway to bring recognition to this neighborhood and even possibly  
attract more tourists. Cate said that through additional efforts from the community, they will  
be able to “raise the profile” of the district. Accessed: 11/3/2020 San Diego Convoy District Designated as Pan-Asian Cultural and Business Hub - UCSD Guardian
As the Convoy District starts to become an official hub in San Diego, students at UC San  
Diego will be able to visit the nearby area and find a number of diverse establishments.
“I am personally incredibly ecstatic at the thought of Convoy getting the status it deserves,”  
Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Sophia Sumaray, the UCSD Fundraising Coordinator  
for Asian and Pacific Islander Student Alliance, said. “Its mixture of classic dishes and  
modern takes gives a little bit of something to everyone. International and domestic 
students from Asia come to get a piece of home.”
Todd Gloria
about 2 weeks ago
The Convoy District’s growth has been incredible and there’s more to come. I was
pleased to join Councilmember Chris Cate and the Asian Business Association at
@Cross Street Chicken to announce the city’s designation of the Convoy Pan Asian
Cultural & Business Innovation District. This will be great for Kearny Mesa!
https://tinyurl.com/y333z3bv
Accessed: 11/3/2020 San Diego Convoy District Designated as Pan-Asian Cultural and Business Hub - UCSD Guardian
Many Asian American and international students from Asia have found Convoy businesses to  
be a familiar representation of their culture and community in San Diego. The official  
designation of the area will perceive the district as a cultural and business region similar to  
the many recognizable and popular locations in the city.  
“That above everything else is the goal of Convoy, is to help promote and celebrate the rich  
diversity that we have in this city,” Cate said.
In the next few years, the city of San Diego Planning Department plans multiple updates in  
the Kearny Mesa communit y, involving possible  neighborhood building and strategies to  
develop the land.
 Photo courtesy of Mariyah Shad for The UCSD Guardian.