Accessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD Launches First Collegiate Recovery Program - UCSD Guardian
 July 22, 2020  Zhuoying Lin
UC San Diego Health Promotion Services is launching the university’s first ever Collegiate 
Recovery Program in the  Fall. The program hopes to provide a supportive community for 
UCSD students at any stage of addiction recovery by engaging them in recurring group and 
individual meetings. 
The coming Collegiate Recovery Program will offer a free systematic recovery service which 
connects its participants  with all of the possible resources available at UCSD. 
According to Lisa Joyner, Director of Health Promotion Services and the Zone, students 
who suffer from alcohol or drug addiction, eating  disorders, or substance use disorders of 
varied types are welcome to attend the program and stay engaged as long as  they feel 
needed.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic,  click here Accessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD Launches First Collegiate Recovery Program - UCSD Guardian
The program is supported by UCSD Health’s Student Health and Well-Being Cluster, which 
consists of HPS, Counseling and Psychological Services , Student Health Services. 
Participants will be paired with staff members from the  above service departments and 
engage in one-on-one individual meetings. In addition, participants can choose to  attend a 
weekly group discussion  they find best fit their needs. This includes Alcoholics Anonymous 
AA meeting, Narcotics Anonymous meeting, Celebrate Recovery (CR), and more. The 
meetings will be led by staff  members and peers, and the group size will depend on the 
number of participants. 
Joyner said that ensuring UCSD students have the resources and support from both the 
campus and their peers to help  them go through the recovery is what motivated the 
University to start the program. 
“If students are not truly in recovery or tap[ing] into resources, it’s really difficult for them 
to go to school and engage  with others because their primary focus is their recovery,” 
Joyner said. 
“We want to ensure that the recovery service is  there and students are feeling supported.” 
Recovery group meetings at HPS have proven to be beneficial to students’ success and well 
being in the past. Syreeta L.  Nolan, Underrepresented Student Officer at the University of 
California Student Association, feels that the  guidelines  to ensure that the space is truly safe 
for anyone to share anything without judgement or interruption and the 12 steps  for 
survivors of physical, sexual and emotional abuse  are key features of the CR program that 
has found success on campus. 
“I was introduced to Celebrate Recovery (CR) after my last suicide attempt in 2012. [CR] is 
a Christ-based recovery  program to help anyone, Christian or not, face any hurt, hung up or 
habit,” Nolan said. “Celebrate Recovery has taught  me to celebrate my success along the 
way and that my recovery is valid as a survivor of abuse and adult child of family  
dysfunction… When you turn around and face your problems with support, you can 
overcome the problems and struggles in your life arising as a stronger version of yourself.”
The collegiate recovery program is open for all students with active UCSD status.
“The things I have learned about myself by doing the work required to awaken spiritually is 
what I will apply as a student at UCSD,” an anonymous UCSD transfer student and NA 
participant said. “Once I connected with Lisa Joyner regarding the university launching a 
recovery program during my first year as a transfer student, I took this as a sign that my
around and face your problems with support, you can overcome the problems and  struggles in 
your life arising as a stronger version of yourself.”
The collegiate recovery program is open for all students with active UCSD status.
 “The things I have learned about myself by doing the work required to awaken spiritually is what 
I will apply as a  student at UCSD,” an anonymous UCSD transfer student and NA participant 
said. “Once I connected with Lisa Joyner  regarding the university launching a recovery program 
during my first year as a transfer student, I took this as a sign  that my recovery and time as a 
student attending UCSD will work hand in hand so that I can achieve greatness and  continue to 
pass the message of recovery to the addict who still suffers.” 
The meeting-based recovery program will follow the guidelines of the campus for in-person and 
online meetings.  Students who are interested in joining the collegiate recovery program can fill 
out the application
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd0BMg2vOulM_JrimSM8-
WwR9_rh_Z4PDc3tMYndNmyxfnjOw/viewform) or forward their questions to 
collegiaterecovery@health.ucsd.edu.
Photo courtesy of the Campaign for UC San Diego.recovery and time as a student attending UCSD will work hand in hand so that I can achieve 
greatness and continue to pass the message of recovery to the addict who still suffers.” 
The meeting-based recovery program will follow the guidelines of the campus for in-person 
and online meetings. Students who are interested in joining the collegiate recovery program 
can fill out the application or forward their questions to 
collegiaterecovery@health.ucsd.edu.
Photo courtesy of the Campaign for UC San Diego.Accessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD Launches First Collegiate Recovery Program - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD to Recruit People for COVID-19 Test Vaccine - UCSD Guardian
 July 24, 2020  Andrew Ha
In collaboration with the pharmaceutical company Moderna, UC San Diego is seeking to  
recruit approximately 500 subjects  to test a new SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine. The 
COVID-19 Prevention Network, created by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Disease to respond to the pandemic, will enroll participants on an ongoing basis for the next 
two months. If the large-scale Phase III clinical testing is rendered a success, researchers 
hope to have an effective vaccine between the end of 2020 and early 2021.
By taking part in this clinical test trial, UCSD, as part of the La Jolla community, is joining 
many other cities throughout the country in working to find a solution to the pandemic by 
using Moderna’s test vaccine. In total, the study is looking to recruit 300,000 participants.
According to data from The New York Times, COVID-19, which is caused by the Accessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD to Recruit People for COVID-19 Test Vaccine - UCSD Guardian
SARS-CoV-2 virus, has led to nearly 25,700 confirmed cases and over 500 deaths in San 
Diego county alone; more than 3,750 cases were reported  in just the last seven days. 
Nationwide, the virus has infected at least 4.1 million people and  killed over 147,000 
people.
“Our country and the world are facing an unprecedented pandemic that has already killed  
more than 600,000 people worldwide,” Distinguished Professor of Pediatrics Dr. Stephen  
Spector said in a UCSD press release. “A vaccine is desperately needed to help control the  
epidemic. We are excited that UC San Diego will be able to offer the San Diego community  
the opportunity to participate in a Phase III vaccine trial that, if successful, has the 
potential  to change the course of the epidemic.”
Published on July 14 in the New England Journal of Medicine, Moderna’s small-scale early  
data indicate promising results: Researchers have discovered that subjects injected with 
the vaccine gained more neutralizing antibodies than most patients who have recovered 
from COVID-19. The vaccine elicits the body’s immune response and leads to the 
development of  tailored antibodies that fight off the virus. However, all 15 subjects 
experienced mild to  moderate side effects, including chills, headache, fatigue, muscle pain, 
and pain at the  vaccine injection point.
Participation in this study requires at least a two-year commitment as researchers will  
vaccinate subjects and then monitor their condition in the coming years. Subjects will be  
divided into two cohorts, one given the two-shot vaccine while the other given two placebo  
shots. The injections will be administered 28 days apart. From there, subjects will have 
regular clinical visits and testing for the next two years: Researchers will observe whether 
subjects get infected with COVID-19 later on and the outcome of said infection.
The trial is scheduled to begin on Monday, July 27 and will be recruiting people who are 18 
years or older who have not been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past. It is 
open to any qualifying applicants, including UCSD students; however, those with the below 
circumstances will be given preference for the trial:
•Those living in the San Diego area
•Essential workers
•Those living in densely populated residential environments
•Demographic groups disproportionately affected by the virus 
•The elderly
•People with underlying health conditions   Accessed: 7/31/2020 UCSD to Recruit People for COVID-19 Test Vaccine - UCSD Guardian
•African Americans
•Latinx Americans
•Native Americans
The study is not a university program and participation will be on an individual basis.  
Compensation will be provided to subjects for their time, travel, and inconvenience while  
they are enrolled. If you would like to apply for enrollment to the COVID-19 vaccine test 
trial,  please refer to the COVID-19 Prevention Network Study site and questionnaire. 
Photo courtesy of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Accessed: 7/31/2020 Incoming International Students with Online-Only Course Load Denied Entry to U.S. - UCSD Guardian
 July 26, 2020  Troy Tuquero
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement released a  press statement  on Friday, July 
24 announcing that international students in new or initial status after March 9  will not be 
allowed to enter the country for the fall term if their course load is fully online. The 
statement also confirms that nonimmigrant students who were actively enrolled at a 
Student and Exchange Visitor Program certified U.S. school on March 9 are not impacted.
The release told designated school officials to not issue a Form I-20, a document that 
certifies eligibility for nonimmigrant student status, to new international students who 
plan to have a fully online course load. The agency also added that “SEVP will not issue a 
temporary final rule impacting nonimmigrant students for the fall school term,” meaningAccessed: 7/31/2020 Incoming International Students with Online-Only Course Load Denied Entry to U.S. - UCSD Guardian
that guidance  released by ICE in  March will remain in effect.
The March guidance allows international students to engage in remote learning and 
grants visa flexibility due to the public health emergency caused by COVID-19. This rule 
was abruptly changed  on July 6 when ICE announced  that all foreign students would not 
be allowed to enter or remain in the U.S. if their fall  coursework was conducted entirely 
online.
In response, the University of California announced plans to sue  the Trump 
administration to seek a “temporary restraining order and preliminary and  permanent 
injunctive relief” to prevent ICE from enforcing the rule. The suit argued that ICE  did not 
properly follow the Administrative Procedure Act and failed to consider the needs of  
international students during the public health crisis.
“The safety of our students and the campus community is our paramount concern and 
guides what we do,” UC President Janet Napolitano said at the time. “The idea that the 
federal government would add to the burden of students and universities working to 
navigate this  global health crisis beggars belief. UC will fight this blatant disregard for the 
law and public  health with all the legal means at our disposal.”
The rule was rescinded on July 14 in the face of public backlash and threats of legal action,  
and ICE reverted back to its March guidelines. According to undergraduate admissions 
data provided by the UC Infocenter, over 1,500 new international students enrolled at UC 
San Diego in the Fall of 2019.
If you or a friend are affected by these new guidelines, please contact the UCSD 
International Students and Programs Office for more information and next steps going 
forward.
Photo taken by Sara Williams from Burst.