As of Feb. 14, the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention 
has confirmed two coronavirus cases in San Diego. As of Feb. 19, one of these patients has fully recovered and has been discharged from UC San Diego Health.
The first person in San Diego 
was diagnosed with the virus on Feb. 10, while the second case was confirmed on Feb. 13. Both patients are American evacuees from Wuhan, China who were previously quarantined at Marine Corps Air Station in Miramar. They are currently hospitalized 
at the UCSD medical center in 
Hillcrest for treatment. 
The first patient landed at 
MCAS Miramar on Feb. 5 and was tested for coronavirus due to suspected symptoms of COVID-19. Based on a statement released by UCSD Health, after being informed the test was negative for COVID-19 on Sunday, Feb. 9, the patient was discharged from UCSD Health and returned to MCAS Miramar for quarantine. 
However, on the morning of 
Monday Feb. 10, the patient was notified the test was positive after further testing, and the The Associated Students Office of 
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion and the Black Student Union held an event in 
remembrance of the ten-year anniversary of 
the Compton Cookout and Black Winter on Feb. 20. The event, which was attended by approximately 430 students, included panel 
discussions on the impact of Black Winter and 
included a focus on the need for constructive 
discourse and activism as a means of combating 
structural and social anti-blackness.
The Compton Cookout refers to a racially 
stereotypical off-campus party held by a group 
of UC San Diego students on Feb. 15, 2010, 
which was intended to mock Black History 
Month. The winter quarter that the party 
occured became known as Black Winter to 
UCSD students and faculty.
The party was followed by a series of racially 
motivated events, including the usage of a racial slur by the satirical college paper The Koala, the 
finding of a noose in Geisel Library, and the 
placement of a Klu Klux Klan hood on the head of the Dr. Seuss statue. 
In response, the BSU organized protests 
alongside groups such as the Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanx de Aztlan. The BSU 
ultimately made a list of 32 demands for a more 
inclusive campus including the creation of a 
Black Resource Center and the establishment 
of the Diversity Equity and Inclusion course 
requirement. 
The event first began with a land 
acknowledgement that UCSD is located on 
indigenous Kumeyaay land, which was followed 
by a moment of silence.
Current faculty and staff who worked 
during Black Winter took part in a panel discussion moderated by junior Jordan Ward, which focused on a wide range of topics 
including the panelists’ personal involvement with student organization during Black Winter and how non-black students can be effective 
activists. The panel included director of the LGBT Resource Center Shaun Travers, director of the Cross Cultural Center Edwina Welch 
Ed.D., Provost of Eleanor Roosevelt College 
Ivan Evans, and associate professor of African 
American literature Dennis Childs.
“How did I support [activists during Black 
Winter] personally?” Evans asked rhetorically 
on the panel. “I came there. I showed up. I 
listened. And I said, ‘you are my leaders, ’ to the 
students. ”
The second panel discussion was composed 
of UCSD alumni and current students. The 
panelists were education studies graduate 
student James Crawford, Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Leighla Buckner, Earl 
Warren C ollege academic advisor Amado 
Berrios, former vice chair of the BSU Victor 
Brown, former events chair of the BSU and current structural engineering graduate student 
Theresa Richards, and Student Promoted Access Center for Education and Service retention 
program advisor Regine Reyes.
When asked about the current racial climate 
at UCSD as compared to 2010, Crawford talked 
about the role that resource centers such as the 
Black Resource Center can play in facilitating a 
greater sense of community. 
“[UCSD] should not just be [an] ivory tower 
where we keep information locked up and 
we are doing all of these projects to benefit 
these Fortune 500 companies, ” Crawford said. 
“Instead, we are here to make sure … we are 
not the only ones who are benefiting from these degrees ... It is not just about ourselves, but it is VOLUME 53, ISSUE 18  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 24, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
GLOBAL
UC San Diego Health Discharges Treated Coronavirus Patient
Estelle performing at Warren Live 2020 // Photo by Ellie Wang
By  Troy  Tuquero   Senior Staff WriterCAMPUS
UCSD Remembers 10-Year Anniversary of  Black WinterPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"...UCSD was able to 
dominate in every facet 
of the game in the win, 
showing o ff a balanced 
attack on o ffense, crisp 
passing, and great team 
chemistry."
SICKNESS  POLICIES
SONIC  THE  HEDGEHOGProfessors  and  facul ty
FILM  REVIEWOpinion,  Page 4
A&E,  PAGE 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Eventually, 
everyone in the 
room was singing 
and dancing to 
“American Boy,” 
and what better 
way to spend 
a weeknight at 
UCSD?”TUESDAY
 H 73 L 55
THURSDAY
H 75 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 53
FRIDAY
H 73 L 57
LIGHTS & SIRENS...........3
OP-ED: ACADEMIA.........5
TO ALL THE BOYS.........9 
GUARDIAN GURL..........10
WOMEN’S B-BALL........16Natalie Tran
Warren Live 2020
 PAGE 8Two Coronavirus patients to this date have been treated at UCSD Health located in Hillcrest.
BY Zhuoying   Lin
staff writerSPORTS:
MEN’S VOLLEYBALL
Sports, page 16
See VIRUS,  page 2See WINTER,  page 2
AFSCME Local 
3299 Endorses 
Bernie Sanders
Sanders has been a vocal proponent 
of the union’s goals for years.
The University of California’s 
largest employment union, 
the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees Local 3299, announced their decision to endorse Bernie Sanders for President ahead of California’s 2020 Democratic Primary on Feb. 14. The endorsement comes two weeks before the state’s election day on March 3.
In an interview with the Times 
of San Diego, AFSCME Local 3299 Executive Vice President Michael Avant explained that 
the reasoning behind the 
endorsement was because of the union’s push for collective bargaining rights.
“These are the biggest voting 
issues for our members, ” Avant said. “ And while any of the 
major candidates challenging 
Trump would be a significant improvement, none have walked the talk as reliably and consistently as Senator Bernie Sanders, and that’s why we are enthusiastically endorsing him for President. ”
The endorsement comes 
as no surprise to many who have been following Sanders’ campaign platform. He has been a long-time advocate for union membership, industry-wide collective bargaining, and has shown support for AFSCME in the past. 
Sanders spoke in favor of 
UC unions during a strike held by AFSCME and University Professional and Technical Employees-Communications Workers of America 9119 in March 2019.  
“The University of California 
must be a model employer, ” Sanders said. “It must be an employer that respects its workers, and it must be an employer that treats its workers with dignity and it must sit down with its unions and negotiate in good faith. ”
One of the core platforms 
pushed by Sanders’ campaign is the “Workplace Democracy Plan. ” The main objective of the plan is strengthening the American middle class. The plan calls for doubling union membership and denying federal contracts that pay poverty wages, outsource jobs overseas, or deny good benefits. 
“There are many reasons 
for the growing inequality in our economy, but one of the most significant reasons for the disappearing middle class is that the rights of workers to join together and bargain for better wages, benefits, and working conditions have been severely LABOR
BY  Niloufar Shahbandi
Contributing Writer
See ENDORSEMENT,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Who is Guardian Gurl?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Andrew Ha
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Co-Editors
 
Opinion EditorSports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Saida Hassan
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 about building that community 
… so to me, the BRC [has been]  
important for that. ”
The event concluded with a 
speech by John Muir College 
Provost Wayne Yang which talked about the involvement of non-
black allies during Black Winter 
and how they can continue to be constructive advocates for the 
black community.
“The opposite of anti-
blackness is not diversity, ” Yang 
said. “The opposite of anti-
blackness is pro-blackness. I 
want us to all ask ourselves how we [create] pro-blackness… how 
are we doing pro-black actions, 
pro-black community, [and] 
pro-black spaces?”
In an email to the UCSD 
Guardian, Associate Vice President of EDI Noah Palafox 
expressed his hopes that the 
event could provide insight and awareness regarding Black 
Winter.
“For me personally, it was 
encouraging to bring together 
a portion of the University to 
unite, address, and engage each 
other in discussing some pretty complex concepts, ” Palafox said. 
“I hope the event encouraged 
and informed future UCSD 
activists to create impactful 
movements, and demand equity 
in a constructive and inclusive manner. ”
Marshall College sophomore 
Isaac Lara told the Guardian that he was surprised by the turnout 
and student interest in the event.
“It was really moving to see the 
EDI office host this event and to 
see this much mass attendance, ” 
Lara said. “The audience was 
pretty engaged overall and I think that a lot of students got 
the key takeaway that they do 
have power to enact change. ”
Throughout the rest of 
February, UCSD will be 
celebrating Black History Month with events such as film 
screenings and lectures. Students 
are encouraged to visit the UCSD Black History Month website to 
learn more.
troy  tuquero   ttuquero@ucsd.eduThe Compton Cookout resulted in a number of  changes regarding how UCSD approaches diversity .
▶ WINTER , from page 1
Sunday, Feb. 16
11:57 a.m. Welfare Check - Gilman Dr/Osler LaneSubject lying on the floor with a blanket. Field interview.1:00 p.m. Tamper with Vehicle/Petty TheftLicense plate in the victim’s vehicle were removed and replaced with other plates. Report taken.2:01 p.m. Medical Aid - Rebecca and John Moores Cancer CenterPatient having reaction to treatment. Referred to the San Diego Fire Department.
4:12 p.m. Welfare Check - 
Veterans Affairs Medical CenterMale lying under vehicle. Referred to another agency.4:48 p.m. Medical Aid - Peterson HallMale having a seizure. Referred to American Medical Response.5:31 p.m. UC Policy Violation - Mesa NuevaOdor of cigarette smoke in the hallway. Gone on arrival.10:57 p.m. Marijuana Contact - South Mesa ApartmentsOdor of marijuana. Unable to locate11:02 p.m. Suspicious Person - Student Services CenterTransient sleeping on the floor by men’s and women’s bathrooms. Stay Away Order issued.
Monday, Feb. 17
12:31 a.m. Quiet Hours Contact - Galathea HallLoud students. Referred to Student Conduct3:04 a.m. Noise Disturbance - Charles David KneelingLoud music and talking. Quiet on arrival.9:41 a.m. Information - Interstate 5/Villa La Jolla Drive
Male in the median of the 
freeway. Logged event.10:49 a.m. Assist Other Agency - Scripps Memorial HospitalAssist San Diego Police Department with investigative follow-up. Service provided.1:12 p.m. Medical Aid - Regents RoadMale not feeling well. Referred to the San Diego Fire Department.4:21 p.m. Voluntary Psych - UCSD Police DepartmentFemale student feeling upset. Transported to hospital.7:19 p.m. Suspicious Person - SIO PierMale lighting unknown object on fire and waving it around. Canceled.7:48 p.m. Suspicious Person - 9262 Central Mesa ApartmentsUnknown person asked the reporting party for money. Gone on arrival.9:31 p.m. Exhibit Firearm/Firearm at Public School - Central Mesa ApartmentsUnknown subject brandished a firearm at the victim sitting in their vehicle. Report taken.
Tuesday, Feb. 18
12:16 a.m. Psych Contact - Sixth 
College Residence HallMale making suicidal statements. Transported to hospital. Report taken.1:43 a.m. Lost Property - UCSD Police DepartmentWallet, ID left on shuttle; owner contacted. Service provided.10:15 a.m. UC Policy Violation - Mesa Nueva - CalaMale smoking cigarette. Gone on arrival.11:07 a.m. Citizen Contact - RIMAC AnnexFemale receiving unwanted text messages. Service provided.11:36 a.m. Medical Aid - Pepper Canyon HallMale having stroke. Transported to hospital.1:18 p.m. Burglary - Computer Sciences and Engineering BuildingSeveral items were stolen. Report taken.4:15 p.m. Public Intoxication - Villa La Jolla DriveIntoxicated female causing a disturbance. Transported to Detox.5:03 p.m. Fraud - Computer Sciences and Engineering 
Building
Stolen credit card used to make fraudulent purchases. Report taken.10:39 p.m. Petty Theft - Computer Sciences and Engineering BuildingElectric scooter stolen; loss $450. Report taken.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
patient was returned to UCSD medical 
center for treatment. 
According to the news released 
by NBC 7 San Diego, the patient was discharged by accident “due to pseudonyms used for privacy reasons” because the former test result was mislabelled. 
The second COVID-19 case was 
diagnosed on Feb. 13. The second patient landed at MCAS Miramar on Feb. 7 and suffered from high fevers and dry cough two days after flying from Wuhan, according to San Diego Union Tribune. 
On Feb. 19, the CDC informed UCSD 
Health that a patient being treated for coronavirus under the university’s care has fully recovered. After multiple tests conducted by the CDC, the patient was deemed to be no longer infectious. The patient is now discharged and can leave the hospital. 
The two patients were among the total 
232 Americans evacuees from Wuhan, China who landed at MCAS Miramar two weeks ago. MCAS Miramar is one of the four military bases in the United States that houses evacuees for federal quarantine. Currently there is no reported risk that the virus is spreading person to person within the quarantine group nor a reported public risk due to the transportation of the two patients. 
At UCSD, the Chinese Union 
student organization is making ongoing efforts to combat the virus in China. The organization previously raised more than $15,000 to purchase medical supplies for local hospitals in China. According to UCSD News Center, there are 4,000 protective coveralls, 10,000 face masks and 2,000 goggles yet to be shipped, and the members of Chinese 
Union are connecting with non-profit 
organizations in China, hoping to donate the supplies to sites in need. The Chinese Union also set up a Gofundme to continue fundraising. 
Xenophobia due to COVID-19 
has also been on the rise at campus. According to a student survey conducted by the UCSD Guardian, 65 percent of UCSD students reported witnessing xenophobia and 29 percent reported experiencing xenophobia. The survey had 49 student participants.
“After the professor briefly 
mentioned the severity of the virus in my class, a student said something about how now it is easier to identify Chinese on campus cause only Chinese wear masks, this really made me feel uncomfortable,” said Thurgood Marshall College junior student Xinzhe Jiang, “Everyone at UCSD community should respect each others, and people should focus on the research progress on coronavirus therapy instead of making jokes on Chinese. ” 
The UCSD campus has been 
continuously updating information 
about coronavirus through students 
emails. To be vigilant against contracting the virus, students should take caution and maintain good hygiene, including covering cough and sneezes, washing hands frequently and avoiding close contact with other people.undermined, ” Sanders’ website states.
The issues addressed by Sanders’ 
platform parallel the issues prioritized by AFSCME. Both emphasize collective bargaining over the terms of employment and increasing wages as a major solution for battling inequality. 
AFSCME was recently successful in 
reaching a tentative contract agreement with the UC system for over 8,000 workers on Jan. 24. The contract will increase 
wages, prevent future outsourcing of 
labor to private contractors, and expand 
upon career advancement opportunities. 
AFSCME had been working to reach 
an agreement for UC service workers since 2017. The contract ended one of the longest-running labor disputes for the university system. Upon ratification of the contract workers will get a 3 percent annual wage increase along with a number of one-time bonuses. 
In a press release announcing the 
tentative contract agreement, AFSCME President Kathryn Lybarger explained how the contract helps create middle class careers across the UC system.
 “This tentative agreement takes 
historic, enforceable steps to strengthen middle class career pathways at UC, ” Lybarger said. “This has been a difficult and protracted process, but it has brought important issues to light about the growing problem of income inequality, the fight for what’s left of America’s middle class. ”
Sanders’ enduring support for 
unionization has led to him to receive endorsements by various unions. AFSCME is now the third UC union to endorse Sanders, following  California Nurses Association and UPTE-CWA Local 9119.
TEXTING
By Michi Sora
65 percent of  surveyed students said that they had witnessed xenophobia on campus.  AFSCME recently won a tentative labor agreement with the UC System in January.
▶ VIRUS , from page 1▶ ENDORSEMENTS , from page 1
Nilouf ar  shahbandi   n1shahba@ucsd.edu
zhouying  lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Despite the prevalence of sickness on campus, UC San Diego does not enforce a 
school-wide sickness policy. This flu season, nearly 65 percent of respondents told 
the UCSD Guardian that they had been sick this quarter. Y et, UCSD clearly does 
not intend to take responsibility for its role in spreading sickness across campus. Instead, professors have full discretion over whether or not students can miss class when they are 
sick. Some of the common attendance policies professors put in place include requiring 
attendance for a majority of lectures and lowering grades when people miss more than a certain number, only allowing students to miss class without a penalty if they provide a doctor’s note or not allowing students to miss any class even with one. While requiring 
attendance no matter what is harsh, missing one or two classes usually does not greatly 
affect one’s grade in the class overall, especially if the student still has access to podcasts 
or other class materials. Unfortunately, many of the lectures here are not podcasted and 
students usually have no direct way to access missed material, which could a ffect their 
exam and paper grades. The policy for missing exams is even more strict likely because 
exams are worth a high percentage of students’ grades, and a doctor’s note is usually required by professors in order to miss an exam or justify a paper extension. The lack of 
consistency in these policies, as well as the overall inability of many to actually adhere to 
these policies, cause students to come to class sneezing, coughing, and spreading pathogens to other students, who in turn are subject to the same unfair policies. If UCSD enforced a 
fair policy that allows students to recover from sickness instead of coming to school sick, 
situations like this could be easily avoided. 
These inflexible sickness policies threaten the health of all San Diegans as well as the 
family and friends of UCSD students and employees. The fact that many professors’ policies 
require and encourage sick students to attend class means that healthy students, people connected with professors, students, and campus employees are exposed to illnesses present 
on campus. This exposure could have serious implications for people most vulnerable to 
the common cold and flu, for example children, seniors, and people who have weakened 
immune systems. These populations are more likely to develop pneumonia a fter having 
a cold, especially the flu, and experience complications ranging from six to eight weeks 
of missed work or school to death. Death and severe complications from common colds 
and flus are not normal even for vulnerable populations. However, the possibility of these 
complications increases when a great number of people are exposed to illnesses that trigger them. Y et, professors are allowed to actively encourage the attendance of sick students, which increases the chance that others will acquire and su ffer from highly contagious 
illnesses. Such policies, especially in the context of severe flu seasons, are alarming. Worse 
yet, these in flexible policies stand against the recommendations of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention — quite questionable for a school promoting itself as a hub for 
medical progress. Overall, while death, severe complications, and general harm to society 
are not the direct result or intent of any one professor’s in flexible sickness policy, that does 
not alter their impact. 
Professors’ high level of discretion over their class attendance and sickness policies often makes missing classes and exams without repercussions di fficult for sick students. 
Unfortunately, these policies hit working students, who hold paid jobs to supplement 
their education, the hardest. Due to financial obligations, working students typically 
cannot, or feel they cannot, call out of work to rest. When professors have policies that 
penalize students for recovering, working students are then also coerced into attending 
class instead of resting. Inevitably, this means working students are unable to get the rest 
they need to avoid being sicker for a longer period of time than they would be otherwise. As a result of extended sickness students face reduced academic and work performance for a longer period of time and increased risk of developing poorer health in the long 
term. Additionally, between the stressors of student life and financial obligations, working 
students may not have the time or financial ability to get a doctor’s note excusing them 
from more important school obligations like labs, quizzes, midterms, and other tests. Thus, despite evidence that common colds and the flu impair cognitive performance and 
memory, professors’ in flexible policies generally force sick working students to sit through 
tests anyways. Reduced performance on such assignments can have disastrous impacts on students’ grades and thus future opportunities. That being said, the exact impact of sickness 
on students’ grades remains elusive. Regardless, it is easy to see how in flexible sickness 
policies further harm working students’ ability to succeed and remain healthy at UCSD. 
Furthermore, these policies cause students to feel that UCSD and its professors especially 
do not care about students’ health, well-being, and overall success. Students at UCSD 
express their disillusionment about UCSD’s failure to address their needs on Reddit boards, Facebook, and in day-to-day conversations. Regardless of the truth of these accusations, 
professor policies that refuse to realistically address student sickness fuel this sentiment 
among the student body. And this talk produces e ffects; when students feel the university 
does not care about them, the university, current students, and future students suff er. Studies 
of presenteeism — when workers are forced to attend work sick — link in flexible sickness 
policies to decreased desire to give back to the workplace, higher turnover, and general feelings of negativity toward the workplace. Though UCSD is not a 
business, student sickness policies that refuse to support individuals have the same e ffects on our campus. On a tangible level, these policies are just another 
part of the system at UCSD that keeps students from wanting to spend their time in service to the university. Additionally, alumni who felt unvalued at UCSD due 
to policies like professors’ sickness policies are unlikely to invest their time and 
money into the school in the future. Finally, students’ relationships with their professors, who are meant to teach and mentor students, su ffer. 
With all of the issues imposed by these unrealistic policies, there are steps 
that the university must take to alleviate the aforementioned issues. Instead of forcing students to abide by unrealistic policies, UCSD should have a general 
school-wide policy that all professors must use. These policies should allow 
students to take care of themselves when sick without requiring them to get a 
doctor’s note when all they need is some actual rest. Students should be allowed a certain, set number of “sick days” without any grade penalty. If students are 
missing more than that set amount, only then should they be required to bring a 
doctor’s note. For exams, projects, and papers, professors should be required to accept a doctor’s note and provide a make-up exam or adequate extensions. This 
school-wide policy would reduce the number of students who go to class sick, decreasing the spread of disease and ultimately creating fewer issues at present. Professors who continue to use their own policies, especially ones that do not 
allow students to recover from sickness, should be reprimanded to help enforce this policy. Even if di fferent types of classes require di fferent levels of attendance, 
UCSD could still enforce a more broad, overarching policy and departments could create fair policies that accomodate lab classes, discussions, and three-
hour lectures that only meet once a week. Ultimately, the policy should not be as proactive in assuming that students will be dishonest and miss class, but instead give students time to recover and only allow professors or teaching assistants 
to intervene on a case-by-case basis for particular students taking advantage of the policy. UCSD should care for the health and well-being of its students to actually promote practices that prevent the spread of illnesses, especially in an environment where so many people 
come in such close contact with each other.
While the problems posed by the lack of an overarching sickness policy seem abstract, 
they leave negative experiences in their wake. When I was sick with bronchitis, a professor here at UCSD refused to accept my doctors’ note. Instead, they insisted upon trying to call 
my doctor, despite privacy laws that restrict the release of medical information, to con firm 
the note’s legitimacy. My experience, while extreme, is not unique on our campus, and it would not have occurred if clear university guidelines were in place.
The university must work to enforce a broad policy and give guidelines to professors and 
departments regarding appropriate and realistic policies for students so that situations like mine can be avoided. If they do so UCSD will finally uphold the standards of health it has 
long claimed champion. End Professor’s Unrealistic Sickness Policies
By Geena Roberts & Divya Seth  // Opinion Editor & Copy Editor
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
ART BY ALEX LIANGART BY ALEX LIANG
GRAPHIC BY UCSD GUARDIAN DATA VISUALIZATIONGRAPHIC BY UCSD GUARDIAN DATA VISUALIZATIONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
By Genie P . Wunguskit  // Guest WriterOp-Ed: The Colonization of Academia of Colors’ Intellect
People of color history and cultures are “critically” approached through the white 
perspectives and retold or, as the university calls it, “taught” through the white 
narratives. We are to be “discovered, ” “studied, ” and “research” by white academia.
White academia are the knowers, the authority, while the knowledge of di fferent 
cultures is to be known, to be discovered. White academia and white institution are the “academics, ” and every other culture and people of color intellects are to be studied. By the word “studied, ” I mean approached by the white lens and picked apart through the white westerner norms.
The colonization of intellects appears everywhere in academia but is even more 
prominent in areas of study such as history which are heavily biased.
I came into the University of California, San Diego, as an undergraduate in 
Behavioural Neuroscience with a passion for reading and history. I have always been passionate about history because I genuinely believe we can only create a better future once we learned from our past mistakes.
I am a woman, an Asian woman. More speci fically, I am half- Thai and half-Chinese. 
My grandparents were immigrants from China to Thailand. I was born in Thailand, 
where I spent most of my life until I moved to Oakland, California for high school. I am a first-generation immigrant to the United States. I am a first-generation college 
student. I am from a low socioeconomic background. I am a person of color. It is quite safe to say I don’t have many privileges going for me, yet throughout my life, it has always been my dream to pursue higher education because I truly believe in the power of knowledge. I believe in intellectualism and curiosity. I believed that academia was a place I can learn, be curious, and ask questions.
I enrolled in a class titled “East Asia & The West: 1279-1911” . A 10 weeks course, 
covering 632 years of history in China, Japan, and Korea. The textbook was written 
by 3 white women, taught by an endowed, white men professor who graduated from Harvard and taught at Oxford (Two very traditionally old, white, and wealthy institutions) with the teaching assistant who also happens to be a white man.
When people of color histories are “studied” only through the white lens and further 
research in academia only cites the white intellects, disregarding the primary source, the authority, and diversity of that culture; we are yet again — colonized. But this time, it is our intellects that are colonized.
I am in no way saying that a white person is not allowed to have an interest or 
pursue a study of another culture, but they should not be given the authority to tell the narrative of another culture. Anyone could be an “expert” on a subject they so choose to study, and I will not doubt their knowledge with the credentials, but they should not be allowed to colonized people of color intellects and retold our history as if their own. White academia should not be the default of academics in the age where we preach diversity in higher education. 
How can I, as an Asian woman scholar, sit in a lecture hall, and listen to a white man 
talk about my history like he owns it?
The exclusivity and unacknowledged embedded institutional racism, which are 
deeply rooted in academic culture have made me skeptical of the value we give higher 
education.
As the next generation of scholars and a woman of color who wishes to pursue a 
career in academia, I still hope that we will put in the e ffort to decolonize intellects. I 
hope we diversify higher institutions. Hire more quali fied academia of color, publish 
more academia of color, cite more academia of colour, tenure more academia of color, 
and honor the intellect that academia of color has at the same level of any white academia.
To the white academia, I hope that you will be able to recognize that you are not 
the authority figure of history and academics. I hope that you will know you do not 
own our history and our narrative. I hope that you will be able to realize that and step down for academia of color. I hope that you acknowledge that we all need to start decolonizing the intellects.
It could be naiveté, or it could be the hopeless optimism I still have in humanity, but 
I still believe that we can decolonize the intellects in every field of study. I hope this 
piece of writing can be the starting point to a larger conversation in how the narratives being used by predominantly white educational institutions are perpetuating the hegemonic white default of humanity.
Genie P . Wungsukit is a Cognitive and Behavioural Neuroscience undergraduate 
minoring in Ethnic Studies with the focus on Asian American Studies at the University 
of California, San Diego.
CONSIDER  WRITING  FOR  OPINION! 
Appl y  online at UCSDguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
The UCSD Guardian sat down with Hannah 
Rosenberg, a junior Eleanor Roosevelt College 
student and the videographer and editor lead at ReLyfe, a mental health startup at UC San Diego, to discuss overcoming challenges and sharing your growth experiences with others. 
The following interview has been edited and 
condensed for clarity. 
The Guardian: What is ReLyfe? How did it start?
Hannah Rosenberg: “ReLyfe is a startup 
funded through The Basement [Editor’s note: 
The Basement is a startup, entrepreneurship, and innovation hub at UC San Diego]. Our founders, Payal [Kela] and Namrata [Doshi], were talking 
over coffee back in 2018 when they realized they 
wanted to help share the stories of everyday people passing by. They recognized that every person at UCSD has a unique story and probably has advice they would give to people going through similar things and that sharing these stories would have the potential of positively impacting someone else’s life. They started conducting video interviews with a small team and got funding from The UCSD Basement starting last school year. They graduated last spring.
ReLyfe is for students and by students. Our 
mission is to ‘re-humanize. ’ We call the people who we interview ‘re-humanizers. ’ Our school, like a lot of school systems, is set in a format that doesn’t initiate connection. There is a lot of isolation and not knowing where you fit in. Our videos are accessible instantly and can hopefully bridge the time between waiting for a CAPS appointment for three-plus months.
You can find them on our website, YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, 
and LinkedIn. ”
The Guardian: What are these videos like?
Rosenberg: “We interview our ‘re-humanizers, ’ who are the people 
who are willing to share any struggle they have overcome. It can be as 
small or as big as they want, and it can be anything from school stress to chronic illness, depression, anxiety, a coming-out story, OCD, and the list goes on. Our goal is to build a catalog of every mental health topic possible and have multiple stories for each one because everybody experiences things differently. ”
The Guardian: How do you find people to share their stories? 
Rosenberg: “Most of our 
interviewees meet us through 
campus events, word-of-mouth, or through social media. They will then fill out a form on our website. It just asks for general information and a short explanation of your story. We then set up a time to film, assuming it is going to be a good fit. The cool part of it is that both sides benefit. The person telling the story gets a platform to share their story and feels a sense of purpose because they know they are helping people, while fellow students are able to hear from a peer who might be going through a similar thing. Everyone benefits and it really is a win-win for everyone involved. ”
The Guardian: Has anyone ever wanted to be anonymous while 
sharing their story? 
Rosenberg: “That has happened. We’re toying with the idea of 
possibly starting a podcast, animation series, or putting out some sort of blog-style publication. Something that doesn’t require face identification. We’ve also had people come to us who were willing to show their face and just didn’t want to be identified by name which still works for our video format, but we really want to create an outlet for those with stories who don’t want a camera on them at all.
We’ve definitely been wanting to cover that gap because there are a 
lot of people who have amazing stories and they, for many reasons and completely understandable reasons, don’t want to do that so I think it’s an important future step. ”
The Guardian: What do you specifically do?
Rosenberg: “I’m the videographer and editor lead, so I film and edit 
the videos, and we as a team plan out, based on the story that was given, 
how to best do justice to their stories and present them in a positive light. My heart was beating just thinking of doing this because it is a huge responsibility and one that I want to fulfill with the utmost care. Twice a month we have film days and we usually try to do back-to-back 
interviews. We have had students request to film more than one story since people inevitably go through more than one life challenge. ”
The Guardian: How did you get 
involved in ReLyfe?
Rosenberg: “I met the two 
founders during Spring Quarter of 2019 and heard they were trying to establish a new team of people to keep ReLyfe going in the school 
years to come. I applied and landed the position. They interviewed for all the roles before graduation, making sure to choose a team with a passion for the mission. Now, this new team has been around since the beginning of this school year. We hope to keep growing. ”
The Guardian: Are there any specific stories you’d like to hear?
Rosenberg: “I would love to make videos on academic stress and 
to have an expanded collection of videos about dealing with chronic 
illness while in college because that’s something that I’ve personally  
Revit alizing  rela t ability
In an eff ort to promote conversation about di fficult issues, ReLyfe created a platform to display 
stories that people feel they go through alone.
By Lanlil y  nguyen  &  nelson  espinal   staff writers
Members of the ReLyfe team presented their concept at the Basement.
“Our goal is to have a 
presence on campus so 
everyone knows about ReLyfe 
just as well as The Zone or 
any other resource.”
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kita
ReLyfe’s Instagram feed is a source of the videos they produce as well as the messages they try to spread.
dealt with and it’s the closest thing to like — I don’t want to talk about myself 
— but it’s the closest thing to impossible I’ve ever done and I look fine on the outside so no one would know. ”
The Guardian: Is ReLyfe working on any new projects?
Rosenberg: “We are trying to put out videos at a quicker pace because right 
now it’s just me shooting and editing. We’re looking to grow the videographer/
editor team specifically so that we can produce more content. We’re also always pitching ReLyfe to various campus orgs, and the two COOs just pitched ReLyfe to a meeting full of medical professionals at Student Health [Services].
We’re starting a series called ‘Questions of the Month. ’ The first one we did 
hasn’t been published yet, and the question was ‘When was the last time you cried?’ We got really interesting responses. The whole point was, again, just to deconstruct the walls that we’ve built and show how everyone is way more similar than they are different. We tend to forget that at the end of the day 
we’re all just human beings. ” 
The Guardian: Going forward, what are ReLyfe’s future goals?
Rosenberg: In the future, our goal is to expand to all UC campuses. Late 
last spring, the founders were invited to the UC Mental Health Conference, 
which was a really big deal because they were the only students invited. We are an official CAPS partner as well. Our goal is to have a presence on campus so everyone knows about ReLyfe just as well as The Zone or any other resource. ”
The Guardian: What has student feedback been like?
Rosenberg: “Some of the team members including myself have personally 
received messages over Instagram and social media saying ‘Thank you. ’ 
ReLyfe’s accounts have gotten thank-you comments and DMs, which is always a good feeling. It’s crazy to think that our videos have impacted students we’ve never met. Many mental health professionals have been really supportive as well. ”
The Guardian: What would you say is the most rewarding part of this 
experience, being part of The ReLyfe team? 
Rosenberg: “The best part has been getting to do what I love with a mission 
in mind and getting to make a real tangible difference on campus that is combining two things that I care about: video creation and getting to improve people’s quality of life as both students and humans navigating the uncertain world in front of them. ”Film Review: Sonic the HedgehogBritish singer-songwriter Estelle, most known for her 
international hit “ American Boy” featuring Kanye 
West, headlined this year’s W arren Live, Earl W arren 
College’s annual music festival. Past lineups of W arren Live include other 2000s household names like Sean Kingston 
and Jesse McCartney. Opening for Estelle at Price Center 
Ballroom on Feb. 20 was R&B artist ilham.
Despite a sold-out concert last year with Sean Kingston, 
this year’s attendance was significantly smaller. It was possibly not as well marketed; many students who like Estelle had no 
idea she came to UC San Diego until they saw social media 
posts from their friends at the concert. However, the audience 
more than made up for its size with boundless, infectious 
energy that only grew over the span of the music-filled night. 
The artists, too, brought their A-game, turning a concert crowd into a dance party.
Opener ilham memorably took the stage with a large 
Mario toy figure, which sat and rotated on the DJ table behind 
her during her set. She sang “back and forth” and “run dry, ” 
the silky beats of the songs turning the crowd’s polite head 
nodding into full-body swaying. During breaks, the young 
artist shared how she “came from the projects” and now was onstage living her dream, citing how her second album, “with 
time, ” had hit No. 1 on the iTunes R&B charts. She extended 
her gratitude to the crowd with thanks and uplifting words 
like, “Things may be hard, but you work harder. ”
In most small concert experiences, the opening act is 
usually met with tepid enthusiasm. But while most Triton concertgoers were unfamiliar with ilham, there seemed to be 
a general agreement across the room to give the charming New Y ork native a very warm reception. At this concert, it 
was not just the performers, but also the supportive UCSD 
students who made it as fun as it was.
“We gotta hype her up!” were literal words murmured 
in the audience. During buildups and beat drops, such as 
in “how you feel now, ” students would jump and wave and 
shout, even if there were many mistimed reactions to beat drops. Not knowing the songs didn’t stop the audience; 
during “in too deep, ” some audience members furtively 
took out their phones to look up the lyrics and sing along, 
garnering ilham’s surprise and delight. Ilham easily took to 
the crowd, shouting out certain energetic people, getting 
everyone to sing the chorus of “down, ” and performing two 
unreleased songs, including “uh-huh” and an untitled song. “DM me on Instagram if you have ideas for a song title, ” she 
encouraged.
Things took an unexpected but very welcomed turn when 
it was time for Estelle’s set. Without knowing her too well, 
one may think she would also have a cool, laid-back vibe, 
but she quickly dispelled such notions with her performance. 
Her entrance turned the concert into a dance club with “ Ain’t Y o Bitch, ” a reggaeton-influenced song that brought the musician down into the screaming crowd. She carried a large 
bag of candy and passed them out as she sang and moved 
her way through a sea of cellphones. Several circles formed around her as she danced with individual students; at one 
point, she and a student twerked against each other, eliciting 
an eruption of whoops. 
Estelle was, for lack of a better word, lit. She invited several 
students on stage to dance with her at the end of “ Ain’t Y o Bitch, ” and later songs like “Better” and “Freak” kept the crowd constantly moving their feet as colorful lights dazzled 
around the room, adding to the dance club feel. House 
song “Something Good” pulled the audience into a sing-off. During the repetitive chorus, Estelle held her mic to the 
audience, prompting one half to sing, “I got it!” and the other 
half to sing, “Ohhh oh!” The party truly hadn’t started until 
she walked in. 
Those hoping that Estelle, who is the voice of Garnet from 
the Cartoon Network animated series “Steven Universe, ” 
would be singing songs from the show were not disappointed. “Do y’all like ‘Steven Universe?’” she asked, singing a few 
words from “True Kinda Love. ” The room roared in response. 
She sang the theme song “We Are the Crystal Gems” and 
struck a pose when everyone shouted her character’s name in 
the song. After that, she asked the crowd if there was anyone 
who knew the lyrics to “the Garnet songs” and chose two 
ecstatic volunteers to join her onstage. Then what followed would rival the San Diego Comic-Con in terms of the fan 
experience. Imagine singing and doing air guitar to “Stronger Than Y ou” with Garnet herself? A few people livestreamed 
and FaceTimed the incredible performance.
Finally, it was time for “ American Boy. ” The first notes of the much-anticipated song swept the room with a feverish 
wave of nostalgia, both for UCSD students and for Estelle 
herself. Hearing the room sing “ American Boy” with unrestrained passion, Estelle stopped singing and listened 
to everyone yell the lyrics by heart. “Wow, ” she exclaimed 
afterwards, seemingly floored by the outpouring of love for 
her song. “Weren’t y’all like ten years old when this came 
out?” She laughed and expressed the joy and gratitude she 
felt with knowing that over a decade later, her song was still 
loved. She then restarted the song a couple times, stopping because she wanted people to put their phones away and for 
the security officers in the back of the room to join them.
Eventually, everyone in the room was singing and dancing 
to “ American Boy, ” and what better way to spend a weeknight 
at UCSD? UC Socially Dead? As if. Estelle, ilham, and Tritons 
know how to throw a party.
 
—  NATALIE  TRAN
Senior Staff Writer
A&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Receiving a grade of C+, “Sonic the Hedgehog” is a pretty good kids’ movie with high production value.
Sonic the Hedgehog made his video game debut on June 23, 1991, selling over 15 million 
copies. After Sonic’s debut in 1991, Sega Games Co. developed dozens of Sonic video 
games ranging from his traditional platform style to educational games. Eventually, 
several comics, novels, and even a TV show that ran from 1993 to 1994 were created to tell Sonic’s adventures. Sonic’s popularity then led to the creation of “Sonic the Hedgehog the 
Movie” in 1996. Sega had just found their flagship mascot, and Sonic became an icon of 90s 
video game culture. 
 While I never got to experience the height of Sonic’s popularity, I got to experience 
part of it through my older cousin. We played the games and watched the movie together. Even with my exposure to Sonic from my cousin, I remained loyal to the Italian plumber, 
Mario. As I got older and focused my attention on other interests, I pushed Sonic nearly 
to the back of the memory. However, my memories of Sonic resurfaced upon hearing the 
announcement of “Sonic the Hedgehog, ” a new Sonic movie directed by Jeff Fowler. However, 
Fowler announced that the movie’s original release date of Nov. 8, 2019, was moved to Feb. 
14, 2020, due to the original design of Sonic being critiqued as being so disgusting with his 
appearance being too humanoid, having small, far apart eyes, small mouth with very human 
teeth, and human hands instead of his signature white gloves. With the Sonic design fixed and 
the movie now released, how was it?
The plot of the movie is really nothing new: An alien gets stuck on earth and a human 
companion must help him return to his home while also evading the government. In this film, Sonic (Ben Schwartz) lives in the fictional town of Greenhills, California, but then 
causes an electromagnetic pulse from running so fast. Now on the run from the government 
and Dr. Robotnik (Jim Carrey), he must use his golden rings to transport himself to a new 
world. However, he accidentally transports his rings to the top of the Transamerica Pyramid 
and now must team up with Tom Wachowski (James Marsden), a police officer in Greenhills 
who Sonic had previously been spying on, to retrieve them. Along the way, Sonic learns the meaning of friendship. 
In regards to the acting in the film, the most notable performance in this movie is Jim 
Carrey’s. While watching the movie, I could just see how much fun Carrey was having with 
the role. Everything about his Dr. Robotnik performance was so over the top and cartoony 
that I found it enjoyable. The only scene that Carrey’s character was probably too much was 
his character’s first scene where he keeps interrupting the soldier with pretentious remarks, 
it bordered the line of annoying for me. However, I understand that this scene is meant to be 
humorous for children, and is actually in line with the character Carrey portrays. Despite his first appearance, though, Carrey did a great job, staying true to the character throughout and 
giving it all his effort. While Carrey is arguably one of the best aspects of this film, the main 
appeal to this movie is in the action and humor. 
 A lot of the action scenes in this movie made me feel like I was a kid again. Seeing Sonic move at normal speed while the world around him moved slowly, similar to Quicksilver in “X-Men: Days of Future Past, ” really put a smile on my face because just seeing Sonic walk 
around altering the motions and positions of people was so cool to see. The best instance of 
this was the scene atop the Transamerica Pyramid. Dr. Robotnik fired several missiles towards 
Sonic and Tom, so Sonic pushes Tom off the building, uses his speed to dodge and rearrange 
all the missiles, and saved Tom from falling to his death. Seeing all that play out in slow motion 
reminded me of how I would pretend to be in slow motion as a kid. Also, the scene of Dr. 
Robotnik chasing Sonic and Sonic using his rings to transport himself to various parts of the world was really fun to watch, seeing them run around and avoiding damage to international 
monuments like the Eiffel Tower and the Great W all of China, and Sonic dodging projectiles 
in the Saharan Desert. Overall, the action scenes in this movie were entertaining and exciting 
to watch. 
Another aspect of this film I looked for was the humor, and some jokes hit while others 
fall a bit short. If Sonic’s design had not been changed, this movie would have not been funny at all. From the trailers with the original design, the joke of Sonic acting like a cat was more 
terrifying than funny, especially with how skinny his whole body and face were. Now with 
the new design, while this joke is not the best joke in the movie, it definitely lands better than 
it did before. The best jokes in the movie include the scene in which a turtle that Sonic took 
for a ride is just shaking with fear, and the town’s conspiracy theorist showing a drawing of 
“Sanic” — the meme of a poorly drawn Sonic — to the police. The only jokes that adults would probably not find hilarious are the fart jokes and Sonic flossing, but that is not that surprising 
considering this is a kid’s movie. I think what made good jokes like the turtle one land better 
and the farting one, was the jokes’ emphasis to take aspects of Sonic, his speed in this case, 
and amplify them, rather than just making Sonic do random things. Nonetheless, this movie 
has more jokes that land than not.  
Overall, this movie is not bad by any means, in fact, it was pretty good. This movie 
managed to keep almost everyone in the audience entertained the time I watched it. Taking 
everything into account, Sonic may be an okay movie, but it’s a pretty good kids’ movie.  
—  Hector  arrieta
Staff Writer
Director   Jeff Fowler
Starring  Jim Carrey, James Marsden, Ben Schwartz 
Release Date  Feb, 14, 2020Rating  PGCONCERT  REVIEW
Wa r r en  Li v e:  Est elle  &  i lh a mWa r r en  Li v e:  Est elle  &  i lh a mPHOTO COURTESY OF ELLIE WANGPHOTO COURTESY OF ELLIE WANG
Location   Price Center West Ballroom
Date  Feb. 20, 2020CA-A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
SAVE THE DATE
MONDAY , MARCH 2
STUDENT CENTER COURTYARD • 3PM
UCAL.US/VOTE“To All the Boys: P .S. I Still Love Y ou” shares many similarities with the first fi lm in the trilogy, just not anything good.
Even though I have been denied from programs, 
rejected from internships, and turned down from academic opportunities, I can safely say that watching 
“To All the Boys: P .S. I Still Love Y ou” has been one of the most disappointing experiences of my life thus far. My disappointment largely stems from the fact that the bar that I set for the film was already fairly low. Y es, I will admit that I thoroughly enjoyed the first film “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” in the trilogy, but I will also be the first person to recognize that the new installment’s cinematic quality is nothing more than mediocre. Coming into the sequel, I was expecting a more cliche but pleasant two hours of young romance. Unfortunately, I couldn’t have been more wrong. 
“That … that couldn’t have been the highly anticipated 
sequel … right? Right?” I found myself saying as I continued to stare at myself in the darkness of my screen.
But yes, I am saddened to report that “To All the Boys: P .S. 
I Still Love Y ou” was a film blander than lactose-free milk. Both Lara Jean (Lana Condor) and Peter (Noah Centineo) devolve from the complex yet lovable teens we fell in love with in the first movie to weirdly distant fictional beings with no clear motives. Their problems could have all been solved through simple communication, which was an especially frustrating source of conflict given that their two characters have been consistently mature and open about their feelings until now. The complexities of young love are left unexplored, and the fun, layered plot seen in “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” gets completely stripped away. The story, conflicts, and resolution are left plainly obvious, leaving no room for any audience speculation. 
Unlike “To all the Boys I’ve Loved before, ” there’s no 
rewatch value, and the film seeps out of your mind as soon as you finish watching it. Jordan Fisher’s portrayal of John Ambrose was the only redeeming quality of the film. The entirety of the film set up his and Lara Jean’s undeniable chemistry, showing the ways in which he was more perfect for her than Peter could ever be, only to hit the audience with the ending nobody asked for. Peter still manages to get the girl at the end, despite being a less-than-stellar boyfriend. While the conclusion itself wasn’t necessarily poor, the way in which the film got to the ending was too one-dimensional. Film adaptations rarely follow everything in the 
book, but several scenes were altered or left out in a way that 
hindered the audience’s holistic image of Lara Jean and Peter’s characters and relationship. The novel makes the characters and their actions more complex without watering them down for the sake of digestibility. The film on the other hand altered nearly everything about the story to have significantly less depth. It felt too clean-cut and simplistic, and the cardboard cutouts of the characters’ personalities were literally force fed to the viewers caveman style: Peter bad. Lara Jean sad. John Ambrose good. Peter good now too.It would of course be an exaggeration to say that not a 
single muscle in my face budged during my viewing of the film. When John Ambrose and Lara Jean engaged in their friendly banter and sparks flew through my screen, I could feel the corners of my mouth slightly twitch. However, every time I would be on the cusp of forming a smile, Peter’s flat character showed up on screen again and my lips immediately relaxed back into their former position. 
The film did not meet the bar set by its loveable 
predecessor. It struggled to even brush against the bottom of the low-hanging bar as it jumped up and down in rom-com desperation, flailing its generic arms in an attempt to compete against its better, older sibling. “To All the Boys: P .S. I Still Love Y ou” felt unbearably cheesy, but was just above the line where it could be cringey enough to watch ironically. The entirety of the one-hour and 42-minute long film was 
forgettable, which is worse than if it were terrible. 
“To All the Boys: P .S. I Still Love Y ou” is like a W almart 
version of the first film. My only hope for the redemption 
of the series rests in the release of the third film installment. Until then, P .S. I don’t think I love you anymore. 
—  hemmy  chun
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
To  all  the boys: p.s.  i  still  love  youTo  all  the boys: p.s.  i  still  love  youPHOTO COURTESY OF INSIDERPHOTO COURTESY OF INSIDER
Director   Michael Fimognari
Starring  Noah Centineo, Lana Condor, Jordan Fisher
Release Date  Feb, 12, 2020
Rating  N RCC-10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 4 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26
LIBRARY WALK • 1 1am–3pm
FREE CHURROS
from Churros El TigreFREE GIVEAWAYS
Stress balls, gum, and more...Join Associated Students on Library 
Walk to voice your opinions and 
interact with your student advocates! 
as.ucsd.edu
XOXO, GUARDIAN GURL - An Advice Column
Dear New Y ear, New Roommate,
Thanks for the question! I get how this can be a potentially awkward situation, since you don’t 
want to hurt your roommate’s feelings, especially since you’ll still be living together for the rest of 
this school year. However, I feel like being honest with her is really important, so she can figure out other options as soon as possible. 
It may help to think about why you don’t want to live with your current roommate next year: 
Are your waking/sleeping schedules not aligned, are your cleanliness patterns different, or do you just want to try living with someone else? Once you have your answers, strike up a conversation about housing one afternoon and ask her what she thinks. If she says that she wants you two to live together, mention that you’ve been thinking about rooming with your suitemate. Y ou can say exactly what you said to me — that you feel like you would be more compatible with your suitemate, because of x, y, and z. Make sure to use “I feel” statements so that you’re not generalizing.
If she gets sad or angry, explain that you’re making this decision for your own well-being and 
that it doesn’t mean you hate her. If you two just aren’t compatible as roommates but are still 
good friends, you could offer for you two to share the same apartment, just not the same room. If 
she’s fine with getting a single, then problem solved! If she wants a double, offer to help her find another roommate if there’s nobody she has in mind. 
Housing can be really complicated and I know it’s ruined friendships in the past. Don’t let that 
happen to you, and don’t leave your current roommate without a safe and comfortable place to live, because she deserves that too. Hope you win the housing lottery — I know we’re all dreaming of Tamarack. 
xoxo guardian gurl
“xoxo guardian gurl” is the UCSD Guardian’s newest advice column. Use the form at tinyurl.com/ask-guardian-gurl to ask guardian gurl for advice on whatever UCSD life has thrown at you!
Dear Guardian Gurl,
Housing selection for next year is coming 
up and I don’t want to live with my current 
roommate again. She’s not a horrible 
roommate, I just think I’m more compatible with one of our suitemates. But she assumes 
that we’re going to live together next year and 
I don’t know how to tell her without hurting 
her feelings. Please help.From,
New Year, New RoommateART BY ANTHONY TRANART BY ANTHONY TRANLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Expanding Your Beverage Horizons at Starbucks 
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
As a Starbucks barista, I make endless amounts of 
caramel macchiatos and various frappuccinos during 
each shift. Though I don’t blame any of these customers for buying what they’re used to — my go-to will always be a vanilla latte and I have no shame in admitting that — I’m here to let you in on some other options that are just as good as the old tried and true beverages offered. 
Starbucks Double Shot  
This one is for those who need a lot of caffeine to keep 
themselves going! The name says “double” because this iced order is essentially doubling the amount of shots that come in a regular espresso drink: two shots in a tall, three shots in a grande, and five shots in a venti. The standard order comes with classic syrup and a splash of 2-percent milk, but I like to order mine with vanilla and breve instead. 
Matcha Latte
Most of us have probably tasted if not at least heard 
of a matcha or green tea latte before. These are not only tasty, but they still have a good amount of caffeine in them if you’re looking for something more than a tea but 
less than an espresso. With the pre-sweetened matcha 
powder, the best milk to pair it with is coconut milk, either hot or iced!
Espresso Frappuccino
If you’re a fan of frappuccinos but are in need of real 
caffeine, this one might be for you! Regular frappuccinos don’t actually have much coffee in them at all, but this kind gets actual shots of espresso. If you still want the flavors you love, make sure you ask for your caramel, vanilla, or toffee nut syrups. My tip for vanilla is to get vanilla bean powder instead of just the regular syrup!
Iced Guava White Tea
I will never truly recover from Starbucks discontinuing 
the mango black tea, but I have found that this drink is my replacement for the iced tea void in my life. Though people gravitate toward the more well known peach green tea, next time you go, try this one out instead. The guava white tea can come with lemonade or without — I prefer without because it becomes a little too sweet — and also automatically comes with liquid cane sugar. Try it out with half of the regular pumps and you get a perfect balance of sweet and tart! 
London Fog
Though I have worked at Starbucks since high school, 
I never actually tried a London Fog until my freshman year on campus at Roger’s Market. If only I had known before! For those who aren’t familiar, this drink is a tea latte with earl grey tea, steamed milk, and vanilla syrup. The black tea can give you a caffeine boost if you’re not in the mood for coffee, and the vanilla adds the perfect amount of sweetness. 
Cold Brew with Sweet Cream Cold Foam
This can be applied to both cold brew fans and regular 
iced coffee fans if you’re not a fan of the strong cold brew taste. This drink is simply cold brew with a velvety cold foam layer on top made from vanilla sweet cream. There are variations of this to try as well, such as the salted caramel cold foam, which is equally as good! 
PHOTO COURTESY OF SHUTTERSTOCK.COMPHOTO COURTESY OF SHUTTERSTOCK.COM12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 4 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
“Before I Graduate” Bucket List
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
San Diego boasts year-round perfect weather, beautiful 
beaches, unique neighborhoods, and great food. When I 
first moved here nearly three-and-a-half years ago, I wasn’t really sure what was worth exploring. San Diego sometimes seems so vast that it’s overwhelming, but I’ve come up with a list of ten things that you have to do before you leave America’s Finest City. 
Explore Balboa Park.
Balboa Park is one of San Diego’s most important 
cultural destinations! A 1,200-acre urban park in the middle of downtown, it’s home to over 16 museums, multiple performance centers, the San Diego Zoo Safari Park, and many gardens. 
Grab a bite on Convoy Street.
Craving Asian food? Head to “Convoy, ” a stretch 
of road in Kearny Mesa that has everything from pho to Korean barbecue to ramen, meaning that there’s 
something for everyone! If you want something sweet, 
try one of the many boba and Asian dessert spots in the area.
Try out North Park’s coffee scene. 
Are you a caffeine fiend? Check out the local coffee 
culture in North Park, an artsy neighborhood just east of downtown. My favorite shops include Young Hickory, Communal Coffee, Holsem Coffee, and Cafe Calabria.
Catch a beach sunset.
Nothing screams San Diego more watching the sunset 
over the Pacific. There are multiple options here: Pack a picnic and head to La Jolla Shores or Windansea Beach, or, if you want a higher vantage point, grab a spot at the La Jolla Ecological Reserve or Sunset Cliffs.  
Find your favorite taco spot. 
Take advantage of the many Mexican eateries, and 
go to as many as you can! Popular taco destinations include Tacos El Gordo, The Taco Stand, Oscar’s Mexican Seafood, and El Patron. Many of these places have deals for Taco Tuesdays, which present a perfect opportunity to try many tacos without having your wallet suffer too much.
Watch a show at the La Jolla Playhouse. Right on our own campus is the acclaimed La Jolla 
Playhouse, a professional theater renowned for being the starting place for many successful Broadway productions. Even if you’re not a theatre person, it’s worth checking out a show here; they sometimes have a discount for students at a fraction of the actual ticket price. 
Kayak in La Jolla Cove. 
Some of the best nature spots San Diego has to offer is 
located in our very own backyard. Get a new perspective by kayaking in the Cove: paddle through the sea caves, spot the diverse marine life and enjoy the beauty of the 
California coast. 
Check out Cabrillo National Monument. 
In 1542, Juan Cabrillo was the first European to 
set foot on the West Coast, in what later became San Diego’s Point Loma. The park was later dedicated to him 
and has an old lighthouse, hiking trails, and tidepools. (Note: while celebrating our history is a good thing, it’s also important to recognize that San Diego was built on Kumeyaay land.) 
Spend a night out in Hillcrest. 
For the 21+ crowd, San Diego’s Hillcrest district has 
some of the best nightlife options. Flicks, a gay bar, is infamous for its “Welfare Wednesdays” deal, where drinks are only $3 on Wednesday nights. 
Find a Secret Swing. 
There are numerous secret swings hidden around La 
Jolla, and looking for them makes for a fun afternoon adventure! I won’t give away their exact locations, but there are a number of guides online that tell you how to get to some of them. Just make sure you leave them as you found them so other people can enjoy them too! 
PHOTO COURTESY OF KEN WILLIAMSPHOTO COURTESY OF KEN WILLIAMSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
JAMISON ROSSTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27
THE LOFT • 8PM
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org2pm
START SMART - HUERTA -VERA CRUZ 
ROOM, 1ST FLOOR OF STUDENT 
CENTER B
Start Smart is an interactive workshop designed 
to teach you how to negotiate salaries for a new job. In every two-hour workshop you'll gain 
confidence in your negotiation style through 
facilitated discussion and role-play and learn: 
how to identify and articulate your personal value, how to develop an arsenal of persuasive 
responses and other strategies to use when 
negotiating, how to conduct objective market 
research to benchmark a target salary and benefits and about the pay gap, including its 
long-term consequences. Full attendance at this 
workshop will grant you 2 stamps. Presented by 
Jessica Martinez, Assistant Director of Education at the Women's Center
3pm
CAPS SELF -CARE STRATEGIES - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, 
MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to balance your personal and 
academic life at UCSD? Dr. Andy Nguyen and a Wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help 
you achieve wellness! Topics will include: 
self-care, stress management, mindfulness, self- 
compassion, and effective communication. Location: Student Health Services, Murray's Place 
Week 2-10 Tuesday'sv
3:30pm
TAXES DON'T HAVE TO BE TAXING - 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Taxes dont have to be taxing! As tax season 
approaches, make sure you know the ins and outs of taxes. Come out to learn about how to file taxes, tax credits and deductions related to higher education and taxable income. Presented by the San Diego Financial Literacy Center. Presented by Zarah Rubio, Zone Program Manager & Felipe Arevalo, Community Outreach Coordinator, San Diego Financial Literacy Center
,
4pm
AS ELECTIONS MIXER - GREEN 
TABLE ROOM
AS Elections Mixer Want to be a candidate in AS 
elections? Don't have a team to ru with? Come to this event to network with people interested in participating in elections! Thursday Feb 27th 4-5pm Green Table Room Vote on Tritonlink Spring Quarter
5pm
THE DEFAMATION EXPERIENCE - 
ATKINSON AUDITORIUM
The Defamation Experience is an interactive 
play that has received rave national reviews! It relies on the audience to serve as the jury that settles ambiguous cases about the intersection of the law and race/class/gender. https://www.defamationtheplay.com/ The play takes place on Thursday, February 27 in the Atkinson Auditorium from 5-7pm.
8pm
JAMISON ROSS - THE LOFT
Grammynominated and Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz award-winning drummer, bandleader, and vocalist Jamison Ross delivers the messages of humanity through the medium of jazz. He began his study of jazz as a high school student and gained worldwide acclaim as a featured musician in the Tribeca Film Festivalwinning documentary CHOPS. TUE2.25
THU2.27MON2.24
2pm
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION 
- RED SHOE ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
In this workshop, you will learn about the 
fascinating dimensions of intercultural communication! This workshop is designed to create awareness about the intercultural dimensions themselves, where you might fall on the spectrum regarding these dimensions, as well as where others might fall and reasons for doing so. This workshop will help you better understand your time at UC San Diego as well as prepare you to be global citizens and leaders. Presented by Grace Fuller and James DeLucia, Outreach Coordinators for International & Out of State Students
3pm
GRADUATE OPEN STUDIOS - VISUAL 
ARTS FACILITY
This is our opportunity to share with you and the 
San Diego community our research, scholarship, and artistic practices. Open Studios will feature over 40 MFA & PhD artists' open studios, exhibitions, screenings, and publications produced in the Department of Visual Arts. The artists will be present in their studios throughout the afternoon and excited to talk about and share their work with you.SAT2.29WED2.26
12pm
MINORITIES AND HEALTH - 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, 3RD LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
This workshop will discuss the disadvantages 
and inequalities concerning minority populations in health. We will discuss ways in which we can open conversation and dialogue in order to address these disparities. Presented by Natalie Lopez, Student Assistant, Center for Student Involvement
5pm
BUILD YOUR BALLOT - THE LOFT
Voting can be confusing, so we have created this DIY event to help you get your ballot ready before election day. We will have supplies to help you get a head start on organizing your ballot to help ensure that you are ready for the polls! There will be FREE nachos, LIVE silk screening for personalized tote bags and more! This event will also serve as an active mail-drop off station!
7:30pm
CHAMBER AT THE CHE - CHE CAFE
Come for a night of classical ensembles with 
music from Dvorak, Ravel, Holst, and more!
8pm
BLACK STRING - PRICE CENTER 
EAST BALLROOM
Black String creates a unique musical language 
that embraces traditional Korean music, American jazz, chanting, and improvisation. The group features Yoon Jeong Heo (geomungoKorean traditional zither), Jean Oh (electric guitar), Aram Lee (daegeum, sogeumKorean bamboo flutes), and Min Wang Hwang (ajaengKorean traditional zither, jangguKorean drum), and together they captivate audiences senses with amplified bursts of the geomungo and Korean bamboo flutes, the fierce quake of Korean traditional percussion, and unpredictable jazz guitar melodies.10pm
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND – THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provided! 
1pm
BAJA ON HORSEBACK - LA BELLOTA 
RANCH
Interested in taking part in an educational internship? Join the Partnership Schools Program! The internship opportunity is open to all UC San Diego undergraduate students.Students can volunteer as either Tutors or Interns at local underserved schools in San Diego county! Develop civic duty skills while you receive a great experience working in a high school setting. For more information attend one of our upcoming info sessions
6pm
DANIEL GUZMAN GUEST LECTURE - 
VAF 306 PERFORMANCE SPACE, 
VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Daniel Guzman's drawings, paintings, and 
installations are informed by a slew of sources, including comic books, punk rock, heavy metal, 
Roberto Bolaos writing, Gabriel Orozcos art, and 
Mexican mural painting. Exploring his Mexican 
roots, Guzman focuses on rituals like Aztec bloodletting ceremonies to examine contemporary violence. For a 2009 exhibition, Guzman made a horror film that featured two Mexican intellectuals on the run from a mob of zombies. For New York Dolls (2004), Guzman drew from New York's punk rock scene, depicting the early 1970s proto punk band of the same name.
FRI2.28
8am
EXPLORE YOUR CAREER PATH OVER 
SPRING BREAK - CALIFORNIA -- 
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
Students connect with alumni to explore career 
interests and gain valuable workplace experience over spring break with the Take a Triton to Work! program. Register today to meet up with a fellow Triton for unique professional experiences that range from coffee or lunch meetings, to full or half days on the job. Register today through February 28 for one of five Match Days, starting Monday, February 24.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact : Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or Cathompson@ucsd.edu ( Weeks 2,4,6,8,10) Location: Women's Center
8pm
TOGETHER PANGEA W/ RECKLING 
AT THE LOFT - THE LOFT
UCSD Students - Free UCSD Staff/Faculty - $8 
General Admission - $15 About together PANGEA: L.A.-based garage punk outfit together PANGEA formed in 2008 Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
FEB 24 - MAR 1
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
SPICE IT UPCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Practices boxing
6. Skirt edges10. Final
14. Forbidden
15. Bright thought
16. Canyon sound17. Poe’s middle name18. Revolutionary War militiaman
20. Teeter-totter
22. Salad fish
23. Before, poetically24. Family diagram26. Gets up
28. Satchels
31. Clergymen
34. Pub beverage35. Tolerate36. Communion table
40. Postage sticker
42. Dispirited
43. Armstrong and Diamond44. “M*A*S*H” locale45. Sagas47. Election mo.48. Appetizer50. Ooze51. Playwright ____ Miller54. Shoe part56. Combat57. Permits60. Canal country64. Unrest67. Wrangler68. ____ McEntire of country music69. Seasoning plant70. Terrific71. Biblical garden72. Precinct73. British noblemenDOWN
1. Amtrak depots (abbr.)2. Lacking color3. Fit
4. Uses the oven
5. Radar’s kin
6. That boy7. Rewrite text8. Diner list
9. Finnish baths
10. Grant’s foe
11. Summits12. Stock unit13. Pitches
19. Scottish plaids
21. Bawled
25. Pencil end27. Capri or Wight28. Sunbathe
29. Chorus voice
30. Bicycle part
32. Not fitting33. Whirlpools35. Bowl scraper37. Fork prong38. Soothing plant39. Invitation letters41. Interlock46. Harvest49. Vocalist ____ Franklin50. Madrid matron51. Alert52. Was furious53. Apache, e.g.55. Big58. Layer59. Tender61. Copier62. Breakfast or dinner63. Skills65. Hosiery shade66. Heat’s league (abbr.)BIKES
2000 M4 Specialized S-Works Mountain 
Bike - IMMACULATE CONDITION. Medium 
17” frame New Maxxis tires New XT cassette 
and chain New Selle Italia saddle New FSA 
carbon bars, stem and grips New peddles New cables XTR crankset XTR derailleurs XTR hubs XTR brakes, new pads Rockshox SID forks Fox shock Everything works as it should Local pick up in ….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
MONGOOSE “RAID” FREESTYLE BMX BIKE 
w/MAGS almost NEW - MONGOOSE “RAID” 
BMX FREESTYLE Bike almost NEW, This is 
a bike that any BMX RIDER would Enjoy ! 
This Bike is BAD TO THE BONE ! it comes 
equipped with Pro Style Frame, four X 
TRICK Steel FOOT PEGS, 20” MAGS no more 
spokes to adjust or tighten, Sealed self 
lubricating bearings, Dual Hand Brakes, 360 
Full Rotation Handle Bars, FREE SPIN REAR 
GEAR, Monster Grip Traction Pedals for ….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
2007 Ducati Superbike 1098s - 2007 Ducati 
1098S Tricolore Superbike. 780 mis on it. CELEBRATION OF ITALIAN STYLE For 2007 only, the 1098 S is also available in an additional special ‘Tricolore’ version (red, white and green, the colours of the Italian national flag). The Ducati ‘Tricolore’ tradi -
tion began in 1985 with the stunning 750 F1 and then continued with the limited edition 851. The latest ‘Tricolore’ is a 1098 S with the additional features of frame and wheels finished in traditional ‘racing….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
CARS
1932 Ford 5 WINDOW COUPE RAREV8 
FLATHEAD RESTORED - This is an estate 
sale - the 32 is being sold by the family. This 
beauty is all-metal (no fiberglass) and has 
original parts and features throughout. The 
Interior is dark beige mohair and extremely 
presentable. The Exterior is a light olive 
color with black fenders and pale cream 
pinstriping (Period Correct Colors). This has 
not been….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2017 INFINITI Q50 3.0t Signature Edition  - 
Luxurious and dynamic, our one owner 2017 
INFINITI Q50 3.0T Signature Edition Sedan 
is proudly presented in Majestic White! 
Powered by a 3.0 Liter Twin TurboCharged V6 offering 300hp while paired with a 7 Gear Automatic transmission. You’ll go fur -
ther with its brilliantly designed Rear Wheel 
Drive team while scoring near 29mpg on the highway. Superb craftsmanship and 
striking….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1966 Pontiac GTO Hardtop Correct - Besides 
being regarded as the 1st true muscle car, Pontiac’s GTO was a versatile beauty that could be equipped as anything from a turnpike cruiser to a drag strip terror. This gorgeous 1966 GTO Hardtop. Automatic transmission (77J), push-button radio (342), 
console (472), Wonder Touch powered….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
INTERNSHIPS
Entry Level Teacher (K-12) – Open to All 
Majors & Experience Level - As a Teach For America Corps Member, you will have the privileged and unique opportunity to inspire and impact the education of young children by serving in a full-time salaried teacher in a low-income community within the US. Each year, thousands of diverse leaders across the country, from Graduating College Seniors across all majors to….  ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more informa-
tion
Executive Administrative Assistant at Luxury 
Fashion Company - Directly support CEO 
and Creative Director, professionally greet 
and handle studio visitors and callers and 
manage showroom and office appearance 
and functionality. Responsibilities involve 
managing calendars for CEO and Creative 
Director, booking travel arrangements for 
executives….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sales Development Representative - We’re 
currently seeking a Sales Development 
Associate to join our rapidly growing com -
pany in Boston. We’re looking for a sales-
driven person that is entrepreneurial and 
is looking for an opportunity to grow and 
make real impact. You will be responsible 
for lead generation, business development 
and user base growth. This is a a super excit -
ing role for a smart….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
7
6
5
34
8
776
3
2
1
9891
4
64
98
3
1 3
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
In a home series that was 
moved up due to forecasts of rain, 
the UC San Diego so ftball team 
took three of four games from 
the California State University, 
Stanislaus Warriors to improve its 
record to 16–5 overall and 7–5 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association. The teams split their 
two Thursday games, as UCSD 
won the first, 5–0, but lost the 
second 2–3. The next day, UCSD 
took both matches, the first 5–2, 
and the second a 10–1 rout.
In the first game of the series, 
UCSD was held hitless for the first two innings. But a fter a 
pair of hits and an error loaded the bases, the Warriors’ junior pitcher Delaney Pamplin hit 
junior first baseman Sherriah 
Harrington with a pitch, bringing 
home the first run of the game; 
in the next at-bat, junior second 
baseman Isabel Lavrov singled to 
right field, scoring 2 more runs. 
Lavrov, however, would get caught stealing on the next play, but not 
before Harrington scored to put 
the Tritons up 4–0 going into the fourth inning. The Tritons’ fifth 
run of the night would come in the sixth inning, as Lavrov walked, advanced to second on a ground 
out, stole third, then scored on 
another ground out to put UCSD up 5–0, the last run of the game. 
The win went to junior pitcher 
Robyn Wampler, who threw 7 
scoreless innings, allowing only 2 hits, for her third consecutive 
shutout.
However, the Tritons couldn’t 
keep their momentum in the second half of the doubleheader. 
After a ground out to begin the 
second inning, senior pitcher 
Alanna Phillips walked the second 
batter of the inning and hit the third. The Warriors capitalized 
on these mistakes with 2 straight 
hits to score a runner each; a fter 
another ground out, a wild pitch 
from Phillips allowed another 
Stanislaus State run. Although 
the Tritons then secured a third ground out to finish the inning, 
they had already allowed the 
Warriors a 3–0 lead. The Tritons 
were able to manage a run on 
a sacrifice bunt from freshman 
utility player Graci Dragoo in 
the bottom of the third to get on 
the board. In the fourth inning, 
Harrington singled, advanced to second on a Lavrov lineout, stole 
third, and scored on an error 
to close the gap to one. But that would be the last UCSD score, 
as the three-run second inning 
was enough to win the game for Stanislaus State, 3–2.
On Friday, the Tritons were on 
the board in the first inning, as 
senior out fielder Mikaila Reyes 
scored from second on a Warrior error to take a 1–0 lead. In the third 
inning, with 2 on base, Stanislaus 
scored once with a single, then again on a sacrifice bunt to take 
a 2–1 lead. In the bottom of the 
same inning, however, Harrington tied the game up with a double 
to center field, and a fter Reyes 
popped out, Lavrov lined a single 
up the middle, scoring 2 more 
to take the lead back, 3–2. The 
fourth and fifth innings passed 
mostly uneventfully, but in the 
home half of the sixth, sophomore 
catcher and first baseman Clarissa 
Reynoso lined a single to left field, 
scoring Lavrov from third base. That would be the winning run, 
as despite 2 hits, the Warriors 
couldn’t manage a run in the 
seventh. The game was the second 
win of the series for Wampler, who allowed 2 runs in six innings; 
freshman pitcher Kaia Simpson 
took over in the seventh to secure 
the save and the 5–2 victory. 
In the last game of the series, 
the Tritons once again scored in 
the first, as a Lavrov single scored 
freshman third baseman Sophia 
Real from third to give UCSD 
a 1–0 lead. In the second, the 
Tritons got 3 runs on RBI singles from Real, Harrington, and Reyes 
to take a 4–0 lead; UCSD added 
another in the third on a sacrifice bunt from sophomore catcher 
and out fielder Kinley Kyro. The 
Warriors were able to snag a run 
in the fourth on an RBI single, but it would be their only score of the game. In the fifth inning, 
Lavrov scored on a passed ball after doubling to open the inning, 
freshman catcher Justice Salcido singled past the shortstop to 
knock in another run, and senior 
first baseman Brittney Ross-Smith batted in another run on a 
ground out. With the score now 
8–1, redshirt sophomore catcher and third baseman Bobbi Aguirre 
delivered the finishing blow with 
a home run to left field, scoring 
2 runs and triggering the NCAA softball mercy rule — which kicks 
in when a team is up by 8 runs 
after 5 innings — as the Tritons took the game 10–1 and the series 3–1. Phillips got the win, allowing 
only 1 run and 4 hits a fter coming 
off a rough performance the night 
before.
Although they have the best 
overall record, the Tritons are 
third in the CCAA; they’ll seek to improve their standing with a 
four-game series on Feb. 28 and 
29 against the California State University, Monterey Bay Otters, 
who are sixth in the conference. Tritons Win Three of Four in Stanislaus State Series 
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
pra veen  nair     prnair@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. CSU Monterey Bay
@ Point Lomavs. San Francisco Statevs. UC Santa Cruz@ CSUNUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
W Tennis
Baseball
M Volleyball
W Water Polo 4PM3PM6PM7PM
12PM2/282/262/282/282/29
Almost 10 months ago to the 
day, the UC San Diego men’s 
volleyball team found themselves knocked out of the Big West tournament by the UC Irvine Anteaters. Swept 3–0 to end their season, the Tritons flew 
home from Hawaii without a conference win on the season, and without any win in their last seven matches. Over the course of the o ffseason, the team licked 
their wounds and regrouped, adding new blood and recovering from the injuries of a long season.
Now fast forward to Friday, 
Feb. 20. One season removed from going 0-10 in conference play, the Tritons are now 12–3 overall, with a pair of conference wins under their belt, the first 
two in school history. 
After sweeping the Anteaters 
25–22, 25–18, 25–23 in front of a raucous crowd of over 600 fans at RIMAC Arena, UCSD has successfully flipped the script, 
and they’re showing no signs of slowing down.
“To be able to come back and 
give this victory back to our own fans and to win it in three [sets] in front of a great crowd, it’s really fun, ” head coach Kevin Ring said.
Six days a fter taking down 
UCI on their home turf, UCSD was able to dominate in every facet of the game in the win, showing o ff a balanced attack 
on offense, crisp passing, and 
great team chemistry. With the win, the Tritons racked up their 
sixth win against a ranked team 
this season, giving the club a 6–2 record against top-15 opponents despite coming into the season 
unranked.
“It’s not just the six, seven, 
or eight guys you see playing in 
this match, ” Ring said. “We’ve got an entire team of guys that have been playing at a really high level in the practice gym, which pushes our starters, and that’s such a key for us. ”
The Tritons o ffense dominated 
the Anteaters in the first set, but 
8 missed serves kept the score tight. A fter going on an 8–4 run 
to go up 15–11, UCSD continued to run up the score, with junior outside hitter Kyle McCauley smashing a kill down the line to put the Tritons up by 5 before UCI could respond. 
McCauley ended the set with a 
kill with UCSD up 24–22, though head coach Kevin Ring had to challenge the out call to net his team the match point.
“Serving is the only closed 
skill in the game of volleyball, the ref blows the whistle and all eyes are on you, ” Ring said. “You don’t always win if you miss 8 [serves], but to be able to come back and steady yourself is a sign of a really mature team. ”
Despite all the missed 
serves, the Tritons settled into the match in the second set. UCSD capitalized on its first set 
momentum by streaking out to 
an eight-point lead with a 5–0 
run capped o ff by a kill from 
junior opposite Collin Shannon.
“Every kill I get takes some pressure o ff of [our outside 
hitters], ” Shannon said. “If nothing else I’m just drawing blockers, and a fter last game 
[Irvine] knew to key in on our outsides, so it felt good to give our outsides some room to show how good they are. ”
From that point on, the 
Tritons continued to beat down on the Anteaters, especially from the outside positions. 
McCauley and junior outside 
hitter Wyatt Harrison combined to score 11 points for UCSD with 5 and 6 kills in the set respectively, stymying any recovery e fforts by 
UCI in route to taking a two-set lead in front of a surging home crowd. 
At this point, the Anteaters 
bench seemed de flated, with 
plenty of nervous looks on the sideline and on the court to start the third set. As it would turn out, those looks were well deserved, as the Tritons would continue to hit well in the final set. 
Despite making the home crowd nervous at the beginning of the third set, UCI could not hang with UCSD late in the set. After knotting the score at 9–9, 
the Tritons rattled o ff back-to-
back kills; sophomore middle blocker Shane Benetz went over the top of the Anteaters’ seven-footer senior middle blocker Scott Stadick for the kill and a sprawling one-handed dig from senior libero Ryan Lew set up 
McCauley to put UCSD back up 
by 2 points.
From that point on, UCI 
looked lost on o ffense, struggling 
to make passes, allowing UCSD to take a five-point lead with 
the score at 21–16. But there’s a reason the Anteaters came into the match tied for the No. 6 rank in the country. From that point on, UCI came surging back, scoring 6-straight points to take the lead at 22–21, weathering two UCSD timeouts.
But coming out of coach 
Ring’s second timeout of the set, the Tritons responded by closing out the set to win the match with authority. Ending the match on a 4–1 run, McCauley smashed two kills, including the dagger that ended the set and sent the crowd into a frenzy.
“They de finitely started 
coming back, ” Shannon said. “I think we realized it, but we did a good job of closing it out. With the players we have and the coaches we have we have a lot of 
confidence in our ability to close 
matches out. ”
With back-to-back wins 
against a ranked Big West 
opponent under their belts, UCSD awaits a home matchup against UC Santa Cruz before heading on the road to take on UC Santa Barbara and UCLA in the first week of March. 
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team faced o ff against 
two California Collegiate Athletic Association rivals last week — No. 4 California State University, 
East Bay and No. 11 California 
State University, Monterey Bay — in back-to-back road games. The Tritons won both contests, 
defeating East Bay 59–46 and Monterey Bay 73–41. With the two wins, UCSD extends its win streak to 14 games and advances its record to 22-4 (18-3 CCAA).
The match against East Bay 
started o ff tight. By the end of the 
first quarter, the Tritons trailed the Pioneers 11–13. However, in the second quarter, UCSD seemed to find their groove. 
The team played solid 
complementary basketball in 
the second quarter, scoring 19 
points while limiting East Bay to just 9 points. A three-pointer by sophomore guard Brianna Claros early in the second quarter put the Tritons on top. UCSD would hold onto that lead until the end of the game. Claros was the key player in this game. She put together a team-high 20 points, 3 assists, and 7 rebounds. Junior guard Tyla Turner also had a nice night, recording 14 points, 4 assists, and 6 rebounds.
Unlike the game against East 
Bay, UCSD was the clear favorite in its match against Monterey 
Bay. Early in the season when 
these two teams first met, 
Monterey Bay upset UCSD 58–59. That was not the case last 
week. 
The Tritons got up early in 
this game and never relinquished their lead. By hal ftime, UCSD 
had scored more than twice as many points as their opponents, closing the second quarter up 44–20. The Tritons continued to steamroll Monterey Bay to a final score of 73–41. The Triton’s 
leading scorer, sophomore guard Julia Macabuhay showed out in the blowout, racking up 22 
points — 9 from outside the arc, 
2 assists, and 2 rebounds. UCSD also got solid contributions from senior guard Sydney Sharp and junior forward Isabelle Parker.
Next week, the UCSD team 
remains on the road, closing out the regular season with a match against No. 2 California State University, San Marcos. The 
season finale will determine who 
will be crowned the No. 1 ranked CCAA team. With last week’s wins, the Tritons (18–3) have one more win than the Cougars (17–4). At worst, if UCSD loses this game, it will share the first place 
with San Marcos; a win would give the Tritons sole ownership of the title. Tipo ff for Saturday’s 
game is at 1 p.m.
Tenth-ranked Tritons Earn First Home 
Big West Win in Sweep of no. 6 UC Irvine
Women’s Basketball in Position to 
Take CCAA Title Once Againjack  trent  dorfman  sports@ucsdguardian.org
wesley  xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS