Accessed: 7/1/2020 UCSD-collaborated Research Paper on COVID-19 Called for Retraction - UCSD Guardian
 June 24, 2020   Zhuoying Lin 
In a letter to the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a group of scientists  
requested that the journal  retract a paper  that allegedly made  “falsifiable claims” about 
the transmission pathway of COVID-19 on June 18. UC San Diego Nobel Laureate 
professor Mario Molina and Texas A&M University professor of atmospheric science 
Renyi Zhang co-authored the paper and was published on PNAS on June 11, 2020. 
The research article claimed that the spread of COVID-19 came dominantly through 
airborne transmission. It also argued that face coverings were effective in preventing 
the transmission of the virus and that other mitigation measures such as social 
distancing were insufficient by themselves.
The paper posits three ways of virus transmission: direct deposit on people by coughing 
or sneezing, indirect contact through a surface, and airborne route via droplets and fineTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here → Accessed: 7/1/2020 UCSD-collaborated Research Paper on COVID-19 Called for Retraction - UCSD Guardian
particles. As the number of confirmed infected cases in the U.S. continued to increase 
linearly from April 1 to May 9, Molina and Zhang’s analysis found that there was no 
profound impact  of federal protections regarding social distancing and quarantining on 
reducing the spread of  the disease. 
Because these physical separations aimed to target and minimize virus transmission via 
direct  and indirect deposit, the continual growth of the pandemic suggested the main virus 
pathway  was airborne transmission. 
7/1/2020 UCSD-collaborated Research Paper on COVID-19 Called for Retraction - UCSD Guardian
To further strengthen the case, the team studied the impact of face covering in the three  
epicenters, including Wuhan, Italy, and New York City. They projected a linear regression  
based on the reported numbers of confirmed cases before and after the face covering  
policy  was implemented. 
The team found mandated face covering significantly reduced the predicted infections in 
Italy and New York City. Because face covering blocked airborne transmission and 
inhalation of virus-bearing particles, the analysis indicated airborne transmission is the 
major routine of COVID-19. However, the actual mechanism of the pathway remains 
unclear.
Accessed: 7/1/2020 UCSD-collaborated Research Paper on COVID-19 Called for Retraction - UCSD Guardian
While the previous studies of SARS-CoV-1 and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome  
coronavirus have shown airborne transmission results in longer travel distance and activity  
time, the paper’s claim about the airborne transmission of COVID-19 led a group of 
scientists  from epidemiology and public health to cast doubt on the validity of the research. 
Dr. Noah Haber from the Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford University and other  
scientists said that they agreed that mask-wearing was important in slowing the spread of  
COVID-19 in the retraction request letter which came one week after the research paper’s  
publication. However, the scientists felt that the article made ”dangerously misleading” 
claims due to research design flaws and called for the paper’s retraction, especially because 
of “the  paper’s outsized and immediate public impact.”
The letter specifically pointed out six other errors regarding the methodology of the research,  
which can be summarized into three key points: 1) Ignoring the lagging time between the  
virus transmission and reported infection cases. 2) The date of policy implementation is  
unrepresentative for the varied behaviors among the population in response to the 
pandemic. 3) The analysis using linear regression without statistical uncertainty is not valid 
for infection  dynamics and comparisons among the three epicenters.
In response to the letter, Molina and Zhang penned a statement that addressed the errors 
mentioned in the retraction letter. It claimed that the  excerpts the letter cited were taken out 
of context and that the statistical uncertainty of the  linearity was already expressed in terms 
of the coefficient of determination R^2 on the  graphs.
“As you might see in our letter, we believe [the retraction letter] does not make much sense.”  
Molina wrote in an email to The UCSD Guardian, “We would be happy to discuss the 
science, to respond to sensible questions about our paper etc., but the retraction letter’s 
reasoning is clearly not valid.”
In addition to claiming that the retraction letter’s conclusion was not valid, Molina and 
Zhang, in return, have questioned some statements in the letter. Molina and Zhang are 
submitting another paper in which they will take a closer look at state measures. At the 
publication of this article, the paper in question has not been removed from the PNAS.
Photo courtesy of Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego Publications.Accessed: 7/1/2020 BREAKING NEWS: UCSD Updates Return to Learn, Plans for Campus-Wide T esting - UCSD Guardian
For the first time since the end of Spring Quarter, UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla  provided the campus community with an update to the “Return to Learn” 
program. Sent out  on Thursday, June 25, the announcement focused on campus 
operations, including  classroom details, research protocols, and housing procedures. 
The update laid out a goal for testing both symptomatic and asymptomatic campus 
community members. All students living on campus are encouraged to participate in daily 
symptom screening to go along with free coronavirus testing upon moving in. This 
initiative was proven feasible by the  testing pilot program  that began during Spring 
Quarter. 
According to a CNN report on the program, less than 2,000 students took advantage of 
the 5,000 available tests. None of these tests came back positive. Jack Dorfman  June 25 , 2020  Accessed: 7/1/2020 BREAKING NEWS: UCSD Updates Return to Learn, Plans for Campus-Wide T esting - UCSD Guardian
“Plans for the fall are to offer regular testing to students, faculty and staff for SARS-CoV-2.  
Higher testing frequencies are recommended for populations where social distancing is  
difficult or who are at higher risk of infection,” Assistant Director of University  
Communications Christine Clark said in a press release . “Through implementation of 
strategies for adaptive testing,  tracking, tracing and isolation, the goal is to lessen the 
likelihood of a significant outbreak on  campus.”
All testing will be free to students and will be conducted at Student Health Services or UCSD  
Health locations.
“We wanted a simple, easy testing process which can be delivered at scale in the fall to ensure  
widespread testing for early outbreak detection,” Project Lead Natasha Martin, an associate  
professor at UCSD School of Medicine, said in a press release. “Our simulations indicate that  
if more than 75 percent of the population were tested per month, we would be able to detect  
an outbreak before there are 10 detectable infections on campus.” 
The announcement also mentioned that only about 30 percent of courses will be in-person,  
with the rest being remote or hybrid courses. Furthermore, “in-person class size is limited to  
fewer than 50 students per class, or 50 percent of classroom capacity, whichever is smaller…
[and] many in-person classes will have fewer than 25 students.”
Khosla’s announcement also reiterated that although some in-person advising will be 
available, most student advising will be through the Virtual Advising Center. The university 
will also expand online resources and develop “onboarding webinars for new international 
students and their families, International Student Peer Coaching Program, introductory 
summer start course and webinar series, and extended virtual orientation and welcome 
programs for both undergraduate and graduate students.” Additionally, the Globally 
Engaged Tritons Committee launched Global Hub, a new portal for virtual programming and 
events. 
Despite varying infection rates across the world, all international students will face stricter 
guidelines than U.S. students. Students returning to campus from an international location 
and who have accepted the housing contract will be asked to undergo “a 14-day quarantine 
period […] in specially designated on-campus housing with no additional housing fees.” 
Meals will be provided, and students can log on to the Housing Portal to input any dietary 
needs starting in July. To qualify for on-campus quarantine housing, students must arrive on 
campus between Aug. 27 and Sept. 3, 2020. Those who arrive after Sept. 3 will be offered 
hotel accommodations at reduced prices that have already been negotiated by the university.Accessed: 7/1/2020 BREAKING NEWS: UCSD Updates Return to Learn, Plans for Campus-Wide T esting - UCSD Guardian
The announcement reiterated that any student who tests positive will be transferred to a  
designated on-campus housing location and will be provided with food and other necessities  
including healthcare from SHS.
As was the case during Spring Quarter, students will not have to pay for unused housing if  
they are forced out of their on-campus housing due to public health concerns.
The university also announced “Research Ramp-Up,” a three-stage safety protocol plan that  
would precede the green “return to full operations” stage. The announcement did not offer a  
designation of the current phase. Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth H. Simmons  
announced on May 30  that UCSD plans to enter the “Orange Phase” of ramp-up, which 
involves remote work when  possible, limits on-site research personnel to approximately 25 
percent at any given time,  and requires social distancing and sanitization protocols, as well 
as the use of personal  protective equipment. The update also discussed face covering and 
social distancing  requirements. These policies will include indoor mask requirements unless 
alone in a private  room or dorm,  as well as a self-screening for COVID-19 symptoms  and 
COVID-19 Return to Work Training  for student employees, faculty,  and staff.
In addition, public and high-touch areas “will be disinfected frequently [and] hand sanitizer 
will be available at various entry points, dining facilities, study and other public areas.”
The full text of the update and an archive of past announcements can be found here.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Amendment to Repeal Affirmative Action Ban Passes the California Senate - UCSD Guardian
 June 26, 2020   Andrew Ha 
The Assembly Constitutional Amendment 5 passed the California State Senate on June 24  
with a nearly party-line vote. Republican State Senator Scott Wilk of Santa Clarita joined 
29 Democrats to pass ACA 5. The amendment will repeal the 1996 Proposition 209 which  
prevented state government institutions from discriminating against or showing 
preference  to any group of people in public employment, education, and contracting. ACA 
5 will now  move to the November 2020 ballot for Californians to make a final decision. 
Affirmative action, in the university admissions context, is an institutional measure that 
promotes greater representation of underprivileged minority groups and women. If 
passed in November, UC San Diego and other public universities in the state will be able 
to implement affirmative action by using race as a factor in admissions to boost diversity. 
However, according to the 1978 Supreme Court case University of California v. Bakke, 
schools will not be able to use racial quotas to specify the number of students of each race 
that would be admitted. 
“In public higher education, ACA 5 opens up opportunities for and recognition of 
individuals who face discriminatory obstacles growing up and every day, such as racism, 
sexism, socio-economic discrimination,” UCSD Asian & Pacific Islander Student AllianceAccessed: 7/1/2020 Amendment to Repeal Affirmative Action Ban Passes the California Senate - UCSD Guardian
Political Coordinator Dephny Duan said to The UCSD Guardian. “ACA 5 openly and 
directly aims to  serve and lift the community of Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders, 
Black Americans, Latino  Americans, Native Americans, and women who have struggled 
with these discriminatory  practices and whose struggles have been ignored historically 
and currently with color-blind  practices.”
Although the plurality of undergraduate students at UCSD are Asian Americans, there is 
a stark contrast with other minority groups. African Americans, Native Americans, and 
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders make up 2.8 percent, 0.4 percent, and 0.2 
percent, respectively, of the undergraduate population. In conjunction with the removal 
of the SAT and ACT standardized testing requirements for applicants, ACA 5 will allow 
the University of California to address what it considers to be systematic and perpetual 
inequalities in its institution.
“It makes little sense to exclude any consideration of race in admissions when the aim of 
the University’s holistic process is to fully understand and evaluate each applicant 
through multiple dimensions,” UC President Janet Napolitano said in a press release. 
“Proposition 209 has forced California public institutions to try to address racial 
inequality without factoring in race, even where allowed by federal law. The diversity of 
our university and higher education institutions across California, should — and must — 
represent the rich diversity of our state.”
However, the passage of this legislation has fueled contentious debate. Some white and 
Asian American groups argue that the repeal of Proposition 209 will legalize 
discrimination based on race in the admissions process. According to the California for 
Equal Rights campaign, the proposition actually promoted diversity in higher education, 
and ACA 5 will prevent that from continuing.
“ACA 5 is a lie and it legalizes discrimination, as correctly pinpointed by Senator Ling 
Ling Chang at today’s floor vote,” California for Equal Rights representative Dr. 
Wenyuan Wu said in a statement. “It is promoted by political propaganda based on 
ingenuine attacks on Proposition 209. In reality, since 1996, California has made strides 
in diversity and inclusion in public education, employment and contracting. UC has 
made substantial improvements in both enrollment and graduation prospects regarding 
underrepresented minority students.”Accessed: 7/1/2020 Amendment to Repeal Affirmative Action Ban Passes the California Senate - UCSD Guardian
Other organizations like “Asian Students at Risk” have taken to social media to cri tique ACA  
5 and claim that it will reduce the number of Asian Americans in top-tier universities. ASR  
was created in response to ACA 5, stating that the amendment is racially discriminatory  
against Asian Americans. In response to those statements, UCSD’s Asian & Pacific Islander  
Student Association have created their own campaign to explain the legislation in their  
perspective. 
“We believed that their reasons for not supporting ACA 5 fuel the “model minority” myth,  
and worsen racial relations,” APSA Chair Victoria Pham said to The UCSD Guardian.
“Furthermore, their misinformation that there will be a racial quota upon Asians is  
particularly harmful, as they are misleading individuals to believe that other communities of  
color are now a “threat” towards Asian students. Their position creates a racial wedge  
between them and other communities, when the goal should be to stand in solidarity with  
one another.”
APSA also claimed that although Asian Americans are often considered to be successful,  
there are still disparities between various subgroups.
“This assumption is also extremely dangerous in ways that have already been recognized,  
such as Hmong and other South East Asian communities, whose needs have been ignored  
and drowned out by this Myth,” APSA Political Coordinator Dephny Duan said. “Because  
ACA is a color-conscious piece of legislation, ACA 5 highlights these various experiences  
within the Asian community rather than blanket them with the Model Minority Myth and 
its assumptions of easy success, and it is crucial that these experiences are formally 
recognized  and heard and would be unfair otherwise.”
If signed by the Governor, the amendment will be on the ballot for the presidential election  
on Tuesday November 3, 2020 and will require a simple majority vote. To learn more about  
ACA 5, refer to California’s legislative Information page.
Photo courtesy of the Public Policy Institute of California. 
The UCSD Guardian reached out to UCSD administration, but they have not responded 
for comment.