“Emotions are not only 
a way for our mind to 
clue us in to what’s 
happening; they also 
convey information 
to the people around 
us. If we are sad, it 
pulls for comfort. If we 
communicate guilt, it 
pulls for forgiveness.”
- DR. KONSTANTIN LUKIN
ON TOXIC POSITIVITY,
OPINION, PAGE 5
SCIENCE & TECH.........2
INTERPOOL................ ...6
CHARLIE BROWN.........7
ASK BRADLEY  ..............8
WVB............................12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 6  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
On UC San Diego’s Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography has been working to 
protect against potential harm from the 
recent Southern California oil spill. On Oct. 2, 
a pipeline off the coast of Orange County broke, 
causing an estimated 25,000 gallons of crude oil 
to leak into the Catalina Channel. 
The spillage has had a detrimental effect 
on the local environment as fish, birds, and 
other marine animals have washed up on the 
beaches — many either dead or coated in oil. 
Due to the potential health risks posed by the 
oil-contaminated waters, all Orange County 
beaches were closed on Oct. 3.
Eric Terrill, an oceanographer at SIO and 
the director of the Marine Physical Laboratory, 
told The UCSD 
Guardian about the 
tools Scripps has been 
using in response to 
the oil spill.
“[Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography 
has] played a role 
in forecasting oil 
transport, ” Terrill 
explained. “Some 
of this forecasting 
leveraged capabilities 
that we had installed 
along the coast of 
Southern California 
close to 20 years ago, 
using a network of 
radar systems. ” 
Clarisa Anderson, 
the executive director 
of the Southern 
California Coastal 
Ocean Observing 
System at SIO, spoke 
to The Guardian 
elaborating on this 
radar system managed 
by the SCCOOS. 
“High frequency radar is a tool used to 
measure surface currents and their velocity and 
direction, ” Anderson explained. “This proves 
very useful in an oil spill response because it 
tells where the water is moving in real time. ”
The forecasting information gathered 
by Scripps’ technology provides valuable 
information to the United States Coast Guard, 
who oversees the immediate response to an oil 
spill. Oil transport forecasting aids the United 
States Coast Guard in determining shoreline 
closures. 
Additionally, the Coast Guard lays down floating barriers, called “booms, ” in order to 
contain the spill so that oil may be wicked up, 
preventing it from reaching sensitive areas such 
as wetlands.
UCSD officials raised concerns that 
operations at Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography would be negatively impacted 
if the oil drifted far enough south to reach San 
Diego. 
To protect seawater supplies from 
contamination, UCSD’s Environmental Health 
and Safety department has implemented a 
multi-step filtering system designed to trap 
pollutants and sample for hydrocarbons in the 
water.
“UCSD has been proactive about protecting 
the seawater intake at 
the end of Scripps Pier 
because it feeds the 
aquarium, as well as 
a number of scientific 
studies here, ” Terrill 
said. 
If oil permeated 
the area surrounding 
Scripps Pier, scientific 
operations and any 
animals under the care 
of Birch Aquarium 
would be placed at 
risk. Terrill added that 
EHS has fortunately 
not yet encountered 
oil spillage on the 
beaches of San Diego, 
as of Oct. 30.
“ T h e 
Environmental  
Health and Safety 
office sampled for 
hydrocarbons in the 
water but we have not 
seen any oil, aside 
from tar balls on the 
beach, ” Terrill said.
Besides the forecasting system, Terrill talked 
about the repositioning of the SIO’s offshore 
robotic platform to gain knowledge of wind 
conditions, a crucial component in predicting 
the direction of oil transport.
“ Another tool we have is a robotic platform 
which uses wave energy to propel itself, ” Terrill 
said. “This platform had been offshore already 
for several months doing research and, when 
the spill occurred, we then repositioned it to 
the areas of highest oil concentration so that we 
could understand what the winds were doing 
because the prediction of oil transport is very UCSD Studies 
Combatting 
Loneliness through 
Teen and Senior 
Connection
Image courtesy Hope Hoffman-Larson for The UCSD GuardianIn May of this past year, 
third year UC San Diego 
medical student, Heidi Banh 
and Dr. Desiree Shapiro, a 
child & adolescent psychiatrist, 
recently collaborated to launch a 
mentorship program to connect 
seniors and teens together. This 
program was launched as part 
of a research study on how to 
counteract loneliness in the midst 
of the pandemic. 
The intergenerational study 
was initiated through an 
online program that brought 
together five seniors from two 
retirement communities and 
five San Diego area teenagers 
that were participating in a high 
school leadership program. In 
coordination with Shapiro and 
Banh, these 10 individuals met 
once a month on Zoom where each 
teen and senior were partnered 
for one-on-one interactions. Each 
senior and teen were paired based 
on similarities of characteristics.
The program’s group discussions 
include various themes such 
as gratitude, compassion, self-
compassion, mindfulness, 
well-being, resilience, purpose, 
meaning, kindness, wisdom, and 
hope. One-on-one interaction 
sessions focused on building 
and deepening mentor-mentee 
relationships, the autonomous 
ability to create their own goals, 
and establishing a level of support 
from the program if needed. 
According to Shapiro, the basis 
of the program was to figure out 
how we can build connections and 
offer support to ensure positive 
youth development.
“Research has shown that many 
aging brains are skilled at problem 
solving and are also skilled in 
processing and regulating 
emotions, ” Shapiro noted. “The 
benefits of both face-to-face 
and virtual intergenerational 
mentorship programs are vast, 
including promoting generativity 
and psychological wellbeing in 
older adults, reducing ageism and 
improving youth’s empathy and 
respect towards older adults, and 
promoting youth development. ”
“In my clinical experience, 
it is powerful to see one be a 
champion for a youth. I run a 
summer program to encourage 
medical students to consider 
the field of child and adolescent 
psychiatry, ” Shapiro continued. 
“Given Banh’s past experience 
with intergenerational 
volunteering, I suggested a virtual 
intergenerational mentoring 
program given the pandemic’s 
impact on mental health and the 
resulting loneliness. ” 
According to Shapiro, 
loneliness has been a struggle By Kalohelani Danbara Contributing WriterSCIENCE
UCSD Works to Protect Against Recent Oil SpillCONNECTION
By Brandon Mariano
Contributing Writer
See CONNECTION,  page 2 See SCIENCE,  page 2“It is important 
to see the 
consequences of 
being reliant on 
fossil fuels...
Oil is a sensitive 
resource 
and when there is 
a leak, the 
collateral damage 
is high.”
Image courtesy of Jackson Ludtke
On Oct. 23, our Triton community 
lost a fellow student to a tragic accident 
on campus. The UCSD Guardian will 
not be covering details of this incident 
out of respect for Aaron Fan and his 
loved ones. Please be respectful to fellow 
Triton members as we honor and mourn 
the love and light left behind by Aaron’s 
legacy. 
Health and well-being resources 
are available for those who may need 
additional support during this time. 
Students are encouraged to reach out to 
Counseling and Psychological Services 
(CAPS) and to contact their Dean of 
Student Affairs. CAPS provides free, 
confidential, counseling and crisis 
services for registered UC San Diego 
students, and can be reached at 858-534-
3755. Additional information is available 
at https://caps.ucsd.edu/.
Y our dean of student affairs can help 
to arrange temporary leaves of absence, 
reach out to professors and connect 
students with campus and community 
resources. Here is a list of deans, along 
with their contact information:
 
Eleanor Roosevelt College                               
Ashton Cleveland                       
acleveland@ucsd.edu     
       
John Muir College                                            
Jason Thibodeaux                    
jjthibodeaux@ucsd.edu
Roger Revelle College                                    
Sherry Mallory                            
slmallory@ucsd.edu       
Seventh College                                        
Josh Brimmeier                           
jbrimmeier@ucsd.edu
Sixth College                                              
Diane LeGree                              
dlegree@ucsd.edu          
Thurgood Marshall College                     
Amber Vlasnik                         
avlasnik@ucsd.edu
Earl Warren College                                        
Dana Pysz                                    
dpysz@ucsd.edu
VERBATIM
INSIDEInterested in applying for
SCAN HERE
@ucsdguardian FOLLOW US!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
across all generations even before COVID-
19. Strict restrictions on social gatherings 
and quarantined social isolations have also 
exacerbated these issues.
This intergenerational study followed 
studies from Dr. Dilip Jeste, a senior associate 
dean for the Center of Healthy Aging and 
Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry and 
Neurosciences at UC San Diego School 
of Medicine. Jeste  conducted research on 
identifying the characteristics of seniors 
feeling high levels of loneliness living in senior 
living and retirement homes. 
Jeste’s study found three main topics in the 
conclusion of his study. This was characterized 
by age-associated losses and limited social 
skills, the lack of meaning or purpose in life, 
and how wisdom and compassion can limit 
the factors leading to feelings of loneliness. 
In November 2020, Jeste led another study 
relating to loneliness that was conducted through an national online survey of 2,483 
participants that were aged 20-69. The given 
study concluded that levels of loneliness were 
at its peak during an individual’s 20s and at its 
lowest when in their 60s.
Shapiro offered words of praise for her 
colleague for helping to bring the study 
together.
“Heidi Banh, the wonderful medical 
student who co-created the program with me, 
is outstanding and has so much passion in 
bringing youth and seniors together, ”  Shapiro 
stated. “In her own life, she treasures time spent 
with her grandparents and other mentors. She 
embodies empathy and compassion. ”
According to Shapiro, she said that she was 
hopeful about the results of the project.
“Our program is just ending so final data 
has not been analyzed, but the experience 
of the group sessions has been inspiring. 
The community of seniors and youth are amazing and the discussions have been 
rich with wisdom, insights, kindness, and 
laughter, ” Shapiro stated. “Honestly, I see both 
populations giving and receiving- there is true 
meaning and purpose in this project. ”
The process of analyzing the results further 
is ongoing. If you are interested in learning 
more in the program or if you are interested in 
participating, email Dr. Shapiro at dlshapiro@
health.ucsd.edu.dependent on the wind speed and direction. ”
Encouraging people to see the broader 
context of the oil spill, Anderson said there 
are  environmental ramifications of where 
energy is sourced.
“It is important to see the consequences 
of being reliant on fossil fuels, ” Anderson 
said. “Oil is a sensitive resource and when there is a leak, the collateral damage is 
high, which is why it’s good for people to 
understand the costs and benefits of the way 
that we get energy. ” 
“Scripps has a lot of interesting ocean 
observing technologies that other groups 
don’t necessarily have at the ready, ” Anderson 
continued. “It is pretty cool that we are able to assist in a situation like this and use new 
cutting edge tools to help with the oil spill. ” 
UCSD continues to monitor the water 
surrounding Scripps to ensure the protection 
of campus operations. The situation will 
continue to be monitored by The UCSD 
Guardian.▶ SCIENCE , from page 1
▶ CONNECTION , from page 1
Art by by Nicholas Regli for The UCSD GuardianFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Ariana Ruiz: A Community of  Confidence
In a time of  uncertainty or 
conflict, a person’s connection to 
their roots can provide inspiration. 
Professor Ariana Ruiz, member 
of  the UC San Diego literature 
department and first-generation  
American, offers many courses at 
the school discussing a heritage she 
shares with many San Diegans: 
Mexican origin. 
Throughout her classes, she 
offers her perspectives on the social 
currents and underlying themes 
from the past through today . 
She grew up in Inglewood, 
California, a city in the greater Los 
Angeles area. Both of  her parents 
were immigrants from Mexico to the 
United States. Growing up, Professor 
Ruiz never learned much about the 
Chicanx community , or the history 
of  the Chicanx movement. 
California previously had no 
ethnic studies requirement for its 
public schools; Governor Gavin 
Newsom signed a bill on October 
8 mandating a semester-long ethnic 
studies course for California public 
high school in order for students to 
graduate. 
As a first generation college 
student, Professor Ruiz pursued her 
path to higher education without 
familial precedent. With her high 
school’s focus on getting their 
diploma, their information available 
for hopeful college scholars was 
much more limited. 
“I just didn’t know what the 
process looked like,” Professor 
Ruiz told the UCSD Guardian. 
“My parents were very much of  
the mindframe of, ‘you’re going to 
college. We don’t understand college, 
we don’t know how it works, we 
don’t know the difference between a 
community , Cal State, UC, we just 
know that this is what you are going 
to do.” 
Even without a clear aim for 
what she was in for, Professor 
Ruiz charged straight ahead into 
her pursuits. She enrolled in the 
undergraduate program at UC 
Santa Cruz as an Environmental 
Science major, despite her known 
love for literature. 
As time went on, Professor Ruiz 
found herself  with a supportive 
community around her, both of  
university staff  and other students. 
She strayed from the math and 
science classes which left her 
confused rather than captivated, 
instead pursuing literature and 
learning about her Chicanx heritage. 
The subject empowered her, 
leaving her wondering how her 
life’s trajectory might have changed 
if  she’d learned about it even 
before college. In a culture of  poor 
representation and identity erasure, 
to Professor Ruiz, “it meant a lot to 
be seen within the curriculum.”
She was not the only one who 
felt the impact of  the curriculum. 
According to a study by UC 
Santa Barbara, students felt more 
engaged and achieved greater 
academic success when they had 
the opportunity to take classes 
representing their own history . By Miriya Huie
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of the UCSD Arts and Humanities Department. The benefits aren’t only limited 
to ethnic students, however; 
students of  other ethnicities 
appreciated the chance to learn 
about other cultures and expand 
their empathy as well. 
While working alongside 
Kirsten Silva Gruesz in a 
mentorship program, Professor 
Ruiz worked on a literature 
project together, truly opening her 
eyes to the prospects of  a career 
centered around literature. 
She obtained a new goal: 
to become a K-12 teacher and 
help her students embrace ethnic 
studies from a younger age.
With love for both teaching 
and literature, as she entered 
graduate school, Professor Ruiz 
was torn between the educational 
and literature tracks. Despite her 
initial plans to teach K-12, she 
quickly realized that her passion 
for developing her own ideas 
burned too bright to be brushed 
aside. 
She sought a PhD with the 
opportunity to develop her ideas 
centered around Chicanx/
Latinx Literature. Throughout 
her post-graduate studies, she 
attended the University of  
Illinois in Champaign-Urbana.
There, she experienced a cultural 
clash between the Californian 
environment she grew up in and 
her new home in the midwest.
Unlike her previous schooling 
experiences, Professor Ruiz 
described the University of  
Illinois as a predominantly white 
institution; even more so than 
where she’d been before, there Even amidst the pandemic, students and staff alike arrive on campus and find 
their way into the UC San Diego community. One such professor is Ariana 
Ruiz, a first-generation college student whose life experiences shaped her 
teaching practices today.
“....I had to kind of 
learn how to create 
community for 
myself...”  
was little representation amidst 
the faculty or student body . Of  the 
Fall 2020 admissions, only 11.2% 
of  the students self-described as 
Hispanic.
“That for me was another 
space where I had to kind of  
learn how to create community 
for myself,” Professor Ruiz 
commented, “community that 
isn’t naturally just there.” 
Throughout her education, 
Professor Ruiz sought out students 
who had similar experiences 
of  feeling different. Together, 
they were able to navigate the 
unfamiliar environment and 
allowed Professor Ruiz to thrive, 
earning her degree and propelling 
her forwards on her career path. 
She continues to seek community 
for support and connection today .
At the University of  Iowa, 
where she first taught, she encountered the same thing: a 
dominantly white environment. 
Though her classes featured 
greater ethnic diversity than others, 
only two or three students were a 
person of  color.
She developed a teaching 
practice intrinsic to her style: she 
examines her own course through 
the eyes of  a student who had 
no familiarity with the material or 
its contents. Understanding that 
students may not have had access 
to the information she teaches, she 
ensures that no prior information is 
needed to excel in the course.
Using her own experience first 
encountering Chicanx literature as 
a starting point, she imagines how 
a student might feel encountering 
ethnic literature for the first time. 
Professor Ruiz then accounts for 
what resources and information the 
students may need, allowing her to 
create a sense of  equity within her 
classroom. 
She ensures that students have 
the information they need to 
succeed; she wants to “level the 
playing field, to a certain degree.”
For instance, Professor Ruiz 
promoted information about the 
McNair Program to her students, 
a research opportunity very similar 
to the faculty mentorship program 
she took part in at UC Santa Cruz. 
Professor Ruiz mentioned that 
it was very important that students 
know these opportunities are 
available and accessible in order 
for them to achieve their greatest 
academic potential.
She also loves to examine the 
course from a fresh perspective 
to retain her excitement for the 
coursework and join her class in the 
joy of  reading a novel for the first 
time. “Like, it’s the first time we’re 
reading Under the Feet of  Jesus,” 
she excitedly explained, “look at 
all this symbolism, look at these 
connections!”
Professor Ruiz’s time instructing 
at the University of  Iowa, however, 
came to a close. After becoming a 
mother, she left the University of  
Iowa and returned to California to 
be near her family . She wanted to 
be surrounded by the people she 
grew up with, and allow her own 
child to have that same connection. 
Following her move, Professor 
Ruiz began teaching at UC San 
Diego, immersing herself  once 
again in the rich culture of  southern 
California. 
From the closeness to the 
border to the excitement with which Professor Ruiz discusses 
the possibility that, in 1848, Ruiz 
de Burton was writing just down 
the road, San Diego is a location 
of  great historical and modern-
day significance for the Chicanx 
community .
Once in San Diego, Professor 
Ruiz set to work to once again 
establish a sense of  community . 
Her connections to other faculty , as 
well as students, embody her goals 
as a professor.
In teaching, Professor Ruiz 
hopes to help build students’ 
confidence and empower them to 
pridefully take their seat in the 
classroom and contribute their 
unique perspective. 
She hopes to move away from 
the “Bank Model” of  education 
where the instructors fill the 
“empty vessel” of  the students with 
information. 
Instead, the aim is to share 
insights in order to build a more 
comprehensive vision of  a text--and 
to build a community within the 
classroom. She promotes discussion 
within the classroom, ensuring that 
students get the chance to voice 
their own perspectives in each class, 
both with small groups and with 
the class as a whole.
Even though her classes are still 
online, Professor Ruiz endeavors 
to create that genuine connection 
through the screen. 
In addition to guaranteeing 
time for discussion in every class, 
she also makes it abundantly 
clear to her students that she is 
available. She described her efforts 
to make herself  as accessible as possible, through appointment, 
email or after class: “there’s all 
these different mediums that are 
involved, in hoping that people 
do reach out if  they feel like they 
need to.” 
The community aspect of  the 
university , and of  the city , is of  
the utmost importance to Professor 
Ruiz; it creates a sense of  belonging 
for herself  and others.
Professor Ruiz’s journey 
through the unknowns of  the 
college experience, as well as her 
ventures to build a community 
where students are supported and 
encouraged, has left her with a 
message for students: push yourself  
to try out new things.
While joining Professor Ruiz’s 
literature class is certainly one 
dimension of  her suggestion, she 
hopes to inspire people to challenge 
themselves, in order to develop 
skills and grow as a person. 
“That’s where you really learn 
to challenge yourself  and to grow 
as an individual,” she told the 
UCSD Guardian. “ And that’s also 
where you start making those really 
cool connections with other courses 
in ways that you might have not 
anticipated.”
She encourages students to 
connect with the material, with 
their teachers and with each other; 
after all, that’s the best way to 
create foundations for a lifetime of  
success. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
The Film Industry Sacrifices
 Lives for Content Creation
By Marcella Barneclo
Staff WriterIt’s Okay to Not be Okay 
Recently, the media has blown 
up with countless articles recalling 
an incident on the production 
set of “Rust, ” an unreleased Old 
Western film. The unfortunate 
circumstances involved prominent 
actor Alec Baldwin, and his 
accidental firing of a prop gun that 
killed cinematographer Halyna 
Hutchins during a scene rehearsal. 
When I first heard about 
Hutchins’ untimely and tragic 
death, I was shocked to the point 
of disbelief. I’m sure I wasn’t the 
first or only person to think, “Why 
was there a real gun being used 
on set?” The answer is shocking: 
authentic guns filled with blanks 
are incredibly common in the film 
industry and this isn’t the first time 
that someone has been gravely 
injured by the presence of a real 
firearm on set. 
However, even after all of these 
unfortunate calamities, the film 
industry continues to place their 
obsession with providing realistic 
action-packed entertainment 
above the safety and well-being of 
their employees all for the sake of 
content creation. 
The implementation of “safety” 
measures and guidelines is simply 
not enough; a more sensible 
solution is a ban on firearms being 
used on set.  
Prior to the gradual 
implementation of safety measures 
on film sets, deaths on film sets 
stood perilously high with one five-
year span in the 1930s containing over 30 reported deaths. From 1990 
up until 2004, there have been at 
least 194 life-threatening accidents 
as well as 43 reported deaths on 
movie and television sets in the 
United States alone. While safety 
guidelines appear to be effectively 
limiting the occurrence of injuries 
and deaths on set, there is always 
room for error. Unfortunately, 
when loaded firearms are involved, 
error results in unnecessary death 
and injury. 
Art by Andrew Diep for the UCSD Guardian. 
“... “safety” measures [are] 
simply not enough; a more 
sensible solution is a ban on 
firearms being used on set.” 
For example, on the set of  “Rust, ” 
it’s been revealed that the gun was 
not thoroughly checked and the 
production team had been taking 
shortcuts on safety standards, 
including opting out of insurance 
packages and subjecting employees 
to poor working conditions. 
There were also two separate 
occasions on the same set that 
involved the misfiring of firearms 
in the days leading up to Hutchins’ 
death. Both mishaps involved 
explicit errors in communication where the crew was told the firearms 
contained no live ammunition or 
blanks. This obviously wasn’t the 
case when the triggers were pulled. 
Despite these previous mistakes, 
errors continued to be made, and, 
in this case, it has led to disastrous 
circumstances. 
Furthermore, the safety 
“guidelines” set in place are 
nowhere near equivalent to the 
severity of firearm regulation laws. 
In the U.S., there are no official 
overarching rules on the proper 
handling of firearms on set. The 
U.S. Federal Workplace Agency 
leaves the responsibility of creating 
and enforcing safety measures to 
the discretion of the film industry 
itself. 
Some companies, like Warner 
Brothers, have formulated their 
own individual policies, but others 
are not as strict or careful. 
This decision to leave the safety 
of workers in the hands of the film 
industry is a dire mistake and a substantial issue when the main 
motivations and priorities of the 
industry are considered. It’s no secret 
that this money conglomerate is 
highly driven by revenue, meaning 
it often has absolutely no qualms 
with sacrificing the well-being of its 
workers in order to accumulate the 
most profit. 
We’ve continually seen this 
type of sacrificial behavior not 
only with safety regulations, but 
feigned ignorance and an utterly 
disappointing lack of intervention 
over sexual assault, unequal 
compensation, discrimination, etc. 
Ultimately, this industry that is 
so willing to sacrifice the health and 
success of its employees in order 
to save money cannot be trusted 
with implementing the proper set 
of rules or handling enforcement. 
Outside intervention on the federal 
level is needed in order to push a 
ban on firearms being used on sets 
and prevent future incidents from 
ever taking place.  On the off chance that someone 
points out the rarity of shootings 
on set occurring, it’s important to 
ask the larger question of why do 
they occur at all? There is simply 
no need to have loaded guns on set 
that put the lives of others at risk all 
for the sake of creating “realistic” 
entertainment. 
Not to mention we have 
developed incredible digital 
techniques that can render and 
imitate the discharge of firearms 
without putting anyone in harm’s 
way. Even if these digitized versions 
are not entirely the most realistic, 
they are a very viable and obvious 
solution to an absolutely needless 
issue. 
Films are intended to be 
forms of thoughtful and thought-
provoking art; they should not 
involve unnecessary dangers that 
put the lives of the crew at risk. We 
have the options and capabilities 
to eliminate the risk of using real 
firearms on set, and it should never 
have taken the death of Hutchins to 
remind us of that. 
Now is the time to make changes 
within the film industry to ban the 
use of real firearms on set and 
prioritize the safety and well-being 
of employees over profit in order to 
prevent future mistakes and deaths 
in an industry originally intended 
for creation and expression.  OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian. By Raymond Tran
Opinion EditorIt’s Okay to Not be Okay 
In the midst of midterms, a 
pandemic, and just life in general, 
mental health seems to be at the 
bottom of a list of priorities despite 
the many emotional and mental 
obstacles that arise. The initial 
response to hardships is oftentimes 
met with phrases such as “out of 
sight, out of mind, ” “it could be 
worse, ” and “look on the bright 
side. ” While these may be  valid 
responses in some situations, 
more often than not, they actually 
minimize one’s emotional response 
and don’t allow them to fully react 
to the circumstances, ultimately 
stunting emotional growth. 
Forced positivity is not helpful 
— in fact, it’s actually quite toxic. 
This type of reaction to adversity 
is known as toxic positivity, which 
is essentially the obsession with 
positive thinking. Toxic positivity 
is the belief that people should put 
a positive spin on all experiences, 
even those profoundly tragic, 
opting for momentary happiness 
at the cost of emotional processing. 
Here’s a reminder: you get to be 
sad. We need to stop gaslighting 
ourselves into thinking that our 
issues don’t matter, or that our 
problems aren’t taking a toll on our 
mental well-being. 
Research has actually shown that 
accepting negative emotions, rather 
than avoiding or dismissing them, 
may actually be more beneficial for 
a person’s mental health in the long 
run. One study found a connection 
between emotional acceptance 
and psychological health in more 
than 1,300 adults; they concluded that people who habitually avoid 
acknowledging difficult emotions 
end up feeling worse.
Stopping ourselves from 
feeling our emotions stunt us 
from processing and growing 
from adversity. We need to allow 
ourselves to feel, to grieve, and 
to let down our defenses. The 
first step is to acknowledge our 
emotions as they come and to not 
suppress them.
Toxic positivity functions as 
an avoidant coping mechanism. It 
allows people to evade emotional 
situations that make them feel 
uncomfortable. Whether it stems 
from toxic masculinity or from 
childhood trauma, sometimes we 
turn these same ideas on ourselves, 
internalizing these toxic ideas, 
disguising them in our everyday 
mental health practices. 
No one wants to feel sad, 
angry, or scared, but realizing and 
understanding those emotions 
is better than letting them loom 
over you. These emotions become 
bigger and more significant as they 
remain unprocessed. 
According to Psychologist 
Dr. Konstantin Lukin, when 
individuals avoid difficult 
emotions, valuable information is 
lost. He is essentially saying that 
emotions are information that 
tell us what we feel in any given 
situation while also giving us the 
tools to understand why we’re 
feeling a certain way, which can 
lead to greater discoveries about 
ourselves. 
Lukin writes, “Emotions are not 
only a way for our mind to clue us 
in to what’s happening; they also 
convey information to the people 
around us. If we are sad, it pulls for 
comfort. If we communicate guilt, it pulls for forgiveness. ”
We don’t need to put a facade 
and hide from the issues that weigh 
us down. No one benefits from it.
When the flow of emotions is 
interrupted because they are too 
overwhelming or too conflicting, 
it puts stress on the mind and 
the body, creating psychological 
distress and symptoms. In fact, 
emotional stress, like that from 
blocked emotions, has not only 
been linked to mental illnesses 
such as anxiety and depression, 
but also to physical problems like 
heart disease, intestinal problems, 
headaches, insomnia, and 
autoimmune disorders.We also need to stop 
perpetuating this behavior 
whenever we’re consoling someone. 
Especially when someone’s loved 
one has passed, many people 
default to “don’t worry, they’re in a 
better place now, ” which can be very 
confusing for people processing a 
tragedy. Allow people, and yourself, 
to experience the pain, sadness, or 
anger that comes with the ups and 
downs of life, from that, begets 
growth and wisdom. 
This isn’t to say that positivity 
and optimism are not welcomed. 
However, there is a fine line 
between optimism and toxic 
positivity; the line being whether or not it’s actually helpful.
As midterms take a piece of your 
soul and the overbearing weight of 
life starts to decay your sanity, don’t 
hide it away. Acknowledge it. Sit 
with it. And grow from it, whatever 
that may mean for you. Whether it’s 
taking a mental health day, finally 
confronting a toxic friend, or even 
lowering your workload, don’t let 
the fast pace of life become an 
excuse to neglect your emotional 
and mental wellbeing.
Y our emotions are valid. 
Y ou are allowed to not be fine. 
Acknowledge it. Understand why. 
Take the next steps and take care 
of yourself. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
From the writing to the sets, this movie has been ingrained into Halloween lore, 
but the characters have become its most enduring feature. All of them are one of a 
kind: Jack is known for his black and white pinstripe suit and his long spindly frame, 
Sally’s body is a patchwork constantly falling apart, and Zero is an adorable ghost 
dog with a shiny nose. These uniquely shaped and colored designs bring a liveliness 
to the movie that immerses the audience in the movie and the holiday itself. After 
the characters are introduced in the first song “This is Halloween, ” it is clear that 
“The Nightmare Before Christmas” is far more charming than scary.
Whether you watch “The Nightmare Before Christmas” in October or December, 
you are guaranteed to feel the holiday spirit oozing from the screen. Between the 
spooky sets and quirky characters, it embodies the fun-loving feeling that arises 
at the end of October. Forget the question of when you are supposed to watch 
it — “The Nightmare Before Christmas” is worth a showing on any holiday, from 
Valentine’s Day to Thanksgiving to maybe even Halloween.
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) have taken the music industry by storm in recent months. 
In the modern age, they represent a new way for fans to collect things from their favor -
ite artists, and a new way for artists to make more money by selling their work. There’s 
a twist though, because for the first time, it seems these things can be owned solely by 
the person who acquires them. Most NFTs are bought via auction using virtual cur -
rency and sure, most NFTs can be copied, but the person who buys it is the true owner 
of the one original version. Artists like Grimes, Aphex Twin, and even Elon Musk have 
joined the NFT gamefor various reasons. Joining them now are New York-based alter -
native rock band Interpol and legendary director David Lynch.
The Nightmare 
Before Christmas
-Kavley ChunEither way, “The Nightmare Before Christmas” dives into the holiday season with charm, 
imagination, and several snazzy musical numbers. Producer Tim Burton is known for being 
the man behind the curtain on this project, and he had no qualms about executing the unex -
pected. Released in 1993, “The Nightmare Before Christmas” remains a classic because of its 
unique aesthetic and the obvious care that was put into its production.
“The Nightmare Before Christmas” takes place in the dark, fantasy Halloween Town, where 
a cast of monsters, ghosts, and other creepy characters live. When “The Pumpkin King” Jack 
Skellington grows bored of Halloween, he finds a door in the woods that leads to Christmas 
Town. This novel place filled with colors, lights, and snow is utterly different from the black 
and white canvas of the town he has always known. What stands out about these two settings 
are their unique stylistic features. None of the lines are perfectly straight, the buildings are 
roughly textured, and most characters have wildly unreasonable proportions, yet somehow 
these strange and imperfect details come together to support a story filled with as much odd -
ity as the world around it.Is it a Halloween movie? A Christmas movie?
        Fabian Garcia
The short features exactly what the title suggests — a man and a red button — how -
ever, now in 2021, the visuals have been reimagined in the form of seven NFTs. 
These one-of-a-kind pieces of art feature an updated version of the original short 
film as well as a new piano-based rendition of Interpol’s 2011 single “Lights.” 
Only the first NFT is available for auction as of writing this piece, however, the 
other six are set to release periodically throughout the coming weeks along with a 
special interactive eighth NFT which fans can customize themselves to be part of 
the collaboration.
According to their Instagram, Interpol has been working on new material since last 
summer and are still hard at work on their next record. Details about Lynch’s new 
mini-series have remained scarce since production began this year.Interpol Releases NFT with 
David Lynch
Interpol first teased their collaboration with Lynch on Monday with a post to their 
social media teasing their NFT with the date “10.26.21” and a caption that simply 
read “#lynchxinterpol.”The following day, another post was made announcing a 
“special project” between them and Lynch along with a link to an external website, 
lynchxinterpol.tv. The splash page provides a detailed history of the relationship 
between the band and Lynch. They first spoke with the esteemed director in 2008 
before he provided the visuals to their 2011 Coachella performance of their song 
“Lights.” The visuals in question come in the form of Lynch’s animated short film 
“I Touch a Red Button Man.”
Image courtesy of The Daily Beast. 
Image courtesy of IndieWire.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Halloween isn’t complete without Charlie Brown and his cartoon 
coterie. Often hailed as the most iconic Halloween TV special of 
all time, “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown” remains well 
within our cultural consciousness. Its influence is felt throughout 
an entire sub-genre of Halloween time media — that of the fam -
ily-friendly, spooky-less, autumnal movie or television show (e.g. 
“Casper, ” “Hocus Pocus, ” or “Scooby-Doo”). What makes this 
twenty-five-minute animation so enduring isn’t its adherence to 
pop culture’s interpretation of spooky season (because how scary, 
really, is a pumpkin patch?) but rather its defiance of normative 
Halloween conventions. Nothing about “It’s the Great Pumpkin, 
Charlie Brown, ” aside from Lucy’s abhorrent attitude towards 
Charlie Brown, is overtly frightening. The “Peanuts” gang partici -
pates in a variety of benign Halloween activities: Snoopy imper -
sonates a WWI flying ace, Linus and Sally wait in anticipation for 
the eponymous Great Pumpkin, and Charlie Brown and Lucy go 
trick-or-treating. “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown” charms 
viewers precisely because it is in direct opposition to the glut of 
Halloween-time horror media. What Charlie Brown and the rest 
of the “Peanuts” cast offer is much more meaningful than cheap 
thrills; “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown” allows an escape, 
if only for half an hour, from the horrors of everyday life and al -
lows you to be comforted by the wholesomeness of its characters. 
 A Scooby-Doo film or show always includes ghouls, monsters, 
and the supernatural. The feature length film “Scooby-Doo! And 
the Witch’s Ghost” introduces witches as well as the spooky 
band The Hex Girls. This fictional band from the Scooby-Doo 
franchise brings the Halloween season into full swing with their 
goth aesthetic and spooky songs. They exude the Halloween 
spirit with their unearthly and mysterious vocals and catchy 
songs. Some of their most popular songs include “Hex Girl’ and 
“Earth, Wind, Fire, and Air” from the film “Scooby-Doo! And 
the Witch’s Ghost.” The mixture of a haunting aura and pop rock 
music makes it seem like The Hex Girls are putting a spell on 
you. Although they sing mostly the same songs in each film or 
TV show they appear on, their music always gets better. Some 
additions to their tracklist over the years have been “It’s a Mys -
tery” and “Good Bad Girls.” The witchy band is the best part of 
any Scooby-Doo film and is the perfect musical addition. Their 
iconic style and sound will always be a staple of the Scooby-Doo 
franchise and any Halloween aesthetic. So next time you throw 
a Halloween party, I suggest you add a few Hex Girls songs to 
the playlist.This year, California-born artist Spellling released her third full length 
record, “The Turning Wheel, ” during the summer. The album is regarded 
as a standout progressive pop record with gothic themes. Nowhere else 
are these themes more present than in the tenth track “Magic Act, ’’ and 
nothing screams Halloween quite like gothic motifs. The track begins 
with an ominous low-pitched chime which quickly switches into the 
main beat, consisting of slowed drums and dreary synths. “Magic Act’’ 
follows no consistent structure, there are no choruses or verses, just a 
short refrain and an eerie chant, “Take my body, make my brain a gar -
den. ” The track ends on a high note breaking into an electrifying guitar 
solo before abruptly ending. There is a very foreboding atmosphere 
associated with the song; it’s sinister but satisfying at the same time — a 
perfect track to seize the Halloween season. It’s the Great 
Pumpkin,
 Char lie Brown
The Hex  Girls
Kamiah Johnson
Sarah Delima
Spellling - Magic Act
Fabian GarciaFor the rest of A & E, visit UCSDGuardian.org!
Image courtesy of Vox. 
Image courtesy of Pitchfork. Image courtesy of Letterboxd. 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
      “What are three words that describe you?”
This question has haunted me for years. Everywhere I go, from school ice breakers 
to job interviews, people ask me to describe myself using a few simple adjectives. My 
answers are usually catered to whomever I’m talking to: I’ve told my boss I’m determined, 
my teachers I’m hardworking, and my classmates I’m fun. None of these responses re -
quire any deep consideration, but they aren’t entirely inaccurate either. 
But what if there was a free test that could tell you exactly how to describe yourself? 
Something that not only analyzes your personality, but also provides an in-depth discus -
sion of your strengths, weaknesses, and relationship habits? If you’ve read the title of this 
article, you already know what I’m talking about: online personality tests!
Personality tests have become extremely popular in recent years. People take them 
all the time and use the results to help navigate their daily lives. They have even begun 
to make their way into the professional domain with some workplaces requiring their 
employees to take them as soon as they are hired. 
If I’m being honest, I’ve always been skeptical of these tests. Having a computer tell 
you who you are as a person seemed silly and somewhat careless. Every answer seemed 
to be a result of the placebo effect and never any actual science. They were like Hogwarts 
houses or Divergent factions: fun, but without any real meaning. 
To test this, I took five free online personality tests, each one differing in method, 
length, and credibility. I wanted to find out how consistent the results would be, as well as 
how accurate they were to my own perception of myself. The tests I took were the:
1. Myers-Briggs Personality Test - which one of sixteen personality types represents 
you best,
2. PATH Assessment - focuses on what your best and worst attributes as an employee 
are,
3. Test Color - choose your favorite and least favorite colors and it tells you about your 
personality,
4. DISC Personality Test - tells you what careers you should pursue based on one of 
four personality types,
5. Who Am I? Quiz - reveals your personality based on the OCEAN Big Five Model.
The results of these tests were … surprising, to say the least. Every test I took had somewhat similar results. They all described leadership, orga -
nization, and innovation to be my strengths, while flexibility was my biggest weakness. 
Most of them said I was extroverted as well as competitive to a fault. Other aspects 
were a bit less clear, with each test disagreeing on how comprehensive my creativity and 
decision-making skills were. In summary, they succeeded in having a consistent interpre -
tation of my dominant personality traits, even if they did struggle with some of the more 
nuanced ones. 
But the similarities in the results were not the most interesting part. Most of the tests 
had similar questions, which could have been the reason why they had similar answers. 
Additionally, for many of the tests, there were not many personality type options, mean -
ing that each type likely had broad criteria that made consistency easier. No, what was the 
most interesting was how different the results were from my own view of myself. 
If I went back to the question I asked at the beginning of this article and really thought 
about my answers, the words “leader, ” “organized, ” and “innovative” wouldn’t even come 
to mind! Sure, I could see myself being those things, but I would not say that they are the 
strongest aspects of my personality. But who is more right? Me or the computer? Or in 
other words, can we actually have accurate perceptions of ourselves or are we simply too 
close to tell?
For this part, I decided to do a bit of research. An article by Angus Chen from Sci -
entific American stated that personality tests simply sort what answers you gave during 
the test into categories and that they do not have any information about you that you did 
not provide. Additionally, people respond to personality tests differently based on their 
mood, causing varied results. Many tests that claim to have a scientific basis are actually 
just pseudoscience and have very little backing in the scientific community. So, while I do 
not want to sound arrogant, my original assumptions were correct! 
To conclude, what I learned about myself from personality tests did not come from 
the tests themselves. Rather, I learned that even though describing yourself is difficult, it 
is better to trust your own judgment of who you are rather than taking some online quiz. 
The results can seem real, but that doesn’t mean they are. And while it may seem like we 
do not know ourselves, I would think that our self-analyzing skills are stronger than we 
think. 
So right now, the three words that describe me are “goodbye personality tests!”
By Samantha Phan
Contibuting Lifestyle WriterI 
T ook 
Five 
Different 
Personality 
Tests. 
Here’s
What  
I  
Learned.*DISCLAIMER: Some questions that were submitted may have been altered to better fit this article*
Image courtesy of Dmitry Khrustalev-Grigoriev of Unsplash.LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Bradley Briggs, 
Lifestyle Co-editor Ask Bradley
Do you have a burning desire to know the secrets of the universe? Have an insurmountable prob -
lem that desperately needs solving? Are you often confused and scared by day-to-day life? Well, 
then I suggest you leave. This advice column answers only the most remedial and ridiculous ques -
tions solely for the purpose of entertainment. So, unless you suffer from a lack of gossip or bad 
advice, I suggest you go somewhere else. This is Ask Bradley:
For rest of article, visit UCSDGuardian.orgTo submit your 
question, scan the 
QR Code below!
An anonymous sophomore Political Science major in Eleanor Roosevelt College asks, 
“My roommate might actually be a serial killer — thoughts on what I should do?”Roomate might be a serial killer?! *DISCLAIMER: Some questions that were submitted may have been altered to better fit this article*
Over the summer, I got really into true-crime podcasts. Basically, I am now an expert on 
identifying serial killers. Here’ s a helpful list to determine if they are, in fact, a serial killer:
• They drink whole milk
• They still use “boss” as slang
• Anyone named Gary
• A bed full of stuffed animals … like FULL of stuffed animals
• Virgo
• Too concerned with the pineapple on pizza debate
• Only takes selfies with Snapchat filters
• Watched the “Emoji Movie” and enjoyed it
• Only has one pillow on their bed
• Actively admits to being a serial killer
I hope this very specific and well-thought-out list either helps you put your mind at ease or 
pushes you to call the police. 
Image courtesy of Bradley Beggs, Life -
style Co-editor.
How to prepare for your 1st midterm:
An anonymous first year asks, “My first ever college midterm is 
tomorrow. What should I do?”
Well, first off, I would like to address to all of my readers out there that if you have time-sensitive 
questions, please know that I will most likely not respond to them in quite some time — but still sub -
mit them because they are comedy gold for me. Regardless, this time of year at UC San Diego  is 
always fraught with anxiety and stress. Here at UCSD, we like to say that midterms are from Week 
2 to 10. So, this question remains timeless. My advice is as follows: 
There is a local UCSD urban legend stating that if one is able to touch every piece of the Stuart 
Collection before the start of your midterm, you’ll pass with flying colors. Now this method has its 
rewards, but not without a cost. This poses quite a challenge as some pieces are far away, too high 
up, or simply impossible to find. Things like the Warren Bear, the Snake Path, and Stonehenge are 
all fairly easy. Sun God is under construction, so you may have to sneak in at night. Fallen Star 
is only open at specific hours. And, pieces like Trees and Red Shoe are in the middle of the woods. 
However, if you are vigilant and true to your cause, I see nothing but success in your future. Yes, 
it may be time consuming, but what were you gonna use that time for anyways? Studying? Yeah, 
right…
UCSD wifi
Lisa Newcar, a junior theatre major asks, “How do I get the UCSD 
Wi-Fi to work?”
As many of us know, the Wi-Fi here at UCSD has been a major disaster. No one is able to securely 
connect to the Wi-Fi for any prolonged period of time. And, if you’re like me and have T-Mobile, 
you know that the cellular connection is even spottier. These prevailing issues lead me to conclude 
that we must abandon all hope of ever utilizing the Wi-Fi successfully and turn to other forms of 
communication. I had to go out and get some pens and paper to take notes in class! And, I will 
be buying a pigeon soon to train it to transport my messages to my friends. I also plan on utiliz -
ing smoke signals to email my professors that I am too sick to attend class when necessary. And 
of course, all my discussion posts are now in the form of ancient cave paintings. I suggest you all 
follow my lead and learn to live without Wi-Fi.MON11.1
4pm
VIDEO GAMES WITH ACM /hyphen.case 
LIBRARY WALK!
FREE BOBA AND VIDEO GAMES!!! Did I 
just hear that correctly??!! YES!!! Come 
out to Library Walk and play Nintendo 
Switch games with ACM or stop by and 
say hi and get some FREE boba!3:30pm
INTRODUCTION TO DESIGN 
THINKING /hyphen.case UC SAN DIEGO /hyphen.case 
BASEMENT /parenleft.caseDESIGN & 
INNOVATION BUILDING/parenright.case
Break down complex problems and 
create innovative, creative, and 
human-centered solutions using design 
thinking! In this workshop, you’ll learn 
about the design thinking process and 
practice your interactive, creative 
problem solving skills with Kim McLean!
3:30pm
OPEN ACCESS WEEK 2021: 
OPEN ACCESS PUBLISHING 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR UC 
SAN DIEGO AUTHORS /hyphen.case 
HTTPS://WWW.EVENTBRIT
E.COM/E/OPEN/hyphen.caseACCESS/hyphen.casePU
BLISHING/hyphen.caseOPPORTUNITIES/hyphen.case
FOR/hyphen.caseUC/hyphen.caseSAN/hyphen.caseDIEGO/hyphen.caseAUTH
ORS/hyphen.caseTICKETS/hyphen.case18139726309
7
Learn about open access publishing 
opportunities through the UC’s 
transformative agreements (open to 
UC authors) and other avenues open to 
all authors. The UC San Diego 
University Librarian, Erik Mitchell, will 
give an update on the UC 
Transformative Agreements and where 
we are in the process of increasing 
sustainable journal subscription 
access and OA publishing discounts or 
full-coverage for UC authors. Allegra 
Swift, UC San Diego Scholarly 
Communication Librarian, will discuss 
OA publishing avenues for authors 
whose publishing venue or format is 
not covered by the UC agreements.4pm
STRESS AWARENESS DAY /hyphen.case 
STUDENT CENTER UCSD
Join UCEN and The Zone for different spa 
and wellness crafts to de-stress! Curate 
your own aromatherapy scent with 
lotions, heating pads, and more! FREE 
for UCSD Students with ID at the Student 
CenterFRI11.5
12pm
ICAFÉ /hyphen.case YOUR PASSPORT TO 
CULTURE/hyphen.case ZOOM
Join us during your lunch break for 
another iCafe - Your Passport to Culture! 
This week we're exploring Mexico! We 
have an hour of fun and interesting 
segments, including: 
A presentation on the country from a 
Cultural Ambassador
Recipes and cooking demos from our 
Cook Club
Travel Trivia
Favorite sporting events and pastimes in 
our Global Playground
iCafe is free of charge and open to 
everyone. Additionally, attending iCafe 
can count towards your Globally Engaged 
Tritons Co-Curricular Record hours for the 
2021-2022 academic year! If you want to 
participate by being a Cultural 
Ambassador or Chef in the Cook Club, 
email Debi at dgianni@ucsd.edu. For 
more information, visit icafe.ucsd.edu. 
See you on Friday!
8pm
BLACKTRONIKA: THE CLUB 
EXPERIENCE /hyphen.case THE LOFT AT 
UCSD
Blacktronika: The Club Experience. Please 
join us bi-weekly for an open to all dance 
party, focused on all forms of electronic 
music rooted in Afrofuturism. This is a 
physical extension of the Blacktronika 
course (MUS 19). Music: King Britt. Free 
and open to the public
Students & Staff must present a 
symptom checker at the entrance.
General public music provide proof of 
vaccination against COVID-19 at least 
two weeks beyond the final dose or a 
negative PCR test within 48-hours.WED11.3
How well do you know the Library? 
Complete the Geisel Library Scavenger 
Hunt to learn about Library resources, 
get a small de-stress prize, and be 
entered for a chance to win a $20 
Bookstore gift card (valid at Audrey’s 
Café, the Bookstore, and Sunshine 
Market).
See the scavenger hunt card and 
questionnaire: 
https://forms.gle/2gwfQ2KAAYzcYNLK6 
(log in with your Single Sign-On). See 
our webpage for other de-stress 
resources at the Library.
Submissions accepted through 
November 5th. Prize pickup is 
available until November 12th during 
select times near Geisel study room 
1045 (the colorful study rooms).TUE11.2
9am
BIG BRAIN ENERGY CLUB'S 
FIRST GBM /hyphen.case 
HTTPS://ZOOM.US/J/997043
78471?PWD=WGXWEDNKVE
UZWU9QEC9NYXZ3DVPOQT
09#SUCCESS
BBE Club (stands for Big Brain Energy 
Club) is a social club that serves as a 
safe space for those with mental illness 
and/or neurodivergence. At our first 
GBM, we will be introducing the board 
and the purpose of the club, previewing 
some juicy upcoming social events, and 
starting off our weekly meme 
competition with some of our board 
members' favorite memes! THU11.4
4pm
REVELLE COLLEGE WEEKLY 
YOGA CLASS /hyphen.case 
UCSD.ZOOM.US/J/97353721
498
oin your fellow Revellians for a weekly 
instructor-led vinyasa yoga class. All 
experience levels are welcome! 
Organized by Revelle Student Activities 
Team. If you need accommodations or 
have questions, please contact Melina 
Merrie Remesha, Coordinator of Student 
Activities, at melina@ucsd.edu in 
advance of the event.Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
NOV 1 - NOV 72021
POWER ED B Y THE ST UDENT  EVENTS INSIDE R AND  THE UCSD GUARDIA N
TUE, NOV 2 /bullet.case 8PM /bullet.case THE LOFTARTPOWER
PRESENTS:
artpower.ucsd.eduVIEUX FARKA TOURÉ10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. ____ McEntire of country 
music
5. Field covers
10. Office furniture
14. Overwhelmed
15. Luau greeting
16. Buffalo’s lake
17. Cut of meat
19. Strong wind
20. Compass reading (abbr.)
21. Molecule component
22. Criminal burning
23. Foremost
25. Valley
27. Roberts and Clapton
29. Meddled
33. Shoestring
34. Fragrances
36. Genesis woman
37. Raring to go
38. Sees socially
39. Enlightened one’s words 
(2 wds.)
40. Oolong, e.g.
41. Touch lovingly
42. Watermelon discard
43. Expanded
45. Endures
46. Jury member
47. Meager
49. Pointer
52. Sub shop
53. Cleopatra’s snake
56. Singer ____ Simon
57. Capital of Rhode Island
60. Malevolent
61. Corroded
62. Wound remainder
63. Gambling city
64. Travel ____
65. Camp shelterDOWN
1. Grade
2. Female sheep
3. Advantageous
4. Append
5. Bakery items
6. Mete out
7. House division
8. ____ Beta Kappa
9. ____ Francisco
10. Temperature unit
11. Significant times
12. Fodder tower
13. Sharp
18. Corn units
22. Swiss peaks
24. Chilled
25. Noblewomen
26. Accumulate
27. Make jubilant
28. Crowlike bird
29. Lugged
30. Opposition
31. Occasion
32. Feats
34. Proverb
35. Less common
39. Iraq’s neighbor
41. Ship’s company
44. NASA program
45. Placed
47. Lucky number
48. Actor/Director ____ 
Eastwood
49. Mimicker
50. Talk wildly
51. Destroy
52. Love excessively
54. Read rapidly
55. Jaunty
57. Tiny vegetable
58. Old cloth
59. Philadelphia time zone 
(abbr.)
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeet
organization with Triton 
Outfitter’s Made TO 
Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian
.
orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 1112 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at Santa Clara
at UC Davis 
at San Diego Veterans Tennis
at Loyola Marymount
at San Diego Veterans TennisUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESMW Waterpolo
W Volleyball
M Tennis
M Basketball
M Tennis2PM
7PM
TBA
7PM
TBA11/4
11/4
11/5
11/5
11/6
In their last home game of the 
regular season, the 13th-ranked 
UC San Diego men’s water polo 
team ended the season with a 
flourish in a dominant conference 
win over Fresno Pacific University, 
continuing their 8–0 unbeaten 
streak against the Sunbirds. 
Coming off the back of a home loss 
to Loyola Marymount University 
last week, UCSD pulled off a 
decisive performance on Friday 
night. The Tritons’ five seniors 
capped off their Senior Night in 
style with a high-scoring 19–7 
victory, bringing their record this 
season to 11–8 overall and 4–2 within the Western Water Polo 
Association Conference.
Just before the game started, 
the five graduating seniors — 
Jack Ranj, Aram Nordanyan, 
Karlo Krmek, Calder Hilde-Jones, 
and Alex Zamanian —  were 
recognized with their families 
and presented with framed 
commemorative gifts. The crowd 
was lively all night, with a good 
turnout showing support for the 
Tritons throughout the match, 
combining with the band to create 
a high-energy atmosphere to send 
off UCSD’s graduating athletes 
and close out the home season.
The evening saw the Tritons 
holding the reins, but only after 
an initially shaky start, which saw 
the Tritons concede a power play goal from Fresno Pacific’s Eugenio 
Maldonado with 2:35 minutes 
left in the first quarter. Indeed, 
the beginning of the game had 
the home side playing catch-up 
for a while. Two goals by UCSD 
redshirt freshman utility player 
Miles Wilson kept the game neck-
and-neck until the last 23 seconds 
of the period, when UCSD took 
the lead for the first time after 
a goal by redshirt sophomore 
utility player Brendan Nugent. 
Throughout the first period, the 
Tritons were far from out of the 
game with several shots rattling 
the frame of the goal.
The second period was 
especially lively, ultimately 
ending with 6 more goals on the 
scoreboard for the Tritons to 
Fresno Pacific’s 1. The home side 
began with a bang after redshirt 
sophomore utility player Max 
Carrillo scored 22 seconds in. 
Redshirt freshman utility player 
Max Abravanel and freshman 
utility player Rhys Bugelli each 
followed that up with goals of 
their own to put the Tritons 4 
scores ahead of the Sunbirds.
When Fresno Pacific called a 
timeout with 4:35 left on the clock 
in the second period, it was clear 
they felt they needed to disrupt 
the home momentum. It paid off, 
at least in the short term, with 
another goal by Maldonado just 
15 seconds after play resumed. 
However, the Tritons would 
put themselves back on the 
scoreboard with 3 goals in the last 
two minutes before the halftime 
mark. Just as the Sunbirds 
restarted play minutes before with 
a quick goal out of a timeout, so 
did UCSD through redshirt senior 
utility player Calder Hilde-Jones; he scored his first goal of the game 
and added to his impressive goal 
tally to make it 43 in 19 games 
this season. This was followed 
up with goals by redshirt junior 
utility player Vedran Latkovic 
and redshirt senior utility player 
Alex Zamanian less than a minute 
apart to see off the second quarter 
with the Tritons leading 9–3.
After switching sides for the 
third period, play kicked off with 
a goal by Fresno Pacific’s Pietro 
Cattano; but again, the Tritons 
came roaring back with 3 goals 
of their own, courtesy of second 
goals by Latkovic, Carrillo and 
Bugelli, all the while maintaining 
pressure on the opposition 
goalkeeper and continuing to 
pepper shots that glanced off the 
frame. The quarter ended 13–4 
after Carrillo capitalized on a 
Fresno exclusion by scoring his 
third goal of the night with 27 
seconds left on the clock.
Heading into the final quarter, 
the Tritons were comfortably in 
the lead, but they kept their feet 
on the gas to score a further 6 
goals. Even though Fresno pulled 
back 3 points from a goal by 
William Green and 2 by Bodhi 
Bowden, UCSD’s scoring run 
continued. Bugelli and Zamanian 
each contributed another goal, 
while redshirt sophomore utility 
player Connor McManigal and 
redshirt freshmen utility players 
Will Riley, Berk Aksoy and 
Connor King were able to get on 
the scoresheet as well. Despite 
their efforts, the Sunbirds were 
unable to close the gap, as 12 
seconds after King’s effort hit the 
back of the net, the final whistle 
was blown and the victory was 
sealed for the Tritons, 19–7.The Tritons put on an 
impressive Senior Night 
performance, especially on the 
offensive front. Along with the 
substantial goal margin, UCSD 
led Fresno Pacific in shots, 43–24, 
along with a shot success rate 
of 44.2% — significantly higher 
in comparison to Fresno’s 29.2%. 
Carrillo and Bugelli jointly led in 
goals with 3 each, while Wilson 
led the Tritons in points on the 
night, scoring 2 goals and assisting 
another 3. Defensively, three 
goalkeepers made appearances 
in the pool for UCSD, with 
redshirt sophomores Alexander 
Nemeth and Bennett Kienast, and 
redshirt freshman Logan Estes 
each playing their part in the win: 
Nemeth with 3 saves, 3 steals and 
an assist, Kienast with 2 saves, a 
steal and an assist and Estes with 
2 saves. 
After turning the game around 
completely after the slow start, 
UCSD head coach Denny Harper 
said, “I think our guys were 
relatively patient, but I do have 
to say we did not start the ball 
game very well, ” but ultimately 
it was Fresno’s “lack of depth” 
which saw the visitors “just get 
worn out” and help the Tritons 
get a grip on the game. As for his 
team’s emphatic display, Harper 
remarked, “Senior Night is 
always… a fairly emotional thing 
for the whole team. I could sense 
it from the start that they were 
pretty fired up to play well. ”
The Tritons hope to continue 
the momentum from this decisive 
victory, next heading to Santa 
Clara University on Nov. 4 and 
then to UC Davis on Nov. 6 for 
the final two conference games of 
the 2021 season.Tritons Blow Away 
Fresno Pacific 
on Senior Night,19–7
By Emer Nolan
Staff Writer
Fresh off a few demoralizing 
losses and injuries, one could 
have expected this young Tritons 
women’s volleyball team to cave 
under the pressure. Instead, 
UC San Diego (8–14, 5–6 Big 
West) defeated California State 
University, Northridge (4–17, 
3–8 Big West) in an impressive 
showing for the entire roster. 
Facing injuries, coach Ricci 
Luyties inserted new lineups 
today, and the team responded 
well. Though the sets were tight 
until the final frame, the team 
showed great resilience with their 
3–1 victory.
The first set was filled with 
back-and-forth play with neither 
team able to take a significant 
advantage. After the halfway point 
of the first set, UCSD sophomore 
outside hitter Ava McInnes scored 
a big kill to cut the CSUN lead 
to 16–15. CSUN was hitting 
away from junior libero Naya 
Dong to start the game, and the 
strategy resulted in some trouble 
receiving for the Tritons. After 
a CSUN tip gave the Matadors 
3 straight points and forced a 
UCSD timeout, the Tritons came 
right back with 3 straight of their 
own, highlighted by 2 aces from 
Dong. The Tritons tied it at 22, 
but another clutch run by CSUN 
awarded them the first set, 25–22. 
Seeking to take hold of the 
momentum, the teams started 
off the second set fairly even. A 
great kill from freshman middle 
blocker Juliette Bokor gave the 
Tritons a 9–7 lead, but still the 
Tritons couldn’t shake their opponent. That was, at least until 
senior setter Isabela Dobra looked 
to take over, with consecutive 
precise sets to senior opposite 
Trinity Castañeda and McInnes 
to go up 17–14. Shortly thereafter, 
one of sophomore opposite Grace 
Cannon’s 4 blocks of the night 
forced a CSUN timeout with the 
Tritons inflating the lead to 21–17. 
But the Matadors surged back to 
go up 23–22 and put the Tritons 
on the edge of a difficult 2–0 hole. 
But freshman outside hitter Sabire 
Karacaova had three consecutive 
kills under pressure to give the 
Tritons a very important victory 
in the second set, 25–23, and even 
the match at a set apiece.
UCSD started the third set a 
little slower, starting down 3–0, 
but a Castañeda kill opened up 
the scoring and seemed to bring 
the crowd of 271 to life in RIMAC. 
The Tritons would remain a 
few points behind to start, but 
showing the resilience that has 
characterized this team all season, 
they would not go away. Bokor 
landed an impressive block to cut 
the CSUN lead to 1, now 10–9. 
Just as the Tritons needed a run, 
they delivered. Great defense up 
front led the team to their most 
important run of the night with 
5 consecutive points, shifting all 
of the momentum towards the 
Tritons and forcing a Matador 
timeout with UCSD up 17–14. 
The Tritons started to run away 
with it going up 22–16, but CSUN 
crept back into the set with 3 
straight points. UCSD showed 
poise in this situation with a nice 
set up for Karacaova putting the 
Tritons at set point, 24–20. They 
followed it up with McInnes 
getting a kill off a free ball to win 
the set 25–20. UCSD needed a spark in set 
four, and the ever-dependable 
McInnes dutifully provided a kill, 
one of her team-high 18 on the 
night, to break the tie and put 
the Tritons up 6–5. UCSD slowly 
crept away, with Castañeda again 
stepping up with a powerful kill 
to put UCSD in the driver’s seat 
at 15–12. Dobra gave McInnes a 
back-line set for a kill that fired 
up RIMAC Arena to go up 18–14, 
and the Tritons never looked 
back. UCSD finally ran away with the building momentum, 
and capitalized on an ace to give 
UCSD a 25–18 victory in the 
fourth and final set. 
Many young teams would have 
reacted to injuries and having 
to mess with lineups negatively, 
but throughout the roster these 
student athletes showed up strong. 
Luyties said, “I think in the Big 
West, every match is tough, but 
we’ve learned every match and 
gotten better. We’ve had setbacks 
with players being hurt, or out, or different changes that have 
happened on our team. So overall, 
I’m really happy with what we’ve 
done this year. I think we’re 
getting better and better. ” 
After publication, the next 
matchup for UCSD will be at UC 
Irvine on Thursday, Nov. 4. The 
Tritons will look to even up their 
conference record and continue to 
improve their cohesion in another 
pivotal Big West matchup.By Donovan Perez-Schipper
Senior Staff WriterWomen’s Volleyball Notches Gutsy Win Over 
Cal State Northridge
Image courtesy of Jeff Tourial / UC San Diego Athletics
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics