(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
HDH Dramatically Increases Graduate Housing Costs
 April 5, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/05/hdh-dramatically-increases-graduate-housing-costs/) Andrew
Ha (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/a1ha/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Housing costs for incoming graduate students are expected to increase
(https://hdhgradfamilyhousing.ucsd.edu/_files/GfH-Rate-presentation-March-2021.pdf)  for
the 2021–2022 academic year. Announced in mid-March by Housing Dining Hospitality, rents
will rise an average of 35 percent –– but can surge as high as 85 percent
(https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oUpcEkhhzO7K0poqo3vF1uYzJxpiWngJKMm-
wxonOSE/edit#gid=0)  –– from the previous year for graduate housing neighborhoods. HDH
initially planned to impose a “one-time rate adjustment” for nearly all graduate student residents
but has since (https://drive.google.com/file/d/17Yu1g_VsmbIaQv-nt0WkHIUuckrPEl70/view?
usp=sharing) decided to increase rent solely for incoming students.
The announcement received widespread backlash from not only graduate students but also from
the UC San Diego Academic Senate, the United Auto Workers Union Local 2865, and the UCSD
Faculty Association  (https://sites.google.com/ucsd.edu/renthikes/) . In opposition to the rate
adjustment, UAW organized a demonstration on Friday, March 19 to protest and call on HDH
and the university to freeze the rent increase. As of April 3, over 2,300 students and faculty have
signed onto the union petition
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/111d1PJ1JVaTc_blAMs0TPt0IQfyaz9lIUciTFmSVhdg/edit) .
Additionally, many graduate students participated in a rent strike
(https://twitter.com/ColaUcsd/status/1377301993845235712) on April 1 to voice theirdisapproval. 
While HDH’s decision will not affect current graduate students, it will make attending UCSD
much more expensive for future prospective students and may cause some to incur even more
debt to pay for academic expenses. Students and organizations expressed dissatisfaction with the
decision to increase the rent unilaterally (https://senate.ucsd.edu/current-affairs/news-
announcements/senate-council-response-to-graduate-student-housing-rate-increases/)  and the lack of prior discussion with affected parties. 
“There’s been no communication and no transparency. I’m not even sure who will even advocate
for me. I’ve emailed student affairs and they just forward my email back to graduate housing,”
third-year Chemistry Ph.D. student Liana Alves said to The UCSD Guardian. “For example, my
one bedroom is supposed to be $2000 [per month] and my stipend in the mail is $2100 [per
month]. So that gives me $100 to eat, pay car insurance, and so on. It’s just blatantly not
affordable.”
The university suggests that students who are burdened by the rent increase should consider
double room occupancy. However, with the ongoing pandemic, limited room space, and pre-
existing single-occupancy furniture, this option is not viable for many students. UCSD also
claims that it cannot provide subsidies specifically for on-campus rent due to equity concerns
that the same funding would not be provided to off-campus students. Instead, the universitydonated $400,000 to the UCSD Basic Needs Hub and provided other financial support
mechanisms (http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-3-16-4.html)  to help all
students –– undergraduate and graduate students alike –– with food insecurity and housing
resources. 
Moreover, UCSD states that it cannot help with HDH’s deficit because it is considered a “self-
supporting auxiliary enterprise.” This means that funding garnered through rent and other HDH
services directly go towards paying the enterprise’s employees and building mortgages. With an
expected loss of $46 million from 2019–2021, HDH Graduate and Family Housing decided to
recuperate losses through the rent increase.
“While the one-time rate adjustment will increase rental rates, on-campus rental rates will
continue to be more favorable than the local rental market,” Associate Director of University
Communications Leslie Sepuka said to The UCSD Guardian in an email. “UC San Diego’s campus
housing prices also remain below the UC average, despite having an inventory that is much
larger and much newer.”
Despite having built new graduate housing in recent years –– Mesa Nueva, Nuevo East, and
Nuevo West –– the rent increase plan would make many students who work for the university
further rent burdened
(https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oUpcEkhhzO7K0poqo3vF1uYzJxpiWngJKMm-
wxonOSE/edit#gid=0) , as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(https://www.huduser.gov/portal/pdredge/pdr_edge_featd_article_092214.html) . Even prior
to the plan, graduate teaching assistants and student researchers were paying north of 45 and 33
percent (https://sites.google.com/ucsd.edu/budgetcuts/students?authuser=0#h.8vhg4wk6swn)
of their income for housing, respectively. Graduate student pay only increased by 13 percent inthe last 4 years while the cost of graduate housing increased by 52 percent in the same period. 
The decision to increase rent only exacerbates long-standing tension between students and HDH
about campus housing affordability. In March 2020, similar protests occurred throughout the
University of California system, demanding that it have a cost of living adjustment
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/02/17/student-employees-rally-for-affordable-housing/)  to
graduate student rents. Protests then and now echo similar sentiments of housing being tooexpensive and becoming an overwhelming burden to pay. 
“The university pushes this model that graduate students should be seen as students primarily,
but our daily lived experience is that we are seen as workers –– instructors, assistants, and
researchers,” Sociology Ph.D. candidate Catherine Crowder said to The UCSD Guardian. “I think
there is a structural disjuncture between how the university classifies graduate students andwhat the university asks of them. And I think that that conflict in expectation combined with the
incredible cost of living makes graduate school an increasingly unfeasible financial arrangement
for many talented people. The move for COLA is a part of that, and the rent strike is a part of
that.”
While the university will exempt the rate adjustment for current students and those admitted
during or prior to Fall 2020, it will proceed with increasing rent for incoming graduate students
who start their contract after October 2021. Those exempted can expect to see an annual 3-percent rent increase as usual. 
UCSD 4 COLA | COPS OFF CAMPUS
@ColaUcsd
Join us as we kick off the rent strike tomorrow by letting  
out our frustrations for UCSD/HDH to hear! #CancelRent
9:49 AM · Mar 31, 2021
18 See the latest COVID-19 information on Twitter
Tweet your replyWith the rent strike starting on Apr. 1, some graduate students have begun withholding their
monthly payment to put pressure on HDH and the university. Approximately 50 of these rent
strikers gathered on Apr. 5 at Mandeville Auditorium to express their dissatisfaction and to
submit letters to the administration.
“I don’t think [the exemption] matters at all in the conversation around justice and equity,”
Crowder said. “To suggest that people who are already here need affordable housing but people
in the future do not is effectively saying that [UCSD] is okay with stratifying access to higher
education. They are fine with a future where the only people who can conceivably dedicate their
lives to the pursuit of knowledge are the people who have enough wealth to self-finance theirgraduate studies.” 
The university has made no changes to their planned rent increase since their initial concession.
While the UAW reached out to HDH and UCSD administration to discuss scrapping rent plans,
neither has agreed to open negotiations.
Photo courtesy of u/Minivaka on the r/UCSD Reddit page.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
AS Elections Campus-Wide Candidate Statements
 April 9, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/09/as-elections-campus-wide-candidate-statements/) 
Guardian Sta   (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/editorucsdguardian-org/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)This year, in lieu of candidate interviews, The UCSD Guardian editorial board elected to
conduct voluntary candidate statements. The statements are responses to a general prompt
drafted by the editorial board that is meant to garner thoughtful responses that will be
useful for Tritons when they vote today, Friday, April 9. The statements are in random
order and no candidates have been endorsed by the editorial board this year. Nine
candidates responded to The UCSD Guardian’s call for candidate statements. They are
listed in alphabetical order below and have not been edited beyond minor grammatical
corrections.
David Michael Hernandez  – Slate: REVIVE  – Position: Off-Campus Senator
As an Off-Campus Senator I hope to prioritize three main concerns: the transparency of
cases/trends with COVID-19, the depleting well-being of students and addressing the lack of
campus involvement with the off-campus population. As we return to campus in Fall 2021,
many students–myself included–are hesitant to make a complete switch to in-person
learning at full capacity. To ease the anxiety behind the switch, I want to make sure that every
student has the ability to open their phone and see how many active cases of COVID-19 there
are amongst on-campus living individuals along with the UCSD population at-large. With the
rigor of courses and involvement with extracurriculars, the depletion of students well-being
has always been alarming but now more than ever due to the isolation that the pandemic has
put us through. Although preventative measures have been taken (Health Fee Referendum
and Headspaces partnership), there is no focus on the secondary or tertiary levels that will
address the ongoing perpetuation of a mental health crisis among UCSD Students. Lastly, I
want to confront the lack of inclusion that off-campus students face and feel compared totheir time spent on campus. 
First and foremost, I want to collaborate with the Return to Learn program to find a way
where we can provide weekly updates on the cases present on campus and throughout the
UCSD community in the form of a newsletter or a notification on the UCSD app. If more
students will be on campus, more students will have to have the UCSD app to do daily
screenings (if that continues to be a part of the transition plan) and thus will have access to
testing on campus. So being able to get a notification via the app, will make this more
accessible to students’ fingertips. My advocacy efforts will take full effect when addressing
the depletion of mental and physical well-being for our UCSD community. I realize that CAPS
is always the first point of contact that is given for Tritons, but the infamous complaints from
students makes this resource ineffective and unreliable. I hope to collaborate with my fellow
VP of Campus Affairs, Isaac Lara, along with the AVP of Health and Wellness to collaborate
with CAPS to provide a better understanding of the cracks in their work. Lastly, when itcomes to unifying the Off-Campus community I hope to build a professional bridge between
students and professionals to begin involvement in their respective careers. I hope to make
transportation more accessible when it comes to prospective on campus events for off-
campus students to attend without having to worry about parking fees. 
I like to believe that all of my involvement and hard work has been an accumulation of
preparation for me to take on the position as Off-Campus Senator. I will continue to finish
out the commitments I currently have that have allowed me to launch myself into this next
phase in my academic career as a Senator such as continue programming for Muir Student
Affairs with Welcome Week for Fall 2021 along with the advocacy work I’ve been doing in
Muir College Council. As I tie the loose ends of my current commitments, I strive to begin my
constituent outreach via email and social media to hear the most pressing issues that
students–along with College Commuter Councils– are facing and how I can best tackle these
concerns coming into the next academic year. I hope to be in contact with the current AS Off-
Campus Senators to get a fresh perspective on the difficulties and successes of their term. I
currently have been in contact with a few on campus students who plan on moving off-
campus this next academic year. I have been able to hear their struggle with finding
affordable housing in near UC San Diego since they are worried about proximity as the
Chancellor has announced the plan to return to on-campus learning Fall 2021. These are afew ways that I have begun my efforts to make the transition as an Off-Campus Senator. 
Looking at the successes and engagement Senator Estus and Senator Kulkarni have
established during their term is very commendable. They have embodied aspects of Off-
Campus concerns such as basic needs and transportation. I hope to carry on the work ethic
and outreach efforts that both senators have managed along with their consistency to updatetheir Weekly Reports for the general public to view. 
I believe one of the biggest roles of student involvement when it comes to this position is over
course getting students to come out to utilize the resources put forth for them but feedback is
the most essential. One of my biggest values–both personally and professionally–is growth
and believe its the best measure of success when it comes to this position but beyond as well.
Feedback will be crucial in the time spent in the position as it will be the best guidance on
where I can grow as a Senator along with how to better market, program and represent my
constituents. I hope to receive feedback in a variety of ways: post-event evaluations, email
correspondence and hosting quarterly town hall meetings where students can vocalize theirconcerns and requests face to face. As I’ve mentioned before, I believe in the power of feedback and will keep this at the forefront
with everything I do–especially when it comes to soliciting input from students and their
needs. When it comes to soliciting student input regarding AS, I plan on engaging with
students via Office Hours for a more intimate and personable conversation about the faults
within AS. Students can expect the transparent and representative collaboration when it
comes to addressing institutional and perpetuating issues that students face along with
upholding integrity and respect.
Isabella Johnson  (She/Her) – Slate: Independent – Position: Campus Wide Senator
Especially with Zoom U, it has been really challenging to create a sense of community atUCSD. I believe that developing a community starts with helping the community .  
As a volunteer of the Triton Food Pantry, I not only have understood the value of this
resource and many others across campus for vulnerable student populations, but I also
realize the importance of student volunteers in keeping these efforts afloat. Especially during
this pandemic where isolation has been a centered theme, it is more important than everto create an environment where students are supporting students . 
That also means improving school spirit. We must work together to celebrate our
community.  This could include creating marketing campaigns for sports and entertainment
events, advocating for in-person events next year, highlighting students’ success stories
across all parts of campus, or executing projects which support the unmet needs of students,
we have the ability to build each other up and support one another. 
When we develop community, student leaders like myself can be more in-touch with what
students need. We can advocate for new and improved resources for students to thrive and
succeed, whether in relation to mental health, academics, arts and entertainment, and more.
Running for an AS position isn’t about the title or the resume addition, it is about helping the
students around us to make our campus a positive environment for EVERYONE.
Developing a community also means helping students find their community.  UCSD has a
wide range of student organizations and resource centers for students, but not enough
students know about it. Rather than creating a culture where students are expected to find
these resources on their own, I want to help bridge this gap and bring these resources to
YOU. Whether by broadcasting information about student organizations or by hosting events
featuring resource centers and orgs, I hope to make your ability to find a community more
accessible.I think one of the biggest problems with student government right now is that not many
people understand how it works- it has many offices, many events and resources, but they go
underutilized because of this information gap.
Not only do I hope to collaborate with other student leaders to advocate and help meet the
needs of students, but I also hope to make AS more accessible
A lot of students running for office have been in student government before- I think my fresh
perspective is needed to truly bridge this gap between AS and the general student body 
For example, the AS Office of Student Advocacy is a group of students that assists students
who were accused of academic integrity violations. Especially with Zoom U, this resource is
greatly needed, but not many people know about this amazing resource and the students
behind it! Bridging the information gap is crucial to empower students!
The UCSD administration makes a lot of decisions that impact students, such as funding our
resource centers, creating academic policies, and kickstarting projects that meet student
needs. Fulfilling the unmet needs of students means working with these powerful figures to
communicate what students need and why they are important to us. I hope to not onlychannel your input, but to bring administrators to you. 
Shane Jost – Slate: REVIVE  – Position: Transfer Senator 
As Transfer Senator my primary focus would be on the barriers that disproportionately affect
transfer students at UC San Diego such as restrictive quarter maximums, rebuilding the
community following the COVID-19 pandemic, and increasing transfer student participationand representation in AS. 
As a population, transfer students are uniquely impacted by quarter maximums established
by both Financial Aid and the Academic Senate, which can affect the financial assistance a
transfer student receives and add additional administrative steps transfer students must
complete if they surpass 2 years as a student on campus. Due to the variable courses transfer
students have taken in prior collegiate endeavors and the variable likelihood prior courses
are accepted by the university many transfer students find it challenging to complete their
programs within the two years targeted by the maximums, even if their program is not
recognized as a program which requires an additional year. This can lead transfers to take on
additional courses (as 59% in 2020 did) that can lower their academic performance and
participation in the UC San Diego Community, and cause a significant amount of stress from attempting to complete the programs they are admitted to within the time frame allotted. It
puts many transfers into difficult financial situations, and even affects their ability to declare
major and minor courses. 
This stress regarding the completion of their program and the maximums they may face has
been confounded by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has significantly affected the transfer
community and the events it regularly held. A sense of community can be incredibly
important to transfer students, many of which come from unique backgrounds not reflected
by the larger student body. This community is an important tool for transfer students to be
able to reduce their stress from the academic workload and encounter students with similar
backgrounds to themselves, and is an important part of being a transfer student at UC SanDiego. 
Transfers are one of the largest demographic groups within the AS Student body (they were
34.5% of admitted students in 2019-2020), but are significantly underrepresented on campus
(71% of transfer students in 2020 had never been an officer in a student organization and
53% were not involved in student organizations at all). This lack of representation is an issue
which I specifically want to address while working to revive the transfer community following
the COVID-19 pandemic, so that transfer students not only have the opportunity butcapability to fully participate in the UC San Diego community. 
In regards to the quarter maximum issues transfer students face, I intend to work with my
fellow members of Associated Students to lobby the Academic Senate and Financial aid to
not base their assessment of Satisfactory Academic Progress on targeting four and two years
to graduation for students, and to remove the existing quarter maximums students face.
Statistically transfer students have both historically and very recently taken longer than two
years to complete their program; our standards for whether or not a student is satisfactorily
meeting their academic progress should not penalize students for taking the statistically
average time for completing their programs. I intend to utilize the position of Transfer
senator to spread awareness of this issue across campus and build support for the removal ofthe current quarter maximums within the student body. 
In regards to the revival of the transfer community I plan to increase the publicity and
number of transfer-oriented events in the coming year, both via hosting them myself and via
partnerships with existing transfer student organizations and the Triton Transfer Hub. These
events would be both social and informational in nature, to help ensure that transfer studentsfeel that they have both the community and resources they need to succeed at UC San Diego.  In regards to the representation of Transfer students on campus I will continue the work I
have already begun this year to engage existing transfer organizations and student leaders in
greater communications with AS. I will further use the network I have begun establishing this
year to help promote open positions in leadership roles on campus to the transfer
community, and to encourage communication and knowledge among the general transfer
student population with their student representatives. Finally I plan to make regular visits to
student organization councils (such as the Triton A Capella Community, the four Greek
Councils, and the Triton Transfer Coalition amongst others) to determine how to increase
transfer student participation in student organizations, and how student organizations canbetter reach the transfer student population. 
I will prepare to take on this position by continuing the work I have begun this past year in
the Transfer community, and by increasing my communication with the current transfer
representatives in AS to build on their initiatives and projects from this current year. 
During this past year I have served as the Sixth College Student Council Transfer Senator.
For my SCSC Transfer Senator initiative I founded (and currently facilitate) the Triton
Transfer Coalition, a campus-wide coalition of transfer student organizations, transfer
representatives in student governments, and the Triton Transfer Hub. This coalition serves
to increase communication between transfer student leaders, and create a space in which
transfers can collaborate on programs, initiatives, and advocacy in the efforts of providing
students with resources that will enhance their transfer experience. Through my work with
this Coalition I intend to gather more information on the issues and concerns Transfer
students have with recovering from the COVID pandemic, and brainstorm ideas for how tocollaboratively address those concerns with other transfer student leaders. 
Additionally I will increase my communications with the current AS Transfer Senators (who
are also a part of the Transfer Coalition) to discuss how I can build upon the initiatives they
have been working on in the past year, and further engage the transfer community in studentgovernment. 
Over the past year my predecessors have engaged the transfer community through events –
efforts which I intend to build upon in the coming year. In particular my predecessor has
held informational events in collaboration with other transfer student leaders on campus
entitled “Transfer Chats”, which I would seek to continue and potentially increase to
introduce transfer students to the resources available to them when the campus re-opens. I
can improve on this by utilizing the coalition network built in this year to increase the
promotion and partnerships of this event, while pairing the topics offered to the informationgathered about transfer needs and the advocacy I have prior discussed relating to transfer
issues. I can also utilize the skills in prior student leadership positions to further boost the
promotion of these events on social media sites, as well as in direct communication with
transfer students as is highlighted later on.
As a demographic senator representing one of the largest demographic groups on campus
student involvement is critical to this position, and is a part of the position I wish to increase.
I plan on encouraging student involvement in the role of transfer senator through outreach to
student orgs, continuing my work with the Triton Transfer Coalition, and building upon thedirect communication my predecessors have done with the transfer student body. 
As discussed earlier, I intend to solicit student input through the existing organizations and
initiatives that serve transfer students, to take full advantage of the existing networks transfer
students have at UC San Diego. Additionally I plan to communicate frequently with the
Triton Transfer Hub and Triton Transfer Coalition to gather data, information, and ideas
relating to transfer issues and their solutions. I will also actively use existing datasets about
the transfer student population at UC San Diego to observe historical trends of systematic
issues that have disproportionately affected transfer students, and seek to create
partnerships with the aforementioned transfer-centered organizations to gather more
information and data about issues that are facing the transfer students on campus. Finally I
will communicate frequently with my peers on the various college councils to gather
information on the transfer population, and build collaborative efforts to better serve the
transfer community.Tommy Jung – Slate: REVIVE  – Position:  Campus-Wide Senator 
During my term as a Campus-Wide Senator, I saw potential in AS. I saw our student
government and the student body work together to provide academic accommodations for
struggling students. I saw our campus community band together to stand against anti-
semitism, organizing public input drives and sponsoring resolutions to lobby OPHD to adopt
newer definitions of discrimination. However, as much as I have seen potential, I have alsoseen failures. 
AS fails to advocate for student needs not because there is a shortage of passionate and good
intentioned representatives; not because we don’t have access to administration; but because
we are disconnected from the general student population. AS has traditionally been passive
in its outreach, relying on our existing social media platforms to spread awareness ofcampaigns and events. We have been slow in responding to student concerns. Yet with new challenges
approaching next year, AS and the student body need to stand together if we want to ensure
that our needs are properly met. 
As a Campus-Wide Senator, I will dedicate my term to rethinking how we communicate with
the student body. I believe that the student voice needs to have a larger impact on how AS
operates and that AS needs to be easily understandable to the average student. I will work to
make AS representatives more accessible and our work more transparent so that we can
rebuild a more active relationship with students. I wish to serve as a liaison between the
student body and AS; not overstepping the work that is already being done by specializedAVPs and appointed committee representatives. 
● Publishing (and Mandating) Committee Appointments, Senator Projects, and
AS Office Functions to the Public
A significant factor to what makes AS a ‘maze’ is the lack of transparency/information about
what AS actually is or does. There is no place where a student can learn about the dozen AVP
offices in AS; nor is there a place where students can learn who represents them on StudentFee committees, Return to Learn committees, and more. 
If I am elected senator, I will make committee appointments, senator projects, and AS office
functions public. There already is a framework for reporting Senator Projects (that I have
worked on in the past year) that we could modify for committee representatives and offices. I
will work closely with ITS (specifically, our designated Application Programmer) and ASGraphic Studio so that information is not only available to the public, but easily accessible. 
This will not only be a technical effort; it will also be a legislative effort. As a voting member
of the Senate, I will work on legislation that would mandate AVPs and Senators to update
their
projects in a timely basis. This would be codified under each representative’s duties in thestanding rules, ensuring that transparency becomes a cornerstone of student representation. 
● Quarterly Surveys and Casework to Better Understand Student NeedsAS is no stranger to disseminating surveys. We have sent out student surveys on numerous
topics ranging from student mental health to selecting the new design of an on-campus fire
station. While surveys help us achieve specific goals, they are rarely distributed as an avenue
for direct student input regarding AS priorities. 
If I am elected as a campus-wide senator, I will work closely with the Data Officer from the
Vice President Campus Affairs’ (VPCA) office on quarterly surveys for gathering direct
student input. We would cross reference the results of this survey with the University of
California Undergraduate Experiences Survey (UCUES) to better understand what students
need from their representatives and adjust our priorities accordingly. These results would be
the foundation for building the ‘advocacy agenda’ mentioned in Candidate Lara and Agni’sinterview/platform. 
These surveys would also be an opportunity for students to directly submit casework to their
student leaders (ex: reporting a faulty streetlamp on a frequently visited street or a strange
interaction with academic integrity violations), allowing AS to provide more targeted and
timely support for individual student. There is precedent for AS casework; however, there
have previously not been opportunities for students to submit requests. By providing a
consistent channel of communication, my hope is that we can help individual students who
might not have access to administrative spaces get what they need. Once we establish the
quarterly survey, I hope to expand casework submission as a larger project; establishing a
permanent form on the website or actively reaching out to student orgs to gather theirfeedback. 
I would spend the remainder of the academic year (Spring 2021) to model the survey and
allocate funding for incentives so we could gather student feedback starting the first few
weeks of Fall quarter. I will also help analyze the results of the survey, identifying key themesand delegating casework to appropriate student leaders. 
● Overhauling the AS Website
The AS website is poorly designed and maintained. Members who were impeached or
resigned are still listed on the AS roster; some profiles contain no pictures or any information
about members. Tabs are outdated or provide little to no information about what services AS
provides (‘Senior Memory Book’). Ironically, our About Us page does not reveal any
information about what AS actually is; only providing an outline of vague values that has notbeen updated in years. In line with publishing more information about AS, I plan to work with our Application
Programmer from ITS to overhaul the AS website. I will update outdated tabs/broken links,
rework informational pages, and collaborate with campus partners so students can receive
the most up-to-date information about campus affairs with one site.
● Establishing Formal Channels of Communication with Student Media
I plan to collaborate with the VP’s office to establish a formal space for members of the
student media to learn about AS goals, structure, and functions. By utilizing existing
information for Senator onboarding from the VP’s office, I would work to establish an
‘orientation process’ for AS correspondents/reporters from our student media. Afterwards,
we would hold periodic meetings between representatives from the Senate, each ExecutiveOffice, and other AVPs that may be requested by student reporters. 
By taking a more active role in reaching out to our campus media, I hope to ensure that
important information is distributed to the student body more efficiently and accurately. 
I have been a student leader on our campus ever since my first year. I served as the First-Year
Senator for Sixth College Student Council. I worked for the AS Office of the President as a
Title IX Project Coordinator. I have been an orientation leader for the past two years, a tour
guide, a student worker/lead for HDH, and a research assistant. These are all connections
that I still actively use to gain insight about our campus community. In addition, having been
a Campus-Wide Senator for the past academic year, I believe that I am well equipped torepresent our student body in the upcoming Fall quarter. 
I have the rare opportunity to continue serving in my current position and flesh out projects I
started. During my first term as a campus-wide senator, I actively engaged with the different
bodies in AS. I’ve built connections with professional staff, executive members, and AVPs. In
my next term, I want to bring my institutional knowledge and the connections I have made to
hit the ground running as soon as possible. With a specific focus on what I want to
accomplish next year, I will be able to spend most of my term actually advocating for studentneeds. 
In terms of improvement; I want to take a more active role in engaging with the student
body. This year, the campus-wide cohort was more passive in student outreach, holding
office hours instead of visiting student orgs or reaching out to individual students. I wish to
focus my outreach efforts toward populations that are not represented by other senators (forexample, SIO students, cultural orgs, etc). Isaac Lara  (He|Him|His) – Slate: REVIVE  – Position: Vice President Campus Affairs
Health & Well-Being: The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted our students’ health &
well-being, with ever increasing numbers of students trying to access limited mental health
and additional health resources. Beyond mental health, our campus has a loneliness
epidemic, a “grind culture” that normalizes unhealthy behavior, and ultimately lacks a
prioritization of our students’ holistic health and well-being. To tackle these issues I intend
on doing the following:
Thrive: For the last two years I have served on AS as the Associate Vice President of Health &
Well-Being. Within this role I have directed my 16-member staff to coordinate health and
well-being projects and initiatives, our largest project being Thrive. Thrive founds itself upon
three core values: support, professionalism, and social justice. Within this program our
students will go through extensive and thorough training to learn ways they can support their
peers’ health & well-being, using an intersectional and holistic approach. This year, my team
and I have collaborated with various campus partners to further develop this program. As
VPCA, my goal is to successfully launch Thrive by the end of my term.
Expansion of Mental Health Resources: Last year, our campus passed the Mental Health Fee
Referendum which has expanded many opportunities for CAPS to further support our
student body. Serving as Chair of the Student Mental Health Advisory Committee (SMHAC),
which oversees and allocates this fee, I have had the opportunity to serve on multiple hiring
boards for CAPS counselors, and allocate funding to expand services to soon be offered at
CAPS, including ADHD testing, biofeedback, eating disorder counseling, and other areas
that, without funding, would still be lacking. As VPCA I intend on continuing my chairship
and further advocating to hire more counselors, particularly from marginalized communities
to further destigmatize mental health, and increase the possibility that students of color
utilize these resources. Additionally, for students who may not want to use CAPS, I intend on
working with the Health & Well-Being Cluster to further develop a grant program to provide
students seeking financial support for mental health services, such as long-term counseling,
extensive testing, treatment, etc.
Making Sexual Health Accessible: Within my previous term I had intended on collaborating
with Health Promotion Services to provide a large scale STD/STI Pop Up Testing clinic
conveniently on campus, however COVID-19 impacted this project. With the prospect of
returning to campus on the horizon, I hope to pursue this initiative and provide students free
STD/STI testing, educate them on the importance of regular testing, and ultimately
destigmatize the practice.Resource Accessibility: In addition to health and well-being resources, the COVID-19
pandemic has shined a light on many of the needs and challenges our students face,
including but not limited to financial support, lack of belonging, food insecurity,
transportation concerns, etc. As VPCA I hope to actively work to connect our students with
the resources our campus offers, and utilize AS’ budget to fill in the gaps.
Down the Rabbit Hole: Based on my previous leadership experiences, oftentimes it is not an
issue of “we do not have resources” but rather UC San Diego offers just so much that at times
it is difficult to easily find those resources. As part of a larger project (i.e. AS Website
Overhaul) I hope to collaborate with members of AS to develop a comprehensive and simple
campus resource directory, similar to that at UC Davis (https://resources.ucdavis.edu/) and
UC Berkeley  (https://asuc.org/resources/). By providing students this resource, I believe it
will ease the first step of accessing resources, which is finding what we need in the first place.
Developing the Student Leader: After previously serving in multiple leadership positions, I’ve
realized that many programs have a tendency to treat student leaders as a referral system
(unintentionally, most if not all the time). By this I mean students get into the habit of word
vomiting or shouting out about resources, without genuinely learning what their peers may
need, or without establishing a common understanding of this resource (I particularly see
this when students suggest CAPS as a resource). Using AS’ network I hope to develop a
training on effective resource sharing to tackle this ni particular. This effort is part of a much
larger effort to provide standardized (mandatory for AS Members) professional development
training on topics such as cultural humility, implicit bias, effective representation, advocacy
methodology, etc. to ensure our student leaders are not left in the dark of how to do their job.
Academic Accommodations: The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted most if not all members
of our community. It has definitely impacted my own life, and my ability to perform
adequately as a student. As VPCA, I intend on working with our association to continue
pressuring the Academic Senate to provide accommodations so long as the COVID-19
pandemic rages on. This includes, but is no limited to, ensuring that asynchronous options
are still offered for our students who may not be able to return in the fall, and the same
flexibility we have been currency granted in recognition of the pandemic.
AS Community Engagement: For the past few years, Associated Students has consistently
failed to properly engage with our community, and extend its hands to members of our
community. Despite many opportunities, and demanding times, to support our studentbody, AS has fallen short. The role of VP Campus Affairs particularly is responsible for
connecting AS with the student body, and is definitely one of my number one priorities. To
enhance AS’ community involvement I intend on:
Shifting AS towards Active Community Engagement: In the past few years, we have seen
administrations promise “outreach”, “engagement”, “representation”, all of which have
become buzz words during election season. As VPCA I hope to transition AS towards an
active community engagement approach, in which we do not passively ask our students to
engage with us (e.g. surveys, town halls, forums, etc.) but additionally actively work to visit
those communities and provide students the opportunity to give us critical, and honest
feedback on how to best serve them.
Quarterly Executive Officer Visits: As an entire Executive Board, my fellow Executive Officer
candidates and I are committed to visiting the College Councils, SAAC Organizations, and
additional organizations at least once a quarter to foster and maintain a relationship with
these entities. In doing so we hope to transition AS from resolutions, public statements, and
other performative actions, and rather have the ability to reach out to these same
communities and offer our support.
Publications & Media Board: Inspired by ASUC of UC Berkeley, I intend on further
enhancing AS’ relationship with our students, as well as our transparency, by creating the
Publications & Media Board. This board will consist of a Public Relations representative of
AS, Student Government representatives for the Triton, Guardian, and additional student
journalists and media organizations. By creating this board we hope to be as transparent as
possible, and provide accurate and consistent information.
AS Website: THe current state of the AS website is abysmal. It lacks user-friendliness and
frankly is not that inherently useful for the average student. In conjunction with fellow
members of AS, I hope to overhaul our entire website, prioritizing user friendliness, ease of
access to information, the development of the aforementioned resource directory, as well as a
campus-wide representative director to educate students on which student leaders serve on
which committee, enabling more direct feedback and communication regarding certain
issues.
Accountability: Within the last year, I chartered and chaired the Committee on Stipend
Transparency, Accountability, and Reform (COSTAR). Within this committee I worked with
senators, AVPs, and the current VPCA to investigate avenues of increased accountability for
members of AS that receive a stipend. Part of this was enhancing communication among ourassembly, the creation of performance standards which will hold stipend members of AS to a
higher work ethic, and the continued efforts to ensure these student leaders are properly
earning their stipend. As VPCA I hope to consistently work with members of our assembly to
ensure everyone is doing their part, and that our students are directly benefiting from theirlabor. 
Enhancing Community Safety: Police brutality, systemic racism, and acts of injustice
continue to hurt and endanger our community With little to no action from our University,
nor our Association beyond statements of support and additional performative actions. As
VPCA I hope to push AS, and lobby our administration, to move away from these empty
promises and take an active approach to support and protect our vulnerable communities.
Removing UCPD from ALL Mental Health Responses: The recent murder of a UCLA student
experiencing a mental healht crisis was a wake up call that not even our UC students are safe.
This year our AVP EDI, Senator Blackshire, VPCA, and additional members of our
administration have worked with CAPS to develop PERT, a step towards removing UCPD
from responding to mental health crises. While this is a step in the right direction, it is not
nearly enough to be the solution. As VPCA I hope to continue this fight alongside my AS
colleagues and further push to remove UCPD from any handling of mental health crises, as
these are sensitive situations trained mental health professionals should be handling, not lawenforcement. 
Actions. Not Empty Promises: Public statements of support, condemnation of racism, and
any other public acts of grandeur have plagued our emails, feeds, and overall ahs become a
sad common response to national and local tragedies. Support and condemnations are an
expectation, and should be the baseline, not all that is done. As VPCA, I fully intend on
deferring all resolutions and meaningless public statements that come out of AS without any
tangible or real actions that will directly support the affected communities. This sentiment,
combined with our efforts to foster a closer connection with our community will hopefully
result in an ability for AS to offer meaningful support.
COVID-19 Safety: While the return to normalcy and campus is on the horizon, providing a
sense of hope, it has also produced a sense of caution and fear. As an entire team, REVIVE
intends on actively working to support our community, aggressively object to any rash or
overly optimistic decisions as we return to in-person, and ultimately represent our
community as we return to the new normalDue to my role of AVP Health & Well-Being I have had the privilege of working closely with
VP Kreitman, who currently serves as our VPCA, and seeing the amazing work she does
behind the scenes. 
In addition to this relationship, our Executive Officers as a whole team intends on actively
working on our goals during the transition phase. What this looks like is the following
Developing Relationships: From the beginning, our Executive Board intends on conducting a
larger Advocacy Priorities Survey to assess the needs of our student body, and particularly
guide our board as we begin considering the AS Summer Budget, Additionally, we hope to
begin our visits to the SAAC Organizations, College Councils, and additional organizations to
begin setting the foundation of a great working relationship with our community.
Project Management: Previous AS terms have fallen short in terms of managing projects as a
collective and keeping everyone in loop of what is going on. To fix this, I intend on
developing and immediately implementing an efficient project management system that not
only provides communication for our association, but also enables the student body to have amore thorough understanding of the projects our organization is undertaking. 
AS Summer Training: As mentioned earlier, I intend on providing members of our
association mandatory training on topics such as implicit bias, communication, advocacy
methodology, how to effectively represent, etc. over the summer to ensure that AS hits the
ground running in the Fall. As part of transition, I will be actively working with my fellow
Executive Officers, as well as campus partners, to develop this training to ensure itseffectiveness and impact. 
I have big shoes to fill. VP Kreitman has done a phenomenal job, particularly her work geared
around connecting students with involvement opportunities in AS, and her advocacy work to
ensure student representation on campus-wide committees, particularly for committees
related to COVID-19. VP Kreitman has become a great mentor for my role as AVP, and taught
me a lot about campus-wide advocacy, and past trends in AS public engagement, as well as a
better understanding of AS’ governing documents. 
A particular area I believe I can improve on VP Kreitman’s performance are two particular
areas: (1) community engagement, and (2) AS leadership development. For the first part, as
stated earlier, AS has continued to take on passive outreach methods, such as surveys. VP
Kreitman has begun shifting AS to more interactive opportunities, such as Find Your Fit, to
introduce students to current members of AS. I hope to further push AS towards an activeapproach, requiring our members to go to these communities, rather than asking our
students to come to us. Additionally, the VPCA also acts as an internal manager in a way, in
that they are responsible for fostering community and further developing members of our
association. Through projects such as summer trainings, quarterly retreats (with more
intentional trainings), bonding and networking opportunities, and additional methods, I
hope to further develop AS members in hopes that it translates into more quality projects,
initiatives, and advocacy efforts. 
The VP Campus Affairs is the Executive Officer responsible for connecting AS with the
student body. Previously VPCA’s have utilized Chill & Grill, FInd Your Fit, Triton Dine, Town
Halls, Forums, and additional methods to connect with our community. Despite these efforts,
AS has continued ot lack effective engagement, as indicated by the lack of Executive Officercandidates, and low voter turnout rates.  
Please view above to more thoroughly see I I intend on encouraging student involvement, but
overall, it is based on the shift towards an active community engagement approach.
Additionally, serving as AVP in particular, I have had the opportunity to get insight in how
intentionally developing a staff structure opens opportunities for students on our campus.
Most of the time students hear AS and think of the Senate, but the AS Offices and staff
positions offer wonderful involvement opportunities. For the Office of Health & Well-Being, I
have had the chance to collaborate with our team to develop projects, initiatives, and get
students who have an interest in health advocacy involved. I believe this approach enables
further student involvement in our association.
Through active community engagement I hope to have more meaningful interactions with
our student body. Surveys, although passive, are still a great opportunity to solicit student
input, particularly on advocacy priorities and the AS budget. However, additional methods
such as org visits, interpersonal relationships, meaningful conversations, and overall
recognizing the humanity and lived experiences of members of our community is also how I
intend on soliciting student input. While it is helpful to know the needs and opinions of our
students, surveys do not provide the same depth and interpersonal nature as these more
deeper conversations.
Thomas Le  – Slate: REVIVE – Position: Off-Campus Senator 
As UC San Diego transitions to a new phase of the Return to Learn Program, there remain
uncertainties in the prospect of bringing back our campus up to full capacity by next Fall. In
accordance with the ambitious plan put forth by the administration, the questions remain inthe many unresolved issues originating prior to the pandemic, such as parking availability
and public transportation. 
Too many instances, the administration and the Academic Senate struggle to meet the
immediate needs of the student population, from the sudden price hike of tuition and
housing affordability to the insecurities of basic needs and housing, which further
contributes to the ongoing stress and anxiety of our students and the growing disparity in ourcommunity. 
My Off-campus Senator platform is twofold: Advocating for academic accommodations and
improving safe and secure commuting solutions with proper pandemic relief. 
For the first item, I will utilize my experience and extensive network with the Academic
Affairs office  & AS colleagues to lobby the Academic Senate for academic accommodations
and proper policy changes. With the continued limitation of in-person events, I will promote
digital accessibilities and resources for on and off-campus students and employees to
increase digital connection (social media, webpages) to meet the growing demand for online
connectivity. I seek to collaborate with CALPIRG and other student organizations to hold the
administration and academic senate accountable, and all the while, pushing for furtheraccommodations that could benefit our students such as affordable textbook pricing. 
For the second item, I seek to improve safe and secure commuting solutions (parking
availability and public transport), while promoting educational opportunities that adhere to
the community, local and federal pandemic guidelines. I will allocate the AS funding towards
increasing accessibility to COVID-19 resources (PPE, test kits, vaccines). I will work with
student leaders and representatives, and closely monitor the pandemic guidelines operation
on the federal, state and local level, to ensure the well-being of our students is of utmostimportance. 
My prior leadership experiences have prepared me well for the demand of Off-campus
senator, as this year, I was fortunate to serve as your Advocacy Director of the academic
affairs office.  
During my tenureship, I was directly involved in the process of lobbying for extension of
pass/no pass and withdrawal with a “W” deadline, and gaining valuable perspective from our
community. With the responsibility to serve student-at-large, my primary goal to becomeyour Off-Campus Senator is to continue my advocacy efforts for our students, as I will put to
use my leadership experience and extensive connections with leaders, student
representatives and organizations to complete the necessary tasks. 
Having the incredible privilege to work alongside my fellow REVIVE candidates in this
election, I hope to continue fostering meaningful connections with my colleagues and other
student representatives and continue our collaborative efforts to advocate for our off-campuscommunity. 
In a challenging year, both Harper and Chitra have done a tremendous job advocating for off-
campus students and supporting the demands from the community. As such, I will maintain
my predecessor’s connections with the off-campus and commuter representatives and
commuter organizations, as they provide valuable insights into the demand of off-campus
students. Nevertheless, the job requirements do fluctuate with plenty of room for
improvements. With the focus on outreaching and advocacy efforts, I’m committed to
advocate for our off-campus community, especially students who live off-campus and may
not feel safe going back on campus. Correspondingly, I will foster collaborative projects
between all colleges, as my aim is to improve campus connectivity and enhance student
involvement in our plannings and commuting projects.
Enhancing student involvement is essentially the foundation of my platform. From my
experience serving as your Advocacy director, what really stands out during the legislative
process of pushing the extension of P/np deadline is the student testimonials, as the leaders
and faculties in the Academic Senate were able to hear these voices and concerns, and
connect with their stories. Such advocacy success is a direct result of the extensivecollaborative efforts from the students, representatives and leaders of the community.  
Any active enrollment of student government is better-off fostering such an inclusive and
collaborative environment, especially for students who live off-campus subjected to vague
jurisdiction. As we continue to coordinate with the reopenings of campus and service, I will
make sure to integrate student inputs and ideas into my platforms, thereby fostering
collaborative spaces between off-campus communities.
As I continue my advocacy effort as one of your off-campus senators, I plan to conduct office
hours and proactive outreach to student representatives, commuter organizations, and the
student body through genuine and direct communications. I will foster meaningful
interactions with the community through social media, as well as other effective modes ofcommunication, digitally or otherwise. Serving as one of the primary voices for off-campus students, I hope to foster complete
transparency and collaboration with the student body, as I welcome productive inputs and
improvements remain active line of communication to promote changes  With the collective
power from our community, we will be able to make fundamental changes and REVIVE our
campus! 
Sharon  Lin  – Slate: REVIVE  – Position: Campus-Wide Senator 
Targeting Issue #1: Scarce Communication with Faculty and Networking
Opportunities 
I often hear that students are unsure about which field in their majors to go into, or even 
uncertain about their majors, in my Office of Academic Affairs events’ feedback forms. 
To provide you with more opportunities to connect with industry and faculty, I will: •
Organize specific recruiting fairs for each major field 
• Provide panels and online mixers with companies and faculty members to offer students
the chance to explore their potential career paths
• Implement periodic professional workshops, such as how to cold email Targeting Issue #2:
Students Feel Disconnected by Covid
• Develop “second-wave orientations” for freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and transfers to
safely connect students through in-person, week-long bonding activities • And a program for
graduating students to connect with each other before they part  ways
I have been refining my programming skills before and since I joined UCSD! 
As the current Programming Director for the Office of Academic Affairs, I brought you a 
professor panel and I am organizing a series of major division student-faculty mixers this 
quarter. Please come along to converse with your professors to learn about what they do and 
explore your interests!
I will strongly advertise my events (panels, orientations, and more!) through emails and
social  media platforms. Please take some time to come as I hold these events for you, and
your  feedback is the guiding force to my work!  At the end of each panel or mixer I hold, I will send feedback forms to gather students’
thoughts  on my events and learn how to make my next event better. Also, feel free to send
me an email  ( w9lin@ucsd.edu) or message me on LinkedIn! (I am probably on LinkedIn
more than Instagram haha)
Ella McLaren – Slate: REVIVE  – Position: Out-of-State Senator  
My main focuses as Out-of-State Senator will include promoting equitable academic policies,
pursuing  
avenues to reduce the financial burden out-of-state students face, and expanding mental
health resources 
to better meet the needs of out-of-state students.
The need for an equitable return to learn plan is an issue of extreme relevance to out-of-state
students  
because it will likely not be feasible or worthwhile for some students who are non-California
residents to 
come back to campus as next school year begins. I will work to resolve this issue by
advocating for the maintenance of an asynchronous option for students who need it and
further pushing for academic 
accommodations regarding P/NP deadlines, dropping without a ‘W,’ asynchronous testing,
etc.
Further, the cost of attending college for out-of-state students and non-residents more
broadly is 
extremely expensive, and on top of that students may face travel expenses related to traveling
home for
unexpected emergencies and the like. I will make it my mission to explore further avenues
through which out-of-state students can receive funding to combat these extra financial
burdens. 
Another issue that the out-of-state student population faces here at UC San Diego is the
limited clinical 
mental health services available to students who reside in states outside of California. I plan
to confront 
this issue by working with administration to find ways that the university can better support
out-of-state 
students looking for clinical mental health resources near them.  In order to promote equitable academic policies, I will fiercely lobby the Academic Senate to
create  
meaningful accommodations so that out-of-state students, whether they can make it to
campus or not, are 
not left behind with the return to learn process. Collecting student testimonials, working with
the AS 
executive team and AS Academic Affairs, and mobilizing student voices will all be approaches
in my 
work to put pressure on the Academic Senate to make the right choice for how to best
support out-of-state 
students, and all UCSD students, during these times.
Further, to address the financial burden out-of-state students face, I will work with
administration to  
increase avenues of funding whether those be directly by the university or through
connecting out-of-state 
students to outside scholarship and grant opportunities. I will work to push for the creation
of a section of the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office website specific to ‘Outside Agency
Scholarships’ which 
out-of-state students are eligible for. I will also work with administration to try and devise
methods where 
non-resident students facing unexpected travel expenses can be financially supported.
During my time in this position, I will work with university programs such as CAPS to find
ways that UC San Diego can better support the out-of-state student population in getting
access to clinical mental health resources where they live. Supporting and bolstering already
existing non-clinical mental health resources offered through the university will also be
instrumental in helping to ensure the mental health needs of out-of-state students are met,
and this is a step I will take in my term. 
I will prepare to take on this position in the coming year by forming lines of contact between
myself and 
various university services and organizations dedicated to enhancing the out-of-state student
experience 
right from the get-go. Building these relationships with campus administrators, student
leaders, staff 
members, etc. will help ensure that the change I aim to bring about in the coming year is able
to be 
accomplished efficiently. Further, with the vision of what next school year will look like
constantly in flux during these uncertain times, I will prepare to take on this position by reaching out to the
out-of-state  
student population directly in order to understand what their most pressing needs are as we
continue to get 
closer to the start of the next academic year. This will allow me to swiftly begin working
behind the 
scenes to formulate the best strategies to meet out-of-state student’s needs in the coming
year. 
My predecessor has done very admirable work in the realm of resource security for out-of-
state and 
international students, partnering with campus organizations such as CalFresh and others in
order to 
expand the reach of her work. This outreach-based approach to serving not just out-of-state
students but 
also international students is one I plan to carry through if elected. An area where I would
like to improve 
on the work done by my predecessor is in the realm of financial burdens facing out of state
students. I will 
actively work with administration to try and find ways of alleviating the expenses out-of-state
students 
face regarding emergency travel, tuition, and other expenses that accompany being a non-
resident. 
Student involvement will play a significant role in accomplishing some of the above goals, but
most 
specifically those involving the Academic Senate. As this past year has shown us, student
testimonials 
proved to be instrumental in getting crucial academic accommodations approved. I believe
this same 
method will prove effective in the coming academic year. To encourage student involvement,
one of my 
top priorities will be to demystify what Associated Students can do for the student
population. As 
representatives, our job is to serve the student body by bringing their needs to the attention
of 
administration and working to address these needs fully. Thus, direct input from students
will make me 
able to best serve out-of-state students and the greater UC San Diego undergraduatepopulation.  
The most direct way that I, and the whole REVIVE team, expect to solicit student input is
through direct  
visits to campus organizations, and overall improved communications between AS and these
groups. 
Students are busy, and to be respectful of their time I will work to go directly to them rather
than making 
them seek me out. This way, I can remain up to date on the issues students are facing and
students can 
remain aware of what I am doing as a representative to help meet their needs.
Specific to my position as an Out-of-State Senator, I will work to reach out to out-of-state
students directly and collaborate with non-resident focused organizations such as B.O.S.S.
and other groups who work to promote a better experience for our UC San Diego out-of-state
student population.
Ethan Nelson  – Slate: Independent – Position: Campus-wide Senator
Issues I’ll Address as Senator:
Violence and discrimination against BIPOC and LGBTQ+ students.
Parking permits and how they pertain to students’ usage of them.
How students’ tuitions are used and what they’re used for.
Fair rights and wages for HDH student-workers.
How I’ll Address these Issues:
We, as Campus-wide Senators, can address violence and discrimination against BIPOC and
LGBTQ+ students by introducing legislation that prohibits such and punishes those who
commits these violations. A specific thing I have in mind is that we can introduce stronger
legislation to specifically reprimand UCSD students who use hate speech on social media
platforms and make sure there are harsher consequences.
Parking permits are often confusing and expensive to UCSD students – especially to students
who live on-campus and incoming students who don’t know how parking on-campus works.
In order to incentivize the use & sales of parking permits, legislation should be introduced toreduce the price of parking permits and there should be clearer instructions on how they
work.
Currently, our tuition-money is used for resources that a majority of us aren’t able to access
during a pandemic, including sports games and the RIMAC gym. As a Campus-wide Senator,
I can help introduce legislation to help students opt-out of these purchases and find more
helpful ways UCSD can monetize our tuition money for.
HDH student-workers are constantly given unfair treatment through their unfair wages and
hectic work-schedules while being expected to keep their GPA’s high and taking at least 12
units or more per quarter to graduate on time. It’s reasonable to ensure that HDH receives
more inspections and a more suitable budget so that HDH employees can be treated fairly.
I will prepare to take on the position by reading up on the AS constitution, make sure I’m
prepared & ready for official duties as Senator, and listen to anyone who can provide advice
on how to take on a position of this merit.
By the evident results of the past-Senators’ published projects, I can see that the next
generation of Senators will have to work on very few, large projects rather than many small
projects – I can take these results and motivate myself to create & legislate more projects. I
can improve on their performance by seeing how their projects affected us as students, and
see how we can increase or decrease that impact respectively.
Student involvement definitely is encouraged and necessary so I know what my constituents
want and how I can accommodate their needs. I plan to encourage student involvement by
holding publicized office hours and encouraging students to email or communicate with me
as much as they’d like.
As mentioned before, I’ll hold publicized office hours and encourage my constituents to
communicate with me as much as possible in order to ensure everyone is happy. I’ll definitely
also remain committed to my position in AS and ensure that I’m involved every step of the
way.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Is Wealth Inequality Corroding American Democracy?
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/is-wealth-inequality-corroding-american-democracy/) 
Katherine Getchell (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/katherine-getchell/)
 Failures to limit the influence of money coupled with the widening gap between the
wealthiest and poorest Americans threatens one of the core tenets of democracy: equality. The United States calls itself a democratic republic. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary
definition (https://www.democracyandme.org/a-democratic-republic-what-is-that/)  for a
republic is a government structure where “the supreme power lies in a body of citizens who
are entitled to vote for representatives responsible to them.” By contrast, in a democracy, 
“the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly
through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections.” 
Naturally, a democratic republic blends components of both systems, where the people have
the power to vote directly on certain measures and also to choose representatives to legislate
on their behalf. 
To be a democracy, power must rest in the hands of the people. But which people actually
have the most power? Everyone has the ability to vote, but there is evidence to suggest that
the wealth inequality in our country and the dependence of political success on funding
create an opportunity for some individuals to influence our government with more than just
their vote. 
The influence of money in American politics is not an emerging phenomenon, but the
exponentia (https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/02/07/6-facts-about-economic-
inequality-in-the-u-s/)l growth of wealth inequality in the last three decades is
unprecedented. 
According to DQYDJ (https://dqydj.com/top-one-percent-united-states/), “the top 1% of
households and nonprofit organizations held 31.2% of all net worth in the United States.” 
Howard Gold from the Chicago Booth Review goes on to highlight an even smaller portion of
the country. “Just 16,000 families fall in the top 0.01 percent of US households, each with at
least $111 million in net worth in 2012
(https://review.chicagobooth.edu/economics/2017/article/never-mind-1-percent-lets-talk-
about-001-percent).”
On the other hand, the majority of Americans have almost no disposable income. 
“Unfortunately, 56% of Americans have $5,000 or less in savings
(https://www.fool.com/the-ascent/research/average-savings-account-balance/) . And a third
have $1,000 or less. When the average American’s monthly expenses are $5,102, that’s not
enough to cover an emergency.”The Federal Election Commission, (FEC), has put laws into place with the intention of
preventing this wealth inequality from corrupting equality in the political sphere. 
The FEC states (https://www.fec.gov/help-candidates-and-committees/candidate-taking-
receipts/contribution-limits/) that, in federal elections, individuals can donate $2,800 to a
candidate committee. The same individual could donate $10,000 to a state party committee.
The same individual could donate as much as $35,000 to a Party National committee and
$106,500 per account per year to specific national party committee accounts. A National
party committee can donate $5,000 to each candidate committee each election.
Furthermore, between the national party committee, state, district, or local party committees,
there are unlimited transfers. A single individual can donate $5,000 to any Multicandidate
PAC. That Multicandidate PAC can donate $5,000 to a candidate committee per election,
$5,000 to another PAC each year, and $45,000 to certain national party committee
accounts. 
This tangled web is just for one type of election, there is a whole different map of limits for
each recipient-donor combination for presidential primaries and general elections. It’s
difficult to follow where all the money is coming from and all the potential places it can go. 
In a category of their own, Super Political Action Committees (PACs) can accept unlimited
(https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.3998/mpub.8083157.5) donations from individuals, labor
organizations, political committees, and corporations; their expenditures, when acting
independently from campaigns, are  also unlimited.
Due to the respective rulings in the supreme court cases Citizens United v FEC
(https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/citizens-united-explained)  and
Buckley v Valeo (https://www.britannica.com/event/Buckley-v-Valeo), corporations have the
same rights to free speech as individuals and money is considered a form of free speech, and
therefore cannot be restricted. These court cases set the stage for the 2020 election cycle
where Super PACs in total spent more than two billion dollars
(https://www.opensecrets.org/outsidespending/summ.php?chrt=V&type=S) . 
Billionaires, corporations, and nonprofits motivated to ensure certain policies pass can
donate through each avenue on an individual level and then unlimited amounts to Super
PACs of their choosing. All this is possible under legal campaign finance law. Illegal means by which money is poured
into politics is a whole different discussion but there is reason to believe the FEC only
identifies and prosecutes a fraction of the instances where these laws are actually bent or
broken: 
“Penalties levied by the FEC (https://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/06/us/politics/fec-says-
campaign-fines-hit-record-low-in-2014) for campaign finance violations have plummeted to
record lows even as political spending has soared.” 
People and organizations with the means to do so can carry influence into policy and politics
regardless of the wants and needs of the majority of Americans.  
Hall and Wayman, in their study of wealth’s influence on American politics
(https://www.jstor.org/stable/1962767), seek to understand the extent of the influences that
this structure lends to the richest citizens and organizations. Their investigation of the effect
of donations on congressional committees demonstrates that substantial contributions to
legislators influence which bills make it out to the voting floor. 
They explain that when, for example, a tax bill that has a measure for the reduction of capital
gains or corporate tax rates is in committee, the largest donations from outside interest
groups and individuals not only go to the loudest supporters of the bill. The money from
donors in favor of the bill is also funneled to the biggest opponents of the bill — to incentivize
those legislators to argue against it less vehemently.  
Their study exposes the high likelihood that some of the biggest public advocates for
initiatives have taken money in exchange for not promoting the interests of their
constituents. Another study by Martin Gilens and Benjamin Page
(https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-
of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-
citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B) from 2014 reinforces the claim that
wealth directly influences policy. 
Gilens and Page write, “Economic elites and organized groups representing business interests
have substantial independent impacts on U.S. gov policy while mass-based interest groups
and average citizens have little or no independent influence.” Objectors to the conclusions reached in this study raise the point that the middle class and
the rich agree on a lot of issues (https://www.vox.com/2016/5/9/11502464/gilens-page-
oligarchy-study). Yet it is difficult to separate how much of that is actual accordance of
priorities and ideologies and how much that is influenced by the fact that the richest people
in the country have the power to shape the media the rest of us consume: “6 Corporations
Control 90% Of The Media In America (https://www.businessinsider.com/these-6-
corporations-control-90-of-the-media-in-america-2012-6).” 
This objection is also centered on the middle class because there is significantly less
agreement (https://www.vox.com/2016/5/9/11502464/gilens-page-oligarchy-study)  on
policy direction between the least wealthy and the most wealthy income brackets. 
When lower-income Americans’ interests are in direct conflict with middle and upper class
interests, the lower-income bracket loses 80 percent of the time
(https://www.vox.com/2016/5/9/11502464/gilens-page-oligarchy-study) : “These results
suggest that the rich and middle are effective at blocking policies that the poor want.” 
An example of legislation that hasn’t seen any movement in recent years that would
disproportionately benefit those with very little wealth is the minimum wage. According to
PBS, (https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/cbo-finds-15-minimum-wage-would-reduce-
poverty-increase-federal-debt) “the current federal minimum wage sits at $7.25 an hour with
most states passing their minimum wage higher since it has not changed since 2009.“
This is despite the fact that two-thirds of Americans (67 percent) support
(https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/07/30/two-thirds-of-americans-favor-
raising-federal-minimum-wage-to-15-an-hour/)raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
This is not just a debate that has recently gained traction, a federal minimum wage increase
has been a part of the Democratic party’s platform
(https://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/30/us/politics/democrats-turn-to-minimum-wage-as-
2014-strategy.html) before. 
There are pros and cons to raising the minimum wage, the Congressional Budget Office
(https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/cbo-finds-15-minimum-wage-would-reduce-
poverty-increase-federal-debt) projected that: “On the positive, the number of people living
in poverty would fall by about 900,000 once the $15 wage is fully in place in 2025.”  
The trade-off would likely be an increase in the unemployment rate as “the number of people
working would decline by about 1.4 million.” Michael Saltsman from the Employment Policies Institute (https://epionline.org/oped/why-
wal-mart-can-not-afford-to-pay-workers-a-15-minimum-wage/) argued that even very
profitable companies could not afford a minimum wage increase. 
“Wal-Mart’s actual profit, according to SEC filings, was only 3 percent of its total revenue,
[$482 billion in total revenue in the fiscal year 2016]. That works out to roughly $6,400
dollars in profit for each of the company’s 2.3 million employees — a profit that could be
wiped out with a $15 minimum wage.”
Three percent of $482 billion is still $14.46 billion. That is a lot of profit. Saltsman argues
here that if the minimum wage were to increase that profit would be obliterated. In that
sense, Walmart has a lot to gain from the federal minimum wage staying at $7.25 per hour. 
This power of money is not only seen in what policy is passed but also in who wins elections. 
The Washington Post (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-
fix/wp/2014/04/04/think-money-doesnt-matter-in-elections-this-chart-says-youre-wrong/)
reported in 2012 that in congressional races “Candidates who out-fundraised their opponents
were nine times more likely to win elections.”
 Maggie Koerth of Five Thirty Eight (https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/money-and-
elections-a-complicated-love-story/) identifies this as a common trend seen throughout the
past two decades. 
“How strong is the association between campaign spending and political success? For House
seats, more than 90 percent of candidates who spend the most win. From 2000 through
2016, there was only one election cycle where that wasn’t true: 2010. In that election, 86
percent of the top spenders won,” Koerth said.
The evidence points to more funding yielding results on measures the general public votes on
directly as well. 
Proposition 22 (https://ballotpedia.org/California_Proposition_22,_App-
Based_Drivers_as_Contractors_and_Labor_Policies_Initiative_(2020))  was on the ballot
last fall in California, it sought to “define app-based transportation (rideshare) and delivery
drivers as independent contractors and adopt labor and wage policies specific to app-based
drivers and companies.” The Yes on Prop 22 coalition received (https://news.ballotpedia.org/2020/09/09/with-
funding-from-uber-lyft-and-doordash-campaign-behind-california-proposition-22-tops-180-
million/) $181.4 million from Lyft, Uber, DoorDash, InstaCart, and Postmates.  
The opposition to the prop had a fraction of that to spend, with the No on Prop 22
(https://www.kqed.org/news/11843123/prop-22-explained-why-gig-companies-are-
spending-huge-money-on-an-unprecedented-measure) raising around “$19 million, coming
mainly from labor organizations.”
Ultimately, Proposition 22 passed. 
The evidence presented here points to the conclusion that federal campaign finance laws do
not effectively limit the influence of money in American politics. The probability that
propositions pass, candidates take office, bills leave committee and certain policies are
implemented hinge on, to some degree, who donates the most money to whom. 
When wealth cannot be separated from politics, wealth inequality translates to political
inequality. 
A small group of individuals and organizations have upwards of a hundred million dollars to
commit to ideological conflicts and to promote their own interests while a large portion of
Americans have less than $10,000 in savings. 
Every person does not have an equal say in our governance when a small fraction of the
citizens can shape policy through donations that the rest of the country cannot match. Which
raises the question: is equality an integral part of democracy? If it is — do we really live in a
democratic republic?
Photo by Karolina Grabowska from Pexels.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
FILM REVIEW: “GODZILLA vs. KONG”
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/film-review-godzilla-vs-kong/) Hanaa Moosavi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hanaa-moosavi/)
Despite being 36 films deep into the Godzilla franchise, the writers still can’t maneuver a
thrilling and enticing Titan film.The following review contains spoilers for “Godzilla vs. Kong.”
A huge monkey, a lizard with radioactive powers, and Millie Bobby Brown — what could go
wrong? “Godzilla vs. Kong,” the 36th installment of the Godzilla franchise, returned to the
screens of thousands of American viewers watching at home on March 31, 2021.
“Godzilla vs. Kong” is a weak screenplay that fails to breathe life and excitement into its
human characters. Madison Russell (Millie Bobby Brown) is rendered obsolete due to every
cut to her storyline failing to push the narrative and entertain viewers. Madison doesn’t like
her father, and she listens to a conspiracy podcast, and she throws whiskey to disarm
MechaGodzilla; most of the information provided through Madison would have been relayed
better through more prominent characters like Dr. Lind (Alexander Skarsgard) and Dr.
Andrews (Rebecca Hall). Not even actor Brian Tyree Henry (Alfred Miles on Hulu’s comedy
show “Atlanta”) could save the Titan-less scenes. Henry’s range of emotion and quick,
flawless wit alluded to a potential saving grace; unfortunately, the plot still failed to entertain.
The movie’s inability to showcase its cast’s abilities as a result of its poor writing predestined
it for disaster.
Another major flaw was the Kong cop-out in choreographing the Titan fight scenes. Kong is
armed with a staff made from a scale from Godzilla’s back. It is attached to a wooden stick
found in the center of the earth, and is used to finish off MechaGodzilla. When viewers attend
a Titan fight movie, they want to see the Titans fight. Yet, giving Kong a staff equates to
bringing a gun to a fist fight: it’s a cheap end to a highly anticipated fight. This cop-out — the
radioactive staff — nullifies the need to choreograph extreme lizard and gorilla kicks,
punches, and throws, which is what viewers find exciting about the film. It is degrading to the
integrity of the fight film and disappointing for the audience members watching.
Lastly, the sympathetic narrative for King Kong and the demonization of Godzilla within the
plot inadvertently leans into underlying anti-Asian messages to viewers. Godzilla was born as
a symbol of the numerous American atomic attacks and everlasting effects on Japan.
Professor Tsutsui (Univ. of Kansas) was quoted during a talk
(https://www.international.ucla.edu/israel/article/24850) explaining “Godzilla’s genesis
‘was also conditioned by Cold War tensions and atomic age anxieties,’” and the original
rendition was “intended to be a very serious fare.” Even during the first American adaptation
of Godzilla (1956), many of the World War II and atomic bomb references were removed,
marking the beginning of American involvement in altering and defacing Japanese symbols
in the Godzilla franchise.The defacing of Godzilla continued in “Godzilla vs. Kong.” Throughout the first half of the
film, Godzilla is made out to be a horrible, scary Titan that attacks Americans and Kong
seemingly out of nowhere; however, Kong signs English, he saves the Americans from
Godzilla’s attack on their ships, and all he wants to do is go home — all factors that garner
sympathy for Kong’s character, further demonizing Godzilla. By stacking Godzilla against a
strong, sympathetic American character like Kong, the creators’ intentions are no longer an
important factor. This type of subliminal messaging is inherently harmful and perpetuates
anti-asian rhetoric and continues to mass-market normalized racism.
“Godzilla vs. Kong 2021” was less than desirable during the watch. From its mediocre human-
centered narrative to anti-Japanese propaganda slapped in, there was not much that could
save this film from the slaughter of negative reviews. Taking into account all the mistaken
choices made in the Godzilla film, it would have been better to just choreograph three Titan
fights and slap them into a short film — at least this would have saved the viewers from the
constant fast-forwarding.
Film Review:  “Godzilla vs. Kong”  
Grade: C  
Director: Adam Wingard  
Starring:  Millie Bobby Brown, Rebecca Hall, Alexander Skarsgard Release Date:  March 31st, 2021  
Rated: PG-13
Image courtesy of IGN.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
TV Review: “Genera+ion”
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/tv-review-generaion/) Marina Lee
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)
The first season of “Genera+ion” brings a compelling brand of messy to the infinite
promises of the queer imagination.Edgy teen dramas of sex, drugs, and sickeningly addicting pop music are a rampant staple of
today’s television landscape. Even though I, someone who was once a teenager, have never in
my entire life heard people speak the way that teenagers written by middle-aged men speak
in these aforementioned shows, I still find myself steadily consuming this kind of media in all
its innate, saturated glory. However, the teenage dramas produced in the last five years have
marked a certain change in media airwaves that drew me in significantly more than the
forgotten dramas of ABC Family past. After finishing entire seasons of shows like HBO’s
“Euphoria” within 24-hour periods, I thought about what the exact characteristics of this
newer wave of television were that still managed to resonate with me, despite their unhinged
dictive and syntactical choices. What was so inviting and attention-sustaining about
“Genera+ion,” even in its cringiest moments of absurdity?
The answer? The inclusion of narratives centering people at intersecting margins, who were
previously allocated to lazy side-plots and tragic happenings that spurred on the growth and
development of their straight, white protagonists. This new wave of television centers BIPOC
stories, queer stories, and genderfluid stories, in which teenagers live as their fully realized
selves (as far as teenagedom allows, of course). No longer exclusively relegated to the saddest
circumstances to ever befall a human being ever, we are shown queer possibility, the
possibility of a “queer forever” — that queerness has always existed, exists now, and will
continue to exist. Not only does the show legitimize these identities, it refuses to make them
the exclusive perpetrator of the narrative, where queerness doesn’t have to exist as these
individuals’ sole defining exemplars of personhood. They exist as whole, mistake-making
kids, ready to fall deep in love, and able to readily express it to their friends, just as a straight
teenager would typically and casually be depicted doing so without a second thought.
A public mall pregnancy scare with a kiddie pool, jumping off of a wedding rehearsal cruise
ship after unintentionally outing yourself while stoned, passing the time during an active
shooter lockdown with Dr. Pimple Popper videos, and weed-aquarium adventures with new
acquaintances, paint colorful pictures of these heightened high schoolers’ lives in comedic
and communal ways. The show lets queer people be dumb, and letting characters be dumb is
critical to an effective increase in media representation for folks of under-and-ill-represented
identities. Not everyone is exceptional, nor should they have to be in order to be deserving of
validation — validation of the self, of the humanness, validation of the right to love, and the
ways in which to do it, and validation of fears, both big and small. To deserve life, to deserve
full honoring of personhood, let characters be dumb.In this critical dumbness of their characters’ behavior, the show manages to balance their
mistakes with astonishingly intimate close-ups. Gaze becomes an important factor, as the
heterosexual gaze is ultimately decentered and heavily criticized in its toxicity and avoidance
of queer labels and individuals for fear of proximity to queerness. We get these pining glances
at quiet loves, these moments of silence and wonder, that are just absolutely wonderful.
These moments of breath amidst the chaos are what deepen the effects of the show even
further in their authentication of queer identity and a naturalized queer survival displaying
its trajectory of inevitability. 
It’s moments of television like this that remind me of my own relationship with my
queerness, as I retroactively reminisce about what it would have been like for me to live my
high school years as the current and fully out self that I exist as now. I wish I had seen shows
like this when I was the ages of the characters, so I could have seen what that queer centering
looked like. Media, even with its many undeniable flaws, gives those of us on the margins the
language to articulate ourselves as ourselves, and invites a steadfast openness that can only
grow with the time and reflection generated by this linguistic acquisition.
Grade: B  
Creators:  Daniel Barnz and Zelda Barnz  
Starring:  Justice Smith, Chase Sui Wonders, Chloe East Premiered:  March 11, 2021  
Rated: TV-MA
Image courtesy of Glamour.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
“Taylor’s Version” sets Powerful Precedent for Music
Industry
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/taylors-version-sets-powerful-precedent-for-music-industry/)
Medha Upadhyay (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/medhau/)
Taylor Swift’s re-recording of her sophomore album, “Fearless”, is her latest push to make the
music industry a better place, especially for vulnerable artists. Swift is hardly the first artist to
face devastation at the hands of their record label, but she might very well be the first one to
fight it so openly (https://taylorswift.tumblr.com/post/185958366550/for-years-i-asked-
pleaded-for-a-chance-to-own-my). What the public views as a catfight between high-profile
celebrities is essentially a battle for her life’s work
(https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/taylor-swift-scooter-braun-scott-
borchetta-explainer-853424/); the very work that the media continues to claim is too
personal. In between slut-shaming
(https://twitter.com/taylorswift13/status/1366401657685245955) her, the public continues
to claim that Swift is a money-hungry vulture (https://www.ccn.com/taylor-swift-loves-to-
play-the-victim-but-shes-not-always-innocent/) who masterminded every controversy
surrounding her in order to increase profits.   
It is completely beside the point to argue that Swift does not need the extra money from her
rerecordings – what she is doing is setting a precedent
(https://www.vogue.com/article/taylor-swift-rerecording-first-five-albums) . 
She has expressed her belief that artists should have the rights to their work, or at least be
given the opportunity to buy them back at market value, and she is acting on it. It may not
make a huge financial difference for Swift, but it could mean the world for a struggling artist
—just like her groundbreaking work in pushing Spotify (https://time.com/3554468/why-
taylor-swift-spotify/) and Apple Music
(https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/22/business/media/taylor-swift-criticizes-apples-
terms-for-streaming-music-service.html) to pay artists more. Even back then, she was one of
few big-name artists who took a stance and stuck to it. At every step, Swift has pushed to
make the music industry a better place. Somehow, society has normalized punishing Taylor
Swift just for being herself and telling her truth. 
This anti-Taylor sentiment peaked in 2016, with the #TaylorSwiftIsOverParty
(https://www.brit.co/why-2016-was-the-year-the-world-turned-on-taylor-swift/) . Coming
off of an iconic high with her album 1989, the public decided that they had enough of Swift
and turned on her rapidly. Between her new feud with the Kardashian-West clan and her
breakup with Calvin Harris and subsequent rebound with Tom Hiddleston, the media frenzy
was out for blood.In her Netflix documentary about this tumultuous time period, “Miss Americana
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=40RsbcFRwNA)”, Swift shares her struggles with an
eating disorder, the invasive media coverage of her life, her legal sexual assault battle, and her
battle to speak out for what she believed in politically. Each and every one of these issues
brought an avalanche of criticism onto her, not to mention the casual sexism
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqAJLh9wuZ0) she has been forced to endure
throughout most of her career. Buried under all of this, Swift was at the cusp of becoming a
relic of the past.
And yet she didn’t. Swift pushed back, reinventing herself once again with the edgy
“Reputation”. Despite claims that she was no longer relatable
(https://www.forbes.com/sites/bryanrolli/2018/08/01/taylor-swifts-reputation-tour-is-a-
massive-success-looks-like-shes-relatable-after-all/?sh=29c729bb4201) , Swift went on to put
together a visually stunning stadium tour that made millions. All this to say that Swift is no
stranger to the crowds turning on her. 
The latest disparagement surrounding Swift’s re-recordings probably won’t be enough to
deter this talented and hard-working artist, but just because Swift doesn’t let the mud-
slinging drag her down doesn’t mean that it’s harmless. There is nothing cool about
undermining a driven artist who is putting themself on the line in order to pave the way for
future generations. 
It’s inevitable that Swift will go down in history as one of the defining artists of this
generation; it’s time for the public to get behind her. Even people who think they don’t like
Swift’s music should really check out her “Fearless” re-recordings — Taylor’s discography is
truly wide enough to please everyone
(https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/12/opinion/taylor-swift-grammys-nature-lyrics.html) .
Swift has always been both a talented artist and one who is working to make the industry a
better place; she never disappoints, and it’s about time we stopped letting her down.
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Growing Complacent
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/growing-complacent/) Sparky Mitra
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sparkymitra/)
To keep the powerful accountable, we must link individual issues to a systemic problem.Asian hate? Overlooked. Black lives? Overlooked. Workers’ rights? Overlooked. While each
movement cements its place in our textbooks, the powerful seem to be hurriedly flipping to
the next page. They avoid action. They avoid resolutions. Before a chapter ends with justice, a
new tragic plot is opened. Even President Biden, the highest political official in the U.S.,
stayed silent on the issue of gun violence (https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-
room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-
initial-actions-to-address-the-gun-violence-public-health-epidemic/)  until it became a
recurring topic of conversation, until mass shootings took the lives of more than 100 people
this year (https://www.gunviolencearchive.org/reports/mass-shooting) alone. Relentless
assaults on human rights have plagued our nation in recent years. But change has yet to show
itself on the horizon of hope. Citing the need to combat new issues, many politicians have
learned to ignore enduring problems. From public opinion to legislative proposals, the pace
of progress has been stalled to the point of inaction. The disconnect between the system that
constantly berates “WE THE PEOPLE,” and the single issue-centric wrath that we have
grown to harbor has only empowered the true oppressors. 
When the public was ready to pressure lawmakers to address Georgia’s voting
(https://apnews.com/article/what-does-new-georgia-gop-election-law-do-
87665a200f6442e28ef43cbc60c88653) restrictions, Arkansas rolled-out a transphobic
(https://time.com/5953363/trans-youth-arkansas/) attack on healthcare for transgender
youth. As Black Lives Matter worked to focus efforts on the trial
(https://www.newyorker.com/news/our-columnists/the-simple-facts-of-derek-chauvins-
trial) of Derek Chauvin and on justice for George Floyd, a new BIPOC movement
(https://www.nytimes.com/live/2021/03/17/us/shooting-atlanta-acworth)  required action,
namely, Stop Asian Hate. 
While all of these are noble causes, their relevance relies heavily on media virality. When
these movements are reduced to trending hashtags, politicians use the spotlight to issue
sappy remarks (https://www.salon.com/2020/06/09/mitt-romneys-support-for-black-lives-
matters-but-the-bar-should-be-higher-for-democrats/) without enacting actual change.
Politicians (https://www.thelamron.com/posts/2020/9/27/performative-activism-
threatens-social-justice-as-it-becomes-increasingly-popular-amongst-politicians-social-
media) should not be allowed to reduce their ‘voice’ to quotes and pictures among other
emblems of performative activism, especially when their job descriptions call on them to act
rather than perform. They rely (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1468-
2508.2004.00160.x) on the constant change of what is viral to stay complacent. But in
reality, actions against people based on socioeconomic class, gender identity/sexualorientation, race, and religion are all connected by threads of apathy and bigotry. Using these
common threads, we can advocate for systemic change rather than letting our messages be
dictated by novelty.
We start by encouraging greater comradery between groups by educating each other on how
oppressive policy has affected each of us personally. In the civil rights era, the Jewish-Black
alliance was strengthened by a bond of empathy that accompanied their mutual
understanding of anti-Semitism and color racism. In fact, many Jews flooded
(https://southernspaces.org/2009/counterblast-how-atlanta-temple-bombing-strengthened-
civil-rights-cause/) to support Black causes after domestic terrorism against their own
institutions in the 1950s — such as the 1958 bombing of The Temple in Atlanta. Without
diminishing the struggles that each group faced, Jewish and Black-Americans were able to
focus their attention on the connections between supremacist ideologies. One does not need
to compare institutions of slavery to those of the Holocaust to draw attention to oppression.
Comparing the economic and racial implications that led to these events is enough. We must
learn from their examples as well as fight for justice in various realms with similar root
causes. Hate has evoked fear among Black and Asian communities. These incidents stem
from brutal rhetoric and scapegoating. Every life bears equal importance. Every life
vanquished is equally tragic. Once race is assumed to be a criminal, another is assumed to be
a virus, yet the root cause (https://www.vox.com/22321234/black-asian-american-tensions-
solidarity-history) for these groups’ plight is obvious: white supremacy … not each other.
Instead of trying to steal a temporary spotlight from another movement, targeting this source
of fear must take precedence.
Between laws (https://static.foxnews.com/foxnews.com/content/uploads/2021/04/Georgia-
election-law-SB-202.pdf) targeting Black voters and Deep South businesses
(https://truthout.org/articles/union-calls-foul-play-as-amazon-unionization-vote-fails/)
suppressing primarily white workers’ efforts to unionize, there is a connection of blocking
access to fair representation. Between the oppression towards Muslims and Black-Americans,
there is a connection (https://news.gallup.com/poll/157082/islamophobia-understanding-
anti-muslim-sentiment-west.aspx) via the preconceived notions of criminality. Between
blaming (https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2021/03/26/minnesota-rape-
alcohol/) a woman for being raped and stripping healthcare for trans youth, we can spot a
criminal level of disregard for mental and physical health. As these connections are made
between every single movement of the past, present and future, a clear picture of the flawed
legislative priorities can be brought into the spotlight. Rather than fighting on many frontsand trying to bring attention to a plethora of issues that inevitably compete with each other
for relevance, we can shift our attention to the few nodes that couple the adversity that each
community faces together. 
With active efforts to highlight our commonalities, we can also potentially eliminate the
stratifications that currently separate us from participating in each other’s fights. Rather than
diverting attention from qualms that have yet to be addressed, each new issue must
compound to increasingly highlighted systemic flaws. Rather than being limited to the
“fifteen minutes of fame” that accompanies tragic or shocking events, our influence can be
felt forever. 
Our political and economic overlords trust the impermanence of public memory, driven by
ignorance, to allow widespread inaction. But our fights are all connected. It is time to use the
loom of unity and understanding to weave the threads connecting our struggles. Only this
fabric of solidarity between individual causes can smother a system that continues to
suffocate its people.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Men’s Volleyball Struggles Vs. Long Beach State
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/ucsd-mens-volleyball-struggles-vs-long-beach-state/) 
Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
UC San Diego’s 12 -ranked men’s volleyball team (3–9, 3–5 Big West) failed to take a set
from 6 -place California State University, Long Beach (5–3, 5–3 Big West) in a home-and-
home series, losing the first contest 25–18, 25–23, 25–21, and the second 25–20, 25–22, 25–
15.
The first match was held at RIMAC Arena on April 9, and the UCSD Tritons made it close
early. Both teams went back and forth in the early part of the first set, and a kill from Triton
junior middle blocker Shane Benetz put UCSD up 9–8. But CSULB were able to wrest back
control with a 5-point run, starting with a Triton service error from senior outside hitter Kyle
McCauley; CSULB tacked on two kills and two aces to put themselves up 13–9. From there,
the Tritons were now playing catchup, and while they twice closed the lead to two, they
couldn’t capitalize on those opportunities. A 5–1 run for Long Beach got them to set point,
and even though the Tritons fended off a pair of potential set-ending points, it was too little,
too late, as the set ended 25–18.
The second set also began as a back-and-forth affair, and three successive Triton points gave
UCSD a 13–10 lead midway through the set. They held this lead for a while, but after the
Tritons went up 19–16 on a kill from senior opposite hitter Collin Shannon, the Beach went
on a 5–1 run to go up 21–20. UCSD did get the lead back, however, and they were two points
from winning the set with a 23–22 lead. But Long Beach made another quick run, scoring
three straight points capped off by an attack error from McCauley to take the set, 25–23.
In the third set, Long Beach got out to big leads early, and a 5–1 run in their favor put them
up 10–5. While the Tritons did narrow the lead to 12–10 on a McCauley kill, that would be as
close as they would get; UCSD trailed for the remainder of the set, and while they stayed
within striking distance, the run they needed never materialized, giving CSULB the set, 25–
21, and the match.
The Tritons struggled with efficiency, with their hitting percentage at .268 to the Beach’s
.420. McCauley led the Tritons with 12 kills, followed by redshirt sophomore Ryan Ka with
eight, and junior setter Blake Crisp led UCSD with 26 assists.
“I thought we had a lot of good, quality swings. If you look at those things, we were in the
match with that aspect of our play. It was the difference of some of the other factors… some of
these other factors you don’t even notice them, whether you’re doing them well or not so well.
Tonight it made the difference,” said Triton head coach Kevin Ring.th
thThe second match of the series was played a 90-mile drive north in Long Beach State’s Walter
Pyramid. The Beach started out hot on their home court, as a 6–0 run propelled them to a 7–
1 lead early. UCSD made up much of that deficit with a 5–1 run of their own that ended with
two consecutive Long Beach attack errors, making it 10–8. The Tritons were able to get
within one but not tie the match up, and the Beach capitalized with a 5–0 run to bring the
score to 19–13. UCSD made an effort late, but Long Beach closed out the set 25–20.
The Tritons kept the beginning of the second set close, and while the Beach amassed an 11–7
lead, a 5–1 run from UCSD tied the set at 12. But unfortunately for the Tritons, Long Beach
had another run in them, rattling off five straight to go up 17–12. UCSD would battle back late
in the set, however; four straight Triton points, finished off with a Benetz kill, tied the set
back up at 22. But once again, UCSD couldn’t use the opportunity to take the lead, as Long
Beach finished off the last three points of the set to take it 25–22.
The final set of the match didn’t look much better for the Tritons as the Beach blitzed UCSD
with leads of 6–2 and 13–4 early and led by double digits for most of the set. This time, there
wouldn’t be a comeback for the Tritons, and Long Beach was able to cruise to a 25–15 victory
in the set, capping off their second straight-set victory over UCSD of the weekend.
The Tritons’ hitting woes were even more on display in the second match of the series, as they
hit just .070 to the Beach’s .307 — this included a poor second set where UCSD had more
errors (11) than kills (8). Benetz led the Tritons with seven kills, while McCauley finished with
just five — just the second time this season he has had less than 10 kills. Crisp once again led
the Triton squad with 20 assists.
UCSD will finish their regular season off with three straight matchups with UC Santa Barbara
on April 14, 15, and 17; the first two will be at RIMAC Arena, and the third will be at UCSB.
The following week, the Tritons will compete in the Big West tournament in Honolulu with
their first-round match scheduled for April 22.
Photo courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Triton Baseball Routed on the Road by UC Irvine
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/triton-baseball-routed-on-the-road-by-uc-irvine/) Wesley
Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
Last week, the UC San Diego baseball team took on UC Irvine for a four-game road series. In
the first three games of the series, the Tritons were swept, losing 4–0, 11–1, and 9–3,
respectively. With the losses, UCSD extends their losing streak to five and drops their overall
record to 7–16.
The first matchup began quietly, as both teams were kept scoreless for 5.5 innings. Until the
bottom of the sixth, senior right-hander Cameron Leonard, the UCSD starting pitcher, had
allowed just two hits and no walks. However, in the sixth, UC Irvine began to pull ahead. The
Anteaters got four hits, which they converted into two runs; they added on another run each
in the seventh and in the eighth. While the Anteaters rumbled ahead, the Triton offense was
not able to keep up. A double to left-center by freshman center-fielder Brock Kleszcz in the
eighth inning was UCSD’s last chance at a comeback. But, like all the other Tritons who
managed to get on base, Klesczcz was left stranded. The team only managed four hits and
ended scoreless, losing the game 4–0.
Unlike the first game, UC Irvine piled on the runs early in the second matchup of the series.
The Anteaters recorded six hits and six runs against senior right-hander Noah Conlon.
Conlon racked up a pitch count of 53 after just 1.2 innings on the mound and was pulled after
the fiasco of an outing. The Tritons were spared another shutout by an RBI single from
redshirt senior third-baseman Blake Baumgartner in the sixth inning. Unfortunately for
UCSD, that run would be their first and only score of the game. UC Irvine piled on the hurt,
scoring four more runs in the seventh and final inning. The final score was 11–1, the most
lopsided loss the Tritons have faced this season.
The third outing of the series was much of the same, but the Tritons did put out a more
competitive performance. Though UC Irvine got ahead early with two runs in the second
inning, UCSD was able to fight back. The Tritons scored 3 runs in the fourth and were able to
take the lead, their first lead of the entire series. Those three runs came off of a 2-RBI homer
from junior second-baseman Michael Fuhrman and a RBI groundout from redshirt junior
catcher Paul Gozzo. This burst of offense from UCSD would only last one inning, however.
UCSD mustered only two more hits for the rest of the game, which did not translate to any
more runs for the Tritons. UC Irvine, on the other hand, knocked back 7 more runs, four in
the seventh and three in the eighth. UCSD would go on to lose the game, 9–3.
After the Irvine series, the Tritons have a four-game home series beginning April 16 against
conference rival UC Santa Barbara. UCSB, who is 21–8 on the season overall, will pose a
tough opponent for the Tritons as they hope to end their downward skid.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Comparing COVID-19 Vaccine Options as Accessibility Increases
for Young People
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/comparing-covid-19-vaccine-options-as-accessibility-increases-for-young-
people/) Jose Chavez (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/j2chavez/)
Starting April 15, San Diegans 16 and up will be eligible
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/health/story/2021-03-25/san-diegans-50-and-up-
eligible-for-vaccine-starting-april-1-and-to-those-16-up-by-april-15)  to receive their first dose of theCOVID-19 vaccine. In light of this announcement, many San Diego residents and Americans alike may
be confused as to which vaccine they ought to choose. The UCSD Guardian has put together a list of the
differences between the Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines to help people decide which
one is right for them. 
What is an mRNA vaccine?
Simply put, vaccines are designed to prime people’s immune systems
(https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/vpd-vac-basics.html) against viral threats. It starts with an
injection of the germ in a weakened or dead state which immediately alerts the white blood cells within
one’s body. The human body then produces antibodies in the same way it would if it were infected by
said disease, granting immunity to the disease without having to contract it within an infectious state.
Most vaccines available over the years contain a piece of the germ itself, but the two most popular
COVID-19 vaccines, Pfizer and Moderna, are a bit different in how they function. Rather than being
injected with a piece of the virus itself, mRNA of COVID-19 is administered in the vaccine and
interpreted by the human body’s cells as a sort of blueprint
(https://www.statnews.com/2020/10/26/mrna-vaccines-face-their-first-test-in-the-fight-against-
covid-19-how-do-they-work/). The strands of genetic material contain instructions for making different
proteins, including SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19.
Conversely, Johnson & Johnson’s viral vectored vaccine takes a more traditional approach to
immunization. This vaccine injects a harmless adenovirus, which comes from the same family of
viruses that cause the common cold, that then enters the human body’s cells and uses a certain code to
prompt production for the SARS-2 spike protein.
In short, when someone receives a dose of a Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, they are not
contracting the virus; rather, their cells are receiving genetic instructions on how to construct a
weakened piece of SARS-CoV-2. This weakened replica of the virus that causes COVID-19 then prompts
white blood cell production and immunity is achieved. Johnson & Johnson recipients are receiving a
harmless virus that cues spike protein production.
Efficacy (How Effective They Are)
The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have shown astonishing results with regards to efficacy early on in the
screening process. On the other hand, Johnson & Johnson’s has acted as a sort of post-exposure
prophylaxis (https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/hiv-prevention/using-hiv-medication-to-reduce-
risk/post-exposure-
prophylaxis#:~:text=PEP%2C%20or%20post%2Dexposure%20prophylaxis,Every%20hour%20counts.),
a type of short-term medicine administered after the disease has been contracted.A Phase 3 study conducted by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE (https://www.pfizer.com/news/press-
release/press-release-detail/pfizer-and-biontech-confirm-high-efficacy-and-no-serious)  on 927
confirmed symptomatic cases of COVID-19 found that the vaccine was 95.3 percent effective against
severe COVID-19 cases, as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The Moderna vaccine
efficacy rates were slightly lower in clinical trials — about 86 percent – in people who are 65 or older.
After the second dose, however, the Moderna vaccine had a 94.1 percent success rate, making it only
marginally lower than the Pfizer vaccine’s rate.
In an interview with the Guardian, Sixth College freshman Sujit Tunuguntla said that vaccine efficacy
was their primary reason for choosing the Pfizer vaccine.
“Personally, from what my parents told me, they told me to prefer Pfizer because it has a higher efficacy
rate than Moderna,” Tunuguntla said. “I think that the first dose [of Pfizer’s vaccine] is significantly
higher than Moderna’s… it was 95 percent versus 94.1 percent. It’s what I heard and was why I chose
Pfizer.”
Comparing the efficacy of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine with others is a bit more difficult
(https://www.statnews.com/2021/02/02/comparing-the-covid-19-vaccines-developed-by-pfizer-
moderna-and-johnson-johnson/) due to one key difference in the third phase of the clinical test — the
three companies were testing for different outcomes. 
Johnson & Johnson was testing to see if one dose protected recipients against moderate to severe
COVID-19 illness, which was defined as a combination of one positive test and at least one symptom
such as a fever beginning from two to four weeks after a single shot. Johnson & Johnson was shown to
be 85 percent effective in protecting recipients against severe disease after the 28-day period in which
immunity developed.
It is not known if any of the aforementioned vaccines prevent asymptomatic transmission of the SARS-
CoV-2 virus or if vaccinated people can spread the virus if they’re infected but don’t show symptoms.
Because of this, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention recommends
(https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/fully-vaccinated.html)  that vaccinated
individuals maintain social-distancing and mask-wearing.
Reported Side-Effects
The Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines have similar side effect profiles. The most
common side effects are injection site pain, muscle fatigue, fevers, and headaches and are more heavily
observed within younger adults, who have more robust immune systems. In rare cases, Anaphylaxis,
otherwise defined as severe allergic reactions, have been reported and treated effectively with
epinephrine (the active ingredient in Epipens).On the topic of side effects, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention stated
(https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/safety/adverse-
events.html#:~:text=Results%20from%20monitoring%20efforts%20are,COVID%2D19%20vaccination.)
that COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective. All adverse reactions and events tracked by the center
have been reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) (https://vaers.hhs.gov/).
Anaphylaxis after COVID-19 vaccination occurred in approximately 2 to 5 people per million
vaccinated in the United States based on the system, meaning that the immunization is safe and
effective.
Accessibility
The Pfizer vaccine has been observed to be more difficult to distribute
(https://www.yalemedicine.org/news/covid-19-vaccine-comparison) due to its strict requirements
involving how the vaccine is stored. Once a shipment has been distributed to a point of use, the
vaccines must be stored either in ultra-low-temperature freezers that can go as low as -94.1 degree
Fahrenheit for six months, in refrigeration units commonly available in hospitals for five days, or in the
Pfizer thermal shippers the doses arrive in for 30 days.
By contrast, Moderna can be stored at standard shipping and long-term temperatures
(https://investors.modernatx.com/news-releases/news-release-details/moderna-announces-longer-
shelf-life-its-covid-19-vaccine) (-4 degrees Fahrenheit) for six months. This makes Moderna incredibly
simple to distribute and thus increases its accessibility. Additionally, the vaccine doesn’t require onsite
dilution or special handling, which encourages vaccination across a wide range of locations ranging
from doctor’s offices to pharmacies.
Jessica Lieban, a freshman at Eleanor Roosevelt College, was interviewed about how accessible
vaccines were when she got vaccinated.
“Getting the vaccine was incredibly straightforward, I had no trouble getting it early since I qualify for
it,” Lieban told the Guardian. “The primary reason I chose Moderna was because it was readily
available in L.A. and the [differences] in efficacy rates were marginal.”
Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine does not require excessive refrigeration
(https://www.statnews.com/2021/02/02/comparing-the-covid-19-vaccines-developed-by-pfizer-
moderna-and-johnson-johnson/) when being distributed, meaning that they can be administered
anywhere from pharmacies to mass vaccination sites. Additionally, it can be stored at room
temperature — no more than 77 degrees Fahrenheit — for 12 hours when the vaccines haven’t been
opened. After the first dose is withdrawn, the storage vial can be kept in a fridge for six hours or at
room temperature for two.In light of the COVID-19 vaccines high efficacy rates, limited side effects, and remarkable accessibility,
medical experts like Dr. Stephen Spector, Chief of the Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases at UC
San Diego, urges eligible recipients to get the vaccine as soon as possible.
“What you always look for in medicine is risk-benefit; what is the risk of the vaccine versus the benefit,”
Spector said. “The anaphylaxis reactions have been observed in 1 to 200,000 recipients, and the benefit
[of the vaccine] is clear for all age groups and all people.”
Where do I schedule my appointment?
All soon-to-be eligible groups may use California’s vaccine notification and scheduling system MyTurn
(https://myturn.ca.gov/) on April 15. Residents may be able to schedule appointments sooner at
vaccine sites that use other scheduling systems, according to a representative
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/health/story/2021-03-25/san-diegans-50-and-up-
eligible-for-vaccine-starting-april-1-and-to-those-16-up-by-april-15)  for the California Department of
Public Health.
These alternative sites are offered by the County of San Diego’s website
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/community_epidemiology/dc/2019-
nCoV/vaccines/COVID-19-VaxEvents.html) and through the CDC-endorsed VaccineFinder site
(https://vaccinefinder.org/search/), which directs users to local pharmacy chains and supermarket
pharmacies that are offering vaccinations.
Students and employees of UC San Diego are encouraged to wait until they are invited by the UCSD
Health Department so as to avoid overloading their system. Eligibility notifications will be delivered
through a telephone call or via MyUCSDChart
(https://myucsdchart.ucsd.edu/ucsd/Authentication/Login?).
Artwork courtesy of Ava Bayley for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated on 4/11 at 4:55PM to clarify comments made by the student interviewed for
this piece.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Submission: IHRA Resolution and De  ning Anti-Semitism
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/submission-ihra-resolution-and-defining-anti-semitism/) 
Guest Writer (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/guestwriter/)
This article was submitted by Benjamin Zaghi, a third year Political Science major from
Eleanor Roosevelt College.Every year, when Jews around the world observe Purim, they finish the Megillah and
celebrate that the Jews of ancient Persia were saved. The story of Purim is unique among
Jewish stories because the Persian Jews’ salvation came by way of human initiative —
through the relentless efforts of Mordechai and Esther. Thousands of years later, the story of
Purim continues to inspire. 
On Feb. 24, members of the Jewish community at UC San Diego presented a resolution to the
Associated Students at UCSD. The resolution is a “student affirmation to acknowledge,
accurately define and condemn antisemitism as it exists on campus” as defined by the
International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. Jewish student leaders Bianca Kermani and
Sivan Barashy presented the resolution to AS, a representative body that promotes “active
campus involvement through various programs in leadership, academics, and advocacy.”
After some discussion, the 36 senators unanimously voted in favor of the resolution.
The IHRA definition states (https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-
definitions-charters/working-definition-antisemitism) that “antisemitism is a certain
perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical
manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or
their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.” 
However, the definition goes further –– it correctly implies that anti-Zionism is antisemitic.
The Jewish community at UCSD greatly benefits from this development as “denying the
Jewish people their right to self-determination” and “claiming that the existence of a State of
Israel is a racist endeavor” are now correctly identified
(https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-definitions-charters/working-
definition-antisemitism) as antisemitic.
In recent years, I have been made uncomfortable displaying my Zionist identity publicly on
campus. Often, I would hear unfair and inaccurate statements about Israel and Zionism.
There was even a case where a Jewish student, who wishes to remain anonymous was spat on
and verbally attacked when trying to speak up for Israel and publicly display their Zionist
identity. Zionism is defined as the movement that supports Jews’ right to self-determination
in their ancestral homeland. Zionism does not inherently preclude self-determination for the
Palestinian people. Moreover, one of the Zionist movement’s central goals is to provide Jews
a safe haven in their ancestral homeland –– we all know the consequences of a Jewish state-
free world. Another reason why Jewish students at UCSD greatly benefit from this development is that
Jewish students who support Israel can be protected from students who unfairly attempt to
hold Jews responsible for the actions of the state of Israel. I have been unfairly judged and
hated because students would ignorantly assume that I, a Zionist Jew, support all the
questionable actions and decisions made by the Israeli government. The IHRA definition of
anti-Semitism does not tolerate that behavior because it is clearly a double standard not held
to anyone else. Imagine if one assumes that proud Americans support all the policies of the
US government, strictly because they are patriotic. 
Ultimately, as rates of antisemitism skyrocket and hatred for Israel increases, I encourage all
students and adults to become better educated about different forms of hate. Most hate stems
from ignorance and it is imperative to listen to those affected and internalize what they
identify as hate. As a Jewish student on campus with a proud Zionist identity, I have been
quieted and neglected because I, a Jew, “inaccurately define what anti-Semitism is.”
However, the resolution and its inclusion of the IHRA definition have provided greater
guidance for the UCSD community on the treatment of a minority group on campus.
I believe it is pertinent now more than ever to take human initiative, like Mordechai and
Esther, to make our communities more mindful and aware of the hate and different forms of
hate that arise in our society. May this past Purim serve as a reminder that every day we must
strive to make the world a safer and more inclusive place.
Photo by Taylor Brandon (https://unsplash.com/@house_42) on Unsplash
(https://unsplash.com).    (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: Transparency, Open-Textbook Program, and Graduation
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/a-s-council-brief-transparency-open-textbook-program-and-graduation/) Genesis Lopez
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/gqlopez/)
This A.S. Council Brief is for Weeks 1 and 2 of Spring Quarter 2021.
Week 1
The Associated Student Council held its Week 1 meeting on March 31, 2021 to discuss the establishment of performance standards for A.S.
members, support of a UC-wide Open-Textbooks program, and proposed amendments to the A.S. Constitution. 
Associate vice president of Health and Wellbeing and chair on the Committee on Stipend  Transparency, Accountability, and Reform Isaac Lara
gave a special presentation regarding the establishment of performance standards and probationary periods for A.S. members. 
Each member of A.S. Council will work with their respective entities to establish standards to discuss their performance, and this will be
reported to the advocate general role. In the event that a member of the senate thinks that a particular individual is failing to meet their
performance standards, they may request an investigation from the advocate general. If the performance of a member of A.S. Council is
deemed unsatisfactory, then the advocate general may instill a probation period, where members will be subjected to heightened reports of
activities and increased measures of accountability. Probation violations make an individual impeachable. However, even while on probation,
pay reductions will not occur. This proposition was approved. 
Next came a special presentation by Anavi Jhaveri and Tiara Nourishad from the UC San Diego chapter of the California Public Interest
Research Group regarding Support for a Grant Funded Program for Open Textbooks at the University of California. “The price of textbooks has increased 88 percent between 2006 and 2016… Students across campus and especially low income students are
struggling to acquire these additional materials,” said Jhaveri.
Nourishad added that “65 percent of students reported not buying a textbook for a class even if their grade would be lower.”
CALPIRG strongly encouraged A.S. Council to advocate for the implementation of a system-wide UC Open Textbooks program that would
increase student educational access and meet professor income deficits once they no longer have the option to assign their own textbooks as
course materials. The council agreed to present this initiative at the next UC Board of Regents meeting.  
Proposed Amendments to the A.S. Constitution Relating to Majorities and Supermajority Requirements was originally motioned for discharge
to the senate, but multiple college senators objected this motion, stating that they would like to speak with their college councils before voting
on the amendment. The proposed changes looked to modify “unanimous” and “three-fourths” majority rules for vetoes and amendment
proposals to a “two-thirds” majority across the board. College senators argued that as liaisons between A.S. and College councils, they have the
right to discuss amendments with their respective college councils before voting on them, regardless of the councils’ power of review. After
extensive back and forth, the vote was tabled for a future meeting. 
Week 2 
The Week 2 A.S. Council meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 7 included more details about upcoming events, safety initiatives, and potential Class of
2021 graduation plans. 
CALPIRG announced their California Climate Action Summit event, a gathering of social activists and community members, that will take
place on Thursday, April 22 at 4 p.m. 
Off Campus Senators, Commuter Organizations, and Commuter Representatives will be hosting the All-Campus game night on Friday, April 16
from 5 to 6:30 p.m. Students will get to play games, socialize, and multiple prizes will be offered. Interested students are encouraged to pre-
register for the event (https://ucsd.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJEpf--orTgqH9aYYo8Tnh7RSjR3TKIeGRwy?_x_zm_rtaid=FUKnU-
mWQrmSIbt5qv1txQ.1617946037116.ea42e9b7eecf0eca9b9f885f7751d297&_x_zm_rhtaid=738) . 
AVP Applications for the 2021–2022 academic year are due Monday, April 12 at 11:59 p.m. The A.S. Council will also be hosting a Find Your Fit
event where students interested in getting involved with student government will have a chance to meet current members of AS and find which
AVP position is the best ‘fit’ for them. Attendees are encouraged to take the Find Your Fit quiz (https://l.facebook.com/l.php?
u=https%3A%2F%2Fas.ucsd.edu%2Ffindyourfit%2F%3Ffbclid%3DIwAR1BMpsem3P9aEqpEcHKHYJx5W8plKZZn0K6p3oCmTNnE03jDfbmqk6
ZPC-
vv&__tn__=q&c[0]=AT14eG2inmtdaXjLlM2dXQUo4unMnpO5h5DjpgZeXvpW8195L1LB_hL65jV8xCi4qJHLS9K3lOAvVVlZ_zwomZh1Asr1F4h
dQ) and apply online (https://l.facebook.com/l.php?
u=https%3A%2F%2Fbit.ly%2FfindyourjobwithAS%3Ffbclid%3DIwAR3aMS2F7yba__Nky7M996Z1uRIU-
KjJxpft8PQKkV_hJ72TwsXNL6s9nrQ&h=AT1APSG_NzLmvHaCkv4f8jhLxX7W0ONw0yV6r5e4rZBzL7PvgPtXgNc2MUvm92-
muwBHwcqzEQxVdPoSyZiCJKNoZ8lsncS3y2RzXBPQNDsGw0pbOBT-
TVh8S9rSmN7ucCXd&__tn__=q&c[0]=AT14eG2inmtdaXjLlM2dXQUo4unMnpO5h5DjpgZeXvpW8195L1LB_hL65jV8xCi4qJHLS9K3lOAvVVlZ
dQ). 
New campus safety programs meant to increase micro-mobility throughout campus were introduced. The Helmet Access Program will provide
helmets to students at a discounted price  in an effort to increase access to helmets for riders. The Rider Rewards Program will supply stickers
that students can purchase and palace on their helmets to receive discounts with local restaurants and retailers. The Reduce Speeds initiatives
will be launched to decrease speeds of vehicles on campus. 
In addition to these, UCSD is currently waiting on guidance from the UC Office of the President regarding the possibility of having an in-
person graduation. For now, the plan is to have an in-person ceremony with no guests, where students will walk but no additional guests are
allowed. However, no plans will be finalized until UCOP approves. 
A.S. Council meetings take place every Wednesday and are open to students. Students can participate in these meetings by joining their Zoom
link (https://as.ucsd.edu/Home/OrderOfBusiness?fbclid=IwAR00sAh8ojGxo0lsExekNGJS4qWwKPrxPr-mGmHksrGvexjYozX74cxkIOI) or
tuning in on Facebook Live.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
University of California signs open access publishing deal
with Elsevier
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/university-of-california-signs-open-access-publishing-deal-with-
elsevier/) Zhuoying Lin (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zhl509/)
Elsevier and the University of California came to a new agreement, effective since Thursday,
April 1, under a four-year contract enabling all the UC campuses to read and publish
academic research in Elsevier journals. 
The agreement (https://osc.universityofcalifornia.edu/uc-publisher-relationships/elsevier-
oa-agreement/) provides UC affiliate access to all Elsevier journals through the ScienceDirect
platform, including journals that did not subscribe before. In the open access agreement,
works by UC authors are freely accessible upon publication. The new four-year contract
marks a successful transition from a traditional subscription model to open access
publishing. 
The negotiation between the California Digital Library (https://cdlib.org/), on behalf of the
UC system, and the world’s leading academic-journal publisher took two years after the old
contract
(https://faculty.econ.ucsb.edu/~tedb/Journals/BigDeals/UCalifornia/ElsevierSD2014-
2018.pdf) expired in December 2018. In accordance with the UC system’s commitment
(https://osc.universityofcalifornia.edu/scholarly-publishing/uc-open-access-policies-
background/systemwide-senate/) to “disseminating its research and scholarship as widely as
possible,” the University of California did not immediately opt-in for another contract to run
on Elsevier’s costly subscription model. This traditional business model limits published
articles to clients who subscribe or pay for the journal articles. In terms of the negotiation, UC
requested a hybrid model with a large-scale transition to open access publishing while
constraining the cost of the subscription. 
As a world-leading research system, the University of California contributed about 9 percent
of all research output in the nation
(https://accountability.universityofcalifornia.edu/2018/chapters/chapter-9.html#9.2.2)
from 2012 to 2017, and about 18 percent of Elsevier papers were published by UC authors
(https://www.latimes.com/business/hiltzik/la-fi-hiltzik-uc-elsevier-20181207-story.html). 
“We are a considerable client and customer,” Roger Smith, associate university librarian,
scholarly resources and services said to The UCSD Guardian. “Looking at the academic goals
and the institution size of UC, it’s good press for Elsevier to engage in a good-faith
negotiation which yielded a result that aligns with our goal and reflects their willingness to
approach a different business model with an eye toward sustainability on access model and
cost.” The new contract prices at $13 million per year with benefits on both sides. All publishing
articles will have a reduced article processing charge (APC), which typically costs thousands
of dollars. There will be a 15 percent discount for most (https://www.elsevier.com/search-
results?labels=journals) journals and a 10 percent discount for the prestigious journals, Cell
Press and The Lancet midway through the agreement. The first $1,000 of an APC is
automatically covered by the UC Library budgets. Depending on the authors’ research
funding, the Library can also provide partial or full coverage of an APC. In the open-access
business model, the final published paper will be free for everyone to read.
“By virtual scale and international prominence, it’s a pretty critical and noteworthy deal that
marks the transition to open access model,” Smith said. “We hope it marks a trend that
pushes continuous reframing of the subscription model into transformative publishing
structures.” 
The agreement with Elsevier is the largest of its kind in North America and the ninth
(https://library.ucsd.edu/news-events/uc-elsevier-oa-agreement/)  recent open access
publishing deal the UC system reached with different publishers. The success of an open-
access model will be gauged over the next four years to assess its sustainability by using
metrics such as the number of UC authors published in Elsevier. 
“I use Elsevier quite frequently, at least once a week through the UCSD VPN,” Sixth College
senior Uttam Kalluri said. “Though I do not know the intricacies of the agreement, I think
that if there is a cost for authors to publish articles in Elsevier journals, it should ensure that
the quality of work that researchers produce is not affected and the quality of work that
publishers accept is not decreased.”
Open access publishing is now the default option for the UC system, but UC authors can also
choose to opt-out if they wish. 
“We anticipate there will be strong uptake, and in some ways there is an expansion in the
availability and attractiveness of publishing in an open access environment,” Smith said. “We
hope to support the author’s professional goal and accessibility to their research output.” 
Smith believes that open access publishing brings significant value during the pandemic. 
“There’s been a lot of collaboration on COVID-19, and the timing of the deal is noteworthy
because it brings the capacity for a publisher to deliver more content openly into the hands of
more people working on a major collaborative issue,” Smith said. “At this time of broadinternational collaboration, we can show how important it is to have open access to scientific
information and findings.”
Last month, the University of California made open access agreements with three other
publishers: The Company of Biologist, The Royal Society, and Canadian Science Publishing.
The UC system is working its way to bring full open access for UC authors so that they can
present their research on a global scale.  
Photo courtesy of Hazel Leung for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was modified on Apr. 13, 2021 at 2:22 PM to make slight modifications to the
discount availabilities of various Elsevier  journals.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Accellion Cyber Attack on the UC Network Prompts New
Personal Safety Measures
 April 11, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/accellion-cyber-attack-on-the-uc-network-prompts-new-
personal-safety-measures/) Jocelyn Brossia (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/jbrossia/)
The University of California Office of the President sent out a UC-wide email to students,
staff, and academics on April 2 to inform the community of a nationwide cyberattack
(https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/news/2021/04/update-on-accellion-breach-and-
what-you-should-do.html) that has compromised their personal information. Approximately
300 organizations were targeted in this cyber attack on Accellion’s File Transfer Appliance,
which is a platform designed for sharing and transferring sensitive files. 
“The perpetrators gained access to files and confidential personal information by exploiting a
vulnerability in Accellion’s program,” Michael V. Drake, the UC president, wrote in the email.
“At this time, we believe the stolen information includes but is not limited to names, birth
dates, Social Security numbers and bank account information. The attackers are threatening
to publish, or have published, stolen information on the dark web in an attempt to extort
organizations and individuals.”
In an attempt to help affected UC community members protect their identity and
information, the University of California provided a complimentary one-year subscription to
Experian IdentityWorksSM (https://www.experian.com/consumer-products/identity-theft-
and-credit-protection.html). By combing through the dark web
(https://www.csoonline.com/article/3249765/what-is-the-dark-web-how-to-access-it-and-
what-youll-find.html) to cross-examine personal information provided by users, the platform
offers identity protection, credit monitoring, identity restoration, and theft insurance, among
other things. 
To further assist members of the UC community in safeguarding their data and information,
the UCOP hosted a virtual workshop on April 8 centered around Identity Theft Protection.
The workshop, which was hosted by UC San Diego’s Chief Information Security Officer
Michael Corn and Chief Information Officer Vince Kellen, centered around walking UC
community members through the process of registering for Experian and answering
participants’ questions. Questions regarding the data breach that were unable to be answered
by Corn and Kellen were forwarded to the UCOP for further evaluation.  
Corn explained that most email addresses already exist on the dark web in this day and age.
The availability of email addresses on the dark web is typically what leads to spam emails
filling up one’s inbox. Corn emphasized that the relative danger here is low in comparison to
other information becoming available on the dark web.  Other than alerts about one’s email
address, it is imperative to pay close attention to every security alert that Experian may send
your way.“I would say that the majority of the questions that we received so far have been, ‘Holy
smokes, you told me there has been a data breach and I am going someplace and giving them
my sensitive data,’” Corn said. “ It’s a good reason to stop and ask yourself, ‘What are they
doing with this data?’ […]  The reason they are asking for this personal information here is so
they can verify that you are who you say you are. As we all know, no system is perfectly safe.
But, […] the theoretical risk that something could happen to Experian doesn’t — it doesn’t
balance well with the actual and immediate value of signing up for the service.”
Further, Corn urged the UC community to sign up their familial relations with whom they are
financially entangled (e.g. a spouse, significant other, adult child, minor child, or parent). The
UCOP also recommends placing identity fraud alerts with a credit bureau. 
The UCOP believes that the party responsible for the data breach is primarily attacking by
sending threatening emails to individuals associated with the approximately 300 targeted
organizations. The act of trying to gain access to one’s personal and vulnerable information
by sending emails pretending to be someone else is commonly referred to as phishing
(https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/how-recognize-and-avoid-phishing-scams) . 
Phishing scams can be recognized by paying close attention to the available details in the
email or text message. While phishing emails make concerted efforts to appear as a real
company or organization seeking to contact the recipient for a legitimate reason, oftentimes
the provided hyperlinks or email addresses do not align with that of the actual company. 
If the subject line seems irrelevant, an email is blank except for long, unrecognizable
hyperlinks, or the email contains attachments that seem unrelated, the email may be a
phishing scam. Oftentimes, the email could also be cc’ed to individuals not in the recipient’s
contact list and could contain text that urges the recipient to take action to prevent some sort
of negative consequence from occurring. In these instances, the email may be a phishing
scam. Avoid clicking on any links or attachments, and report the phishing attempt to the FTC
(https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/small-
businesses/cybersecurity/phishing).  
Incoming Eleanor Roosevelt College transfer student Nick Godinez, who has had a special
interest in computers and digital safety from a young age, further explained how phishing
works and how clicking links in phishing scams can allow for damaging malware to be
installed on one’s device. “[There’s] keylogging as well,” Godinez said. “They basically have something on the computer
that’s able to read every key input. So, if you ever type in your Twitter login, a Zoom login, a
bank login, it will come up on their side as well.”
Godinez was not shocked that UC’s data was infiltrated by the Accellion cyber attack.
“Looking at it now, certain academic institutions obviously don’t have the same cyber security
as Google or big companies,” Godinez said. “Seeing that the UC System was definitely a
victim of this huge nationwide crime, it’s not too surprising that it can happen. Definitely, it’s
kind of disappointing to see they easily were swindled by a random person on a computer
somewhere in a random state. In the future, they’ll probably […] increase their security
online.”
Similar to Corn, Godinez emphasized the usefulness of implementing two-factor
authentication in everyday use. 
“That’s a really important one,” Godinez said. “People overlook it because it’s another thing to
just log in[to], but it’s really nice to have if you have, say, a laptop or another phone just to
make sure that, if you are logging in, you’re able to confirm that that’s you.” 
When speaking about two-factor authentication, Corn emphasized that this is a step that can
be taken to help one have more control of their online information.
“Even if your password is compromised, if you have two-factor authentication set up you are
making it an order of magnitude more difficult for someone to hack into your account,” Corn
said. “Rather than racing out and immediately changing everything out of fear, take these two
steps, gain control, and empower yourself.”
As far as storing passwords go, Corn strongly suggests signing up for an encrypted online
password manager. UCSD provides LastPass
(https://blink.ucsd.edu/technology/security/services/lastpass/index.html)  accounts to those
interested, using one’s Active Directory username as their LastPass username. 
While centered around providing essential information, the hosts of the Identity Protection
Workshop made it known that it is up to each individual to make an informed decision
regarding what measures they would like to take online, if any, to safeguard their information
and data. Those who have questions and may require help registering for Experian can call (866) 617-
1923; those who believe they may have been affected in fraudulent manners by the
cyberattack can contact Experian’s services at (877) 890-9332. The UCOP email address
intended to answer inquiries regarding the data breach and identity protection is
communications@ucop.edu. Additionally, UCNet has released a page of Frequently Asked
Questions (https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/news/2021/04/frequently-asked-
questions-about-the-accellion-data-breach.html) regarding the cyber attack and suggestions
for measures to take to protect oneself. 
A recording of the workshop can be found here
(https://blink.ucsd.edu/technology/security/), along with other resources and suggested
security measures. 
Associate Communications Director Erika Johnson referred The UCSD Guardian back to
the official email statements from the UCOP when reached out to for comment.
Photo courtesy of Hazel Leung for The UCSD Guardian.