PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SP ACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  P age   _
section,  P age  _
FORE -
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR 
EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T 
UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE 
CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO 
THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ 
-KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT  ................................... X
OPINION SOMETHING  .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  XSECTION,  P AGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
ASK BRADLEY!
Miss XOXO Guardian Girl? 
Come check out our new 
advice column, “Ask Bradley” , 
with Bradley Beggs, one of our 
lifestyle co-editors. It’ll be sure 
to make you laugh and craving 
affection from your local trash 
panda
HOUSING    JUSTICE    RALL Y
DOCTORS    IN     IT AL YUA W, STUDENT RESEARCHERS 
UNION, AND  others organize
pre-med     student      oppNEWS,  P age   2
FEA TURES,  P age  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“As a Kobey’s 
frequenter myself, I find 
that I always leave with 
a handful of purchases 
of items that I do not 
need. If you tend to 
indulge in retail therapy 
practices, this is the 
perfect place for you. ”
- PRISCILLA PRUNA,
KOBEY’S SWAPMEET
LIFESTLYE, PAGE 7LIFESTYLE,   P AGE  7 
MONDAY
H 20 L 13
WEDNESDAY
H 21 L 12
PHOTO BY BRADLEY BEGGS, PHOTO BY BRADLEY BEGGS, 
LIFESTYLE CO-EDITORLIFESTYLE CO-EDITOR
TUESDAY
H 20 L 11
THURSDAY
H 21 L 12
OPINION........................4
A&E............................. ...6
FEATURES....................8
CALENDAR  ...................9
DIVISION-1..................12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 3   MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Week 1
At the Associated Students 
Senate meeting during Week 
1, the senators discussed a 
number of topics including 
the organization and 
implementation of the housing 
strike that was presented in front 
of Geisel Library on Friday, Oct. 1. The members also discussed 
a number of other items such as 
parking.
Ian Fosth, who is involved 
with the student council at 
Seventh College, spoke about 
the recent Housing Dining 
Hospitality strike and said that 
the HDH strike included both 
undergraduate and graduate 
students. 
Fosth highlighted how the 
demonstration centered around the student perspective of the 
repercussions of the rent hikes 
and lack of student housing.
“The rally is sort of meant 
in part to incorporate an 
undergraduate perspective, ” 
Fosth said. “ And to sort of 
showcase a show of force in terms 
of student opinion and a student 
perspective. Both in terms of the 
issues of housing that graduate On Wednesday Sept. 22, workers at the 
64 Degrees dining hall in Roger Revelle 
College began a week-long strike against 
alleged poor working conditions imposed by 
Housing Dining Hospitality. Workers pointed 
to the use of the Triton2Go app and a lack of 
training and staff by HDH before the start of 
the 2021–22 academic year as the cause of their 
overwhelming workloads. 
In interviews with The UCSD Guardian, 
three 64 Degrees workers — two student 
workers and one career employee — shared 
their experiences and why they decided to go 
on strike. The career employee requested to 
remain anonymous as she is still employed at 64 
degrees; she will be referred to as Susan. 
Susan and one student worker, Diana Estrada, 
a  Thurgood Marshall College senior, explained 
that during Week 0, as students started to 
return to campus, the use of the Triton2Go app 
overwhelmed workers as 100 to 200 orders were 
placed simultaneously. 
“It’s never been this bad. The Wednesday 
[Sept. 22] before classes started, that’s when we 
went on strike, ” Estrada said. “The day before 
that, Tuesday night [Sept. 21] — it was really, 
really rough that night. ” 
Estrada went on to state that on Tuesday 
Sept. 21, the tablets receiving online orders 
from Triton2Go broke down and student 
workers were forced to write down hundreds 
of orders by hand. Afterwards, the tablets 
stopped working completely and they could 
not see what orders were being placed. They 
had to wait for students arriving to pick up 
their orders to ask them what they wanted and 
prepare the food then.
The tablets, which would usually be shut 
off 15 minutes before closing, were not shut off until the closing time on Tuesday. Student 
leaders did not go home until 11:30 p.m., 1.5 
hours past their shift.
“I didn’t get home that night, ” Estrada said. 
“ At that time there’s no buses… ”
The next day, no student workers and a 
number of career employees did not go to 
work. Due to the lack of staff, HDH filled their 
spots with workers from different markets as 
well as HDH management themselves. During 
this period, they turned off all online ordering 
through the app.
“I believe [that day] they realized it’s not 
fair, ” Estrada said. “That the online ordering 
system doesn’t work for in-person classes 
especially with the population of students we 
have on-campus at the moment. ”
Estrada, along with the help of another 
student worker Emily Jeong, a sophomore at 
Marshall, worked on writing emails and a strike 
proposal to HDH, outlining worker complaints, 
some of which included: 
• Opening all stations when there’s not 
enough staff
• Part-time student workers going past the 
20-hour limit 
• Students not taking breaks due to the 
high volume of orders 
• Dangerous work conditions causing 
injuries for student workers and careers 
An additional obstacle for workers is the use 
of Triton2Go app, which debuted in September 
2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic 
to avoid long lines and crowding at dining 
halls. It allows users to place orders on the 
app and pick up the food once it’s ready, but 
as in-person classes have returned, there have 
been hour-long waits to receive food orders 
placed through the app. New Jewish Hillel 
Cultural Center to 
Open to UCSD 
Students in Fall 2022
AS
A.S. Council News Brief: Parking, Campus Housing, Labor 
Shortages, Vaccine Mandate
Photo courtesy of HDHStudents at UC San Diego are 
expected to have access to a new 
branch of the Hillel Center, which 
is expected to open by Fall 2022. 
Groundbreaking for the new location 
off Torrey Pines Road began on Sept. 
19 with the hopes of offering the 
community a new space to engage 
in a variety of services and activities 
related to Jewish culture.
Development for The Beverly and 
Joseph Glickman Hillel Center has 
been heavily delayed for the past 
20 years for a variety of factors — 
including lawsuits and environmental 
concerns, as reported by the La Jolla 
Light. 
In an article published by the 
Times of San Diego in 2017, the 
continuous delay came from various 
opponents who felt the building 
of the center was out of place for 
what was described as a primarily 
residential area. Noise and parking 
concerns, the size of the facility, and 
the center’s ambiguity regarding 
its purpose were just some of the 
justifications given by opponents of 
the center as outlined in the article.
The alteration of the original scale 
size of the building, a more blended 
aesthetic visual of the building, as 
well as support by Jewish leaders 
in the area were behind the City 
Council’s eventual approval of the 
building.
Karen Parry and Lisa Motenko, 
the Hillel’s Executive and Associate 
Executive Directors, told The UCSD 
Guardian about how a collaborative 
effort was behind the end of the 
20-year battle.
“Since 2000, we have been working 
with the community and navigating 
legal challenges to get here today, ” 
Parry and Motenko said. “We are 
thankful to the many community 
members and elected officials that 
rallied in support of our effort. We 
are excited to now focus our efforts 
on the future, where we will serve 
UC San Diego students and continue 
building relationships and allyship 
with the community. ”
The opening of the space means 
that cross-culture learning and 
engagement can be facilitated between 
Jewish and non-Jewish individuals on 
campus. A spokesperson for UCSD 
told The Guardian about the center’s 
encouragement of connections 
between students.
“The Hillel Center, similar to 
UCSD’s campus community centers, 
will be a place for students to affirm 
their identity, feel welcome, and 
share their culture with peers, ” the 
statement said. “We recognize that 
student success is multi-faceted and 
that connecting with peers contributes 
greatly to personal growth. The new 
Hillel Center will serve as a catalyst 
for building lifelong friendships and 
continual learning from one another. ”
As of today, the UCSD campus 
does not currently offer a specific 
center for Jewish individuals. B y Nilouf ar Shahbandi  NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANTHDH
Workers Protest Poor Working Conditions at HDHCAMPUS
B y bRANDON mariano
CONTRIBUTING WriterB y Rodrigo Gutierrez
Contributing Writer
See CAMPUS,  page 3See STRIKE,  page 3
See AS, page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  students and 
undergraduate  
students have been facing. ”
A recent University Affairs meeting was 
presented by Vice President of External 
Affairs Adrianna Blackshire, who serves as 
a member of the University of California 
Student Association. The UCSA is a coalition 
of both students and student governments 
across all University of California campuses, 
serving the purpose of giving collective voice 
through both direct action and advocacy. 
Their efforts are designated to advocate for 
accessibility, affordability, and the overall 
quality of the UC system for current and 
future students.
Blackshire said that UCSA has begun 
to focus on the impact of COVID-19 has 
had across all UC campuses in regards to 
academic and student affairs.
“ A lot of students are not able to get into the class that they need, ”  Blackshire said. “It’s 
actually heavily impacting financial aid to the 
point where they are not getting the necessary 
credits, they are now being considered half 
time instead of full time students. ”
A.S. president Manu Agni proceeded to 
present the vaccine mandate for campus and 
the current Return to Learn measures.
“The Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs 
has begun a student conduct process for 
students who are not in compliance with the 
UC vaccine mandate which is enforced now, ” 
Agni said. “So either being fully vaccinated, 
in the process of being vaccinated, or having 
approved an exemption to that mandate. ”
Agni then noted that there have 
been numerous concerns raised from 
undergraduate students, both to himself and 
other senators, regarding parking. Parking 
has been filling up fairly early in the day, with 
parking challenges taking place particularly in the central part of campus. 
“In the meantime parking on 
the periphery of campus at the 
Regent’s parking lot on the east 
side and Gliderport parking 
on the west side is significantly 
more available, ” Agni said. “It’s 
also cheaper than parking on the 
central side of campus. ”
For undergraduate students, “S” 
parking permits are only available 
via the ParkMobile app. The code 
for the permit is 47400. 
Other concerns Agni addressed 
was UC San Diego being heavily 
impacted by the nationwide labor 
shortages. This has caused a 
shortage of labor in regards to 
food service labor, transportation 
labor, and other vendors operating 
at UCSD .
According to Agni, HDH 
has reported “some significant 
challenges” with these labor 
shortages,  including a shortage of 
student employees that led to extended hours 
and having to deal with a higher workload 
than usual. 
“HDH on campus has been having some 
pretty significant labor challenges, ” Agni 
said. “Including not having enough student 
employees and this has led to some student 
employees being pretty overworked and not 
in the correct workload balance. ” 
Agni mentioned that those living on campus 
have also dealt with longer wait times for 
food in dining halls and from other vendors. 
While the university is in the process of 
hiring more staff, students living on campus 
have had different menu offerings, other 
options that take less staff time, a reduction 
in the number of dining stations available, ▶ AS, from page 1
bRANDON mARIANO  bmariano@ucsd.edu
Art courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian
The United Automobile 
Workers (UAW) 2865 union, 
Student Researchers Union, UC 
San Diego Resident Coalition and 
The Faculty Association organized 
a housing justice rally last 
Friday, Oct. 1, in efforts 
to gather momentum for 
and raise visibility of the 
movement to address 
UCSD’s housing crisis. 
Around 60 students 
gathered outside Geisel 
Library at noon, holding 
cardboard signs and a stark 
banner reading “UC Scam 
Diego: Affordable Housing 
Now” . Amidst a backdrop 
of cheery percussion, 
participants and passers-
by watched as various 
organizers took to the stage 
to express their indignant 
anger towards UCSD’s 
housing policies. 
In March, Housing Dining 
Hospitality announced its 
plans to increase rent solely 
for incoming students, 
making attending university 
far less affordable for prospective 
graduate students. Initially, it had 
planned to impose a “one-time rate 
adjustment” for nearly all graduate 
student residents but changed this 
policy soon after a highly negative 
response from students, residents, 
and faculty. Students cited HDH’s 
lack of transparency and lack of 
involvement of affected parties as 
reasons for their dissatisfaction. In 
addition, it would further tax an 
already rent-burdened graduate 
student population.     
UCSD also admitted a record 
40,616 first-year and 12,330 
transfer undergraduate students 
this fall. In spite of the opening of 
the new North Torrey Pines Living 
and Learning Neighborhood that 
boasts 2,000 new beds, the sheer number of students, as well as 
COVID-19 housing precautions, 
have forced many students off 
campus. 
Affordable housing has long 
been a point of contention 
between the UCSD administration 
and students. In Feb. 2020, UCSD 
Academic Student Employees 
marched from Library Walk to 
the Chancellor’s Office as part of 
the UC systemwide Cost of Living 
Adjustment (COLA) movement. 
They were protesting the rent 
increase HDH had imposed on 
graduate students and called on 
officials to keep student housing 
affordable. 
Fourth-year graduate student 
Dillon Travis, who had previously 
spoken to The UCSD Guardian 
at a UAW-led protest on graduate 
housing, said that he continues 
to be frustrated over UCSD’s 
handling of the housing crisis. 
“Being rent-burdened puts 
way too much undue stress on 
graduate students who are already 
way more stressed than the 
general population, ” Travis said. “The UC continually makes it 
worse… [UCSD] accepted tens 
of thousands of new students 
without being able to house them, 
forcing them onto an already 
tight housing market… There are 
students that (are) begging to stay 
in people’s living rooms. ” 
Other graduate students said they 
were similarly angered at HDH’s 
decision to raise graduate student 
housing rent during the pandemic. 
In an interview with The Guardian, 
third-year graduate student Zach 
Goldberg described the dire housing 
situation graduate students face, as 
well as the simmering anger this has 
created amongst the graduate student 
population.
“We’re here [at the rally] because 
starting [around March], HDH 
[announced] insane rent increases, 
averaging around 40 percent, but 
ranging from like 20 to 85 percent, ” 
Goldberg said. “Just making it totally 
unaffordable to live here. ” 
In an email to The Guardian, 
Associate Director of University 
Communications Leslie Sepuka 
reiterated UCSD’s commitment 
to continue doing its best to 
accommodate as many students who apply for on-campus housing as 
possible. 
“UC San Diego controls what it 
can by providing robust financial 
aid, continuing to invest in the 
construction of student housing 
and providing on-campus housing 
for students at rates that are more 
favorable than the local rental 
market, ” Sepuka said. 
Sepuka also 
explained to 
The Guardian 
that there are 
many avenues 
for students and 
administration 
to communicate 
about housing 
issues. 
“Housing,  
Dining and 
Hospitality  
meets with the 
Undergraduate 
Housing  
A d v i s o r y 
Committee  
(UHAC) weekly 
during the 
academic year, ” 
Sepuka wrote. 
“HDH, along 
with UHAC, 
hosts a quarterly 
open forum 
where housing 
and dining updates are shared. 
Students are welcome to ask any 
questions. In addition, HDH accepts 
suggestions and ideas from all 
residents directly. ” 
However, students at the rally tell a 
different story. According to Seventh 
College AS Senator Ian Fosth, efforts 
to negotiate with the university have 
been overwhelmingly unproductive. 
“(We) had presented a resolution, 
which received close to a thousand 
signatures, detailing a list of demands 
and suggestions … talking to 
administration, [HDH members and 
representatives], ” Fosth said. “We 
have received little to no give, and we 
have received little to no provisions. 
None of our demands have been met. ”
For instance, Fosth elaborated that 
he and his colleague had proposed 
starting a couch surfing registry to B y Abb y LEE
Contributing WriterHOUSING
Students Organize Housing Justice Rally in front of  Geisel Library
Abb y lEE  acl008@ucsd.edu
aid students who were unable to find 
housing in the competitive La Jolla 
housing market. However, they were 
told this could not be implemented 
due to COVID-19 precautions and 
fire marshal guidelines. 
“[Y et], for graduate students, those 
same precautions [and guidelines]) 
have been cast aside, ” Fosth explained.
Goldberg echoed Fosth’s 
frustration with UCSD and said that 
students have made several attempts 
to reach out to UCSD.
“We’ve held other rallies, ” 
Goldberg said. “We’ve held meetings. 
We’ve sent letters and resolutions… 
University [administration] is quite 
united in their complete opposition 
to our movement, so we’re working 
on building our power, so that 
eventually they’ll have no choice but 
to listen to us. ”
Students who need additional 
resources in achieving housing 
stability can reach out to the Off-
Campus Housing Office, where they 
can schedule a housing consultation 
to review off-campus housing 
options. 
They can also explore UCSD’s 
Basic Needs Emergency Grant, 
which is available to students that 
do not have sufficient funds for food 
or housing because of a medical 
emergency, impacts from COVID-
19, or any other urgent financial 
need.PHOTO BY IRVIN YANG  FOR THE  UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY IRVIN YANG  FOR THE  UCSD GUARDIANNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Students do have access to multi-denominational resources, such as the Cross-Cultural Center, where students of various religious 
communities can come together in solidarity.
Parry and Motenko describe the Hillel Center as a resource for students to gain greater connections between faith and education.
“Our talented professional 
staff serves as mentors 
and educators to provide 
students with valuable tools 
and opportunities to be 
Jewish leaders, ” Parry and 
Motenko said. “Our diverse 
programming brings together 
students of all backgrounds 
to form deep, personal, 
connections to Jewish life 
— here and in Israel. We are 
deeply committed to inclusion 
and pluralistic Judaism. ”
The Hillel of San Diego, 
which currently reaches 
2,000 students across several 
San Diego area colleges, 
has operated since 1992. 
According to its website, it is 
the only Jewish organization 
that engages with college-
aged Jewish students in the 
San Diego area which includes 
students at San Diego State 
University, California State 
University, San Marcos, and 
the University of San Diego.
The Hillel Center at 
UCSD organization currently 
offers different services such 
as Triton Jewish Leaders, a 
mentorship program known 
as First-Y ear Students of 
Hillel, and a Jewish Learning 
Fellowship. The center has also ▶ CAMPUS , from page 1
While the app was a 
helpful solution during the 
pandemic, workers say that it doesn’t work for in-person 
ordering as it allows for hundreds of orders to come in 
at once, leaving them with little time to prepare the food. 
“HDH decided to stay with a system that worked 
during quarantine and the pandemic, but I don’t think 
they thought through that students are gonna come back 
and the system won’t work with a lot of students, ” Estrada 
stated. “So that’s why there were such long wait times, 
students weren’t even getting the food they ordered. ”
When workers requested to shut off the tablets in order 
to catch up and prepare the orders they had already 
received, they were allegedly told by HDH management 
that they were not allowed to do so. 
Estrada and Jeong went on to share that they felt HDH 
did not hire enough workers in preparation for Fall 
Quarter. 
“HDH was fully aware that we were not prepared or fully staffed to run at full capacity, ” added Estrada. 
“During a meeting I recall them telling us that we were 
not going to open all stations at the same time because 
we did not have the staff to do so. Y et HDH went back 
on their word and went ahead and opened all stations 
starting Week 0. ”
The Guardian reached out to HDH in regards to 
the strike and the lack of workers in dining halls, and 
received the following response:
“It is typical for the dining team to increase staffing 
from summer to fall quarter as students return, ” stated 
Leslie Sepuka, the Associate Director of University 
Communications. “The pandemic has presented the 
challenge of a national labor shortage that has impacted 
the food and beverage industry, including university 
dining programs, but fortunately, the university has 
been able to quickly assess what is needed to minimize 
impacts, and increase staffing numbers. ”
“The university has hired and onboarded more full-time dining staff members and dining student employees 
who started last [week] and this week, and hopes to see 
a similar trend for the upcoming weeks as well, ” Sepuka 
added.  
Under these conditions, worker retention is a major 
problem. Many who get hired by HDH to work in 
the dining halls quit shortly after experiencing the 
environment. Jeong has already made the decision to quit 
working at 64 Degrees and said that a number of other 
students and careers are also considering leaving. 
The strike ended on Wednesday Sept. 29 and succeeded 
in inducing HDH to make immediate changes including 
shutting off Triton2Go ordering at 64 degrees. HDH has 
responded to strikers that they are continuing to work 
on “implementing long-
term changes to support 
students. ”
Niloufar Shahbandin1shahba@ucsd.edu
WEBMD By Andrew Diep
YOUR COOKING SUCKS By Andrew Diep
▶ HDH, from page 1modified events to follow COVID-19 guidelines and protocols, 
including holding online Shabbat celebrations between UCSD 
and SDSU students.
Although the center will primarily focus on Jewish opportunity 
and tradition, Parry and Motenko maintain that the center can 
provide much more to the diverse campus.
“We hope it will be utilized by an array of multicultural, 
social, and academic groups on campus and serve as a vehicle 
for building relationships in ways that enhance and celebrate 
the remarkable diversity at UCSD, ” Parry and Motenko 
said.“Through meaningful programs and Jewish experiences, 
we hope this center will serve as a beacon of light for the whole 
community. ”
Until the physical construction of the space, students can 
sign up for information here. 
They are also encouraged to get 
involved with Hillel through the 
calendar of events located here.
PHOTO BY ALTHEA TIEN FOR UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY ALTHEA TIEN FOR UCSD GUARDIAN
IMAGE OF THE PROJECTED DESIGNS OF THE HILLEL CENTER COURTESY OF THE UCSD HILLEL CENTERIMAGE OF THE PROJECTED DESIGNS OF THE HILLEL CENTER COURTESY OF THE UCSD HILLEL CENTER
IMAGE OF THE PROJECTED DESIGNS OF THE HILLEL CENTER COURTESY OF THE UCSD HILLEL CENTERIMAGE OF THE PROJECTED DESIGNS OF THE HILLEL CENTER COURTESY OF THE UCSD HILLEL CENTERRodrigo Gutierrezragutier@ucsd.eduOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
Art by Nicholas Regli 
this regurgitation of  regulations is 
not the issue. Rather, the problem 
lies with an overall unsuccessful 
dissemination of  this information 
to students and staff. 
As  I started interviewing 
students around campus about 
COVID-19 precautions and 
policies, it became obvious 
that many people are blatantly 
uninformed, misinformed, or 
learning through unofficial 
sources. This pattern was especially 
prevalent among students who 
did not attend classes in-person 
during the 2020–21 school year 
or live on campus. For example, 
take the Symptom Screener. This 
mandatory daily questionnaire 
is delivered via email to UCSD 
students, staff, and employees who 
work or study on campus. 
However, many students were 
unfamiliar with this requirement 
during the first couple weeks of  
class. Only one of  my four classes 
mentioned the screener after my 
professor voiced concern over 
what she noticed was an unnerving 
absence of  awareness surrounding 
this protocol.  
The campus has no issues 
with reporting information, but, 
oftentimes, students and staff  
have to actively seek out details 
on their own time since there is 
a lack of  direct communication 
about need-to-know information. 
However, the search for an answer 
can feel like looking for a needle in 
a haystack, which I quickly learned 
while trying to find information for 
this article. 
Wilson Do, senior, shared a 
similar sentiment. 
“I honestly think that UCSD 
doesn’t communicate policies that 
well. For example, I recently just 
learned from a friend that we’re 
supposed to get tested every week 
for the first four weeks. I didn’t By Marcella Barneclo
Staff Writer
Prior to the pandemic, attending 
class was already a fairly stressful 
task for students. Running across 
campus between courses in order 
to arrive in a timely manner, all 
while dodging an assortment of  
cars, bikes, and scooters, proves 
to be a surprisingly daunting 
challenge. However, this year has 
seen the addition of  a far more 
significant stressor: the looming 
threat of  COVID-19. 
The pandemic itself  has 
caused quite a bit of  concern 
and apprehension among the 
UC San Diego community 
since the majority of  the student 
body has returned to campus to 
attend normal-sized classes, sans 
social distancing, for the 2021–22 
academic year. While UCSD has 
carefully implemented various 
preventative procedures that 
coincide with San Diego County 
COVID guidelines, there is an 
unfortunate lack of  communication 
between the campus and the student 
body regarding these programs 
and policies. In addition, large 
class sizes and an overwhelming 
amount of  students on campus 
make enforcement another point 
of  tension.   
Currently , UCSD has a 
multitude of  different web pages 
and a profuse amount of  lengthy 
emails outlining COVID-19 
policies in extensive detail. 
The Return to Learn website 
also showcases different resources 
and links ranging from testing 
options to a FAQ section. This 
abundance of  public information 
is a responsible choice on UCSD’s 
part. It creates what seems to be 
the perfect image of  a competent 
and authoritative university , and know about that because the email 
was sent to our UCSD email but 
there are so many different emails 
sent that you don’t know which 
ones are most important. I feel 
like they have to really emphasize 
which ones are important when 
they enact policies,” Do said. 
During the interviews I 
conducted, other students had 
statements regarding UCSD’s 
communication that resembled 
Do’s thoughts. 
Freshman Hannah Erlandson 
said, “The other day , I saw on an 
Instagram post something about 
the [daily survey]. I looked it up, 
but I wasn’t sure where to find it. 
I don’t think it was super clear. I 
remember hearing about the green 
checkmark or thumb in a Town 
Hall meeting, but nothing official 
from the campus.”
UCSD could easily address this 
communication issue by labeling 
certain emails as urgent and clearly 
defining necessary protocols and 
expectations for students separately 
from non-urgent information.
Ideally , this process would have 
taken place prior to the start of  Fall 
Quarter 2021, but it did not. The 
issue has also been exacerbated 
by the campus’s failure to enforce 
regulations. 
On the Return to Learn website, 
it states, “ All undergraduate and 
graduate students living on campus 
or coming to campus or any UC 
location or property for educational, 
research, co-curricular, recreational 
or social activities, regardless of  
vaccination status, must conduct 
daily symptom and exposure 
screening.” However, there are no 
enforcement policies for students 
who continually fail to submit their 
exposure screening questionnaire 
before reporting to campus. 
The system also tends to award 
a green thumb, anointing testing compliance to vaccinated students, 
regardless of  if  they are actually 
undergoing weekly testing. Again, 
UCSD has developed an adequate 
program to monitor students that 
demonstrates an effort to limit the 
spread of  COVID-19, but they are 
struggling to effectively carry it out.
Currently ,enforcement  
responsibilities seem to lie primarily 
with professors and instructor 
assistants, which proves to be 
especially challenging with class 
sizes that can range up to nearly 
200 students. 
Senior Rahulsharma Nemmani 
said, “When I go to one of  the 
classes I’m a tutor for, a bunch 
of  people come in there. It’s 
pretty hard to see everyone’s 
faces and check if  everyone is 
[consistently] wearing their masks 
or not. It’s pretty challenging.” 
While members of  the UCSD 
staff  certainly have a role to 
play in maintaining a COVID-
free campus, the responsibility 
of  enforcement should not fall 
into their laps. Rather, it should 
be properly carried out by the 
university itself  with adequate 
and appropriate means, possibly 
through the Office of  Student 
Conduct. 
Furthermore, the requirement 
of  weekly testing seems to be falling 
short. According to the UCSD 
COVID-19 Daily Dashboard, 
there are a total of  42,173 students 
living either on or off  campus. 
With 77 percent of  classes being 
held in person, this translates to 
about 32,473 students coming to 
campus. Using these numbers, it is 
reasonable to say that about 4,639 
students should be getting tested 
per day in order to comply with the 
campus mandate. 
The average number of  students 
that have been testing each day 
since the beginning of  Fall Quarter 2021 is about 2,804, meaning 
there are most likely a number of  
students who are not complying 
with weekly testing since the largest 
number of  students per day never 
rises over 4,121 to compensate for 
the days where testing is on the 
lower side. 
It is encouraging to see that 
UCSD has taken the time and effort 
to come up with extensive policies 
and innovative ideas, such as the 
COVID test vending machines; 
but, in a global pandemic, all it 
takes is one mistake to cause a 
massive outbreak. 
Luckily , only 75 students have 
received a positive test result since 
the beginning of  the Fall quarter, 
but this number could change 
for the worse at any moment, 
especially as COVID-19 protocols 
become less of  a priority . 
Ultimately , hosting classes in 
person is a dangerous gamble 
and the university should be 
mindful of  implementing better 
communication and enforcement 
of  policies in order to drastically 
reduce the chances of  an outbreak 
on campus as the academic year 
progresses.UCSD’s COVID-19 Protocols: Thorough Planning, Poor ExecutionOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Art by Ava Bayley 
By Raymond Tran
Opinion EditorGrindr’s Hookup Culture Brings 
     More Pain Than Pleasure
Let’s be honest. If you’re queer, 
you’ve probably heard of Grindr 
one way or another. However, for 
those unfamiliar with the app, it’s 
quite simple. Essentially, it’s an 
app mainly used by queer men 
to hookup with other queer men. 
While it can be used for other 
purposes, the connotation around 
the app is centered around sex and 
sexual interactions between men. 
On the outside, Grindr may 
seem to exist for some quick 
fun, but if we take a deeper look 
into the dynamics, interactions, and normalized behaviors on 
the app, there lies a plethora of 
damaging, dangerous, and outright 
illegal issues that need to be 
addressed. Whether it’s teenagers 
being groomed by other men 
or individuals using the app to 
feed into their unhealthy coping 
mechanisms, the culture on Grindr, 
as well as gay hookup culture in 
general, needs serious change. 
Hookup culture isn’t inherently 
detrimental. However, it is the type 
of culture created and perpetuated 
that makes it extremely damaging, 
especially to younger users. 
Unfortunately, grooming on the app 
is not an uncommon occurrence. While there’s technically nothing 
illegal about a large age gap, it begs 
the question: why are older men 
messaging barely legal teenagers? 
Just the very thought of someone 
30 years old or older sexually 
pursuing an 18-year-old should be 
disturbing. 
Even Troye Sivan opened up on 
his uncomfortable experience on 
Grindr to The New Y orker, “One 
of its tracks [on Sivan’s second 
album], ‘Seventeen, ’ is based on an 
experience common to young gay 
men but rarely talked about. When 
Sivan first joined the hookup app 
Grindr, he had an encounter with a 
man who was in his thirties. Y ears later, Sivan was scrolling through 
old text messages and found a selfie 
he had sent the guy, in which Sivan 
thought he looked shockingly 
young. ”
There have also been many 
accounts of teenagers downloading 
the app when they’re still underage 
and engaging in sex with individuals 
substantially older than them. More 
often than not, older individuals 
who find out their real age continue 
to pursue them. If you ask anyone 
who has been on the app for any 
period of time, they will tell you 
that older men constantly message 
younger users in an uncomfortably 
predatory manner.
Navigating one’s sexuality can 
be confusing. It can be tempting to 
download an app and be instantly 
connected with people who 
all have something in common. 
However, Grindr is not the place 
for innocent exploration, no matter 
how normalized the app is within 
the community.
Additionally, many queer men 
use the app and the opportunity 
for the momentary pleasure it 
provides, as an incredibly unhealthy 
way of coping. This often results in 
a codependent cycle with Grindr, 
and hookup culture in general. 
According to Jack Turban, 
a gay psychiatrist, “Grindr, 
intentionally or not, also leverages 
a psychological concept called 
variable ratio reinforcement, in 
which rewards for clicking come 
at unpredictable intervals. Y ou may 
find a hookup immediately, or you 
may be on your phone for hours 
before you find one. ” 
Turban also makes the 
comparison to an interaction with 
a slot machine, enabling addictive 
behavior. “Because gamblers never 
know when the next payout will 
come, they can’t stop pulling the 
handle. They hold out hope that 
the next pull will give them the pleasurable sound of coins clanking 
against a metal bin, and they end 
up pulling for hours. ” 
As a result, men start to see each 
other as objects instead of human 
beings, which also results in the 
prejudices and racism within the 
gay dating community. In fact, the 
unhealthy use of gay dating apps 
may keep gay men from finding 
lasting long-term relationships.
In a world where 
heteronormality exists, it can be 
easy to turn to unhealthy ways of 
coping from repressed sexuality and 
other related traumas. However, 
using our trauma as an excuse 
for dangerous and irresponsible 
behavior has been too normalized 
within our community. 
I’m not going to kid myself and 
pretend that I can change an entire 
culture or enact change to Grindr’s 
safety procedures. But if you’re 
reading this, and you’re thinking 
about joining or are already on 
the app, I urge you to be safe, be 
responsible, and don’t pretend that 
a monetary interaction with a man 
can mend whatever hurt you’ve 
experienced in the past. 
At the end of the day, using 
Grindr and hookups as a temporary 
solution to deeper-rooted issues 
will only cause more issues. There 
is a reason that when the Center for 
Humane Technology did a study, 
they found that 77 percent of users 
regretted using Grindr.
Be safe. Be smart. But we’ve 
seemed to have forgotten these 
simple elements when engaging 
in hookup culture. Let’s get one 
thing straight, I’m not saying queer 
men can’t or shouldn’t partake in 
hookups or one-night stands, I’m 
simply advocating for the practice 
of safe, consensual, responsible sex. 
Sexual liberation does not 
equate to sexual irresponsibility. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
Film Review: “The Many Saints of Newark”
Despite a well-rounded cast and updated cinematography, David Chase’ s return to the “So -
pranos” universe is sunk by muddled subplots and hollow fan service..
I started watching “The Sopranos” in early 
2020 after reading many an Internet listicle 
claiming that it was the greatest television 
show of the prestige television era — a time 
when slow-burning, antihero-driven dramas 
like “Mad Men” and “Breaking Bad” ruled the 
small screen. Although initially put off by the 
show’s startling violence, I was soon deeply in -
vested in the story of charismatic mobster Tony 
Soprano, played perfectly by the late James 
Gandolfini. I binge-watched the first five sea -
sons while HBO was streaming them for free. 
Once HBO’s promotion ended, I spent my first 
paycheck on the final season of the show. After 
each episode, I poured over Emily VanDerW -
erff’s razor-sharp reviews of the series at The 
A.V . Club, where she explored running themes 
of gray morality and fate as well as minor trivia 
like Lin-Manuel Miranda appearing in the 
background of a scene. The series was satis -
fying from start to finish, and it would seem 
that Gandolfini’s passing in 2013 negated the 
possibility of any extension to “The Sopranos” 
universe. That’s why I was surprised to find out 
that series creator David Chase would be re -
leasing “The Many Saints of Newark,” a spin-
off film focused on an in-name-only Sopranos 
character, in the fall of this year. 
Preqels are often doomed by the success of 
their source material, leaving fans with impos -
sible expectations and creators with the pres -
sure to execute at a level most artists don’t 
reach even once. “The Many Saints of New -
ark” sidesteps this issue by focusing on Dickie 
Moltisanti and Harold McBrayer, two charac -
ters absent from the original series. While Gan -
dolfini’s son Michael plays the younger version 
of his father’s character, he is absent from or 
secondary in a large portion of the film. As the 
addendum to the film’s title implies, this isn’t 
a Tony Soprano story — it’s a Sopranos story. Keep that in mind and you won’t be too dis -
appointed by the sprawling, but ultimately 
just okay mob movie Chase delivers.
The high point of the film is the perfor -
mances. Alessandro Nivola as Dickie car -
ries the film with a wide range of conflict -
ing emotions, as he is often torn between 
helping and hurting those closest to him. 
After he bashes his wife-beating father’s 
head into a steering wheel, he shakily says, 
“Pop,” like a young boy in disbelief at 
what he’s done. Later, in what might be a 
memory or a dream sequence, he coaches a 
blind youth baseball team and smiles wide 
at their victory. It’s one of the few moments 
of happiness for his character, who spends 
most of the film killing people close to him 
or watching them get killed. Michael Gan -
dolfini similarly breathes new life into the 
character his father made famous. Not quite 
immersed in the mob lifestyle yet, young 
Tony spends his time running a gambling 
ring at his elementary school and robbing 
an ice cream truck. The film also explores 
young Tony’s relationship with his mother 
Livia Soprano (Vera Farmiga), who fans re -
member as being the primary antagonist in 
the first season of “The Sopranos.” Farmiga 
steals every scene she’s in with her spot-on 
performance of the perpetually victimized 
mob wife. Her interactions with Gandolfini 
give viewers a window into the relationship 
Tony and his mother could’ve had, if men -
tal health hadn’t been so stigmatized in the 
1960s — and if their lives hadn’t been so 
brutal to begin with.
Another worthwhile aspect of the film 
is the conflict between Dickie and Harold 
McBrayer (Leslie Odom Jr.), a Black mem -
ber of the DiMeo crime family who’s the 
target of racist jabs and belittling comments 
from the rest of the gang. After witnessing 
the Newark Riots in response to an incident 
of police brutality, McBrayer is inspired to 
launch his own gambling operation to rival 
Dickie’s. Hits are taken on both sides as a brutal gang war unfolds, leading to an intense 
shootout. “The Sopranos” has been criticized 
for presenting its few BIPOC characters in a 
stereotypical and one-dimensional light (see: 
“Christopher,” the infamously clumsy episode 
about Columbus Day.) Refreshingly, McBray -
er in “The Many Saints of Newark” is one of 
the most well-developed and complex charac -
ters of the film. He has clear motivations and 
compelling emotional turns that stem from 
the criminal life he lives, as well as the fierce 
racial tensions of the late ‘60s and early ‘70s. 
Perhaps the strength of McBrayer’s character, 
like Dickie’s, comes from the fact that it does 
not rely on callbacks to the original series. His 
entire arc must be introduced and resolved 
within the film’s two-hour runtime. The same 
can be said of new character Giuseppina, 
Dickie’s unofficial-stepmom-turned-side-
piece who dreams of opening a beauty parlor 
and has more of a say for herself than many 
of Tony’s girlfriends did in the series.
While the conflict between Dickie and 
McBrayer is fully realized, the main plot is 
muddled by a series of B-plots that leave the 
viewer confused about the film’s focus. The 
film is ‘narrated’ by Christopher Moltisanti, 
Dickie’s son and Tony’s honorary nephew, but 
Christopher’s lines are maybe two minutes in 
total. Music ranging from the Stones to Sina -
tra is used to transition several scenes, often 
with a jarring suddenness that doesn’t match 
the film’s murky, cool-toned visuals. The 
question of what makes Tony Soprano choose 
the criminal underworld is toyed with, but not 
given ample development for a satisfactory 
answer. Even the Newark Riots, the cata -
lyst for McBrayer to strike out on his own, 
feel like an aspect of the film that could’ve 
been further explored. “The Many Saints of 
Newark” has tensions, stakes, and interesting 
characters, but I was unsure which conflict or 
relationship to care about at times. Many of 
the above threads seemed promising, only to 
not realize their full potential by the end of 
the film. 
“The Sopranos” would often build up rival -
ries and gang wars, only to boil the conflict 
down to an unexpected act of violence trig -
gered more by bruised egos than underworld 
politics. The friction between characters feels 
like it could go on forever, or like it could 
be brushed under the rug, lived with — and 
then somebody snaps. These were the mo -
ments that hooked me while watching “The 
Sopranos.” The same elements are present in 
“The Many Saints of Newark,” but altogether 
they don’t function the same way. Whether 
because of the limitations of the runtime, the 
difference in medium between television and 
film, or the absence of Gandolfini’s unmistak -
able magnetism, this “Sopranos” story doesn’t 
do the series justice. If you subscribed to 
HBO Max to stream this film, I’d advise you 
to watch “The Sopranos” instead.
Image courtesy of ScreenRant.
��Directed By   Alan Taylor
Starring   Alessandro Nivola, Leslie Odom Jr., Michael Gandolfini, 
Vera Farmiga, Ray Liotta, Gabriella Piazza
Release Date   Oct. 1, 2021
By Bailey Bujnosek
Staff Writer ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
SPINNING TWEL VES COLUMN: 
LO SIENTO BB:/
Welcome to the first installment of Spinning Twelves, a new A&E 
column where we’ll be reviewing and talking about new singles from our 
favorite artists. We’ll also be taking reader suggestions for songs to check 
out and review!
In this week’s issue we’ll be talking about Puerto Rican producer 
Tainy’s new single, “Lo siento BB:/,” from his newly-announced album. 
The track features a melancholic introductory verse by Mexican singer 
Julieta Venegas — known for the absolute banger of a song, “Lento” — 
and a verse from Latin America’s hottest musical export, Bad Bunny. 
Tainy’s track is relatively short, only three and a half minutes in length, 
but it doesn’t need any more than that to accomplish what it sets out to do. 
“Lo siento BB:/” is pretty bare bones in terms of production, employing 
the familiar dembow rhythm associated with reggaeton, a whining synth 
loop, and not much else. The minimal instrumentation leaves room for the 
song’s narrative, which is presented to us by a call-and-response approach 
between Venegas and Bad Bunny.
For the first minute of the song, Venegas seems to be trying to convince 
an old flame to open up to her, to let her back in after “una noche espe -
cial” (a special night). Her vocals are layered over nothing but a few 
chords, creating an intimate and vulnerable atmosphere. Towards the 
end of her verse, the whining synth comes in, building its way up to 
the satisfying moment where the beat kicks in and Bad Bunny begins 
his verse. Bad Bunny seems to be responding to Venegas’ pleading, 
as we see him return to his Sad Boy™ roots. He croons about his 
romantic past stopping him from pursuing anything serious, though 
it doesn’t seem to stop him from being DTF, as he sings “pa’ chingar 
sí, pero pa’ serio no” (down to [f---], but not for anything serious). 
The boricua rapper resumes his beef with Cupid as well, rapping 
“Cupido es un huelebicho, ese cabrón siempre me miente” (Cupid’s 
a [d---]-sniffer, he always lies to me). His verse on the song isn’t his 
most lyrically complex, and it’s certainly not his catchiest flow, but 
you get the sense that it’s not trying to be.
“Good” seems like an apt way to describe the single. It doesn’t 
reinvent the wheel when it comes to its production and lyricism, 
and it’s not trying to. This track knows exactly what it is: a short 
and sweet urban ballad meant to pave the way for bigger and better 
singles from Tainy’s newly announced album. “Lo siento BB:/” is 
good, and that’s enough.
Scan Here to 
Suggest Songs for 
Future Spinning 
Twelves Reviews!Image courtesy of Reggaeton Sin Limites.
By Elias Roman
A&E EditorLIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     
PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
San Diego Hotspot: A Guide to Kobey’s Swap Meet
Written by Priscilla Puno, Lifestyle Co-editor
As the sun rises on a cold Saturday morning, vendors 
of San Diego set up their tents and tables to prepare for a 
long morning of bargaining, selling, and trading.
Kobey’s Swap Meet of San Diego began in 1976, where 
individuals from around the local area were able to buy, 
trade, and sell between one another. With the reputation it 
holds to this day, Kobey’s serves as a place for individuals 
to discover new knick-knacks and to possibly get their 
hands on a vintage fur coat (faux, of course). Thousands 
of sellers line up every weekend along the parking lot of 
the Pechanga Arena in San Diego, where they sell items 
from vintage furniture and used surfboards, to fresh 
produce and flowers.
With the rise of modern streetwear and the revival of 
Y2K fashion, the number of visitors every weekend has 
since then skyrocketed. Holding monthly vintage flea 
markets every last Saturday, vendors can sell the latest 
sneakers and one-of-a-kind items. So, if you are trying 
to get your hands on the latest pair of Dunks and missed 
your opportunity on the SNKRS app, now is your chance 
to run to Kobey’s.
With an entry fee of $2, you can explore the plethora 
of merchandise that is offered at these vintage markets. 
As a Kobey’s frequenter myself, I find that I always leave 
with a handful of purchases of items that I do not need. If 
you tend to indulge in retail therapy practices, this is the 
perfect place for you. Since it does get difficult and quite 
overwhelming upon entering the site, I have some tips 
that could help you have a successful flea market visit.
Make a list before entering the market
With the amount of merchandise that is displayed 
every weekend, it may get a little intense. A task that 
I usually like to do before attending flea markets is to 
already have a list of the items that I want before I dive 
straight into piles of clothing. Creating even a mental list 
of what you want can help alleviate any stress or feelings 
of overwhelmedness that may arise.Go early!
Kobey’s is 
open from 7 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. every 
weekend, and I 
highly recommend 
that you go early 
if you want to get 
your hands on the 
best items. Peak 
hours tend to be 
around 10–11 a.m., 
so if you want to 
avoid crowds and 
lines, go early!
Take a quick 
scan of the 
environment
Whether you 
made a physical 
or mental list, you 
should already 
know what you 
are looking for. 
Kobey’s tends 
to split up their 
vendors into different sections so it is quite easy to find 
your desired items. Some sections will specifically be 
for fresh produce and plants, furniture, clothing, and 
miscellaneous items. I highly recommend that you take 
a quick peek at what Kobey’s has to offer so that you can 
get a feel for the layout, different sellers, and if there 
tends to be better deals between the vendors.
Bring cash!
As time has progressed, other methods of payment 
such as Apple Pay and Venmo have come in handy quite 
a bit. But, since there are vendors that have been selling at Kobey’s for years, utilizing cash has become swap meet 
etiquette. It makes it simple for not only you but the 
vendors as well!
PHOTO BY ASHIM D’SILVA ON UNSPLASHPHOTO BY ASHIM D’SILVA ON UNSPLASH
Bradley Briggs, 
Lifestyle Co-editor Ask Bradley
Raccoon in dorm
Jackson Ludtke, a freshman Environmental Policy major in Thurgood Marshall 
College asks, “My roommate frowns at the fact that I bring raccoons back to the 
dorm to cuddle with. What should I do?”
Ah yes, the famous UCSD Trash Pandas. Unless you are a completely remote student or 
have been living under the Warren Bear Rock, you’ve probably seen these fascinating 
creatures throughout campus. In my fantastic, legendary, profund, and humble opinion, 
you, my good sir, are in no way incorrect in this situation. Who wouldn’t want a fluffy 
little buddy to lull you asleep? Who wouldn’t want a friendly companion to share ice 
cream, pizza, or garbage with? Who wouldn’t want such a cutie patootie sitting next to 
you in the library while you write your 10-page essay? A crazy person, that’ s who. So, 
I encourage you to get to the root of this issue: why is your roommate such a buzzkill? 
I would simply explain my situation and all the joy that comes with making friends with 
our trash pandas. If they trash your room, explain how that’ s their way of showing love. 
If they maul his face, tell him the wounds heal, but friendship is forever. So, keep be-
friending those racoons, you won’t regret it!
This is also a great place to plug the Instagram page @ucsd.raccoons which has amaz-
ing photos and videos of our animal pals all over campus.Do you have a burning desire to know the secrets of the universe? Have an insurmountable prob -
lem that desperately needs solving? Are you often confused and scared by day-to-day life? Well, 
then I suggest you leave. This advice column answers only the most remedial and ridiculous ques -
tions solely for the purpose of entertainment. So, unless you suffer from a lack of gossip or bad 
advice, I suggest you go somewhere else. This is Ask Bradley:
For rest of article, visit UCSDGuardian.org
To submit your question, 
scan the QR Code below!Photo by Bradley Beggs, Lifestyle 
Co-Editor8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLEFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     
NELSON  ESPINAL 
When in Rome... 
By Nelson Espinal 
Features Editor
Photo by Anna Shvets from Pexels. The pre-med section of  UC 
San Diego is one of  the more 
prominent sections of  the student 
body . Ranging from a wide variety 
of  majors, students target UCSD 
for their reputation in biological 
research and overall resources to 
guide students to medical school. 
One of  the resources available 
on campus is Doctors in Italy . 
Doctors in Italy is a health-
tech company that attempts to 
connect doctors with travellers 
and the health care community 
on an international scale. Through 
this company , there is a fellowship 
program in which students can 
apply to shadow doctors in Italy . 
During the COVID-19 
pandemic’s first wave of  cases, 
Italy suffered more than most 
countries in the world. According 
to the World Economic Forum, an 
older population throughout the 
Italian country led to many deaths, 
especially during the first wave of  
the pandemic. 
During the tailend of  the first 
wave, there were 35,000 deaths 
during summer 2020. The city was 
in a serious lockdown, with no one 
allowed to leave them homes for 
weeks. 
Famously , there is a video of  
Italians all singing a song out of  
their windows. The infection rate 
was not as high as other countries, 
but the older population resulted in the city needing to take more 
serious measures.
Because of  the pandemic and 
program being based in Italy , the 
Doctors in Italy fellowship faced 
serious challenges in continuing 
the program. 
Yet, the minds at the program 
gathered so that they could 
plan on having students come 
over during the pandemic. The 
program used their relationships 
with hospitals in Italy to find a 
hospital that avoided COVID 
patients and maintained high 
standards of  safety . 
“We choose a hospital that is 
JCI accredited,” Nadia Neytcheva, 
the CEO of  Doctors in Italy , 
told The UCSD Guardian. “JCI 
accreditation means that it is a 
high-level standard of  a hospital. 
These high standards guaranteed 
us a high standard of  safety 
to make sure the students are 
in good hands and are able to 
shadow. The main part where the 
students were shadowing did not 
feature many COVID patients.”
The students were still able 
to travel and landed in Italy with 
their protocols in mind. There 
were various hurdles to clear for 
the program to continue. With 
shadowing doctors, it is only 
possible to do so effectively in 
person. 
“The reason why we think 
this program is more important 
even right now is that the world 
is becoming more borderless,” 
Nadia Neytcheva said. “In the 
digital future where people will be working from any region, it is even 
more important for health care 
workers to build relationships and 
trust people from everywhere. We 
want students of  today who will be 
future doctors to be prepared and 
for doctors themselves to be more 
exposed to international students 
overall.”
Apart from wanting to connect 
people on an international level, 
the program also is attempting to 
showcase the European model of  
universal healthcare to American 
students. Miss Neytcheva pointed 
out the contrasting method of  
healthcare can give students a new 
perspective on healthcare.
The student can take their 
knowledge about the Italian 
healthcare system and compare it 
to American healthcare. 
The hope is, in the program’s 
eyes, the American healthcare 
system improves with the adoption 
and implementation of  certain 
aspects of  the Italian healthcare 
system.
The program’s main goal is 
assisting students through the pre-
med process.  
The job shadowing aspect 
exposes students to the nature of  
being a doctor with a wide variety 
of  specializations offered. From 
surgery to check ups, the student 
can narrow down their own desired 
career path. 
“Job shadowing is really 
important,” Nadia Neytcheva said. 
“I wish I had it when I was younger. 
When you really don’t know what 
you want to do with your life, being exposed to the reality of  
the profession really helps. It takes 
so much time and effort, before 
committing to this large profession, 
it is really important to know what 
you are getting into. Besides all 
those medical dramas.”
The hands-on experience also 
translates to a better medical school 
application. The experiences while 
job shadowing provide more 
motivation and reasoning for essay 
prompts based on the question 
of  “Why do you want to study 
medicine?” 
The question is asked on many 
applications and the experiences 
up close in-person provide for more 
detail in the response. 
The program also advertises 
more attention than the average 
job shadow in the states. 
“The other reason is to expose 
themselves to European medicine 
is to build relationships with 
doctors and the doctors in Italy 
mentor them more than in the 
states,” Nadia Neytcheva told 
The Guardian. “They are treated 
like guests, since they come from 
abroad, instead of  being a regular 
student in their own home country . 
This creates, for students, a set 
of  mentors and some follow-up 
opportunities as well.”
The overseas experience for 
students can provide a different look 
at medicine than others in America 
and an experience with different 
techniques and approaches. 
The aim of  the program is 
through the various looks and 
experience that is gathered, students are able to further explore 
their passion for medicine, whether 
it results in further motivation or 
the need to look for a different 
career path. 
“If  you are willing to fly over 
the ocean, be in a hospital for a 
few weeks, and study so hard to get 
good grades,” Nadia Neytcheva 
told The Guardian. “There will 
be no second guessing about what 
you want to do,  You will be more 
committed to your goal. But if  you 
find out medicine is not for you, 
you save yourself  time and money . 
We have had students, who after 
months and years, reach out to the 
doctors again when needing a letter 
of  recommendation or assistance in 
their essays or just asking questions 
about the speciality as a whole.”
The application is available 
through their website. The program 
can help those indecisive about 
their plans after college, but are 
somewhat interested in medicine 
and also assist those who know they 
want to become doctors. 
With COVID looming, the 
program showcased their priority 
is not only keeping the program 
going no matter what, but also 
in the safest manner for students. 
Their past resilience might provide 
some comfort to those who worry 
about what could happen. FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CALENDAR10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Monopolizes
5. Not appropriate
10. Hudson and Green
14. Sword, Juno, Gold, Omaha 
and ___
15. “When pigs fly!”
16. Medicinal succulent
17. Monster lizard
18. Silk with a wavy pattern
19. Eye infection
20. “He may try to cover up his ... ”
23. Possessive pronoun
24. Emmy winner Ruby
25. Nickname of the 30th U.S. 
president
28. Hawaiian instrument (Var.)
32. ___ del Plata (Argentinean 
resort)
35. Snooty
37. Levesque of Quebec
38. Use hip boots, e.g.
39. “He may be hiding out at 
his ... ”
42. ___ out (just made it)
43. Raw silk color
44. Sea of the Solomon Islands
45. Hankering
46. Like some modeling 
substances
48. Playable serves
49. ___-Wan Kenobi
50. Mosconi’s pride
52. “He will hide his identity 
with an ... ”
61. Cubby holes?
62. Wee one in Glasgow
63. Not the best place for a 
thorn
64. Social starter?
65. “The sky’s the ___”
66. L X W
67. Sounds from a milk 
container?
68. Mournful poem
69. 2000, for oneDOWN
1. Good things to give your kids
2. Ear-relevant
3. Lavish celebration
4. Lamb Chop’s handler
5. Reveal
6. Gaudy night light
7. Like fanatical sports fans
8. Sassy
9. Ran the old sewing machine
10. Thanksgiving Day chore
11. Range between soprano 
and tenor
12. Ma the musician
13. Gets an eyeful
21. Thanksgiving Day chore
22. Site of the first stroke?
25. Shrewd
26. How great minds think
27. Ponti’s wife
29. Author Jong
30. Having that doubtful feeling
31. Listlessness
32. A language of New Zealand
33. Spot maker?
34. Lively dances
36. Like Methuselah
38. “___ goes there?”
40. Trustworthy
41. Hebrew school (Var.)
46. TV network letters
47. Hardly plentiful
49. Desert watering hole
51. Test format, perhaps
52. Man with an apple named 
after him?
53. He’s after the news
54. “Out of the frying pan, ___ ... ”
55. Tooth partner
56. Word with store or novel
57. Icebox, informally
58. The Emerald Isle
59. The embryo of an invention
60. Snookums
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
CLASSIFIEDS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 1112 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     
vs UC Santa Barbara
vs UC Santa Barbara 
vs California Baptist
vs CSU FullertonUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Soccer
W Soccer
M Water Polo
W Volleyball6PM
6PM
6PM
7PM10/13
10/14
10/15
10/16
         No. 11 Tritons Drop Third Straight to
                    No. 7 Long Beach State
Praveen Nair  pmair@ucsd.eduPhoto courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics
At the tail end of a grueling eight-game stretch against 
ranked opponents, the No. 11-ranked UC San Diego men’s 
water polo team (9–7) lost at home on Oct. 6 to No. 7-ranked 
California State University, Long Beach (15–4) by a score of 
13–11. Redshirt senior utility player Calder Hilde-Jones and 
redshirt junior utility player Manuel Augusto each had 3 
goals in the loss, in which the Tritons never led.
UCSD entered Wednesday’s match after winning 2 of 4 
contests in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation (MPSF) 
Invitational in Berkeley, and losing a close match to the then-
No. 20 Air Force Academy on Oct. 1; meanwhile, Long Beach 
State came to Canyonview Aquatic Center on a four-game 
win streak.
That momentum for LBSU seemed to carry into the 
opening period of play on Wednesday evening, as Long 
Beach’s Matt Morris scored 3 goals in the first 4 minutes of 
play to put the Beach up 3–0; his second and third goals 
skipped past UCSD’s redshirt sophomore keeper Alexander 
Nemeth from outside the right post. With 2:17 left in the first 
period, an interference call on Nemeth left UCSD without a 
keeper, and Long Beach capitalized just 2 seconds later with a 
goal from Alika Naone to go up 4–0.
After taking a much-needed timeout, the Tritons finally got 
on the board with 1:54 to go in the first quarter, as redshirt 
sophomore utility player Kaden Likins slotted the ball past 
the Beach keeper. Augusto made it 4–2 just 46 seconds later 
with a powerful strike into the top left corner, and UCSD 
finally seemed to have some momentum. Long Beach pushed 
the lead back up to 3 with less than a minute to go in the 
period, but Likins struck again on the powerplay with a shot 
over the Beach keeper’s head to end the first period 5–3.
Unfortunately for UCSD, they would never narrow the 
lead to less than 2. Long Beach scored the first 2 goals of 
the second quarter to bring the lead up to 7–3 with 4:29 
remaining in the half. The Tritons caught a break with 3:59 to 
go in the quarter, drawing a penalty that Augusto sent cleanly 
into the bottom left corner. But Long Beach State would 
again respond well, with 2 more goals in the latter part of the 
quarter taking the lead to 9–4.
Seconds later, Hilde-Jones scored his first of the night with 1:17 remaining in the second period, creating a shot 
from up close with 2 defenders on him, and the half ended 
with the Tritons down 9–5; the goal extended an impressive 
scoring streak for Hilde-Jones, who has scored in all 16 
UCSD matches this season, with the last 8 being multiple-
goal games.
The Tritons and the Beach traded goals down the stretch 
in the third quarter, a balance Long Beach was clearly much 
more pleased to maintain, with Triton goals coming from 
redshirt freshman utility player Miles Wilson and Hilde-
Jones. With 1:33 to go in the third, the Tritons cut the lead to 
11–8 on a powerplay goal from redshirt junior utility player 
Vedran Latkovic, and UCSD entered the final quarter with 
the match not yet out of reach.
The Tritons’ comeback hopes got a boost less than a 
minute into the fourth period when Augusto stole the ball, 
started a fast break, and found Wilson down the right flank. 
Wilson lobbed the ball inside to Hilde-Jones, once again 
heavily marked in front of the goal, and he finished off his 
hat trick to cut the deficit to its lowest point since the opening 
minutes of the match, 11–9.Long Beach State got the lead back to 3 with 5:19 
remaining, but Augusto returned the favor with 4:21 to go 
on a powerplay goal, making it 12–10. Once again, though, 
Long Beach managed to extend their lead to 3 on a powerplay 
resulting from a Likins foul; yet again, the Tritons narrowed 
the deficit to 2 when Latkovic made a nice fake to freeze the 
Beach keeper before beating him with the shot, getting his 
second goal of the game and making it 13–11 with 2:34 to 
go. But any comeback opportunity for UCSD soon fizzled 
out, and Latkovic’s strike would end up being the final score 
of the game.
Both Augusto and Hilde-Jones had hat tricks for the 
Tritons, and Augusto added 2 steals and 2 assists for a nice 
all-around night. Redshirt freshman Max Abravanel led 
UCSD with 3 assists. As a team, the Tritons shot 11-for-36 
(.306) compared to 13-for-30 (.433) for Long Beach; UCSD 
converted 4 of 12 power plays, while the Beach scored on 6 
of 10.
“I was pleased that we never quit, I was pleased that we 
rallied… But we just didn’t convert when we needed to. It’s 
a disappointing loss to a No. 7 team that’s capable of beating 
anybody, ” said head coach Denny Harper, now in the 42nd 
year of his illustrious coaching career, to UCSD Athletics. 
“The thing for us that is resonating the most is that we gave 
up four goals to start the game — you can’t do that. ”
The Tritons will try to end their short skid with three 
upcoming conference home games against unranked 
opponents, against whom they are undefeated this season, 
beginning Friday, Oct. 15 against California Baptist University.
 “I was pleased 
that we never 
quit, I was 
pleased that we 
rallied...”  By Praveen Nair
Sports Editor