(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD to Allow In-Person Commencement Ceremonies, Announces
BLM Co-Founder as Speaker
 April 14, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/14/ucsd-to-allow-in-person-commencement-ceremonies-announces-blm-co-
founder-as-speaker/) Troy Tuquero  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/troy-tuquero/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click
here → (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)In a campus-wide email  (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YHR09sPF8VRcn_Bnjmc-
r_fdY9XhsNaR/view?usp=sharing) sent out on Wednesday, April 14, the UC San Diego Office of the
Chancellor provided major updates to the commencement ceremonies that are slated to take place on
Saturday, June 12 and Sunday, June 13. Graduates will now have the option to attend the ceremonies in-
person on RIMAC field, as opposed to having a fully virtual event. UCSD also announced that Black Lives
Matter Global Network co-founder and UCSD alumna Alicia Garza will be addressing graduates at theceremonies. 
The statement noted that graduating students will now have the option of attending commencement
ceremonies in-person, with no more than two guests. All attendees must be either fully vaccinated or have
had a negative COVID-19 test within 24 to 72 hours prior to the ceremony. Participants must also
complete a symptom screener upon entry. UCSD said the event will follow health and safety measures as
recommended by the Center for Disease Control, as well as state and county guidelines for travel and
gatherings.
Commencement ceremonies will be livestreamed for graduates who are unable to participate in-person.
Each undergraduate college as well as the Graduate Division, Rady School of Management and the School
of Global Policy and Strategy, will have separate ceremonies. All events will “reflect the culture” of eachcollege and will include an address from Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, Garza, and a student speaker. 
Due to the pandemic, UCSD held a virtual commencement ceremony
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/04/30/breaking-ucsd-to-host-virtual-commencement-announcement-
expected-later-this-week/)  in June 2020. Students who graduated as part of the UCSD class of 2020 are
not eligible  (https://www.change.org/p/university-of-california-san-diego-give-ucsd-class-of-2020-the-
in-person-graduation-they-deserve/u/28879315)  to participate in the commencement ceremonies this
summer. UCSD has promised that there will be opportunities to celebrate 2020 graduates at future
alumni events.
In response, a number of UCSD graduates from the class of 2020 expressed their frustrations with the
announcement. At the time of publication of this article, over 240 people have signed onto a petition
(https://www.change.org/p/university-of-california-san-diego-give-ucsd-class-of-2020-the-in-person-
graduation-they-deserve?recruiter=1193532243&recruited_by_id=1aa14750-9d4a-11eb-b0d2-
ab18a2cd6a14&utm_source=share_petition&utm_medium=copylink&utm_campaign=petition_dashboard)calling for UCSD to plan an in-person commencement ceremony for these former students. 
In an email (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QMvzPOReTusf0fLs9bjLNreip2aZV6kz/view?
usp=sharing) sent out to UCSD class of 2020 alumni on Friday, April 16, UCSD announced its new plan to
hold a graduation ceremony for these former students in October 2021.
“The graduates of the Class of 2020 deserve in-person recognition of their academic achievements,” the
statement read. “We are committed to celebrating you and your fellow classmates at a dedicated Class of
2020 Graduation Celebration in October. In the fall, we anticipate reaching a critical mass of fullyvaccinated individuals throughout the region and across the country. A greatly improved public health
climate will allow state and county agencies to permit larger, more traditional gatherings.”
UCSD said that further details on the October celebration will be offered in the coming weeks.
Other University of California schools, such as UC Berkeley and UC Riverside, recently announced
(https://edsource.org/2021/california-universities-plan-a-mix-of-in-person-virtual-commencement-
ceremonies/653034)  that they would be having in-person graduation ceremonies. However, no guests will
be allowed and ceremonies will be spread out over a few days to minimize exposure.
Commencement speaker Alicia Garza founded the Black Lives Matter hashtag along with co-founders
Opal Tometi and Patrisse Cullors after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the murder of Trayvon
Martin  (https://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/14/us/george-zimmerman-verdict-trayvon-martin.html)  in
July of 2013. The Black Lives Matter movement gained further attention for its role in galvanizing
widespread protests in response to the murder of George Floyd  (https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-
52967551) on May 25, 2020. 
Garza graduated from UCSD in 2002 with a degree in anthropology and sociology and was recently
featured at the “Grassroots Activism and Politics” (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/21/a-s-hosts-
grassroots-activism-panel-with-blm-co-founder-alicia-garza/)  event hosted by the UC San Diego
Associated Students Office of External Affairs and the UCSD Department of Political Science back inFebruary. 
“As an influential activist, social innovator and the co-founder of one of the largest civil rights movements
in history, Ms. Garza believes Black communities deserve what all communities deserve—to be powerful
in every aspect of their lives,” the statement read. “Her remarks will surely inspire the more than 8,000
graduates and their families, along with the 10,000 audience members we expect to join us online.”
Graduating students are encouraged to register for commencement by Wednesday, May 19. The UCSD
Guardian will provide further updates on class of 2020 commencement plans as it becomes available.
Photo taken by Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego
This article was updated on 4/16 at 12:27PM to reflect new information that UCSD plans to hold a
celebration for class of 2020 students in October 2021.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Taking Note
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/taking-note/) Nelson Espinal
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/nespinal/)
Concerts are all happening remotely now. Hannah Rosenberg and the team at KSDT
needed to adapt and do what they could given the constraints of the pandemic. Out of the
struggle rose some potential room to evolve the booking process. 
Jumping up and down. Heads banging to the rhythm of music. All of these parts of a concert
happen in a venue. With the pandemic developing and more events being held remotely, this
type of setting for concerts is not possible in America for the time being.
If people want to unite to watch a concert, they need to host the event via Zoom. The physical
connection to the music needs a buffer, in this case the Zoom meeting, so that the viewer and
artist can connect.
The A.S. Council cancelled the Sun God Festival last spring, leaving the future of in-person
events unknown. Ever since, both KSDT and the A.S. Council have held events remotely with
a host of musical acts giving remote renditions of their performances. 
The radical, unforeseen shift left many organizations without a vision for the future. Hannah
Rosenberg, the events director for KSDT, took over this past July and the future of events
remained up in the air.
Regardless of the questions about whether or not events would happen or any idea about
what the budget would be, the fourth year from Eleanor Roosevelt College put her head down
and continued to work under the impression that events would happen in some sort of
manner. 
Rosenberg and KSDT hosted various events during the pandemic with the latest act being
Tems, a Nigerian singer-songwriter. 
“I feel like it hasn’t necessarily been easier or harder. There are pros and cons both ways, but
putting on events this year has been the greatest thing I have done as a student at UCSD.”
She manages the event-planning section of KSDT along with other interns. Her role is to
pitch ideas for the next event, get the required approval, and book the artist for the show.
 During her first event, she began to realize how much of a toll and time needed to be
sacrificed. “I thought I had a vague idea on how things work, but I didn’t in this virtual world. You need
to be all in, be ten steps ahead, and all the pieces have to line-up.”
Rosenberg begins her process by surveying the community around her and attempting to
figure out what kind of music is having a moment and what artists are making an impact. She
keys in on artists that have a fan base and are creating a buzz. 
In an attempt to avoid using previously hired acts, she makes sure to not book people who
performed in the past and avoids repeating similar styles of music. 
During the research phase, she stumbled upon Tems’ music from a recommendation. 
“I asked how she is not bigger or have more streams. I sent her music to my mentor, who is
an A&R. and she said I ‘had a good ear with her. She is going to be big.’ It turns out she just
got signed to RCA Records. She is from Nigeria and at the time I was thinking ‘what if we had
someone from out of the country.’ I decided to store her name in my mental open tabs.”
When choosing an artist, there needs a balance between both the fee that the artist charges
and their development as an artist. Rosenberg needs to make sure that the artist is developed
to the point of having an agent, a decent catalog of music, and some following. 
This “sweet spot” comes from doing the work to make sure the artist has potential, but still
needs a push in order to reach stardom. Acts like Drake and Taylor Swift remain unreachable,
but the next stars are out there somewhere. 
“We need to find a perfect sweet spot where they are developed enough, but not too big yet
which is what let UCSD have Drake early on. That’s what I want to happen with Tems.”
Her list of acts is not done at one name, as there needs to be fall-back options in case of a
setback or scheduling issue which could potentially arise. 
She considered Maggie Rogers as an act that could potentially be chosen. A lot of her friends
talked about Rogers as a name that should be brought up as a musical act which further
sparked Rosenberg’s interest.“I really wanted Maggie Rogers. I found it weird that she had not come to our school. So, I
reached out to her agent after digging online and asked for her price for performing at a
school remotely. It was way too far out of the budget and I asked the agent for any other
names and one of the names was Tems.” 
Luckily, she could further along the interest in Tems. When in these moments, she believed
everything lined up perfectly for her to jump at the opportunity and capitalize that she was
already in contact with Tems’ agent. 
“I took advantage that I had the agent’s attention and got all of the basic details taken care of
starting in December. I scheduled a meeting with some A.S. advisors and they were down
with the idea. A bunch of documents like the TAP, which generates the performance
agreement needed to get started.”
The legal documents remain the hardest part of booking someone to perform according to
Rosenberg. They need to sign and process throughout the school. The agents and the artist’s
team as a whole attempt to make sure the documents are sound with the artist being covered
no matter what happens. 
Once this hurdle is past, the event begins to get planned and laid out according to the artist.
Since the concert is streamed over Zoom, the display and layout of the stream needs to fit the
artist. 
“Nelson from the University Events office, I don’t know how he does it, but he makes Zoom
not look like regular Zoom meetings to deal with Zoom fatigue. We walked through the vision
for the event.”
The functions of the people behind the scenes present the largest challenge when it comes to
pulling off the event. Everyone is doing their job on a remote basis rather than being in
person with a green room. 
Someone could fall asleep before or during the event which could cause several layers of the
production to misfire. 
The artist is removed from most of the process as they remain distant and simply block out a
certain time slot in their busy schedule to perform. Most of the contact with the artist
happens in an indirect fashion as the agent is the only real means of communication. All of the contracts need to line up and the whole process needs to be done for the most part
until it is appropriate to reach out to the artist. 
“Something I did not fully understand is how distant the artist is before an event. Most of the
time the artist is told to just block out the day. I did not have contact with the manager until
Tuesday and the performance is on Saturday so I have not had too much contact with the
artist. I didn’t realize how distant the artist is and all that you need to do before it is even
appropriate to be in contact with them.”
The ability to put on a show remotely does come with some positives and the ability to change
what acts are welcomed at schools.
There is less of a need to limit the search to music here in the United States. The door is open
for any artist to perform their music without being limited to travel. 
“There are ways to make it the best and using limitations as not limiting, but as strengths. We
can push boundaries by having an international artist perform at UCSD which would be hard
to fly in, but now because everything is remote so we can manage to make it happen.”
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Tritons Show Resilience in Bounceback Long Beach State
Victory
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/tritons-show-resilience-in-bounceback-long-beach-state-
victory/) Donovan Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
UC San Diego’s women’s water polo team (9–5, 4–1 Big West) split their two-game series
with California State University, Long Beach (2–7, 1–3 Big West) on April 16 and 17. After a
heartbreaking loss on Friday by a score of 15–14, the Tritons took care of business with an 8–
6 victory on Saturday. The ninth-ranked UCSD was undefeated in league play coming into
this two-game slate with Long Beach State, so a rebound after a difficult loss was crucial in
maintaining their momentum moving forward in conference play.
In the first game, the Tritons came out very hot, with senior center Ciara Franke scoring on
the Tritons’ first chance of the game. Another goal would extend the lead to 2–0 at the
beginning of the second period, with another goal putting UCSD up three, and the match
looked as expected, with the highly-ranked Triton team outplaying a struggling CSULB
squad. However, the Long Beach team did not let this one get away from them. Quickly, the
Tritons surrendered two goals in a span of thirty seconds and the deficit was cut to one.
An extremely high scoring, back-and-forth second period saw the Tritons score a total of five
goals to CSULB’s six, and going into the half UCSD led by a score of 7–6. In the first half,
Franke and freshman utility player Annika Arroyo each had 2 goals, but a last second score by
Long Beach deflated the Tritons as the first half ended, with both teams looking to shore up
the defensive end going into the next half. 
In the third period, Franke secured her hat trick with 3:39 left to go, tying the game at 8 after
Long Beach secured their first lead of the game. The Tritons continued to struggle on the
defensive end, allowing another 5 goals in the third period, giving CSULB an 11–10 advantage
over the Tritons, propelled by 2 goals in the last 20 seconds of the period, including another
last-second score.
Within the first 3 minutes of the fourth quarter, the Tritons put themselves in a hole by
allowing another 3 goals, with only a goal from senior attacker Grace Pevehouse stemming
the UCSD deficit to 3. Going into the final minute, Franke’s 4th goal and Pevehouse’s 3rd put
the Long Beach lead at just 14–13. Another goal allowed within the last 30 seconds would
doom the Tritons, even after a late goal by Arroyo pulled the final score to 15–14. The high-
flying effort by both squads resulted in a narrow victory for CSULB, but the Tritons had a
chance for revenge just a day after.
Coming off a tough loss, the Tritons looked motivated to finish the week with a win. UCSD’s
Arroyo scored two goals in the first period, continuing a hot streak from the previous game
for the freshman. Tied going into the final minute of the period, the last-minute goal would
go for UCSD this time, by way of a Tera Richardson power play score.Franke scored another 2 goals to match 2 scores from Long Beach players, and the Tritons
again found themselves with a one-goal advantage going into the half, hoping for a different
result this time around. A single Long Beach goal was the only score of the third period,
knotting the game at 5 apiece with one period to go, setting up another exciting finish
between these two squads.
UCSD struck first, going up one at the 6:24 mark, hoping to build their lead. No goals were
scored for another four minutes, until Pevehouse scored a timely goal with two minutes to go
to give the Tritons a 2-score cushion. Arroyo got her second hat trick in a row with a goal that
put the Tritons up 8–5 with 56 seconds remaining, and a garbage time goal from CSULB put
the final score at 8–6.
After rebounding last weekend from the tough loss against Long Beach, the Tritons will now
take on UC Irvine on April 23 and April 24, hoping to build off of the victory and continue to
look like one of the most formidable teams in the nation.
Photo courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Dear Music Industry, Culture Does Not Exist for Your Pro  t
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/dear-music-industry-culture-does-not-exist-for-your-profit/)
Marcella Barneclo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/mbarneclo/)
According to the Oxford English Dictionary (https://public.oed.com/blog/march-2018-new-
words-notes/), cultural appropriation is defined as “the unacknowledged or inappropriate
adoption of the practices, customs, or aesthetics of one social or ethnic group by members of
another (typically dominant) community or society.” 
Oxford’s definition makes a valiant attempt to encompass and simplify a complex issue, but it
is no secret that cultural appropriation is undeniably convoluted, varying in impact and
potential harm across different instances. In the realm of the music industry, cultural
appropriation blankets pop culture, making it a large contributor to this controversial issue
with countless examples that showcase blatant cultural disrespect and blissful ignorance.
Music artists have a responsibility to remove themselves from these negative practices and
recognize that theft of culture severely discredits underrepresented minority groups and
contributes to systemic oppression and white privilege.   
Over the years, various well-known musical artists have been guilty of cultural appropriation.
In particular, Katy Perry has been a fairly egregious culprit of this practice. Around 2013
(https://www.huffpost.com/entry/katy-perry-acknowledges-her-cultural-appropriation-but-
twitter-isnt-impressed_n_593e97cae4b02402687b15bf), Perry released a music video for her
hit “This is How We Do” where she chose to style her hair in cornrows — a type of braided
hairstyle (https://www.essence.com/hair/respect-our-roots-brief-history-our-braids-
cultural-appropriation/) that is connected to Black culture and African ancestry. Intricate
braided hairstyles like cornrows survived years of cultural erasure attempts throughout
American history. For Perry to shamelessly “borrow” this meaningful hairstyle from Black
culture without recognizing the implications of her actions and the cultural weight behind
that particular hairstyle is incredibly disrespectful and a blatant example of white privilege
and ignorance. Plenty of other noteworthy artists are guilty of similar crimes. In 2016, Justin
Bieber was seen with dreadlocks
(https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2016/apr/05/justin-bieber-dreadlocks-cultural-
appropriation-black-pride), a hairstyle rooted in Black identity and often used as a
contestation to European beauty standards. Similar to Perry, Bieber took advantage of his
social status as a white man to emulate a hairstyle rooted in cultural importance. In 2013,
Iggy Azalea capitalized on Hindu culture (https://online.berklee.edu/takenote/cultural-
appropriation-in-music/) in her music video “Bounce”  by donning traditional Indian clothes
simply for the aesthetic they provided. Again, her surface-level understanding of this culture
casts a shadow of disrespect on this exploited group. There are countless other examples that mirror the ones I have briefly mentioned. The same
issue persists throughout: white artists are using their privilege to take advantage of and
profit from other cultures while failing to give out due credit, recognition, and respect. In an
increasingly globalized world, the spread of culture has grown at a rapid rate, but this has
contributed to a cherry-picking mentality within the music industry and society. With this
circulation of cultural knowledge, certain groups in power, particularly white people, have
taken advantage of their social privilege to handpick specific aspects of an “inferior” cultural
group to incorporate as their own. Unfortunately, many of the music artists who engage in
cultural appropriation are not held accountable for their actions and repeat the same
behaviors. The few news articles (https://www.newsweek.com/gwen-stefani-slow-clap-
appropriation-1582457)that bravely call out artists for culturally appropriating are
bombarded with a disappointing amount of comments defending these celebrities actions by
calling them demonstrations of “cultural appreciation.” However, this term is casually thrown
around and used to excuse occurrences of cultural appropriation under the guise of
harmlessness. 
It can be argued that cultural appreciation is essentially non-existent and remains on the
grounds of cultural appropriation. When it comes to pop culture, cultural appreciation, like
cultural appropriation, is still the active process of borrowing from another culture and
implementing it into a music video, song, or aesthetic for personal or monetary reasons; it is
simply done in a more understanding or complex way. For example, in 1986, Paul Simon
collaborated with a group called the Boyoyo Boys to produce “Graceland
(https://www.biography.com/news/paul-simon-graceland-inspiration-south-africa) ” — a
highly successful album with South African culture at the center of it. He flew to
Johannesburg in 1985 and made genuine connections with this South African band, creating
a collaborative environment. When the album was released, Simon still received a
considerable amount of criticism despite the Boyoyo Boys’ willingness to participate and the
credit they received for their contribution. This criticism is understandable. Despite Simon’s
well-intentioned efforts to include individuals from that culture and further his own
understanding of the meaning behind the music, he is still a privileged white artist coming
from America in order to use those sounds to further his own career. Thus, while this
inclusion of South African artists was a significant progression, Simon still participated in
cultural appropriation. However, the major difference that separates Simon from the actions
of artists like Perry is the connection and relationship that Simon made with people from
South African culture. His commitment to inclusion, acknowledgment, and a thoughtful
understanding created a collaboration and arguably a less-harmful result. With this in mind, cultural appropriation can essentially be measured on a sliding scale of
harm, based on the situation at hand and whether or not it contributes to the oppression of
particular cultures and minority groups. In the instances involving Perry, Bieber, and Azalea,
their actions were wrong and severely harmful to certain communities and cultures. Those
levels of cultural appropriation involve a power dynamic tied to white privilege and harmful
ignorance. Consumers have an obligation to recognize instances of cultural appropriation like
these and hold artists accountable for their actions in a productive way that educates those
artists and prevents future instances of cultural appropriation. For example, in 2017, Perry
addressed her past of cultural appropriation
(https://www.buzzfeed.com/elliewoodward/katy-perry-addressed-cultural-appropriation-
and-people-have), recognizing her white privilege and taking responsibility for how her
actions have negatively affected other cultures. This type of response should be expected from
artists who have a past littered with cultural appropriation. Accountability and
acknowledgement of wrongdoings is necessary in fostering learning and encouraging growth.
As for the music industry itself, reform is needed. If artists want to highlight and participate
in a positive and respectful inclusion of a culture, like Simon did with “Graceland,” it is
important that they educate themselves and work to go beyond cherry-picking. Like Simon,
artists should form relationships with individuals belonging to that culture to create
something new in a productive and conducive way. The overarching goal of the music
industry should be to maintain a degree of thoughtfulness in order to form relationships and
collaborations with the people belonging to those cultures, as opposed to perpetuating a
system of simply using culture for a brief and surface-level personal gain without giving due
credit or recognition. 
Overall, as a society and consumers of these forms of media, we have a responsibility to
educate ourselves, promote systemic change, and hold artists accountable for ignorance,
cultural disrespect, and the blind borrowing of another culture. 
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Submission: The Plastic Problem
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/submission-the-plastic-problem/) Guest Writer (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/guestwriter/)
Guest Writer Emily Pisco breaks down the dangers of plastic pollution, and how companies like Whole Foods contribute to this
environmental destruction.
What if we did everything right? What if we didn’t create the world we created today? Our Earth is changing in unnatural ways: the climate is
getting warmer, ocean sea levels are rising, more frequent and intense droughts will occur, and more. One problem every single living thing
around the world is facing is plastic pollution — one of the largest environmental threats facing animals and humans. Plastic is taking over the
ocean and washing ashore beaches with a garbage truck’s worth of trash entering our oceans every minute, where it injures and kills birds and
marine animals like sea turtles. According to the Environment America Research & Policy Center
(https://environmentamericacenter.org/feature/amc/wildlife-over-
waste#:~:text=PLASTIC%20POLLUTION%20HARMS%20WILDLIFE&text=Scientists%20have%20found%20plastic%20fragments,these%20fra
86 percent of sea turtle species, 44 percent of all seabird species, and 43 percent of marine mammal species are known to have ingested plastic.
When animals ingest plastic waste, it can block their digestive tracts, causing them to starve. Microplastics can also harm them through the
toxic chemicals the plastics secrete into their stomach. National Geographic (https://www.nationalgeographic.com/science/article/plastic-
food-packaging-outpaces-cigarette-butts-most-abundant-beach-trash)  has stated that single-use plastic packaging, in particular, is a
significant source of plastic pollution, with plastic food wrappers topping the list of commonly picked-up trash items in a worldwide beach
cleanup. Many supermarkets are guilty of failing to enforce policies that will reduce single-use plastics. Greenpeace
(https://www.greenpeace.org/usa/shopping-for-plastic-2021/) assessed and ranked 20 major supermarkets in the United States based on
their attempt to reduce plastics. Whole Foods Market, one of the most well-known supermarket chains in the U.S., ranked #10 on their list and
failed to have a comprehensive public policy or commitment to reduce its plastic footprint. For a company to have a reputation for selling food
that is organic and healthy, it is also expected to be better about reducing plastic waste. As of 2018 (https://ourworldindata.org/plastic-pollution), approximately 31.9 million metric tons of plastic enter our oceans every year and
will persist for hundreds to thousands of years. About half of that plastic being produced is used for single-use products and packaging.
Currently, plastic production is expected to triple by 2050, and the consequences will be inadmissible: wildlife endangerment, public health
risks, and climate concerns. But who is to say that plastic isn’t all that bad? According to Plastic Packaging Facts
(https://www.plasticpackagingfacts.org/resources/sanitation-and-safety-plastics-benefits/) , single-use plastics have always played a critical
role in the medical sector, considering that they are the “cleanest, most efficient way” to facilitate health and hygiene in hospitals. This is
especially true during this past year. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, single-use plastics have played an essential role within the medical sector
in COVID testing and vaccines, as stated by Medical Plastics News (http://medicalplasticsnews.com/news/why-single-use-plastics-have-been-
essential-during-the-covid/#:~:text=Single-use%20plastics%20have%2C%20however,with%20through%20packaging%20with%20seals.) .
This pandemic has shown that single-use plastics play such an important role in the medical industry. Moreover, finding an alternative can be
difficult, as it could increase energy use and increase greenhouse gas emissions. One way I believe we can halt plastic pollution from
progressively becoming worse is to stop the production of unnecessary single-use plastics in places such as big chain grocery stores and outlets.
The solution may be simple, but it will take a lot of persuasion and help from everyone. 
Whole Foods has led on plastics in the past when it became the first U.S. grocer to eliminate plastic bags at checkout. But it has started to lag
behind competitors and failed to have a comprehensive strategy on reducing its plastic footprint in a report by As You Sow
(https://www.asyousow.org/report-page/waste-and-opportunity-2020-searching-corporate-leadership) . The report outlines three key areas
where Whole Foods has failed in tackling plastic waste: reusable packaging, packaging transparency, and producer responsibility. Packaging
transparency implies that companies should include disclosures of goals for reductions in overall plastic use, which Whole Foods has failed to
do. 
In 2020 (https://environmentamerica.org/news/amc/groups-urge-whole-foods-put-planet-over-plastic-eliminating-plastic-packaging), the
Environment America Research & Policy Center and the U.S. Pirg Education Fund launched a campaign urging Whole Foods to commit to a
solid plan that eliminates single-use plastic packaging from its stores. With the help of over 500 CALPIRG Students
(https://calpirgstudents.org/2016/11/12/we-helped-save-the-bag-ban/), over 30,000 students were educated on plastic pollution on campus
and got 10,000 students to pledge to vote Yes on 67, which protects the plastic bag ban. CALPIRG Students helped pass 100 local bans and a
statewide ban on plastic bags, such as the California Circular Economy and Pollution Reduction Act. This Act set goals to reduce waste from
single-use packaging and products, which would ensure that the remaining packages and products are effectively reusable or recycled and
composted. 
Students from UC campuses all across the state are working together to ensure that we eliminate single-use plastics as soon as possible.
CALPIRG is calling on Whole Foods to become, once again, a national leader in tackling plastic pollution. Many regional grocers are already
committing to eliminating single-use plastic by 2025, so what’s stopping Whole Foods from doing so? I believe that Whole Foods has the heart
to put wildlife over waste by committing to eliminate its single-use plastic packaging from its operations. 
Image by Anastasia Taioglou (https://unsplash.com/@thenata) from Unsplash (https://unsplash.com).(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
New Undergraduate Degree in Black Diaspora and African
American Studies
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/new-undergraduate-degree-in-black-diaspora-and-african-
american-studies/) Nikita Cardozo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ncardozo/)
Beginning in Fall Quarter 2022, the African American Studies Program will issue a new
Bachelor of Arts degree in Black diaspora and African American studies. They will continue to
offer it as the minor as well. 
The minor –– which was first created in Thurgood Marshall College in 2005 and had its first
graduates in 2007 –– became a program in the Division of Arts and Humanities in 2014.
Graduates of the minor represent 23 different disciplines, ranging from biology to visual arts.
The minor has proven to be useful for careers in law, public policy, science, technology,
engineering, mathematics, and social justice. 
Students will have the option to major in one of the three concentrations: Africa and Black
Diaspora, African American studies, or interdisciplinary studies where students can pick
selected topics and issues throughout multiple departments. 
The 52-unit curriculum will also establish Service Learning classes, including capstone
courses and scholarly work. Jessica Graham, the director of the Black Studies Program in the
Division of Social Sciences, received $2.5 million from the university to strengthen and
expand the focus on African American studies. Graham hopes that top scholars in the field
will be drawn to campus. She also hopes that students will be able to research innovative
topics and have access to a larger pool of mentors and advisors. 
Moreover, the University of California Office of the President awarded the university
$700,000 which will lead to 13 new faculty hires who focus their research on racial disparities
in STEM. Similar degree programs were created in the 1960s during the Civil Rights and
Black Power movements. The Black Lives Matter movement allowed people to understand
more about anti-Blackness and systemic racism within higher education, reinforcing the need
for more funding.
With African American Studies, the Arts and Humanities division now administers 15
cultural programs, including Japanese, Chicanx and Latinx, and Pacific Islander studies.
Interdisciplinary studies between the majors allows students to think critically about social
justice and larger questions of identity. 
Thandeka Chapman, director of the African American Studies Program, said  that “currently,
the African American Studies Program doesn’t have many classes that are connected to
STEM, and hiring faculty in those areas will give students in the sciences the chance to see
themselves. A lot of students come to UC San Diego for an education in STEM, but we don’t
have a concrete way to speak to them as African American and Black students, in their field.”One of the goals of this new degree is to allow students to understand how much of a
difference Black people make in society culturally, economically, politically, and socially. The
major will hopefully help students learn about racism, capitalism, and colonization. 
Graham hopes that top scholars in the field will be drawn to campus and students will be able
to study and research innovative topics and have access to a larger pool of mentors and
advisors. Students will be able to work with faculty researchers from the Black Studies Project
(https://bsp.ucsd.edu/). The Black Studies Project is a research center comprised of faculty,
graduate and undergraduate students across UCSD. They focus on groundbreaking research,
intellectual exchange and the strengthening of topics focused on Black Studies. She wants the
major to help UCSD recognize the importance of this research, especially in STEM fields, and
strengthen the sense of community among Black students, faculty, and staff. 
Photo courtesy Brendan Wilson for The UCSD Guardian. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC San Diego Researchers Study Infection Risk after COVID-19 Vaccination
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/uc-san-diego-researchers-study-infection-risk-a  er-covid-19-vaccination/) Zhuoying Lin
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zhl509/)
The nationwide clinical trial aims to answer whether vaccinated persons can transmit asymptomatic COVID-19 infections to
others. The PreventCovidU study (https://preventcovidu.org/the-study/#needtodo) is recruiting UCSD students to participate in
this four-month clinical trial. Researchers hope the result will provide crucial information to help shape the policy of in-person
learning and travelling in the fall. 
While the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have shown high efficacy (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/comparing-covid-19-
vaccine-options-as-accessibility-increases-for-young-people/) against symptomatic COVID-19 infection, there still is a possibility
that vaccinated people could contract asymptomatic infection. According to a clinical study
(https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMc2101927) of healthcare workers at UC San Diego and UCLA, 379 out of 36,569
individuals or one percent of the participants in the study tested positive for COVID-19 at least one day after the first dose of
vaccination. The infection rate fell to single figures more than a week after the administration of the second dose. Source: The New England Journal of Medicine
It remains unknown whether a fully vaccinated person can become asymptomatically infected with COVID-19 and transmit the
virus to others. Therefore, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests fully vaccinated persons to keep taking
precautions (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/fully-vaccinated-
guidance.html#:~:text=In%20public%20spaces%2C%20fully%20vaccinated,often%2C%20and%20following%20any%20applicable)
— including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing until more knowledge is obtained. 
The new study being undertaken by researchers at UCSD and over 20 other universities across the country will attempt to answer
this question. It will study the likelihood of a vaccinated person becoming infected with COVID-19 and whether they can transmit
the virus to close contacts. In addition, the research will measure the viral load in nasal swabs and correlate this with the
likelihood of transmission. The trial will run through spring and summer, and the results are anticipated to be published before
fall so that schools can plan in-person learning accordingly.  
The nationwide study is co-led by researchers at Harvard University of Medicine, University of North Carolina and University of
Nebraska Medical Center. Professor of Medicine at UC San Diego School of Medicine Dr. Susan Little will lead the study for the
UCSD site.  
“What we’d really like to know is: in the com[ing] fall, can we tell people you don’t have to wear a mask because once you have
been vaccinated, your risk of getting COVID-19 is near zero and your risk of getting asymptomatic COVID-19 is near zero. If you
can’t get asymptomatic COVID-19, you can’t transmit, and you don’t need to wear a mask.” Little said. 
Researchers will study university students because their age demographic is at high risk of contracting and spreading COVID-19.
According to the CDC Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/pdfs/mm6939e1-
H.pdf), from June to August 2020, persons aged 20-29 have the highest COVID-19 incidence in the US and accounted for more
than 20 percent of confirmed cases. Increases in COVID-19 positive cases among persons aged between 20-39 preceded increases
among adults older than 60 by four to 15 days, suggesting that  younger adults are responsible for transmitting the virus to people
who are more vulnerable to severe illness.In this clinical trial, a total of 12,000 students across the nation will be randomly assigned to two different groups. Half of the
students will receive the Moderna vaccination at the start of the trial (the immediate vaccination group). The other half of the
students will be vaccinated at the end of the trial (the delayed vaccination group). The delayed vaccination group is the controlgroup in the study, and researchers will compare the rate of transmission between the two groups to assess the extent of
protection the Moderna vaccine offers. 
Each student participant will be asked to collect their nasal swabs daily over the course of the trial. Daily COVID-19 testing is
required because it is the only way to determine if a person develops asymptomatic infection. 
Each student volunteer will also be asked to invite at least two close contacts to participate in the study, which will increase the
study participants to at least 36,000 people. Close contacts who consent to join the study will submit weekly questionnaires and
get regular COVID-19 testing. 
“If I am in the immediate vaccination group, and I get tested every single day and I never had COVID but my close contact did, I
will know two things,” Little said. “One, I didn’t infect him because I was tested everyday, and two, I was protected from getting
COVID, so transmission didn’t not occur to me.”
Students ages 18-26 without previous COVID-19 infection or vaccination are eligible to apply. The UCSD site will recruit about
400 student participants, and enrollment started in early April. 
“The controversy of the study is asking people not to get vaccinated for four months,” Little said. “I want people to be aware that
the study is entirely voluntary. We do inform people of the risks, so we want people to think about what their individual risks are
and their family members’ and friends’.”
At the same time, the study will address research questions that have important policy implications. 
“This [asymptomatic transmission] is a monumentally important question but this is not something we want anyone to feel
pressured into participating in. I want people to participate because they understand how important the question is; they are
going to contribute to an incredibly important question and hopefully contribute to an outcome that will make all our lives better,”
Little said. 
Students who are interested in participating in the study can register and find more information here
(https://preventcovidu.org/). 
Photo courtesy of Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
In-Person Learning Returns for Fall 2021
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/in-person-learning-returns-for-fall-2021/) Niloufar
Shahbandi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/n1shahba/)
UC San Diego announced its plans for in-person learning starting Fall Quarter 2021. While
the majority of courses will be taught in-person, the university will still provide
accommodations for students who are not able to come back to campus. 
UCSD stated that courses will be primarily in-person, although they will be making alternate
remote options as well for students who are unable to arrive from abroad due to visa delays or
travel restrictions. In plans for Fall 2021, most classes
(http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-4-5-3.html?
_ga=2.238887492.516533734.1618168241-1440209242.1603909842) are scheduled to be in-
person but can later be amended to address additional international student needs. 
In a statement by the Office of the Chancellor they outlined the expected procedures for the
upcoming year. They have stated that classroom capacities currently cannot be determined as
they depend on state and county social distancing guidelines, however the university
anticipates they will reopen in full capacity.
Additionally the notice stated that, “While we expect that Fall 2021 teaching will be primarily
in-person using indoor classrooms and will require masking, there will be a set of Fall 2021
classes that will need to be taught outdoors or remotely, because course participants cannot
be masked (e.g., language classes, certain music classes). We will keep the outdoor classrooms
available for such uses.”
Social distancing guidelines will still be in place with the return to campus, however distance
between people will be reduced from six feet to three feet. Face masks will still continue to be
mandated in public spaces. 
While symptomatic and asymptomatic testing will remain available to all campus community
members, students who have not yet been vaccinated will be required to participate in the
asymptomatic testing program. 
Social events including concerts, as well as athletic events will return to normal. Most on-
campus businesses, including those at Price Center and the Old Student Center, will be open
again. 
Students returning to on-campus housing will be required to test for COVID-19 once they
return, however vaccinated students will not need to continue asymptomatic testing.
Additionally, residence halls will be near 100 percent occupancy, but they will only becomposed of singles and doubles (http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-4-5-
3.html?_ga=2.238887492.516533734.1618168241-1440209242.1603909842) .
Leslie Sepuka, Associate Director University Communications stated to the UCSD Guardian
that the university “has the capacity to provide on campus housing to 12,279 undergraduate
students, and it is anticipated that all available undergraduate beds on campus will be filled
in the fall of 2021.” 
While the university is going back to normal in most of its operations, it’s expected that there
will still be many remnants of social distancing left. The COVID-19 test kit vending machines
will remain for symptomatic testing as well as those who will need asymptomatic weekly
testing prior to vaccination. The daily wastewater detection program will remain fully
operational.
“We’re ready to return to campus,” said Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla. “Our students, faculty
and staff went above and beyond throughout the pandemic to keep one another safe while
continuing to learn, create and conduct research. While we learned many new ways to
connect and serve our students over the past year, we are ready to reconnect in person, as
safely as possible, in spaces specifically designed for collaborative learning and discovery.”
While the administration hasn’t released full details about Fall 2021 operations, they are
pushing to return to in-person procedures. 
Photo courtesy of Christian Duarte for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Documentary Review: “Demi Lovato: Dancing With the
Devil”
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/documentary-review-demi-lovato-dancing-with-the-devil/)
Colleen Conradi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/colleenconradi/)
Lifestyle Editor, Colleen Conradi, reflects on the inspiring vulnerability of Demi Lovato’s
third documentary and how it applies to her own life as she prepares to enter post-college
life. 
Content Warning: Mention of substance-abuse, addiction, self-harm, and suicidal ideation
On March 23, 2021, Demi Lovato released the first two episodes of a four-part documentary
on Youtube called “Demi Lovato: Dancing With the Devil (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=uZmXF50Yx7I)” as well as her latest album, “Dancing With the Devil…The Art of Starting
Over.” In the series, Lovato spoke on her mental and physical health over the last few years,
primarily focusing the narrative around her heroin overdose in the summer of 2018 and how
her life has changed since. In addition to her history with drug and alcohol addiction, Lovato
also discussed her experiences with eating disorders, suicidal ideation, history of sexual
abuse, and making peace with the death of her alcoholic father. Although recounting the past
three years is full of pain and adversity, like the title of one of her newest songs, Lovato says
that upon the release of the documentary and album she is in a “good place.” 
“Dancing With the Devil” is not Lovato’s first documentary; in fact, this series is the third
time she has put out a sort of tell-all via documentary for fans and the rest of the world. Her
first time opening up to the world like this was in 2012, months after leaving a treatment
center for “physical and emotional issues.” In the MTV television special titled “Demi Lovato:
Stay Strong,” Lovato opened up about her eating disorder, long history of self-harm, and a
general struggle with mental health. I remember being glued to the television when that
special was released, hanging onto every word she spoke. Eight years later, the only thing that
has changed is that my eyes are glued to a computer screen instead this time around. As I
watched the four episodes of “Dancing With the Devil,” I was struck by not only how much
Lovato has personally grown in the last eight years, but also how much my own life seemed to
parallel hers. 
I was in the seventh grade when “Stay Strong”  was released, and by that time, I was already a
massive fan of Lovato and her music. As I sat and listened to her speak so openly and
honestly about mental health, I was shocked at how understood I felt  — which, at 12-years-
old, was not something that I felt very often. At the time, I was still extremely new to the topic
of mental health and most of my understanding came from harmful Tumblr content, which
often promoted unhealthy coping mechanisms. I never thought to tell anyone if I was feeling
down or anxious. For me, much of Lovato’s vulnerable words and lyrics were my own form of
therapy. In 2017, Demi Lovato came out with her second special: a documentary on Youtube called
“Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=ZWTlL_w8cRA&t=96s).” Upon its release, Lovato’s words shocked many as she stated that
in “Stay Strong,” while she was telling the world of her success in recovery, she was
simultaneously using drugs and drinking heavily. Although this disappointed some and
saddened others, I was amazed by her vulnerability. At this time in 2017, I was a freshman at
UC San Diego. Between starting college and the release of “Stay Strong,” I had experienced
the loss of my father to cancer, the loss of my family’s beloved home, and I was in a program
for those living with an alcoholic. Like Lovato’s life, a lot had happened in that span of time
for me, but in addition to all of those hardships, I had also been in therapy and had been on
medication for depression and anxiety for years. I had begun to open up about things that 12-
year-old me would have never have dreamed I’d have the courage to do. As I sat in my dorm
room among the Fleets of Revelle, I was in awe of the personal strength I saw in Lovato.
Although I still had a long way to go in therapy, I felt relieved and inspired after seeing
Lovato continue to be living proof that mental health is worth talking about. 
I am currently a senior in my final quarter at UC San Diego. The last three years were not
without difficulty; I’ve gone part-time twice, become a regular in the ERC advising office,
registered with the Office of Students With Disabilities, and even completed an eight-week
intensive outpatient program for dialectical behavioral therapy in the spring of my second
year. Even though I did not experience a heroin overdose like Lovato, I absolutely have felt as
though I have gone through the wringer and still survived. 
Hearing Lovato tell the world for the third time that she is a human who feels a lot and makes
mistakes has come at the perfect time for me. As I watched all four episodes, I found myself
crying at several parts, but what struck me the most was seeing Lovato cry at how grateful she
is to be alive, to be in a good place, and to feel at peace with herself and the world. Not only
was I crying out of happiness for her, but I realized later that I’m envious of that. I know that
I am not there yet. However, as Lovato enters a new chapter in her life, I’m also entering a
new one in my life as I graduate and enter the world as a “real” adult. In a bonus clip featured
on Lovato’s YouTube channel, she says to the camera, “I want [fans] to know that I’m gonna
continue to fight for you. I’m gonna continue to fight my struggles to show other people that
you can make it through.” As a huge fan of hers, I have always believed Lovato when she said
that life is worth living, but this time around it feels so much more powerful given what she’s
been through and given my own experiences. There are still things I have yet to conquer in
therapy and my own mental health journey, but it is people like Lovato, who are survivors
and storytellers that assure me that it is worth working toward being in a “good place,” like
the one she is in now. Though her past documentaries have left me awestruck before, it is“Dancing With the Devil” that has made me feel like I’ve grown alongside her. Lovato’s
honesty and vulnerability have inspired me to embrace my own experiences and feel
genuinely excited for what is in store for me in the next chapter of my life. 
I would recommend any of the specials, but “Demi Lovato: Dancing With the Devil”  should be
watched by any and all people who are looking to feel inspired and grateful to be given the
opportunity to start over every day. 
Director : Michael D. Ratner 
Release Date : March 23, 2021  
Rated: TV-14  
Grade : A
Image courtesy of the Los Angeles Times.
**If you or someone you know is struggling, please know that there is hope and help
available for you:
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255  
Crisis Text Line: text HOME to 741741 
UCSD Counseling and Psychological Services Hotline: 858-534-3755(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Film Review: “Voyagers”
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/film-review-voyagers/) Hanaa Moosavi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hanaa-moosavi/)
“Voyagers” is a slow chaotic descent into madness with a helter-skelter conduction of plot.The following review contains spoilers for “Voyagers.”
April 9, 2021 marked the release of yet another science-fiction film that follows a group of
people on a ship as they descend into madness — lest we forget Ad Astra, Interstellar, and
2001: A Space Odd. These teenagers, who have been taking a pleasure-suppressing
supplement for their whole lives, one day decide to stop taking the supplements and start
feeling pleasure by running rampant through the ship, having constant sex, and touching
each other incessantly. This is all happening while they slowly descend into chaos and
madness. With mediocre writing, unnecessarily lengthy shots, and ridiculous narrative
directions, “Voyagers” is a film that should have remained a screenplay. 
What makes “Voyagers” such a poorly written film is its lack of resolution. Richard (Colin
Farrell), the spaceship’s chief, is killed by two spiteful children and an ominous black cloud.
Audience members see the children fear the cloud, refer to the cloud as aliens, and kill
another teenager on the ship thinking the cloud is within them — why they would think the
cloud is within another teen is another point not explained in the plot. There is no reveal of
what the cloud was or how the kids escaped the cloud, and the movie ends with the cloud
never brought up again by the teenagers or the plot. The weak, sporadic writing doesn’t stop
there: the spaceship apparently loses connection to Earth at some point, although this is
rendered irrelevant because the film ends with the ship returning to Earth. Viewers are left
wondering how the ship returned to earth without fixing its connection to earth. Not
answering questions like these fills the film with plot holes, and leaves the audience
unfulfilled by the lack of resolution.
Now all of this weak writing makes a person wonder: what did the writer (Neil Burger) fill
two hours of the film with? The answer is running teens — extremely long shots of the
teenagers running. The teenagers run to feel the pleasure they have been missing and, when
they have children, their children run. One would think, out of context, that this is the space
rendition of “Baywatch.” What the film lacks actual narrative content is made up for in very
boring scenes of running placed into the film in order to pad the runtime.
The worst character written would have to be Phoebe. Made into a martyr, Phoebe (Chante
Adams) — the only dark-skinned woman in the film — is verbally abused by the other
teenagers, just for being the voice of reason. As BIPOC who watched this movie, it’s painful to
watch Phoebe suffer and live amongst oppression in this movie. “Will you just let me speak?”
“I deserve to be heard too,” she cries, as the other teenagers continue to diminish her worthwith disgusting, horrific insults. “Genetic defect,” “blister,” and “pus-filled acne” are among
some of the inane insults that are written into the script. At some point, it feels as if the writer
felt compelled to invent random slurs for dialogue diversity within his film.
The only quality piece of the film is actor Fionn Whitehead. Making his mark after premiering
in 2017 film “Dunkirk” and “Black Mirror”’s “Bandersnatch,” Whitehead has proven his
acting capabilities as a villain. From the moment he ceases to take the supplements, the
audience is forced to hate him. His character, Zach, acts superior, gropes girls, and even kills
the chief. Just the way he says the words in the script makes audience members go crazy with
hate. It’s astonishing how well-rounded and well written Zach is while the entire plot falls
apart around him.
“Voyagers” was a science fiction film with no depth and no direction. Full of abysmal
narrative choices, unnecessary shots of teenagers running, and a martyr for BIPOC,
“Voyagers” can be skipped on any watchlist and recommendation page. One might as well re-
read 1984 and put their head through a wall. It would elicit the same effect — maybe even a
better one.
Film Review:  “Voyagers”  
Grade: F 
Director: Neil Burger  
Starring:  Lily-Rose Depp, Tye Sheridan, Fionn Whitehead  
Release Date:  April 9th, 2021  
Rated: PG-13
Image courtesy of USA Today.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Please Not Mac Jones. Please.
 April 18, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/18/please-not-mac-jones-please/) Wesley Xiao
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
Mac Jones. Mac Jones. Mac Jones. Mac Jones. Mac Jones.It’s the name that’s been on the lips of every NFL reporter, insider, and blogger since the San
Francisco 49ers traded up to the No. 3 overall pick in the 2021 NFL Draft. 
And I hate it all. I do not want the 49ers to draft Mac Jones.
Jones fits into what many consider to be the prototype of a Kyle Shanahan quarterback: an
accurate pocket passer with a high football IQ and limited mobility. Because of this, he’s been
compared to past Shanahan QBs, like Kirk Cousins and Matt Ryan.
In all the talk of past Shanahan QBs, one quarterback is conspicuously left out of these
discussions. His name is Jimmy Garoppolo. Garoppolo’s stock has plummeted after another
injury-plagued season. But looking back at his 2019 season, his last season healthy, the stats
start to show similarities between 2019 Garoppolo and 2020 Jones. 
53.5 percent of Jones’ passing yards came after the catch to Garoppolo’s 54.3 percent. Jones
threw a whopping 34.1 percent of his passes behind the line of scrimmage. Garoppolo,
likewise, makes a lot of hay around the line of scrimmage. The best example of this was last
season during Week 6 against the Los Angeles Rams, where Garoppolo had 33 pass attempts
with just 45 air yards. Garoppolo was also 4th in the league in screen passes in 2019. These
easy, short passes for Garoppolo are so common that 49ers beat writer Grant Cohn dubbed
them “Jimmy Gimmies.” 
While Garoppolo isn’t a perfect comparison for Jones, these stats certainly make Jones feel a
lot like Garoppolo: an average to above-average QB buoyed by their surroundings. The same
conversation about whether Garoppolo is actually good or was carried by stellar surroundings
in 2019 can be had about Jones and Alabama in 2020. The one thing Jones has over
Garoppolo is health, but that doesn’t feel like a sure thing. Couple Jones’ immobility with a
49ers offensive line that gave up 39 sacks and 27.1 percent pressure rate in 2020 and Jones
may not have that clean bill of health after a few seasons. 
Back in December, Shanahan said that when looking for a QB, you want someone who is
“better than 98 percent of the people on this planet.” Jones may not even be better than 98
percent of the 49ers’ current QB room. Whoever the 49ers draft at No. 3 doesn’t necessarily
need to be the best QB in the draft, but they need to be better than what the 49ers already
have under center. Jones is not that.Taking Jones means that the 49ers are deciding to stick with the status quo. They’ll hope for
another 2019, where all the chips fall in their favor, the team surrounding the QB is perfect,
and Jones won’t miss an open TD in the 4th quarter of the Super Bowl. But that’s fool’s gold.
I’ve seen this story before. At its best, Jones will have one good season capped by a Super
Bowl loss; at worst, he’ll be a below average QB who looks lost without scheme support.
Justin Fields and Trey Lance, while not as refined as Jones, provide much more upside and
athletic ability. They can provide the 49ers with an opportunity to move forward and grow.
They can expand Shanahan’s playbook and evolve his system in ways that we’ve never seen
before. Imagine a Shanahan run game that includes the quarterback and all the ways
Shanahan could use the extra blocker that this provides him. Shanahan has had success with
the immobile, pocket-passer types in the past. But to assume that he cannot adapt his system
to an athletic, mobile QB is selling him short on his play calling ability.
There is one reassuring thing: whichever QB the 49ers select — including Mac Jones — will
probably have the best career out of the 2021 QB class. Unlike the Jaguars and Jets, and most
teams at the top of the draft, the 49ers are not in the middle of a rebuild. The offense is
stocked with playmakers, like George Kittle and Deebo Samuel, and the defense has been top-
five in yards for the past two seasons. Kyle Shanahan is one of the best offensive minds in
football and will provide whichever quarterback they draft with an explosive and QB-friendly
offensive scheme.
In the end, it looks like it doesn’t really matter who the 49ers take at No. 3. A fully formed,
top-tier offense and defense can carry whatever quarterback they draft. They may surprise us
all and take another defensive lineman. Whoever they take, just please not Mac Jones. Please.
Photo courtesy of the University of Alabama