(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: Popular Election of International and
Out-of-State Senators, Fall 2021 Reopening Update
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/a-s-council-brief-popular-election-of-international-
senators-fall-2021-reopening-update/) Valentina Du Pond (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/vdupond/)
This edition of the UCSD A.S. Council Brief news updates includes the Week 5 and Week 6
meetings.
Week 5
UC San Diego’s Associated Student Council held their Week 5 meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 4
and discussed two extensive items. Senators first heard a special presentation on the new
COVID-19 vaccination site on campus, and later debated an amendment to the UCSD A.S.
constitution to allow for popular election of international and out-of-state A.S. senators.
The presentation was led by Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Alysson Sutterland and
Interim Executive Director for Student Health and Well-Being Angela Sciosia, M.D. They
provided information about the vaccination site (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/uc-
san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-site-at-rimac/) being implemented at the Recreation,
Intramural, and Athletic Complex (RIMAC) arena on campus. 
Sciosia said that the goal was to have the site open and running by Monday, Feb. 8 and to
reach 5,000 vaccinations a day. The site will be open 12 hours a day, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m,
and open seven days a week.
In response to Sixth College Senator Zaccary Bradt’s question about student employees’
eligibility for vaccines, Sciosia responded that there is a system of prioritization among
patients, employees, and students for receiving the vaccine.
“We have to prioritize the call out for the vaccine, because there are many thousands of
campus employees which fall into the requirements of [Phase] 1B,” Sciosia said. 
In response to a question posed by Eleanor Roosevelt College Senator Nicole Thompson,
Sciosia said that she expects vaccine supplies to gradually increase due to the approval of new
vaccines. 
“I think we’re all optimistic supply will grow, and in no way shrink, but actually grow
substantially,” Sciosia said.“What will be important to keep an eye on is the FDA approval of
other vaccine types, and then the other complexity will be the variants that are emerging, and
the effectiveness of the vaccines on the variants.”International Senator Dakshh Saraf raised concerns about the possibility of the crowds that
may form at the vaccine site and that the site may become a “super spreader” event. Sciosia
responded that the sites will be dispersed at a safe distance from one another to prevent
transmission. 
“There are 24 stations, and there are over a couple hundred observation seats. So it’s not a
single site, it’s multi-site vaccination simultaneously happening in that process,” Sciosia said.
“We also had Kim Prather, you may have seen her name, she’s one of our really amazing
scientists helping the CDC and everybody understand transmission, she looked at our
infectious disease site, they had air handlers in, they had everybody in there to optimize and
make sure an indoor space is safe.”
A.S. then discussed a motion brought forth by Biological Sciences Senator Mihir Pandya to
amend their constitution to open the positions of Out-of-State and International Senator to a
student body election rather than by appointment. This was seconded by Sixth College
Senator Zaccary Brandt. 
Pandya and Brandt argued that this motion would allow for more democracy by allowing fee-
paying undergraduate students to vote for an International Senator in the same way they can
vote for their College Presidents and Vice Presidents. 
“I think whenever we can increase the amount of democracy in our system, we should,”
Brandt said. “I haven’t personally spoken to Gavin Newsom or Joe Biden or Donald Trump,
but I had the opportunity to vote for all of them, and I think we should continue and extend
that to our constituents and make sure they have a voice in their government.”
International Senator Dakshh Saraf questioned how the vote for the senators would be
facilitated among the student body, and argued that it would not be representative for the
whole student body to pick an International Senator for lack of knowing the candidates. 
“If one isn’t aware of the candidate, hasn’t spoken to the candidate specifically, then they
shouldn’t vote for the position of the candidate itself,” Saraf said. 
Saraf contrasted this with the current appointment process in which a senator is appointed
after rounds of interviews. Afterwards, the applicant is given consideration by A.S. members.The motion passed with a majority vote, with Senator Saraf being the only member to vote
against the amendment. The vote was an open roll, which would leave it open to non-
attending members for two days. 
Week 6
The Week 6 A.S. meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 10 included more details about the opening of
the vaccination site. Additionally, the Senate discussed senator projects, the planned Fall
2021 campus reopening and continued discussion of the amendment vote from Week 5. 
Out-of-State Senator Abby Rollison announced that she would be holding a virtual
informational Q&A event on Tuesday, Feb. 16 through Zoom
(https://ucsd.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_DM2B2YkRR8SSBx6Nv13rFQ)  as part of her
project for food security. The project is in collaboration with CalFresh and the International
Student and Program Office and focuses on ensuring out-of-state and international students
can get access to the food security programs that are available to in-state students. 
“This event is relevant to all students because we will be talking about general qualifications
for CalFresh, but it’s going to be specifically relevant to out-of-state students because we’re
going to be discussing how California’s benefits can apply to out-of-state residents to students
living in San Diego […] and it’s relevant to international students because international
students are not eligible for CalFresh because they’re not permanent residents, so ISPO has
its own grocery assistance program,” Rollison said. 
A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran updated the Senate on the RIMAC vaccination center.
Giangtran stated that the site has only vaccinated around 1,000 people a day, which she
attributes to a potential lack of outreach to eligible groups.
“My understanding is that [the site] is having a hard time reaching out to people to come,”
Giangtran said. “I don’t think [patients] don’t want to, they just don’t know how to sign up.
Probably some technological issues for this group […] but they’re not being reached well.” 
Giangtran also discussed the campus reopening (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/24/uc-
plans-for-fall-2021-campus-reopening-and-vaccination-plan/) plans for Fall 2021. UCSD
hopes to admit 80 to 90 percent of students on campus, while still keeping the hybrid model
available to those who need it. However, Giangtran recognized that it may be difficult to ensure the hybrid model is only
being offered to students that do not have the option to be on campus. 
“The problems we talked about are, how do we differentiate between students who are not
able to come in person and have to take online classes versus the students who think it’s just
more convenient to take online classes, but in reality are able to come to campus. It’s
something we’re trying to figure out,” Giangtran said. 
Giangtran also announced that there may be a possibility that the Fall 2021 UCSD freshmen
may have to take a placement exam once admitted. Due to the pandemic, current high school
seniors did not have to take standardized tests such as the SAT or ACT to apply to UC
schools. 
“This cohort that’s coming in for Fall 2021 is the first class of students coming in who didn’t
have to take the SAT and ACT, so I think [scores] are just not included in admissions,”
Giangtran said. “There’s discussion of administering an exam when students get here in the
fall. It’s not to be critical or punitive in any way, I think it will serve as more of a placement
test to see where students are all starting.” 
In regards to the proposed amendment to the A.S. constitution to allow for popular election
of out-of-state and international senators, it was announced that Sixth College Council
approved the measure. Other college councils have it on their agenda and four colleges need
to approve it for it to come into effect
A.S. Council meetings take place every week and are open to the public. Students can be a
part of these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the A.S. website
(https://as.ucsd.edu/Home/OrderOfBusiness?
fbclid=IwAR00sAh8ojGxo0lsExekNGJS4qWwKPrxPr-mGmHksrGvexjYozX74cxkIOI) .
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC San Diego Health Opens Vaccination Site at RIMAC
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-site-at-rimac/) Areni
Hamparian (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ahampari/)
A new UC San Diego Health vaccination site opened on Monday, Feb. 8, 2021, at the Recreation,
Intramural and Athlete Complex (RIMAC) on Hopkins Drive. The site will be offering Pfizer and
Moderna COVID-19 vaccines to eligible UC San Diego Health patients, employees and community
members in accordance with San Diego County’s public health criteria.In a statement (https://ucsdnews.ucsd.edu/pressrelease/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-site-
on-university-campus) released by UCSD, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla praised the university’s
partnership with San Diego County in opening the new site and its efforts to combat the pandemic. 
“The opening of a new vaccination site at RIMAC represents another opportunity to partner with the
County of San Diego to end the pandemic,” Khosla said. “UC San Diego Health is a statewide leader in
vaccine distribution. Our continuing partnership with the County and the opening of this new
superstation are parts of our overall commitment to establish the San Diego region as an exemplar for
vaccine distribution.”
The RIMAC site operates in collaboration with the County of San Diego, San Diego Padres, and the City
of San Diego. This is the second such vaccination partnership between the university and local
authorities, with the first one being the vaccination superstation at Petco Park
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-super-station-near-
petco-park/) which opened on January 11, 2020 and has inoculated over 100,000
(https://patch.com/california/encinitas/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccine-super-site-campus)
people. 
UC San Diego Health CEO Patty Maysent said that the opening of the new superstation will allow for
quicker distribution of the vaccine in San Diego.
“Widespread deployment of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines is one of our most powerful tools for
ending the current pandemic,” Maysent said. “Adding a vaccination center on the UC San Diego
campus allows us to expand outreach and vaccinate more people more quickly, while working within
the current tier structure.”
The RIMAC site is set to operate seven days a week, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., and will be run by medical
personnel, staff from UC San Diego Health, and volunteers. Vaccinations will be issued through an
invite on the MyUCSDChart (https://myucsdchart.ucsd.edu/ucsd/Authentication/Login?) application
for UC San Diego Health patients and qualifying university personnel, while university employees
should expect emails to be sent to their UCSD accounts for further information.
Inoculations at the RIMAC superstation will be done indoors. In its statement, UCSD said that the site
has been built to ensure maximum safety for patients and volunteers. 
According to California vaccine distribution (https://covid19.ca.gov/vaccines/) numbers as of Feb. 14,
San Diego County has administered over 590 thousand doses of the vaccine. This makes it second only
to Los Angeles County, which has vaccinated more than 1.5 million people.As of Jan. 23, 2021, the following individuals qualify
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/community_epidemiology/dc/2019-
nCoV/vaccines/phases.html) to receive a COVID vaccine at the RIMAC site under state guidelines:
Phase 1A-Tier 1: Acute care and psychiatric, skilled nursing facilities, paramedics, EMTs, dialysis
centers, staff in behavioral health residential facilities, vaccinators
Phase 1A-Tier 2: Intermediate care, home health care and in-home supportive services, community
health workers, public health field staff, primary care clinics, and staff in behavioral health non-
residential or outpatient facilities
Phase 1A-Tier 3: Specialty clinics, laboratory workers, dental/oral health clinics, pharmacy staff,
funeral workers, and others
Phase 1B-Tier 1: Persons aged 65 years and older, those at risk of exposure in Emergency, Childcare
and Education, and Food and Agriculture
Phase 1B-Tier 2: Those at risk of exposure in Transportation Systems and logistics, Industrial,
Commercial, Residential, and Sheltering Facilities and Services; Critical Manufacturing
Currently, only those eligible in accordance with the California Department of Public Health will be
vaccinated at the RIMAC site at this time. To check your eligibility, please visit the San Diego County
website
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/community_epidemiology/dc/2019-
nCoV/vaccines/phases.html) or the California state COVID-19 website
(https://covid19.ca.gov/vaccines/).
Photo taken by Steven Calista for UC San Diego(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Photo Essay: Zoom University vs Fashion
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/zoom-university-vs-fashion/) Rachel Halili
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/rhalili/)
Although we’re confined to our bedrooms all day with no where to go, my roommate and I
still find joy in throwing off those pajamas and putting on an outfit each day. It’s something
small to get the day going to keep us motivated and feeling good. And we also just love
fashion. So I captured her outfit every day for a week. Same time, same place, different outfit
Model – Isabelle McKelvey{“key”:”l4″}{“key”:”l4″}
{“key”:”l4″}{“key”:”l4″}{“key”:”l4″}(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Isolating the Cause for Loneliness
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/isolating-the-cause-for-loneliness/) Nelson Espinal
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/nespinal/)
As Valentine’s day approaches, UCSD Health studies can pinpoint causes for loneliness
while author Billy Baker gives a potential way to confront the feeling of isolation. Even before the pandemic, Americans were feeling lonely. A survey found that three out of
every five Americans felt lonely. (https://www.npr.org/sections/health-
shots/2020/01/23/798676465/most-americans-are-lonely-and-our-workplace-culture-may-
not-be-helping) Whether it is a lack of friendships or of quality ones, people were beginning
to feel more isolated. 
And enduring nearly a year of the Coronavirus can’t be helping.
The concept of loneliness is one that can creep up on people until they look at their current
state of relationships and find a wreckage of past flings and friendships. Until the middle of
one’s life, everything changes quickly from where you live, where you go to school, and where
you work.
Each of these changes results in making new friendships and losing others due to a lack of
communication. In between finding new friends, a lack of relationships can leave people
lonely and searching for some sort of connection. 
A group of researchers, some from UC San Diego Health, aimed to understand which age
groups suffered the most from loneliness
(https://health.ucsd.edu/news/releases/Pages/2020-11-10-lonliness-highest-in-the-20s-
and-lowest-in-the-60s.aspx). According to their findings, people in their 20s suffered from
loneliness the most, but the effects extended beyond their ambitions and goals.  
“A lot of people in this decade are also constantly comparing themselves on social media and
are concerned about how many likes and followers they have,” said Tanya Nguyen, Ph.D.,
first author of the study and assistant clinical professor in the Department of Psychiatry at
UC San Diego School of Medicine told UCSD Health. “The lower level of self-efficacy may
lead to greater loneliness.”
Self-efficacy, defined as “the ability to reflect confidence in exerting control over one’s own
motivation, behavior and social environment,” is one of the concepts that the study centers
on. If someone cannot control what they want to control, the study claims, it leads to a
combination of problems stemming from things people both can and can’t control. 
For starters, people can remove themselves from environments like social media to reduce
the negative reactions received from  seeing other couples and relationships. The
compounding effect of lacking a partner and seeing the relationships of others on socialmedia breeds the feeling of loneliness. Even people who may not feel the need for a
relationship may feel as if they are missing out compared to their peers. 
Over time, people end up controlling more of their self-efficacy after going through many
struggles and learning more about themselves. This, the study claims, is the reason why
wisdom is one of the factors that leads to reduced loneliness and more happiness. 
UCSD Health published a study in September 2020 that found wisdom and age leads to less
loneliness.
“If we can increase someone’s compassion, wisdom is likely to go up and loneliness is likely to
go down,” said David Brenner, MD, Vice Chancellor of UC San Diego Health Sciences. “At UC
San Diego, we have considerable interest in enhancing empathy and compassion to reduce
levels of stress and improve happiness and well-being.” 
Both of the studies showed that loneliness can be controlled depending on the environment
that people place themselves in. These environments can change and if they do not, there is
potential for feelings of sadness or depression to creep in. 
 “Lonely individuals had longer responses in qualitative interviews, and more greatly
expressed sadness to direct questions about loneliness,” UCSD Health stated in the article
“Researchers Use Artificial Intelligence Tools to Predict Loneliness.”
(https://health.ucsd.edu/news/releases/Pages/2020-10-01-from-san-diego-to-italy-study-
suggest-wisdom-can-protect-against-loneliness.aspx)
When the need to combat loneliness arises, a potential path to address the issue is reaching
out to past friends that you may have left behind. People can rapidly churn through
relationships, especially during college, yet even during college there is potential to reach out
to friends from highschool and one’s childhood. 
Students can transfer to another college or change majors that results in different study
groups. As soon as students graduate, there are various post-graduate schools and potential
immediate career paths. There are more obstacles than means to connect with friendships
developed in college. Cycling through friends makes it harder to create long standing friendships. Billy Baker, a
Boston Globe reporter and author, published a book called “We Need to Hang Out .” In the
book, Baker references the consequences of lacking these long term friendships. 
“Isolation, even living alone — all these, like, little things, can make you more susceptible to
basically everything you don’t want,” Baker told National Public Radio. “I wanted to know
how to be friends with my friends in this period in life — you know, this broad period we call
middle age — where there’s so many other things begging for your attention that friends, you
know, wasn’t one of the priorities when I woke up every morning.”
Baker’s realization came later on in his life. At the middle point, after cycling through various
friends and phases of life, most friendships and connections begin to dwindle. The reason
why he came to this realization was due to an article he was writing that needed a quote. 
When reaching out, Baker found out that his friend had left the country and uprooted his life
in the U.S. 
“And it was like, oh, this — you’re not going to be happy to hear this,” Baker told NPR. “‘But I
forgot to tell you, I moved to Vienna.’ And this was a guy I would have considered my best
friend in the world. And so — you know, I did a lot of things on this journey. And the first
thing I did was chase him to Vienna.”
From then on, Baker reached out to a lot more friends to eventually set up a large get-
together. In his interview with NPR, he mentioned that friendships and relationships as a
whole are all temporary connections that need rekindling in order to be kept.
“I use this phrase in the book, velvet hooks,” Baker told NPR. “There are these things that
connect people. And they’re soft. You’re not locked in iron — the weekly golf game, the
fantasy football, the bar trivia, the book clubs, the sports teams, whatever it is, you know.
They’re the excuse to get together.”
These friendships are always on the edge of being lost. All it takes is a lack of reaching out for
an extended period of time. As more time passes, friendships remain on the velvet until the
hook is unconnected. This places the initiative on people to make sure they reach out.While new friends can always be made, reaching out is a potentially simple solution to
loneliness. This is a lesson older people learn as they gain wisdom, but on a day like
Valentine’s Day, reaching out to former friends and staying off social media could be cupid’s
arrow aimed at self-efficacy. 
Photo by Download a pic Donate a buck! ^ from Pexels. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Status Update: Short Term Marriages May Save Your Relationship
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/status-update-short-term-marriages-may-save-your-relationship/) Marcella Barneclo
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/mbarneclo/)
Society has an unusual obsession with the infinite and eternal that manifests in certain ideas or institutions. Many of us believe in the existence
of an afterlife in order to defy what we perceive as a fixed ending. Similarly, the belief in the institution of marriage opposes the bounds of
finality to maintain an “everlasting” love and connection. However, this idolization of marriage and the level of commitment we strive for has
perpetuated an unsuccessful tradition that needs to be updated in order to limit the emotional strain and distress of couples. 
The first recorded marriage ceremony took place in 2350 B.C. (https://theweek.com/articles/528746/origins-
marriage#:~:text=The%20first%20recorded%20evidence%20of,Hebrews%2C%20Greeks%2C%20and%20Romans.)  and the original intent
(https://www.thespruce.com/history-of-marriage-2300616) of the marital process was to forge alliances between families for economic or
political purposes. However, this meant that a large majority of marriages were arranged. Today, marriage is mainly centered around the idea
of love; yet the same outdated structure of eternal commitment has more or less remained identical throughout time, despite the drastic ways
society’s view on marriage has evolved. 
At the very least we have clearly progressed away from the idea of economic or political gain through marriage. A recent survey
(https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/02/13/8-facts-about-love-and-marriage/)  reported that the majority of people believed love as
opposed to financial stability was a more important reason for marriage; thus, the logical next step would be to account for this evolution by
updating this antiquated tradition to foster love and happiness and create healthier relationships. Under the current system, 42 to 45 percent
(https://www.mckinleyirvin.com/family-law-blog/2012/october/32-shocking-divorce-statistics/#_edn3)  of marriages in America end in
divorce or separation, and around 100 divorces (https://www.mckinleyirvin.com/family-law-blog/2012/october/32-shocking-divorce-
statistics/#_edn3) take place every hour because marriage was never intended to create happiness or encourage love; it was simply made for
fiscal and political purposes. The blame cannot be placed solely on the outdated system of marriage though, because as time passed, marriage transformed into an
unhealthy fixation. 
Beginning in the 1800s (https://spartacus-educational.com/Wmarriage.htm) and continuing into the 1900s
(https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/pill-mrs-america-womens-roles-
1950s/#:~:text=In%20the%201950s%2C%20women%20felt,college%20was%20considered%20the%20norm.), women were given the idea
that marriage was their only role in life. It became a fundamental step in order to be accepted into society because, for women at the time, there
was nothing beyond finding a suitable husband and having children to look after for the remainder of their lives, regardless of any emotional
discontent. 
While women are no longer groomed solely for marriage, a similar mentality surrounding the importance of marriage remains today and
upholds the same social pressures since it is often labeled as one of the major milestones in life. 
To make matters worse, there is now an added layer of unreasonable expectations that were created by various forms of media that frame
marriage as this effortless declaration of love between two people who share an undeniable and seemingly invincible connection. Thus, couples
who felt pressured to tie the knot under the guise of glamorized notions about marriage are rudely awakened to the constant effort that has to
be allocated towards navigating the difficulties and conflicts of a lifelong relationship. 
Ultimately, these common marriages persist for a short period of time, with the average length of a marriage before divorce being seven years
(https://www.vox.com/2014/7/30/5951657/US-life-expectancy-marriage-birth-
death#:~:text=The%20average%20length%20of%20a,mates%20after%20seven%20years%20together.) , before the couple decides to go their
separate ways. 
On the other end of the spectrum, some forms of media have challenged this idealized version of marriage by vilifying it completely, essentially
creating a fear surrounding divorce and separation that prevents marriages from happening and keeps unhealthy ones from ending. 
Take the film “Marriage Story,” where  — for a whole two hours and 17 minutes — the audience watches a couple’s divorce as they traverse
through a harrowing legal battle, toxic arguments, and all-around painful heartbreak that would make anyone second-guess subjecting
themselves to divorce or even marriage in the first place. Different forms of media that portray similar events are unconsciously highlighting
these extreme situations of divorce and marriage that mainly result in an instillation of doubt and dread in current couples as well as future
ones. This fear of failure is a potential reason why marriage rates and divorce rates are continuing to plunge to new lows
(https://www.mckinleyirvin.com/family-law-blog/2012/october/32-shocking-divorce-statistics/#_edn3) . 
These two varying perspectives have created an all-or-nothing mentality where marriage is either this sacred, untouchable tradition or a
depressing next step in a relationship that we fear will crash and burn. But what if we were to change the way we view this life-long
commitment and update the concept of marriage to further our progression towards healthier relationships? 
One interesting and viable solution is the implementation of a marriage contract that expires within five to 10 years and requires the consent of
both individuals for its renewal. 
Since the cultural meaning behind marriage essentially defines it as an automatic and permanently binding lifelong commitment, it is easy to
take this security for granted and let a slew of negative habits (https://www.yourtango.com/experts/jeff-forte/11-bad-habits-will-ruin-even-
strongest-marriage) create an unhealthy relationship. One of the most common reasons why marriages fall apart, according to a multitude of
different articles (https://www.huffpost.com/entry/10-most-common-reasons-people-
divorce_b_8086312#:~:text=Olver%20%26%20Deborah%20Roth-,If%20you%20think%20that%20sexual%20infidelity%20is%20the%20leading
that popped up after a quick Google search, is a gradual disconnect between partners. Some couples begin to drift away from one another
because they are essentially obligated to remain together even if one of them no longer participates in a certain level of vulnerability. 
However, the hope is that a marriage renewal will require an evaluation of a relationship through worthwhile communication that could
potentially save a marriage. The renewable contract would call for a couple to participate in upkeeping and nurturing their connection through
the process of revisiting the functionality of their marriage. 
In addition, on the off chance that a couple is incompatible and begins to drift apart despite their best efforts, they can simply decide not to
renew their marriage without feeling trapped in the relationship or driven to participate in self-destructive behaviors that would likely result in
the explosive legal battles, emotional issues, and toxicity that, as previously mentioned, is showcased and villainized in media. For example,
people who experience emotional or sexual dissatisfaction (https://www.verywellmind.com/why-married-people-cheat-
2300656#:~:text=Some%20of%20the%20reasons%20cited,for%20both%20men%20and%20women.) in their marriage can become distantand, rather than communicate these needs to their partner, they turn to infidelity, which is responsible for 20 to 40 percent
(https://signalscv.com/2019/11/research-how-many-marriages-end-in-divorce-because-of-
infidelity/#:~:text=Infidelity%20in%20the%20United%20States,by%20the%20American%20Psychological%20Association.)  of divorces. 
Despite what the media proposes, a healthy marriage does not simply click into place and remain untouchable after the marriage certificate is
signed. Communication and active participation in a marriage are essential, and requiring a renewal is a practical and successful way to bring
attention to that. 
A renewal would also benefit and protect the well-being of the individuals in a couple or even a family by preventing potential legal battles and
feelings of failure. With the current system of divorce, splitting up can be messy. Emotions run high, and things can get complicated and tense
due to feelings of loss, failure, or sadness. With this new system, a couple is fully aware that their marriage will come to a close and require
renewal after a certain amount of years, so splitting up would no longer be an abrupt and violent disruption but an expected ending —
successfully limiting magnified negative emotions. 
This is not to say that there will not be any emotional difficulties. The pain that comes with the territory of ending a relationship cannot
necessarily be taken away completely, but an amicable goodbye can be one of the best courses of prevention. The mature decision to discuss
and acknowledge what is best for both individuals can be difficult and heartbreaking. However, keeping a relationship untarnished by all-
consuming feelings of resentment or anger can make it easier for both parties to accept that things simply did not work out while also
appreciating the growth and maturation they acquired with the help of one another. Not to mention that preventing resentment in a family
context can decrease the chances for custody battles or other harmful behaviors that could affect the emotional well-being and development of
children. All in all, a renewable marriage contract would promote healthier behaviors and hopefully give everyone a sense of closure through
communication.
While creating a faultless system that attempts to account for every unique and varying instance of marriage is virtually impossible, it has
become apparent that the ways we currently view and handle marriage are quickly decreasing in functionality. 
It is time to reevaluate this out-of-date tradition. If we truly want to create and foster marriages that are more conducive to our health, it is not
unreasonable to change our relationship with them. 
Art by Kalo Grimsby for the UC San Diego Guardian .(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Media Romances Skew Real-World Relationship Standards
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/media-romances-skew-real-world-relationship-standards/)
Raymond Tran (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/raymondt/)
From Alex Russo and her werewolf boyfriend to Meredith Grey and Derek Shepherd, we are
constantly exposed to “perfectly happy” relationships. From a young age, we are told, not only
by the media but also by the people around us that meeting the love of our life is one of the
most important milestones we will ever experience. 
Not to say that the sentiment is wrong, but with romance occupying an entire genre in books,
movies, and television shows, single people are constantly being reminded of their lack of a
significant other. Most people cannot help but feel lonely when comparing their lives to those
around them, especially with paparazzi covering celebrity relationships and social media
being a platform for others to broadcast their happy involvement with others.
According to Julia Lippman (https://www.eonline.com/news/739226/the-psychology-of-
romantic-comedies-what-are-these-movies-doing-to-our-love-lives) , a postdoctoral fellow at
the University of Michigan’s Department of Communication Studies, young people’s minds
are essentially free for the media to mold. These perfect portrayals of love, whether they be on
our TV screens or Twitter feed, have a profound effect on how we feel about ourselves. 
“You’re old enough to be interested in figuring out how relationships work but tend to have
limited personal experience with dating to draw on,” Lippman said. “Therefore, you turn to
media for guidance.” Although it is human nature to compare ourselves to other people’s
lives, it is important to understand that relationships are more than cute TikToks and love
poems, and we should not use what we see in the media as the standard for what we think
love is or when we should find it.
Constantly being exposed to “perfect” and “healthy” relationships creates a false pretense of
what an actual healthy relationship looks like. Realistically, couples post only one aspect of
their relationship on social media. 
Viewers are not given access to the kinds of conversations or real arguments these couples are
having outside of a 30-second video. In a Pew Research
(https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2015/10/01/social-media-and-romantic-
relationships/) study about social media and romance among teenagers, 42 percent of
teenagers in relationships agree that their significant other shows a different side of
themselves on social media than they do in person, and 36 percent agree that their significant
other is less authentic and real on social media than they are offline. Additionally, films and shows may portray fights in their relationships, but for entertainment
purposes, the plot is unrealistic in nature. Take “Friends” for example. Rachel’s not taking her
dream job in Paris to be with Ross, who has historically been a toxic person to her, is not a
story that people should glamorize and hold as the standard for their own relationships. 
The show ignores 10 seasons’ worth of Rachel’s character development and the on-and-off
relationship with Ross in order to end the series with an endgame couple that intrigues the
audience. Realistically, her character would have taken the job, despite being a little torn
between her work and Ross. 
According to Dr. Marianna Strongin (https://www.elitedaily.com/p/watching-couples-on-
tiktok-makes-some-single-people-feel-extra-lonely-41094917), a clinical psychologist who
specializes in therapy for couples and millennials, this limited view of what a relationship
looks like can have a “detrimental effect” and “isolate young people even more.” 
This issue exacerbates the preexisting problem of our disconnection and lack of intimacy
(https://medium.com/@mzarifis/how-is-technology-changing-our-perception-of-reality-
and-the-way-we-view-things-ef313f194345) with others due to, but also despite, the increase
of technology within the past few decades. In the pursuit of romance, one quickly makes the
mistake of thinking a relationship will happen as they have seen on their screens. 
The impossible standard we have created for ourselves closes the doors for any potential
romantic relationships because we become dismissive of anything harder or less perfect than
what is portrayed in the media. 
In other words, when the only exposure to relationships one has is through a screen, their
standards for one become skewed.
Likewise, the one-sided portrayal of romantic relationships in the media can also cause all
expectations and standards to seemingly disappear in a desperate attempt to find any kind of
love, regardless if it is authentic, healthy, and reciprocated. The insecurities formed through
comparing our lives to the media often lead us to accept toxic love
(https://thoughtcatalog.com/elizabeth-overstreet/2018/02/11-specific-reasons-why-we-
love-toxic-relationships-and-unavailable-partners/). 
Psychologist Jeffrey Bernstein (https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/contributors/jeffrey-
bernstein-phd) says one of the most significant determinants of whether someone will stay or
leave a toxic relationship is what they think they deserve. If being in a relationship is all onecan think about or wants, they are more inclined to turn a blind eye to toxic behavior.
“It’s clear that media and film can shape and reinforce prevailing cultural attitudes,” Dr.
Silvia Kratzer, (https://www.eonline.com/news/739226/the-psychology-of-romantic-
comedies-what-are-these-movies-doing-to-our-love-lives) Professor of Cinema Studies at the
UCLA department of Theater, Film, and Television, said. “Real changes in people’s lives
because of pop culture influences are evident — just think of the beauty ideals that have
changed so much.”
Combatting this is more than taking everything with a grain of salt. Especially when we are
young, it is nearly impossible to not feel lonely during the Valentine’s Day season. However,
to avoid engaging in toxic and detrimental behavior, it is important to take a moment and
reflect. 
Theresa DiDonato (https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/meet-catch-and-
keep/201401/learning-love-not-fear-being-single), social psychologist and associate
professor at Loyola University Maryland, suggests that in order to reconcile our singlehood
with the yearning for a relationship, we must reflect on our own fears of being single and re-
evaluate them. Focusing on the other social connections one has, discovering and developing
one’s own interests and passions, and finding joy in the opportunities that come with being
single may help people embrace the many different ways they can live happy and healthy
lives.
The media constantly portrays romantic relationships with rose-colored glasses. While there
are many genuinely happy couples, we must understand that being in a romantic relationship
does not equate to happiness or success. There is underappreciated value in the other types of
relationships and the different forms love takes throughout life. Friends and family bonds are
often overlooked during our obsession with forming a romantic relationship. By taking time
to appreciate the different ways love and support are given, being single doesn’t feel quite
lonely. 
While it may be difficult to come to terms with, it is essentially healthier to be alone and
happy than in a relationship and not. Everyone wants to find love, that is not the issue. It is
what comes from our constant pursuit of love and obsession over it where problems arise. 
Although love stories in the media are great for entertaining and captivating audiences, most
are far from the truth. We should acknowledge the unspoken standards created by these false
narratives and work to become content with the other meaningful aspects of our lives. That said, if you’re feeling lonely this Valentine’s Day, just remember this: while Meredith
Grey and Derek Shepherd had an epic love story, one of them was hit by a truck and died. 
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Sexist Double Standards Take Center Stage at Super Bowl
Half Time Show
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/sexist-double-standards-take-center-stage-at-super-bowl-
half-time-show/) Medha Upadhyay (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/medhau/)
Over the past few days, I’ve found myself double-tapping a lot of Weeknd memes
(https://www.cbsnews.com/news/the-weeknd-super-bowl-halftime-performance-memes/) .
While I definitely got a good laugh out of the lackluster effort put into the Super Bowl LV
Halftime Show, I can’t seem to shake my uneasiness surrounding the entire situation. With a
budget of around $20 million (https://www.forbes.com/sites/maddieberg/2021/02/05/why-
the-weeknd-wont-be-paid-for-the-super-bowl-halftime-show/?sh=3389326c62c1) , $7
million of which The Weeknd contributed out of pocket, this year’s Super Bowl Halftime
show felt rather anticlimactic. Whether it was the hazy camerawork
(https://youtu.be/9rhadTURsrw?t=242), tired costume
(https://www.cnn.com/style/article/the-weeknd-super-bowl-fashion-givenchy/index.html) ,
or confusing choreography (https://youtu.be/9rhadTURsrw?t=690), the Weeknd’s
performance lacked the zing that has animated the Half Time Show stage in prior years. 
The Weeknd’s performance fell a little short of the halftime standards established by stars
like Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, Katy Perry, and Beyonce. These artists all used their
performances to showcase their unique aesthetics and talents, as the Weeknd did with the
recurring themes of face bandages and his radio-ready vocals. However, these female artists
also worked with elaborate choreography (https://youtu.be/pILCn6VO_RU?t=396),
dangerous stunts (https://youtu.be/ZD1QrIe--_Y?t=37), unimaginable footwear
(https://youtu.be/SDPITj1wlkg?t=95), eye-catching costumes
(https://youtu.be/pILCn6VO_RU?t=660), full sets (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=iS9kf9vH1vk&ab_channel=HUERTA%27Ar), and were still ridiculed
(https://www.cnn.com/2017/02/08/entertainment/lady-gaga-body-shamed/index.html) to
a much higher (https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fcc-gets-1-300-complaints-over-
jennifer-lopez-shakira-super-n1143506) degree than a couple of harmless memes. 
I think it’s about time we acknowledge that women Half Time Show performers are expected
to become lightning rods for the nastiest forms of criticism while putting insane amounts of
effort into tasks that male performers can get away with easily brushing off.
While it’s an unfortunate fact that women in Hollywood — and anywhere really — are
relentlessly body-shamed, slut-shamed, and shamed for existing in general, it’s a whole
different problem when they’re also held to insanely high standards for performance. For
female artists, it’s never just about singing. They are judged on their costumes, their dancing,
their sets — the whole nine yards. Though The Weeknd’s stage presence and overall performance was definitely better than
Maroon 5’s and Travis Scotts’ (https://youtu.be/zIwkhEqVq4s?t=273)s, who just kind of
hopped around the stage, it was still light-years behind the likes of Lady Gaga’s building jump
(https://youtu.be/mjrdywp5nyE?t=61), Jennifer Lopez’s and Shakira’s detailed dance moves,
Katy Perry’s majestic lion ride, and Beyonce’s gravity-defying high heels. 
Artists like Justin Timberlake (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=v6xUgawDQB0&ab_channel=justintimberlakeVEVO) and Coldplay
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c9cUytejf1k&ab_channel=NFL) are consistently held to
a much lower standard, as they are allowed to perform in T-shirts and sneakers, and perhaps
be turned into memes. Meanwhile, their female counterparts are expected to wear glitter and
dance in high heels and then face criticism for being “too sexual,”“untalented,” and “fat”. 
Whether fancy sets and intricate choreography make a performance better or not is beside
the point. The point is that over the years, we’ve been lowering the bar for male artists further
and further while simultaneously making dangerously unrealistic demands of female artists.
While there have been some exceptions (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
VhFiSHeBn4&ab_channel=NFL), it seems overwhelmingly clear that female artists are
putting far more effort into their Super Bowl Halftime performances. 
To be clear, there was nothing especially terrible about The Weeknd’s performance. The
criticism and jokes he has received are all valid. The bar for him was low, and I think he
managed to stumble across it. A female artist would have been held to much higher
standards, and the punishment would have been far crueler than a few memes.  
The double standards surrounding the Super Bowl Halftime show are obviously only a
symptom of a much larger issue, but as the show is one of the more flashy and international
visible manifestations, it seems noteworthy. Even when broadcasted to an audience of over
100 million viewers, there seems to be some trouble acknowledging that women must put
more work into the same tasks or risk being discarded.
When we hold women to such impossibly high standards, we are playing an active role in
excluding them from the very industries that they helped shape. By placing such
unreasonable demands on such talented and hardworking women, we are demeaning their
work and misusing their talents. Simultaneously, we keep lowering the bar for men, allowing
them to get away with doing the bare minimum. If we just allowed women to exist without constantly berating them for things that men don’t
even think about, women would be able to contribute so much more to society. Men would
feel the need to step up rather than discarding female competitors entirely. Overall, society
would progress. The current system that we live in is a dangerous one; this imbalance of
power hurts us all because it’s neither sustainable nor profitable.
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Why Is There Still So Little Diversity in NFL Head Coach
Hiring?
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/why-is-there-still-so-little-diversity-in-nfl-head-coach-
hiring/) Donovan Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
With the most recent iteration of the head coaching carousel in the NFL shutting down for
the offseason, many are wondering why the changes that have been implemented to
incentivize owners to create opportunities for minority candidates have not panned out. 
Two of seven head coaches that were hired in this cycle were minority candidates, making it a
meager five of 32 for the whole league. Four (12.5 percent) of these coaches are Black,
compared to 57.5 percent of the league’s players who are Black, per the Institute for Diversity
and Ethics in Sport (https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/12/23/sports/diversity-
coaches-sports.html). Additionally, five (15.6 percent) of 32 general managers are Black, and
zero team presidents or controlling CEOs are Black. Suffice it to say that representative hiring
in the NFL is not improving at a fast enough rate; in fact, it might be headed in the opposite
direction. 
The NFL’s Rooney Rule (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rooney_Rule) was implemented in
2003 to help phase out discriminatory hiring practices within franchises. Over the years,
there has been no discernible progress towards a more representative hiring process,
especially with head coaches. 
This past year, the NFL expanded the Rooney Rule adding the requirement that at least two
minority candidates would need to be interviewed for head coach openings, and at least one
minority candidate for assistant coaching positions. Compared to the previous regulation,
which did not affect assistant coach hiring and only called for one minority prospective head
coach to be interviewed, this seems like a significant step forward. Yet with another coaching
cycle come and gone and a net gain of a only one Black candidate filling an NFL head
coaching spot, it is once again time to re-evaluate this concerning issue. 
One encouraging sign from the newly minted version of the Rooney Rule is the addition of
regulations surrounding assistant coach hiring. Offensive and defensive coordinators are the
most common candidates selected for head coaching hires, so if there was an argument about
a lack of qualified Black applicants, it would be a strong move to rectify this error. 
Yet, highly qualified candidates that are Black who do get into assistant coaching gigs still
routinely get passed over. Eric Bieniemy, the Kansas City Chiefs assistant coach who runs the
most prolific offense of the past two seasons, is the most documented case of a variety of
teams passing over the de facto most qualified coordinator on the market for unclear reasons.
The offensive and defensive coordinators of the most recent champion, the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers, Byron Leftwich and Todd Bowles, were not seen as serious candidates for any of
the open head coaching vacancies. On the other hand, white coaches with suspect coaching experience, especially when
compared to qualified Black coaches, are selected for these jobs fairly often. Joe Judge, the
pick for the New York Giants vacancy in last season’s coaching cycle, is often cited as an
example in this discussion. His experience in the NFL was highlighted by four years as the
New England Patriots’ special teams coordinator, a position seldom thought of as a stepping
stone for a head coaching position. The Cincinnati Bengals hired Zac Taylor, the Rams’
quarterback coach, to fill their head coaching vacancy that same year. 
While this certainly isn’t to say that these individuals have no right to coach their teams, it is
undeniable that certain Black coaches simply aren’t getting a fair shake by the league,
especially when considering the resumes of white coaches who are successful in getting these
coveted positions. 
We know that NFL hiring practices are broken and that efforts to alter these patterns have
been ineffective, but it is important to stop and consider why this is the case. In football, as in
most professional sports in America, there is a constant delineation made between  white and
Black athletes. 
While the white athlete is pictured as intellectual and hard-working, the Black athlete’s
success is often seen only as a result of physical prowess (significant evidence of this
phenomenon can be found in analyses of NFL commentary
(https://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/politics/sports-commentary-racial-bias-ai-data) ).
White mobile quarterbacks are given the benefit of the doubt until they succeed, like
Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield, or flame out, like former Cleveland Brown
quarterback Johnny Manziel. Black mobile quarterbacks often are asked to see if they would
fit better at another position, which now sounds silly considering the success these
quarterbacks, like the Ravens’ Lamar Jackson or the Eagles’ Jalen Hurts, have found early on
in their careers. 
Frankly, this is a thinly veiled skepticism of the capability of Black people to be able to
successfully carry out a position that is mentally strenuous as the quarterback. Could it be
that this same sentiment has pervaded opinions on NFL head coaching? 
There are many generalizations and ambiguities inherent in discussions about discrimination
in hiring practices; few individual instances of discriminatory hiring can ever be proven as
such, for the simple reason that only those with hiring power can truly know their own
motivations. The resumes that Black coaches have who are passed over even in spite of the obstacles they
had to face to get to that position in the first place does not leave much room for
interpretation on a large scale, though. The patterns over time of minority coaches not having
a representative share of these jobs even with all the viable candidates that are available is
utterly infuriating. This leads us to our final question: What can be done?
In all honesty, it is a pretty bleak picture, as even the most idealistic of us will have a hard
time imagining football consumers all coming together to protest NFL hiring practices for a
variety of reasons. Large social justice campaigns are always reactive, and so it will likely take
an outrageous video or statement from an NFL owner to be widely circulated online to get
people to take interest in the issue for a few days. 
Considering also the significant portion of the NFL’s fanbase which took significant issue
with protesting during the national anthem and projecting little crossover between potential
allies and this portion of the fanbase, that leaves a truncated segment of the population.
Staying vigilant and demanding accountability will give us certain necessary incremental
changes. 
Unfortunately, as long as every team’s decision-makers do not have equal opportunity as a
priority, real change will be dependent on the dollar. Once again, the responsibility for
change will require players, coaches, and fans voicing their displeasure to take these decisions
out of the hands of the owners.
Photo courtesy of the Kansas City Chiefs(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Men’s Golf Tees O   First D-I Season at Orange County
Collegiate Classic
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/mens-golf-tees-o  -first-d-i-season-at-orange-county-
collegiate-classic/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
Beginning their first-ever season in Division I, UC San Diego’s men’s golf team opened their
2020-21 season on the Coto de Caza golf course for the Orange County Collegiate Classic,
hosted by UC Irvine and California State University, Fullerton, on Feb. 8 and 9. In their first
tournament in almost a year, the Tritons finished last out of seven teams in a truncated field.
This year’s Orange County Collegiate Classic featured a much smaller group of teams than the
2020 tournament, which saw the Tritons finish 10  out of 17 teams at Coto de Caza.
Meanwhile, UCSD had not played a tournament since the Las Vegas Desert Classic on March
3, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Despite the rust, the Tritons also made a long-awaited debut as a Division I team, and they
did so with a young squad: the lineup last week included four freshmen making their
collegiate debuts – Alex Hanz, Akira Isayama, Davis Lee, and Jerry Wu – as well as junior
Jared Gross. Senior Ryan Vaughan was also at the tournament playing as an individual and
not included in the team scoring.
All three rounds of the tournament were played on the same Coto de Caza South Course,
which has a par of 72. After the first day of competition, which featured just the first round,
Isayama led the Tritons with a 3-over-par 75, which landed him in a tie for 21  behind the
first-round leader, Soren Lind of the University of San Francisco.  The rest of UCSD’s golfers
were not far behind Isayama, with Wu scoring a 76, Hanz at 77, Gross at 78, Lee at 80, and
Vaughan with 86. After this first round, the Tritons were in 6  place with a team total of 306,
19 strokes behind team leader USF but 7 strokes ahead of last-place California Baptist
University.
Unfortunately for the Tritons, this round would be their best out of three. After the final two
rounds, played the next day on Feb. 9, UCSD would finish in last place, 12 strokes behind
California Baptist and 74 strokes behind tournament winner USF; the Tritons scored a 318 in
the second round and a 314 in the third to finish with a score of 938. Wu scored two 77’s to
finish best among the Tritons, with a final score of 230 and in a tie for 26 . Isayama was not
far behind with a 231, after scoring an 82 and 74 in his final two rounds. Hanz finished in a
tie for 39  with 24, Lee was right behind him in 41  with a 242, and Gross and Vaughan
finished in 43  and 45  with scores of 246 and 250, respectively.
Individually, Gross tied for 9  among all 47 golfers with 10 birdies, with Wu tying for 17
with 9. Meanwhile, Hanz tied for 11  with 33 pars, and Isayama tied for 17  with 31. Isayama
also had the best round by a Triton in the tournament with a third-round 74.th
st
th
th
th st
rd th
th th
th thOverall, the tournament was won for the second year in a row by USF, who took first place
with a three-round score of 864, 12 strokes ahead of CSU Fullerton in second. USF’s Alex
Chin and Soren Lind finished as the top two golfers with scores of 213 (-3) and 214 (-2),
respectively.
With the Orange County tournament, UCSD men’s golf becomes the third team to return to
play in 2020-21 after the COVID-19 pandemic, preceded only by the men’s and women’s
basketball teams last December. The Triton golfers will return to action on Feb. 22-23 for The
Joust, a tournament hosted by California Baptist at the Goose Creek Golf Club in Riverside.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Tritons Swept in Doubleheader Against CSU Bakers  eld as
Six-Game Skid Continues
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/tritons-swept-in-doubleheader-against-csu-bakersfield-as-
six-game-skid-continues/) Wesley Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
One bad half, one good half, and two losses. That’s a short summary of the UC San Diego
women’s basketball team’s outings against California State University, Bakersfield last week.
In a home doubleheader, the Tritons were swept by the Roadrunners, 62–38 and 69–66. The
Tritons drop to 2–7 overall and in the Big West, extending their losing streak to six games.
The first game was a train wreck for UCSD, but it didn’t start off that way. After being put
into a hole early in the first quarter, the Tritons were able to climb back and keep the game
tight. By halftime, UCSD was within striking distance, trailing by just two with the score 25–
23. The second half was when the wheels fell off. The Tritons were outscored 22–6 in the
third and 15–9 in the fourth. If not for free throws, UCSD would have only scored once in the
entire fourth quarter.
The second game began much better for the Tritons, as they got off to a hot start, putting up
43 points in the first half, outscoring the entire output of their last game in just two quarters.
The Tritons were shooting 56.3 percent from the field and were 7-for-12 at the 3-point line.
They went into halftime with a comfortable 43–29 lead, capped off by a ridiculous three-
quarters-court buzzer-beater
(https://twitter.com/UCSDwbb/status/1360765845295742978) by junior guard Brianna
Claros. At this point, it seemed as if the Tritons had turned a corner as if they had wiped out
the memory of the previous game and were on their way to a bounce-back win. But
Bakersfield put up monster numbers in the third quarter, recording 27 points to UCSD’s 12.
Once again, the Tritons were outscored by double-digits coming out of the half. By the fourth,
the score was tied, 56–56. Four lead changes and eight and a half minutes later, the score was
still even, 66–66. The final minutes of the game would remain scoreless until the
Roadrunners hit a three with just 2 seconds remaining. A Hail Mary three-pointer by the
Tritons at the buzzer missed, sealing the Tritons’ second loss of the week at 69–66.
The entire team struggled in the first matchup, with no players breaking 10 points. Senior
guard Tyla Turner, the team’s most reliable shooter, was limited to just 7 points and a 16.7
percent effective field goal percentage (eFG%), but she was still tied as the Tritons’ top scorer
in that game. Turner did bounce back in the second game, scoring 18 points and recording an
eFG% of 77.3 percent. Meanwhile, redshirt junior guard Emily Cangelosi has solidified her
role as a starter for the team. Cangelosi was on the court for over 30 minutes in both
matchups, with 18 points, 10 rebounds, and 3 assists for the week.
Despite the disappointing loss, there was some good news for the Tritons. Junior guard Julia
Macabuhay, who last year was CCAA Most Valuable Player and was named a Division II All-
American by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association, made her 2021 debut, logging herfirst significant game minutes since last season. The Tritons’ 2019–2020 top scorer averaged
8 minutes a game in the two matches, totaling 16 points, 2 assists, and a 55 percent effective
field goal percentage.
Macabuhay was subbed in and out throughout the games, serving more of a rotational role in
the lineup; this could be head coach Heidi Vanderveer slowly working her back in after being
off the court for so long. As the season progresses, we could see an uptick in Macabuhay’s
usage. But it’s also just as likely that we see the opposite. Macabuhay is an exceptional player,
who will still be a key contributor to the team for at least another year. If her injury flares up,
Macabuhay may be shut down for the rest of the truncated season to prevent further damage
and risking her status next year.
Next week, the Tritons are on the road, but they are staying in Southern California. They will
take on UC Riverside (7–7, 5–5 Big West) in an away doubleheader. 
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Film Review: “To All the Boys: Always and Forever”
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/film-review-to-all-the-boys-always-and-forever/) Erin
Chun (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/erin/)
“To All the Boys: Always and Forever” closes the curtains on this Netflix adaptation series —
let’s hope it never opens back up again. Exactly one year ago today, I cracked open my faulty laptop running on its last computerized
leg and listened to my Macbook’s motorized hums as I watched what I thought was the worst
film in the “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” film franchise — I couldn’t have been more
wrong. In the innocence of my 2020 youth (God bless her) I had forgotten to consider the
possibility that the third adaptation installment could manage to surpass my non-existent
standards. In my previous review of “To All the Boys: P.S. I Still Love You,”
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/02/23/film-review-to-all-the-boys-p-s-i-still-love-you/)  I
had written “The entirety of the one-hour and 42-minute long film was forgettable, which is
worse than if it was terrible.” Again, also wrong. “To All the Boys: Always and Forever” is the
third and final film in this trilogy, and has established a permanent residence within my
consciousness that I can only hope to one day be discharged from. The forgetful nature of the
second film is a virtue that I regret criticizing and wish had been extended in grace to the
summation film of the series. This third film concluded the last film adaptation in Jenny
Han’s trilogy with a memorable bang — but not in a good way.
My severe judgement is not unsubstantiated, of course; “To All the Boys: Always and Forever”
is undoubtedly the least cohesive film in the entire franchise. This film is more of a
fragmented visual collage of multiple storylines and stand-alone scenes than it is a singular,
united relationship arc between Lara Jean (Lana Condor) and Peter Kavinsky (Noah
Centineo). The plot progresses linearly in time through drastically divergent events and
locations without the initiative placed to clearly connect any of these storylines. Audience
members are placed in South Korea, flown back to America, notified of Lara Jean’s rejection
from Stanford, learn about Peter’s dad’s efforts to reconnect with his son (an entirely separate
underdeveloped plotline), shown Lara Jean’s father’s (John Joseph Corbett) marriage
proposal to his girlfriend Trina (Sarayu Blue), sent to New York, presented with Lara and
Gen’s (Emilija Baranac) rekindled friendship, and walked through Lara’s confession to Peter
regarding her rejection from their dream college — all before the film even hits the half-
minute mark. The whiplash received from the film’s crammed plot points reminds me of
special grocery store competitions where lucky customers get the opportunity to have
everything they can shove in their shopping carts in under a minute for free, ensuing chaotic
box juggling and slipping sneakers on waxed linoleum. Only, this isn’t a grocery store: this is
a Netflix film with a multi-million dollar budget that unfortunately failed to adequately
translate Jenny Han’s novel into a structured and comprehensive project. 
Perhaps, you may be thinking, the saving grace of “To All the Boys: Always and Forever”
could lie in the aesthetic stylistic choices that the first film is recognized and praised for. I’m
sorry to report that is not the case. The entire film’s color grade is cast in a strange dark-green
pastel tint that can best be described as a 2012 Instagram filter cosplaying as an overly-saturated inspirational Tumblr post. While in New York, the young couple send each other
low quality videos with the combined quality of approximately 20 pixels in an unnecessarily
long montage interrupted by the occasional sporadic quirky emoji and text bubble. The
cheesy, animated powerpoint transitions do little to help. The scene where Peter and Lara
Jean are in an elevator in New York City and are suddenly transported back to their
hometowns through the magic of artwork straight out of an a-ha music video is incredibly
disorienting. 
Despite all of the film’s flaws, it would be misleading to claim that there are absolutely no
redeeming qualities. I appreciated the small nod to the first movie by sitting Lara Jean and
Peter together on the bus while Lauv’s “I Like Me Better” played in the background: it was a
cute throwback and a bittersweet reminder of the potential this franchise could have had.
Additionally, the friendship between Gen and Lara, albeit a bit under-flushed, was one of the
most authentic aspects of the film. The awkwardness and the careful treading of niceness
between the former best friends was as close to a real representation of rekindled teenage-girl
friendships as I believe this film could have gotten. The highlight of “To All the Boys: Always
and Forever” is in its portrayal of the nuanced imperfections of life and relationships. It’s
good when it’s not trying hard to be. 
I wanted to like the film. I really did. But what message are we trying to send impressionable
young girls by forcefully spoon-feeding them duplicated cliches and questionable resolutions
to real-life issues, over, and over, and over again? Why did the film end with this young
couple having sex after Peter presents Lara Jean with a new contract in her yearbook, and
why is his emotional neglect so easily forgiven? Why did Peter never once consider
transferring to NYU for Lara, but automatically assume she would relocate her entire life for
him? 
In a half-hearted attempt to be profound, the film touches on Lara Jean’s struggles with
Asian-American diaspora and her feelings of cultural loneliness in a brief conversation with
Peter in the beginning of the film. This, in its entirety, lasts for less than 20 seconds. None of
the actors who play the Covey sisters are even Korean. The token gay Black friend (Trezzo
Mahoro), the beautiful but nameless Black prom queen, and the minisual discussions about
Korean identity all feel like stale crumbs of representation meant to pander towards white
liberals to gobble up praise while actual Korean or people of color (POC) viewers, like myself,
watch as our bodies are tokenized on screen. At its best, “To All the Boys: Always and
Forever” is a mediocre rom-com with a predictable and cliche ending. At its worst, it’s a
poorly rendered, and at-times problematic, adaptation of a novel series that represented
everything this film makes a mockery of.Director: Michael Fimognari  
Story by:  Jenny Han  
Starring:  Noah Centineo, Lana Condor, Anna Cathcart, Janel Meilani Parrish, Emilija
Baranac, Sarayu Blue, John Joseph Corbett, Madeleine Arthur  
Release Date: Feb. 12, 2021  
Rated: TV-14  
Grade : D
Image courtesy of Lola Lambchops.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Album Review: “Still Good”
 February 14, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/music-review-still-good/) Bailey Bujnosek
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/bailey-bujnosek/)
Breathy vocals disguise broken relationships in Lisa Remar’s promising debut EP “Still
Good,” a collection of songs that tell a story of lost love, heartbreak, and newfound freedom.Lisa Remar’s debut EP “Still Good” presents a series of dreamy indie-pop songs united by a
narrative thread of leaving bad relationships. Throughout the album, Remar navigates toxic
relationship dynamics between friends, lovers, and relatives. The New York native utilizes her
skills as both singer and songwriter to tell a story that’s equal parts sorrowful and sweet. 
The EP has six original songs: “Still Good (Intro),” “Halfway to Nowhere,” “Ride,” “Fell Into,”
“Sonny,” and “You.” There is also a stripped-down version of “Fell Into” and a moody cover of
Pink Floyd’s “Mother,” for a total of eight tracks in the project.
The first standout song on the album is “Halfway to Nowhere,” which weaves together a
catchy hook from rhyming lines: “Brake lights, oh they burn so bright in front of me,” and
“Take time, oh but don’t take mine then up and leave.” The verses build to a sailing chorus as
Remar repeats her plea to be taken “halfway to nowhere” in a drifting voice that layers over
itself. The song feels empowered because of lyrics that declare the singer limitless in the
places she can go — even halfway to nowhere. 
Another strong track is “Sonny,” the album’s sixth and most mournful song. “Sonny” opens
with a sample of a worn-out record crackling to life. It’s a fitting start given the song’s
thematic nostalgia for a past relationship. In “Sonny,” Remar focuses on the positive
memories of a relationship that, for one reason or another, did not last. At the song’s core is a
refusal to move on, demonstrated by the lyrics: “I’ll just count to three/ start over again like
it’s all fun and games.” Thus, the song traps its speaker and its listener in a loop of memories
that restarts right before the breakup.
Remar’s lyrics are confessional in nature, recounting the casualties of various relationships
gone wrong. The swaying pop ballad “Ride” calmly pokes holes in its subject’s apologies: “You
never meant to hurt me/every time you hurt me,” Remar sings with airy indifference. The
track “You,” which chronicles its speaker’s struggle to leave a physically abusive relationship,
feels like an answer to the complaints voiced in “Ride.” Its pre-chorus explains, “Still the
darkness we both share/ seems pale in comparison to when you’re not there.” It’s enough to
make the listener question if the EP’s title “Still Good”  is a true statement, or a false reply
meant to prevent further interrogation.
“You” is not just a display of Remar’s lyrical inventiveness, but also her varied genre
influences. While the majority of the tracks on “Still Good” possess an electronic feel, “You” is
infused with a soulful rhythm. The chorus has Remar hitting low, drawn-out notes,
interrupted by a slow guitar strum. Meanwhile, the retro track “Fell Into” showcases Remar’s
New York roots. In an interview with Wonderland magazine(https://www.wonderlandmagazine.com/2020/12/17/premiere-lisa-remar-fell-into/) ,
Remar revealed she wanted the song to be “an ode to Boom Bap,” an East Coast-born music
production style from the mid-eighties. The alternating bass and snare drum sound that
characterizes the style was made famous by hip-hop artists like Nas and The Notorious
B.I.G..
The echoey drum beat behind “Fell Into” is a fitting homage to the Boom Bap style. However,
the beat is quickly overtaken by Remar’s wispy vocals — arguably the true star of the album.
Whether she’s crooning over a sparsely strummed guitar or a bumping beat, her voice
maintains a breathy, ethereal tone reminiscent of pop idol Mariah Carey or, more recently,
Billie Eilish’s 2017 hit “idontwannabeyouanymore.” 
However, the album is not perfect. Several tracks feel drawn out to their three-minute marks
by redundant repetitions of their choruses. “Fell Into” is the most obvious victim of this
effect: while Remar’s vocals start out strong, they’re eventually drowned out as the volume of
the beat increases and speeds up. “Halfway To Nowhere,” the longest song on the EP,
similarly crawls to a distorted ending. The once-pretty lyrics become fragmented, almost
beyond comprehension, leaving the listener disoriented rather than moved.
This leads to the other problem I have with the album. Though it’s by no means a
mainstream, familiar pop album, it doesn’t take any notable risks. For listeners looking for
something completely new, it’s a disappointment. Many of the songs in the album’s first half
feel as though they follow the same formula. It’s not unusual for a song to start slow and build
to a bigger sound, but each of the opening four tracks does so at the same moments: each
time the chorus repeats for a second and third round. Thus, whatever effect the listener might
feel from the increase in energy and tempo is voided by the predictability of the change. Still,
the combination of Remar’s sensitive lyrics and her stellar vocal performance makes up for
these annoyances. Regardless of its flaws, “Still Good”  is as cohesive as an album can be.
When listened to in succession, the eight tracks meld into a silky soundscape that’s perfect for
night drives and rainy days, for when you’re in your feelings or when you just can’t sleep.
There are no jarring transitions, nor a song that feels out of place as Remar drifts from
dream, to soul, to alt-pop. “Still Good” is a promising debut that proves Remar is one to
watch for in the independent pop scene. You can stream “Still Good” on Spotify, Apple Music,
and Deezer, or by clicking
 here (https://ps.onerpm.com/stillgood).
Grade: B  
Release Date: Jan. 15th, 2021Image courtesy of Atwood Magazine.