(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
My Most Memorable Classes at UCSD
 March 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/09/my-most-memorable-classes-at-ucsd/) Hannah
Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
The other day I was asked by my high school counselor during a Zoom dinner catchup what
some of my favorite classes have been during my time in undergrad at UC San Diego. As I was
answering, I realized that I’ve bounced around more than I thought and have taken quite a
few classes that stand out to me. Maybe they changed the way I think and see the world, or
maybe they simply showed me an area of life I knew nothing about previously. From
cryptography to stage management, here are some of the class highlights of my college career
thus far.
Stage Management, TDDR101
During my first year, I took TDDR101, Stage Management, to fill a general education
requirement. I never could have known upon clicking the “enroll” button on good old
WebReg that this class would open me up to so much through both class content and
attending shows at the La Jolla Playhouse for assignments and extra credit. Whereas most of
my classes at the time were multi-hundred-student lectures and had a textbook teaching
approach, this class was small — tucked away in York Hall — and encouraged hands-on
learning, especially when it came to the final, which consisted of learning to call commands as
a stage manager would for a given production — in my case, for the song “Circle of Life” from
The Lion King. UCSD has one of the best theatre programs in the world, but somehow that
fact tends to get swept under the rug among the non-theatre major part of our student
population.
Field Methods: Cognition in the Wild, COGS13
While I was already interested in primate cognition, Professor Rossano is why this class
stands out to me as one of my most memorable. Three times per week he would stand on the
Price Center Theatre stage, drawing in the attention of the hall. His passion for his work bled
into lectures, and every time I felt as though I walked out with more than I came in with.
While group projects can be frustrating, these projects were some of the better ones I’ve
experienced.
Human Nutrition, BILD22
Are you really a UCSD student if you aren’t scrambling on the first day of the quarter to
rearrange your schedule because you couldn’t get into the classes you needed? The answer is
no. As I added this class during an academic advising appointment, my advisor rushed me
out so I could scramble to Peterson Hall for the first lecture, which had already begun 15
minutes before. I soon had an unassigned-assigned seat (OK, it’s not my fault that left-handed desks are rare) and crashed office hours an annoying amount. Professor Strause and
this class were what made UCSD finally feel like home and I’d take it again in an instant if I
could.
Latin Dance of the World, TDMV142
As mentioned before, our theatre and dance department slip under the radar too often.
Whether you take this class to fulfill a GE, such as Eleanor Roosevelt College’s Regional
Specialization requirement, or just tack it onto your schedule for fun, I can’t recommend it
enough. Despite taking it remotely via Zoom during Fall Quarter 2020, which eliminates the
partnering component, it ended up being an amazing exploration of something I wasn’t sure
I’d ever do. The open environment that Tony created felt less like the stressful classroom
setting that we’re used to and more like a creative playground of self-expression. The class
covered several Latin social dances, including salsa, bachata, and cha-cha.
Making and Breaking Codes, LIGN17
This class reawakened the code-lover in me. There’s something so thrilling about code
making/breaking — something that makes us giddy and excited to see what lies on the
decoded end. Cryptography in undergrad seems to be uncommon enough that it’s difficult to
find practice problems online because not many schools offer much like it. Concepts feel like
puzzles that are actually fun to solve, and lectures are more engaging than average. Alice,
Bob, and Eve now float around in my head rent-free. If you know, you know. If you don’t
know, take this class.
Whether you’re a freshman testing the waters, or in your last year near the finish line,
consider one of these classes to switch up your schedule! While we probably won’t be able to
experience everything at our disposal, we might as well try to make the most out of what’s
available. What are your most memorable classes?
Photo by Nathan Dumlao (https://unsplash.com/@nate_dumlao?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)  on Unsplash
(/s/photos/college?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Picture-Perfect Wardrobe: How Has Your Style Changed
Since Quarantine?
 March 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/09/the-picture-perfect-wardrobe-how-has-your-style-changed-
since-quarantine/) Priscilla Puno (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/priscilla-puno/)
Calling all trendsetters and lovers of fashion! I’m going to ask you to do some reflecting:
Think back to the beginning of March 2020 and ask yourself “Do I look the same? Do I feel
the same?” More than likely, you probably said no, and if you’re anything like me and spent
countless hours of quarantine scrolling through Pinterest boards and old dELiA*s catalogs,
you might have had a wake-up call to completely purge your closet and change it into its
complete dream state. 
Reflecting on how I’ve found my fashion sense, this past year has taught me to not give a
single care about what anyone thinks about me when I walk into a room. If I want to wear a
ballgown when I’m going to get my COVID vaccine, then I’m going to do it and no one can
stop me because, at the end of the day, that’s what makes me happy! I’m a firm believer that
as long as no one is harmed in the process, anyone and everyone can wear whatever their
heart desires. 
Because of my interest in this topic, I wanted to see how students changed their style within
the past year due to quarantine, and what inspired them to do so. Let’s take a look at some of
their responses:
“Before quarantine, I definitely didn’t appreciate the opportunity to show out so I was
wearing comfortable clothes (dare I say conservative). But as quarantine rolled in I learned to
accept my body and just decided that anything I put on is hot. The biggest difference would
be from wearing comfortable clothes to wearing clothes that make me comfortable if that
makes sense. This new profound self-acceptance in fashion has sprung from interacting with
nonconventional/heavy and very beautiful bodies of women/nonwomen on Pinterest.” —
Anonymous
“Honestly, this quarantine has made me very lazy with my style. I never was out of the box
with the clothes I wore, but I have really turned it down. I work with kids and when I’m not
working I’m doing school work, helping my grandparents, etc. so comfort has been my
biggest priority when it comes to clothes currently.” —Allyssa-Jhisel Tanjuaquio, Mt. San
Jacinto College
“I feel like I have gotten into baggier clothing and have been thrifting way more since it is
more sustainable. I realized that I should just wear whatever I think looks best for me without
judgment. Love dark academia!” —Anonymous“I’ve gotten so much more confident with how I dress… I just don’t care what people think
about my outfits anymore. They’re cool to me so they’re cool. Harry Styles is my biggest
fashion inspiration.” —Alex, Palomar College
“I’ve become much more expressive and more like myself. It doesn’t matter what other people
think. ‘70s fashion is my biggest inspiration” —Anonymous
“My style is more for me than anyone else now. I wear what makes me feel good and if anyone
has anything mean to say, I say BOOOOO, and I don’t care. I’ve learned to forgive my body
for the things I can’t control and appreciate it for all it does, so expressing myself means
working out, eatin’ good, and wearing clothes that make me feel like hot sh*t! Hashtag I am
my own inspiration, hashtag self luv, hashtag bhad b!tch.” —Hannah, San Diego State
University
“I feel like I’m doing more but less at the same time. Like there’s more work that’s piled on
but I don’t feel like I’m learning anything … This is bad because like when we go back to on-
campus classes I don’t even know what I’m gonna do.” —Olivia, San Diego Community
College District
“I found I have had more time to kind of explore my style because it wasn’t really something I
thought about before. I have definitely gotten a lot of inspiration from TikTok and Pinterest
because I feel like people are very expressive on those platforms. It has definitely made me
want to branch out more and figure out what I’m into. I think I wore very plain clothes
before.” —Anonymous
“My style over the past year has changed drastically, going from outfits that I was proud to
wear in front of my friends to outfits I couldn’t care less about because I began to realize that
I don’t go out often anyways. I’ve started to only wear sweats and hoodies just like my friends,
but I do try my best to wear shoes that are somewhat relevant in today’s standards.” —Derek,
San Diego State University
“I really learned how to not feed into trends. Trends change over time, so I’m much more of a
collector now. I enjoy having one piece of clothing that’s unique (regardless of trends)
because I know clothing styles will always change.” —Vince Reyes, UC Riverside
“I just have really started gender f*cking my wardrobe. Gender doesn’t exist and doesn’t
dictate what I wear as much as it used to. More heels, more dresses, more propeller hats,
more whatever the f*ck I wanna wear when I wake up. I’m my own inspiration! Becoming myfull evolution!” —Spencer, UC Berkeley
“Quarantine has forced me to spend more time with myself and as a result, I’ve gotten to
know who I am much better. I look at fashion as an extremely valuable way to express myself
so I’m always evolving my wardrobe to reflect my state of mind. Due to the current
circumstance of the world, I’ve realized the importance of seizing every moment and doing
whatever the hell I want to, because time is so valuable. The best thing I’ve learned lately is
that “overdressing” is a complete myth. If I want to wear a dress and heels to the grocery
store, I will. My actual style may not have changed drastically, but my mindset has. I’m
inspired by my friends as well as other people my age. I admire that my generation is
breaking social constructs that attempt to dictate what someone can and can’t wear. Wear
whatever you want and own it!!!” —Monica, UCLA
Photo by Becca McHaffie (https://unsplash.com/@beccamchaffie?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)  on Unsplash
(/s/photos/clothes?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
How Are Your New Year’s Resolutions Going?
 March 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/09/how-are-your-new-years-resolutions-going/) Bradley
Beggs (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/bradley-beggs/)
As we approach the end of February, I think it’s important to ask ourselves the vital question.
How are our New Year’s resolutions going? From weight loss to exercise, gaining confidence
and taking risks, or even making more friends, we hopefully have all set a positive goal for
this new year, especially after the travesty that was 2020. However, we are, all of a sudden,
now one month into 2021, which has already proven to be the same as, if not crazier than,
2020. So with context in mind, this article is in no way going to shame you for abandoning
your goals, because honestly, I’m just proud you are alive right now reading this. 
Whether you made one or not, I think that it is still important to be reflective. How have you
changed since 2020? How have you not? It is a great exercise in looking into yourself and an
opportunity for personal growth. The entire point of making a New Year’s resolution is to
take a habit, or lack thereof, and change it for the better. So, what habit have you attempted
to create or break? Again, there is no shame if you haven’t achieved your wildest dreams and
aren’t currently living the perfect lifestyle. It takes time and effort, which we don’t always
have enough of. Regardless, identifying these less than ideal habits or wanting to start up a
new one is the first step in achieving these ideals you have for yourself. Simply recognizing
areas in your life that you want to improve upon is a testament enough to a healthy mindset.
After all, it is also important to continue to set these kinds of goals for yourself. You should
constantly try to raise the bar for yourself. Don’t just make goals and resolutions one time a
year, but constantly throughout your entire life as you learn new things and your ambitions
change. Finished one resolution? Move onto the next! Don’t wait for an entire year to pass by
to change something in your life for the better. Resolution isn’t working out? Don’t worry,
just tweak it, push it, or drop it altogether. Sometimes, we realize that our habits and lives are
not in need of drastic change, but rather in need of a new perspective or a little bit of
modification. 
And while I am in no way encouraging you to drop every single goal of yours to become a full-
time couch potato, don’t despair if you simply just need to quit. Maybe it’s not the right time
to change some of your habits. Or, maybe you need to direct your habit-changing energy to
another aspect in your life. Whatever the case may be, no one is going to criticize you for
prioritizing other needs in your life. In fact, our biggest critics are often ourselves. And while
keeping ourselves accountable is important, sometimes we need to tell ourselves to shut up!
In essence, New Year’s resolutions are simply an opportunity to look at your life and all its
many facets as a big ball drops a couple of feet at Times Square. You may ask yourself how
you could better your life or what you have learned over the past year that you want to start
applying. You may have even picked up a healthy habit or two and simply want to maintainthe lifestyle you already have. Regardless of whatever you have or have not envisioned for
your life in the new year, I think that we can all agree that the freshness of a new year
provides us with the idea of opportunity. Opportunity that we can utilize in any way we want.
I asked, “how are your New Year’s resolutions going?” But, I should have simply asked, “how
is your new year going?” because whether you made a resolution or not, I think we can all be
proud that we have made it another month in the crazy experience we call life.
Photo by Jude Beck (https://unsplash.com/@judebeck?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)  on Unsplash
(/s/photos/new-year?
utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)