ASTROWORLD
Could the recent Astroworld 
tragedy have been avoided? 
Features editor Nelson Espinal 
argues that crowd control 
and  safety measurements 
are the responsibility of both 
festival organizers and their 
performers. 
TRITONS BEAT CAL IN STUNNING WIN
THE INTERGENERATIONAL TRAUMA 
CYCLEEFFICIENCY runs THE GAME
HOW TRAUMA COMPOUNDS ITSELFSPORTS,  Page 12
OPINION,  Page 5
“...I think it’s a testimony to
the fact that they actually 
really like each other. Player to player, there’s great chemistry on the team 
They’ve bought into this idea 
of just being present and working hard every day. It’s not just so much about the 
destination but the process 
and the journey and they 
bought into that...”
 FEATURES,   PAGE 9
MONDAY 
H 25 L 13
WEDNESDAY 
H 19 L 13
TUESDAY  
H 19 L 14
THURSDAY
H 19 L 13
UCSD SPLITS................2
2022 ELECTIONS..........4
DR. BRAIN.....................6
SPOTIFY WRAPPED.....8
CROSSWORD  .............11VOLUME 55, ISSUE 8   MONDAY , NOVEMBER 15, 2021  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Earlier this month, the family of UC San 
Diego student Nabila* successfully fled 
Afghanistan and received refuge within 
the San Diego area. She had previously spoken 
to The UCSD Guardian regarding her family’s 
experience in Afghanistan shortly after the 
Taliban’s resurgence in August. While currently waiting for further information regarding their displacement, Nabila wants to provide an 
update on her family’s acclimation to San Diego 
to reflect upon the United States’ management of the Afghan refugee crisis.
Shortly after the remainder of U.S. troops 
were evacuated from the country, media coverage of Afghanistan underwent a sharp 
decline. Google search trends within the United 
States highlighted a peak in national interest in the middle of August and a return to baseline the week after all troops were evacuated from 
the country. However, the strained resettlement 
system compounded by a national shortage of affordable housing is bringing Afghan refugees 
back into the public focus.
Nabila’s two sisters and their children are 
still waiting to be admitted to the U.S. on the contingency of available housing. San Diego is 
expecting the second highest influx of Afghan refugees in California and is struggling to meet 
their housing needs. Aid organizations such 
as the International Rescue Committee are given as little as 24-48 hours notice when new refugees arrive in San Diego but they intend to 
continue planning ahead for the resettlement of 
Afghan refugees.
“We’re able to set them up with housing 
support to make sure kids are enrolled in school and that they can get medical checks they need to have,” Executive Director of the 
International Rescue Committee San Diego 
Chapter Donna Duvin told KGTV. “Oftentimes, they’ve been traveling for long periods of time and they have conditions or have prescriptions 
they need refilled.”
Nabila’s family was accepted on a timeline 
not dissimilar to that of many Afghan families. Her mother, sister, brothers and their four 
children were placed into a rented Airbnb in San Diego by an undisclosed agency in early 
November. However, the majority of funding 
for their stay was appropriated to their Airbnb. The two brothers have been offered minimum wage jobs within the area but have limited cash 
to utilize for basic needs.
“They only provide [my family] one check 
of $165 for the whole month to do their grocery shopping and everything,” Nabila told The 
Guardian. “They have like $4,000 of ‘welcome 
money,’ right? They’re not giving the $4,000 to 
the refugees. The organization keeps most of this money to assign them to a random house.”
Nabila’s mother, who was injured, endured 
a similar situation upon reentry into the U.S. Despite being a U.S. citizen, her mother was kept in a military camp in Virginia for two 
months and 10 days.
“The only thing that made me really worried 
about that is that my mom is a U.S. citizen,” Nabila said. “They decided to put her as an 
H1-B, give her a case number and make her wait for two and a half months. My question 
was if she was a US citizen, why did they keep 
there for that long?”
Only a fraction of the money allocated to 
her family is made available for use. The agency 
aiding Nabila’s family remains undisclosed; 
local refugee relocation agencies draw funds from $6.3 billion in emergency supplemental 
funding dedicated to temporarily house 
evacuees at American facilities and in foreign countries.
In a statement addressed to The Guardian, 
U.S. Representative Scott Peters (D-52) emphasized his intent to tell refugees from 
Afghanistan that they are welcome in San 
Diego.
“My message is clear: You are welcome here,” 
Representative Peters wrote. “Our community 
has a long history of helping those fleeing 
violence and oppression and Afghanistan is the newest chapter in that history. There are 
dozens of organizations throughout the County 
dedicated to helping immigrants and bringing communities together.” 
Representative Peters also noted that there 
are many different categories under which Afghan evacuees have come to the United States: Special Immigrant Visas, Humanitarian 
Parole, Refugees, and family members of U.S. 
Citizens and Permanent Residents are among the most common. 
Nabila’s two brothers have a doctorate 
and a master’s degree respectively, and thus were granted H1-B Visas, a visa category that 
grants highly educated foreign professionals 
temporary residency within the United States for up to six years. Her mother and sister were granted safe haven on the basis that they are 
United States citizens. 
Afghan refugees continue to struggle to 
acclimate to relocation in the United States in Proposed 
Chair’s Map 
Splits University 
City but Fails to 
Meet Activists’ 
Expectations
Image courtesy of David Goldman for the Associated Press (Afghan Refugees).On Oct. 29, volunteers 
redrawing San Diego’s district boundaries approved a draft of 
a new map. This map, known as the Chair’s map, proposes 
keeping UC San Diego with La 
Jolla, but splits University City in half. 
The tentative map also The tentative map also 
would keep Rancho Penasquitos would keep Rancho Penasquitos 
divided in two, despite lobbying divided in two, despite lobbying 
from residents who have from residents who have 
asked for reunification. Torrey asked for reunification. Torrey 
Highlands would shift from Highlands would shift from 
District 5 to District 6, which has District 5 to District 6, which has 
been controversial with some been controversial with some 
residents.residents.
HHowever, it stays away from 
a controversial proposition to 
divide Clairemont into four 
parts by dividing it into two at Genesee Avenue. The proposed 
map would also split University 
City between Districts 1 and 6 at Genesee Avenue and Eastgate Mall. However, it would unite 
Normal Heights in District 9 and 
Linda Vista in District 7. 
The map would reorganize 
several other neighborhoods in 
San Diego;. Redwood Village 
and Rolando Park would move from District 4 to District 9, 
Mount Hope would move from 
District 9 to District 4, and Shelltown and Southcrest would move from District 9 to District 
8. 
Advocates posit that one of 
the main strengths of the new district map is that it would help 
benefit minority groups in San Diego. According to the San 
Diego Tribune, this map would 
increase the percentage of AAPI in District 6 from 34% to more than 38%. 
However, opponents such 
as Associated Students’ AVP of Local Affairs Aidan Lin have 
also criticized this, saying that 
anything under 40% would be inadequate. 
“The Chair’s map is 
wholly inadequate when it comes to addressing the 
needs of underrepresented 
and historically oppressed communities,” Lin said. “It doesn’t achieve a high enough 
AAPI population in District 6 
which is the AAPI empowerment seat, it doesn’t listen to student 
needs in a way that allows us to 
resolve our own local struggles like housing and transportation, 
and it keeps ... two communities 
that were split ... divided when they should be reunited.” 
This criticism lines up with 
the demands that UCSD students and other activists have made By JOSE CHAVEZ  Senior Staff WriterREFUGEES
Update: UCSD Student’s Family Secures Refuge From 
AfghanistanREDISTRICTING
By KAITLYN LEE
Staff Writer
See REDISTRICTING,  page 2 See REFUGEES,  page 3FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE
Image courtesy of Alexander 
Londono from Unsplash.
JON PASCALE,
DIVISION-1,
PG. 12Interested in applying for
SCAN HERE
@ucsdguardian FOLLOW US!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD  
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2021, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing EditorCo-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features EditorA&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
for the new redistricting of San 
Diego. Since September, students 
have been calling for UCSD to 
become a part of a new, majority-AAPI district. Students contend 
that their demands and needs 
have more in common with District 6 to the east of campus rather than District 1’s La Jolla 
beach community. Proponents 
of this map call it the San Diego Collaborative Communities 
map. 
The San Diego Collaborative 
Communities map would split UCSD from La Jolla and join it 
with a newly drawn District 6 that would be 42% AAPI and would also increase Latino populations 
in Districts 8 and 9. Lin and 
other activists supporting this map see joining UCSD with 
District 6 as an important step 
towards helping UCSD students with pressing problems such as 
the housing crisis. 
The map would join La 
Jolla with beach communities 
in District 1, while District 2 would be shifted more inward so Clairemont, Kearny Mesa, Serra Mesa, and Linda Vista would be reunited. District 5 would go from Del Mar Heights 
to Rancho Bernardo, while 
District 7 would connect from Carmel Mountain Ranch to 
Del Cerro. 
According to A One Page 
Guide compiled by Lin, La Jolla is made up of a White-majority 
population (about 79.3%) where individuals usually 
tend to be older (56.1% aged 
40 and older), and wealthier 
($116.9k median household 
income). However, University City, which includes the UCSD 
Campus and nearby student 
population centers has a more diverse (49.0% White, 33.3% 
Asian), younger population 
(68.3% aged 0-39), with a median household income around $79.8k. 
“The UCSD community 
has such a diverse group; 
we have amazing cultures 
and perspectives that are represented, that get 
overshadowed when you’re 
placed with these coastal districts,” Lin elaborated. 
“[District 1’s City Council 
Member has historically] 
always come from La Jolla, always is of a certain demographic, 
is always well-off, and always 
basically listens to the needs of 
La Jolla over the needs of the 
student body,” Lin said. 
According to Lin, this has 
led to students’ issues being overruled by La Jollans, such as 
the housing crisis. For example, on Oct. 19, 2020, the La Jolla Shores Association and a local 
homeowners group filed a 
lawsuit against UCSD’s planned Theatre District and Learning 
Neighborhood expansion, which would’ve included 
housing for 2,000 students. 
Additionally, District 6 is 
significant as it has been deemed 
the Asian-American Pacific 
Islander (AAPI) empowerment district. 
In 2011, District 6 was 
created as a new ninth district in the redistricting process that 
year. During the redistricting 
process in 2011, a group of 
activists successfully pushed 
for an AAPI empowerment seat, where the district’s largest demographic would be the AAPI community. Currently, District 6 
has the highest AAPI population 
in any of the city council districts at approximately 35%. 
Three commissioners on 
the volunteer redistricting panel, Commissioners Justine Nielsen, Roy MacPhail and 
Monica Hernandez, have voiced 
their support for the San Diego 
Collaborative Communities 
map. However, the other six 
panelists have instead backed the 
Chair’s map. 
However, critics of the 
Collaborative Communities map said that the changes would be too dramatic, especially for District 1, 2, 5, and 7. 
They also state that it 
steers away from San Diego’s longtime goal of having two coastal districts. While the proposed map has both District 
1 and District 6 with shorelines, 
District 6’s shoreline would only have UCSD and some sparsely 
populated areas. 
Commissioner Fred Kosmo, 
a critic of the Collaborative 
Communities map, said that the 
best compromise would be the 
Chair’s map.
 “The Chair’s map is the best map as far as balancing the interests of all the people of San Diego and drawing the lines 
in a fair space consistent with 
our guidelines and trying to give everybody a voice,” Kosmo said.
In response, Lin stated that 
the current maps don’t represent the population of UCSD, only the coastal communities like La 
Jolla.  
“We’ve been prioritizing 
the coastal communities for so 
long, now let’s see how they can 
bear some of this burden in this 
redistricting process so that the other communities that have 
been separated or underheard 
for decades can now finally be heard and we can empower those voices as well,” Lin said.
However, while it had 
appeared that the Chair’s map seemed to have the majority support, the commissioners on Nov. 4 voted to reject it although 
the commission voted to see 
other maps before making a decision. 
On Nov. 9, the commission 
asked to prepare legal analysis on three different maps, one 
of them being the San Diego 
Collaborative Communities Map. ▶ REDISTRICTING , from page 1
Image courtesy of Michelle Guerrero of the 
San Diego Union Tribune.Image courtesy of Michelle Guerrero of the San Diego Union Tribune.
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ REFUGEES , from page 1
large part due to trauma faced in Afghanistan. An anonymous Afghan refugee who 
fled before the Taliban’s takeover told ABC10 News that he and his wife were kept in a 
military camp in Virginia for 50 days before being placed.
“They sacrificed so much to help the Americans in Afghanistan and they don’t see 
us as human beings,” the refugee’s translator shared to ABC10 News. “They completely disregard us, our needs and our humanity.”
Nabila’s nieces and nephews have gone nearly two months without attending school 
since the crisis in Afghanistan. She said that her brothers’ children cannot enroll in 
local schools until they are moved into permanent housing, which may be as far north 
as Temecula. Nabila believes that it is unfair for children to have to be taken out of 
school for prolonged periods of time.
“Right now, they cannot go to school because they have to wait until they get 
housing,” Nabila said. “Like if they stay one or two more months without going to 
school, I think it’s a waste of time for the kids. I’m really hoping they will be able to go.”
Some counties throughout the United States have begun enrolling Afghan refugee students. The Washington Post reported that nearly 180 students have enrolled this fall 
in the public schools of Fairfax County, Virginia, while 50 refugee children in Texas 
have started classes in Austin and 65 in California have started in Fremont. 
Those interested in learning more about resources available to refugee students 
in San Diego can visit the San Diego Unified School District’s website for more information.
As of the writing of this article, nearly 55,000 Afghan refugees await resettlement 
within U.S. military bases throughout the country. Recent arrivals can contact local 
resettlement agencies like the International Rescue Committee by going to their 
website or calling their San Diego phone number at 619-641-7510. Refugees can also 
contact members of the San Diego Refugee Forum to learn more about what support systems are in place.
*Editor’s Note: Nabila was granted anonymity upon request for the safety of her 
family.
Find the survey at linktr.ee/ucsdasce
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Lessons from November’s Gubernatorial Races 
In the first week of 
November, Democratic 
candidate Terry McAuliffe ran 
against Republican candidate Glenn Youngkin for the position 
of governor of Virginia. In a 
surprising development, Glenn Youngkin will become the first Republican governor of a 
blue state since 2014, logically 
sounding the alarm bell for what will come for the Democratic 
Party in the upcoming 2022 
elections. In order to either expand the majority in both 
the House and Senate or 
mitigate the potential losses from the midterm elections, the Democratic Party must spotlight 
their economic agenda and show 
substantive action in combating the COVID-19 pandemic.
Let’s compare the outcome 
of two different gubernatorial races that happened in the first week of November: Virginia and 
New Jersey. McAuliffe based his 
entire campaign on connecting Youngkin to Trump by 
emphasizing Youngkin’s delay of 
recognizing the legitimacy of the outcome of the 2020 election in 
favor of Biden. However, when it 
came to the day to vote on Nov. 2, 2021, Youngkin’s narrow victory in Virginia demonstrates that 
the traditional political strategy 
of public smearing is no longer a viable option in an environment 
of intense partisanship and 
polarization. On the other hand, Democrat Phil Murphy won in New Jersey — albeit a 
narrow victory especially in 
a widely known Democratic stronghold — by spotlighting his economic plans for the state: 
raising the minimum wage, 
guaranteed paid sick leave, and extensive infrastructure 
investments. These issues 
possess overwhelming support among the American people, 
with a majority of Republicans 
supporting an increase in the minimum wage. 
In the upcoming midterm 
elections, it is imperative that President Biden and the Democratic Party emphasize 
their role in passing the $550 
billion infrastructure deal: a plan that will invest in repairing 
and building new roads, bridges, 
electric public transit, clean 
water, and high speed internet, 
because it would be a significant 
talking point in emphasizing the Trump administration’s inability to pass any infrastructure plan 
through Congress. If anything, 
the Democratic Party is not doing enough to highlight 
the United States’ lack of 
competitiveness in the quality of infrastructure, healthcare, 
and higher education relative to 
the rest of the developed world. The Democratic Party is fixated on smearing former President 
Donald Trump and any of his 
endorsed candidates rather than addressing the issues that 
an overwhelming majority of 
Americans want to see resolved by Congress, a strategy that ended very poorly in Virginia —  a state widely considered to 
be a Democratic stronghold. The 
other major bill hotly contested in Congress is the $1.75 trillion reconciliation bill which would 
legislate investment in clean 
energy, extended child tax credit, universal pre-kindergarten for 
all Americans, and expanding 
Medicare coverage for dental and hearing benefits. This bill is 
consequential and would place 
the United States on the precipice of revamping the American commitment to combating 
climate change and capping the 
amount that working families spend on child care, which 
should evidently be expected in 
the wealthiest and one of the most developed nations in the world. 
Combating climate change, 
improving infrastructure and public transportation impacts the lives of Americans on main street in the present and future. 
While Democrats and other left-
wing candidates will easily win in urban districts in the midterms, 
Democratic candidates in swing 
states such as Pennsylvania, Arizona, Wisconsin, and 
Michigan will have a very close 
race against Republicans — most of whom are endorsed by Donald Trump — who tactictly believe 
the 2020 election was illegitimate 
and climate change is either a minor or non-existent issue. The 
failure of the Democratic Party 
to maintain control in Virginia explicitly demonstrates that its candidates must emphasize their  economic agendas and tremendous achievements thus 
far in financial relief for COVID-
19 and its commitment to reverse 
the setbacks in infrastructure 
thus far; if not, the Republican 
victory in Virginia is merely a footnote in what will potentially 
be a Republican landslide in 
2022. The Democratic Party’s progressive policies of combating climate change, Medicare 
expansion, tackling income 
inequality, and protecting the socioeconomic interests of the 
middle and working classes 
would be halted for decades to come.
Image courtesy of Joshua Woroniecki from Unsplash.
The Democrats’ Strategy For the 2022 Midterms
By Nicholas Tappin
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Win McNamee from Getty Images.RAYMOND TRANOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Intergenerational trauma, 
which can also be referred to 
as trans- or multigenerational 
trauma, is defined as “trauma that gets passed down from 
those who directly experience 
an incident to subsequent generations.” Intergenerational trauma may begin with a 
traumatic event affecting an 
individual or traumatic events affecting larger groups of 
people, from families to racial 
groups. Left alone, this cycle of trauma continues. In order to 
become better parents for the 
next generation, we must first understand our trauma, heal from it, and cultivate a parenting 
style that implements the change 
necessary to break that cycle. 
Trauma is more than just 
experiencing life-threatening situations. It can form from smaller-scale incidents and can 
exist without being noticed. 
Whether it’s constantly being criticized as a child or growing 
up in a home unaccepting of 
one’s identity, trauma can form — no matter the parents’ intentions. 
For example, individuals who 
experienced the effects of war from a young age may become 
emotionally distant as a coping 
mechanism. Therefore, when this individual is emotionally 
distant with their family, that 
relationship may cause issues for those on the receiving end.
Parents do not try to 
traumatize their children. However, regardless of intention, parents also do not decide what is traumatizing for their children. 
The ways in which family 
members cope with their own trauma can set precedence for 
younger generations. Refusing to examine one’s trauma may be 
teaching children to ignore the 
impact of their trauma.
By Raymond Tran 
Opinion Editorpunishment, such as being hit as 
a child, as well as internalizing 
social fear passed down by the 
parent’s view of the world. 
The way we cope with 
adversity, the way we react in the face of rejection, and the 
way we interact with different types of people, can be affected 
by intergenerational trauma. As 
college students, it is imperative 
to acknowledge whatever trauma 
we may have experienced, 
whether it’s intergenerational or not. We are finally old enough to 
recognize our trauma and begin 
to heal from it. When we are ready to have children of our own, we need to break the cycle 
of trauma. 
We’ve all been on the 
receiving end of someone who hasn’t fully recovered or processed from their trauma, 
and not only can it be frustrating 
but it can also cause turmoil 
for yourself. Don’t let trauma manifest into something that 
starts to affect the people around 
us. Taking the steps to stop 
intergenerational trauma from compounding not only protects 
our future children, but also 
incentivizes us to take the next 
step in developing better mental 
health habits. 
Admittedly, mental health 
hasn’t been a priority until relatively recently. There are 
certain generational barriers that both explain and perpetuate trauma, especially on a cultural 
level where certain behaviors 
and parenting techniques were normalized and widely accepted. 
While this generational gap may seem impossible to explain to 
our parents, we should not allow 
it to halt any healing that we may 
need. 
Especially as a generation 
who was raised by immigrants, at first it may seem ungrateful 
to label “tough love” as trauma. However, trauma can still 
develop and we owe it to the next generation to address it 
instead of risking the chance of 
continuing the cycle. 
For many in strained 
relationships with parental 
figures in their lives, resentment 
comes easier than forgiveness. This is an appropriate response, 
but in order to fully overcome 
trauma, there comes a time during the healing processes 
in which we let go of the 
resentment, as keeping it around harbors unresolved anger. 
Whether it’s going to 
therapy, acknowledging and understanding your toxic behaviors, or finding closure for 
unresolved issues, healing can 
take many forms. There is no rush or timeline for the healing process, but it’s important to 
start and make the effort to be 
prepared to raise and support the next generation. 
This is not to say that everyone 
is a victim of intergenerational trauma. However, as potential 
future parents, it’s the wisest 
choice to acknowledge whatever trauma we may have, intergenerational or not, before 
we become responsible for a 
whole generation. Unfortunately, unhealthy 
coping mechanisms can be 
passed down as well, not 
genetically, but behaviorally. A study by Frontier of Psychology 
concluded that “mothers with 
unresolved trauma had insecure attachment themselves and were more likely to have infants with 
insecure attachment.” 
Other examples of 
intergenerational trauma include instances of physical Healing From Intergenerational Trauma, 
Become Better Future Parents
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
The UCSD Guardian interviewed Director Kim Jee-Won and the 
cast of Apple TV+’s first Korean title “Dr. Brain.” Kim Jee-Woon, Lee 
Sun-Kyun, Lee You-Young, Park Hee-Soon, Seo Jihye, and Lee Jae-
Won all delve into the production process and the decisions that had to be made in order to adapt the story from a popular Korean webtoon 
of the same name by Hongjacga.
 “Dr. Brain” follows the story of neuroscientist Sewon Koh, played 
by Lee Sun-Kyun, who’s also known for his role as the affluent father 
in Bong Joon-ho’s “Parasite.” Sewon is a victim of tragedy at a young age, having witnessed his mother’s death. His ability to remember this moment in great detail is what sparked his interest in memories and consciousness. 
Sewon develops a method to access memories and consciousness 
of another individual, a process which he calls ‘brain sync.’ Sun-Kyun clarified that brain sync is “more than simply obtaining memory, even the emotions and the character, or habits, of the other person is trans -
ferred to myself.” 
Sun-Kyun also mentioned the conversation he had with director 
Jee-Won in which Sun-Kyun compared brain sync to “the airdrop function of Apple devices.”
 Being that Sewon is described by Sun-Kyun as “a character who 
can’t empathize with others,” many may draw the connection to his role in “Parasite” where he played the apathetic father of an upper class family. 
Where Sewon differs is that, “after having brain syncs he under -
stands other people’s feelings and realizes he has this deficiency [in emotion] and he hasn’t been a good father or a good family to his family members,” making him a compelling character to follow as he evolves.
The main story in the original webtoon was much more linear 
and straightforward as Sewon’s main characteristics and invention of brain sync was used by him to aid in the solving of various murder cases. 
Kim Jee-Won was tasked with developing this core concept a bit 
further to engage the audience for six, one-hour long episodes. Being that he is known as a key part of the renaissance of Korean cinema and has been noted as the ‘master of genre films,’ Jee-Won was able to evolve the webtoon by adding new elements to the murder-mystery genre. 
When asked what makes “Dr. Brain” different from other Kore -
an dramas, he stated that, “This is a murder mystery-thriller but, it’s also a sci-fi series because it’s based on brain science and Sewon goes through multiple brain syncs. He also tries to find peace with himself through these brain syncs so this is also an emotional human drama.” 
Jee-won mentioned that “while the webtoon is more fast paced and 
about the mystery and the murder mystery, the show adds more lay -
ers to it, for example, family tales, more meaning, and there is a more heartwarming feeling to it.”Lee You-Young portrays Sewon’s wife, Jaeyi Jung, who is in a 
coma after being consumed by depression following the loss of her 
and Sewon’s son. Though not in the original webtoon, Jaeyi is “a very 
strong mother figure and at the same time a kind and supportive wife to Sewon.” Her heart wrenching performance lends itself to strength -
ening the theme of family, which becomes more apparent as Sewon gains empathy through his brain syncs. 
Park Hee-Soon is introduced as private investigator Kangmu Lee 
who was hired by, Junki, a mysterious man with a past connection to Jaeyi. Hee-Soon said his character of Kangmu “in the original webt -
oon is a mysterious and charismatic man, but in the series you can see some humanity in him.” He stated, “Myself and the director would share a lot of conversations to make sure that was accomplished.” 
Then enters Seo Ji-Hye and her role as detective Lieutenant Choi. 
Investigating Sewon as a person of interest in the murder of the mys -
tery man Junki, Sewon uses brain sync in attempt to clear his name and find the truth. She said Lieutenant Choi “is a very strong and cold headed person but as she and Sewon try to uncover the case together,  I wanted to make sure I could also express the soft and compassionate side of Lieutenant Choi.”
When asked about the believability of the science shown in the 
series, Kim Jee-won responded, “Based on the research by [consulting brain scientist] Dr. Jaeseung Jeong I tried to put this unimaginative idea into something that’s more realistic.” He said, “I used a lot of sci -
entific hypotheses to try to add authenticity to our work.” 
Over the course of six episodes the audience sees the growth of 
Sewon, and Sun-Kyun stated that, “I think he starts off as a cold heart -
ed person but he ends on a passionate note.” The emotional growth Sewon goes through is not a lone journey as the supporting characters add their own element of drama, mystery, and even comedy over the course of the series. 
Kim Jee-won’s talent for reworking and mixing genres makes “Dr. 
Brain’’ a show for a wide variety of fans to enjoy. Kim Jeewon noted that  “this is my first foray into serialized television and I shot it as if it was a film” which lends itself for fans to indulge in one entertaining 
binge night.  
With Korean entertainment rising in popularity on a global scale 
— most notably with the recent success of Netflix’s “Squid Game” — the accessibility streaming services gives audiences to foreign works is changing the entertainment industry before our eyes. 
“For us previous dramas or films first premieres in Korea and only 
when it receives a positive response it is introduced overseas,” Park Hee-soon stated, “but through OTT platforms these contents can si -
multaneously drop throughout the world in every country around the world.” 
“I hope,” Hee-Soon continued, “that by taking this opportunity, 
we get to showcase more K-Content and great K-Drama to the global audiences.” 
Dr . Brain Roundtable
Sam Olsen from The Guardian’s Arts & Entertainment partakes in a global press roundtable for Apple TV+’s “Dr. Brain” , 
a new Korean series from Director Kim Jee-Woon. 
Director: 
Kim Jee-won
Starring: 
Lee Sun-kyun, 
Lee You-Young, 
Park Hee-soon, 
Seo Ji-hye, and 
Lee Jae-won
Release Date: 
Weekly starting 11/04/2021
Rated: 
TV-MA
Image courtesy of  TV Insider. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
In case you didn’t know, the 
resident assistant application pe -
riod is coming up! If you want to 
become an RA but don’t know what to put in your application, look no further. This list is ex -
tremely scientific — in the loos -
est sense of the term — way to understand how you would be as an RA based on your star sign. Note: This list can also be helpful if you are looking to star profile your RA. Let’s begin!
Aries: March 21 - April 19 (fire sign)
Aries are known to be positive, so if you get an Aries as an RA, you can expect them to always look on the bright side. They probably have a lot of school spirit, and get excited for the different campus wide events. Community and to -
getherness are really important to Aries, so you will probably have the opportunity to partici -
pate in lots of bonding activities! While Aries are a lot of fun, they also have a bit of a temper. But don’t be too worried about up -
setting them, because while their anger can be explosive, they are also quick to forgive. 
Taurus: April 20 - May 20 (earth sign)
Taurus RAs, like many earth signs, are focused on building a peaceful environment. There -
fore, expect your residence hall to be filled with plants or other serene decorations. If your RA is a Taurus, you will probably see them all the time because they never leave the building! This will allow you to get to know them better. Taurians are ex -
tremely loyal, so know that they will always be looking out for you, even if that privilege does not extend to people who aren’t their residents. But beware, be -
cause if a Taurus has to write you up, they probably won’t forget it. 
Gemini: May 21 - June 21 (air sign)
Geminis are extremely social and always looking for their missing half, which could be a good thing or a bad thing in an RA. If you are looking to join a club or organization, you should talk to them because they prob -
ably know someone there! They also will attend different events with you to let out their social energy, but might float around instead of staying by your side. A Gemini RA will always be down to chat with you, that is, if you can find them. If your RA is a Gemini then you might not see them super often because they are busy making new friends!
Cancer: June 22 - July 22 (water sign)
Cancers are great RAs if you are looking for someone to emotion -
ally connect with. They might make a terrible first impression, but they are good at matching vibes and will work their hard -
est to make your residence hall a safe space. They will never tell you directly if they are upset, which can be a good thing if you don’t like being confronted! However, it can result in a lot of passive aggression if you don’t do the dishes or are too loud past quiet hours. Once you get to know a Cancer RA, you will learn that they are always ready to help you out! Plus, if you ask, they will probably cook for you. Leo: July 23 - August 22 (fire sign)Leos have a bit of a superiority complex when it comes to be -
ing an RA. They probably think their RA status makes them a lit -
tle bit better than everyone else. 
When you first moved in, they 
probably made you follow their 
socials right off the bat. Despite 
that, having a Leo as an RA can 
be really fun! Because Leos ap -
preciate the finer aspects of life, 
your floor will always be stocked 
with nice things like air fryers or 
good paper towels. They are al -
ways down to listen to whatever 
gossip you have, even if it’s about 
the other residents! And despite 
what you may think, they really 
do care about you. 
Virgo: Aug 23 - Sept 22 (earth sign)
Virgo RAs take their job very 
seriously, sometimes too seri -
ously at times. They can be really strict about rules, like noise level 
and cleanliness in the common 
room. Additionally, they proba -
bly have an unhealthy obsession 
with being known as the “best floor” which can be annoying at times. However, their drive for 
improvement will make them 
very open to constructive criti -
cism and feedback from you or 
other residents. They will plan a lot of events that will help you get to know people, which is nice if you are a first year. And, even though they can seem intimidat -
ing at times, they will be there for you when you need them. 
Libra: Sept. 23 - Oct. 23 (air sign)
Libra RAs will definitely have the best floor decorations, hands down. Their creativity and love of art probably caused them to spend hours upon hours making posters, wall decorations, and name tags. They also have the prettiest Instagram newsletters. However, Libra aren’t just about aesthetics; you will definitely be able to form a connection with them. They make sure that they know all about their residents, including their birthdays! And although they rarely plan events due to indecision, having a Libra as your RA will be a great expe -
rience. Scorpio: Oct 24 - Nov 21 (water sign)Scorpios are known to be 
very good at planning, which 
means that they probably have 
a thought-out program that en -
sures you have the best experi -
ence as a resident. However, this 
can also mean that they may find a way to catch you breaking the 
rules when you least expect it. 
Despite those sinister character -
istics, Scorpio RAs are great at 
giving advice, whether that be 
about school, friends, or even ro -
mance! However, be aware that 
they love being leaders, and be -
ing an RA might give them a bit of a power trip. 
Sagittarius: Nov. 22 - Dec. 21 (fire sign)
Sagittarius, like many fire signs, 
are always on the move. This means that they probably know 
the campus in and out, and will 
let you know about all the cool places to check out. They also 
know lots of random facts, seeing 
that they love exploring different 
avenues of knowledge. And, Sag -
ittarians are extremely funny, so 
get ready to laugh when you read 
their newsletters and emails. 
Watch out though, because their 
humor can extend to making fun 
of you when you least expect it. 
And remember that although it 
can seem like it, Sagittarius RAs 
don’t know everything!
Capricorn: Dec. 22 - Jan. 19 (earth sign)
If Sagittarians know the weirdest 
facts, Capricorns definitely have the weirdest stories. If you ask, 
they will probably tell you some 
of the craziest things that they’ve done as long as you promise to 
not do it too — or at least not 
let them find out. Capricorn 
RAs definitely have a different personality when they aren’t 
around their residents, which 
can make it seem difficult to talk 
to them about the important 
stuff. But honestly, that is 
probably for the best. If you can 
move past that, they will make sure that you have the best time 
at UCSD!Aquarius: Jan 20 - Febr 18 (air sign)
Aquarius, like Amy Poehler in 
Mean Girls, is the “cool RA.” 
They will probably tell you how 
to get around the rules, maybe 
because they want you to have 
fun, or more likely because they 
don’t want to do any paperwork. They will constantly complain 
about their RA duties to you, and 
can sometimes act so casually 
that you forget they are actually 
in charge! The only problem with 
having an Aquarius as an RA is 
that they might seem at a loss 
if you try to talk to them about 
deep topics. Despite that, if your 
RA is an Aquarius, your resi -
dence life will be pretty relaxed.
Pisces: Feb 19 - March 20 (water sign)
Pisces are extremely emotionally conscious and empathetic, which 
can be great if you need support 
or someone to talk to about your problems. They have a very ac -
tive creative side, which can re -
sult in the most unique events 
you’ve ever seen in a residence 
hall. This can also make them 
very fun to talk to! But because 
they prefer to avoid confronta -
tion, Pisces RAs will probably be 
hesitant to act on any complaints you may have, especially if it 
concerns your floormates. Other 
than that, you are going to have a 
great time with a Pisces RA!
I hope this extremely serious and 
scientific list was informative in 
your RA application process or 
helpful in getting to know your 
RA better! Good luck out there!
 What Kind of RA Would 
You Be Based on Your Zodiac Sign?
If you’re anything like me, you’ve been 
waiting quite awhile for this time of year 
again. I’m not talking about the joys of 
the Christmas season or the prospect of 
winter break inching around the corner. 
No, in fact, I’m talking about the great 
anticipation for your personal Spotify 
Wrapped to be released. Now before I 
go too in depth, I would like to formally apologize to all the Apple Music users — 
you remain in my thoughts and prayers 
as always — however, there will be some useful and insightful music listening tips 
for you as well, so don’t turn the page just 
yet. 
For all you casual Spotify users, you 
know that the cutoff for your Spotify Wrapped statistics has recently passed 
and Spotify is hard at work tabulating and 
collecting your personal listening data to show you your musical year in review. I 
like to think that they cut it off around 
this time to allow us to listen to Mariah 
Carey’s “All I want for Christmas is You” 
on repeat without having to worry about 
it affecting our top songs of the year, but 
I have been wrong about much larger and 
more important things. Regardless, the deadline has passed to salvage your music 
taste before the possible embarrassment 
of posting your top artist for the year as 
the Glee Cast once again. Believe me, the 
Glee Cast has some catchy covers, but 
seriously? It’s 2021 … c’mon now. 
Now, for those of you with normal 
music tastes, you probably already have a good idea of who your top artist is. For me, I can guarantee that 100% without a 
shadow of a doubt my top artist of 2021 
will be … drumroll please … Phoebe Bridgers! Which if you think about it, 
isn’t a very positive reflection of the year 
I’ve had. But no matter! I am proud to be a #Pharb4Life. 
Regardless of your top artists, genres, 
tracks, and podcasts, I think that Spotify 
Wrapped is a great tool to reflect on the 
years we’ve all had. Music is a fantastic way to recall memories and feelings. It 
can bring us back to happier or sadder 
times, and even remind us how we got to 
where we are. A lot can happen in a year, 
so it’s nice to have an overarching review 
of what helped you through those tough 
times, and what made the great times 
even greater. So instead of just posting your Spotify wrapped on your Instagram 
story this year, really take a second to 
remember what this year was like for you 
through your music. 
Revisit your favorite episode of a 
podcast, get back into the forgotten genre you stopped listening to over the summer, 
or take another listen to the song you 
were obsessed with during spring break. This is a time to reinvigorate your music 
taste or even put you on a new musical 
journey. Maybe it’s time for you to  finally stop listening to “drivers license” by 
Olivia Rodrigo and move on to someone 
different. Take a listen to that indie band your friend has been begging you to listen 
to. Who knows, they may just be your top 
artist next year.
And if I can leave you with one last 
tip, it’s to reach out to those who post their Spotify Wrapped. I know it’s easy 
to retweet the “No one cares about your 
Spotify Wrapped” tweet every year, but 
it’s actually a great tool to get to know 
some of your friends on a deeper level. 
Our music tastes are inherently unique 
to us. Even if you and your friend seem 
to have the exact same likes and dislikes, I could guarantee there is at least one 
artist that you differ on. And that is the 
beauty of Spotify Wrapped. You are able 
to look into the people and songs that 
shape each others’ realities. So reach out! 
Tell someone how much you love their top 
artists too, ask about someone’s number 
one track you’ve never heard of before. 
Use this opportunity to broaden your musical horizons. And happy listening!
How to Prepare for your Spotify Wrapped Written by Samantha Phan, Contributing Lifestyle Writer
Written By Bradley Beggs  Lifestyle Co-Editor Writer
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.
Need advice?
Submit your question for 
“Ask Bradley” with the QR 
Code below!The third annual Astroworld 
festival took place on Nov. 5, 
scheduled for two days full of mu -
sic, rides, long merchandise lines, 
and a general hotspot for pop cul -
ture. 
The festival featured a line-up 
of artists seemingly plucked out of 
Spotify’s “similar artists” section on Travis Scott’s page. 
From artists with soothing 
R&B jams like SZA, to energetic mosh pit-filled facts like Sheck Wes and Travis Scott, the line-up covered a lot of bases with the larger teenage crowd. 
The event carefully curated 
for his fans, Scott seemed ready to put on a great show for the first Astroworld since the pandemic, where fans could escape all of the turmoil within the past year and a half. 
Instead, chaos ensued from the 
very beginning and carried over throughout the day. Videos show -
case a large stampede of people tearing down the fence in order to enter the event. 
Security guards formed a wall 
as a measure of crowd control, with the people swarming eventu -
ally becoming too much. 
This kind of overwhelming 
energy presented challenges even during the music section. From very early on, fans overran the VIP section, causing a lack of room and space for those there. 
Plenty of people were seen 
passing out from the early musical acts, but when Travis Scott came on stage at the end of the day, the 
events took a turn. FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
NELSON  ESPINAL 
By Nelson Espinal
Features Editor
The Astroworld Tragedy: No One Gets Off Scott Free
Image courtesy of Alexander Londono from Unsplash. 
A few days after the Astroworld tragedy, questions remain about how the event managed 
to end in such a huge loss of life. Who is responsible? What made this event different 
from many other hip-hop concerts?
The intensity of the show  
ramped up as Travis Scott came 
on the stage. The people in the back rushed to the stage, caus -
ing those already in the front to receive pressure, even more so than before. People end up fall -
ing over and, eventually, on the bottom of a pile of bodies. 
While some, according to 
personal accounts, managed to survive the pile of bodies, oth -
ers tragically passed away due to a lack of air. Those who sur -
vived the swelling of the crowd were treated at a local Houston hospital. 
Confusion after the event 
arose as to how the problem got to this tragic level and why no one stopped the event.
Reports and videos on social 
media swirled with ambulances and medical staff attempting to treat people in the middle of the musical performance set. 
Attendees tried to capture 
the attention of even organizers and coordinators. They went as far as climbing on the platform from which an Apple Music cameraman recorded the event for the live stream. 
The festival has become a 
huge talking point on Twitter, with the practices of the event scrutinized under a media mi -
croscope. The history of large festivals provides a point of ref -
erence for what the standard of protocol is and how much As -
troWorld veered from it. 
The mosh pits were a part 
of the issue related to crowd control, with large amounts of space carved out without much room to begin with. Mosh pits are large circles, in which peo -ple back up and form an empty hole. Once the song begins, ev -
eryone rushes inside, with people getting physical inside. 
Travis Scott events are known 
for these kinds of concert activi -
ties, which means event planners took it into consideration. 
At Astroworld, some people 
tried to help those on the floor and establish some control, but many fans disregarded the peo -
ple on the ground as well. Fo -
cused on simply having fun, they neglected some of the people in need of help. 
Potentially, the large gap of 
time from the initial shutdown to the current increase in flow of music events may have played a role in some of the crowd’s be -
havior. Various studies pointed out the mental effects of the pan -
demic, increasing levels of de -
pression and exacerbating peo -
ple’s own issues. 
The culmination of excite -
ment and need for relief from personal issues creates a poten -
tial explanation for the crowd’s actions.  
While out of the direct con -
trol of Scott, these are some of the aspects event planners and organizers usually take into con -
sideration. 
Anne Templeton, a researcher 
who published a study on creat -
ing a safe concert environment, addresses why people end up participating in mosh pits. 
Templeton wrote, “Another 
reason that crowd members may engage in risk-taking is because they are acting in line with ex -
pected social norms at the event (Hopkins & Reicher, 2020). Groups have normative behaviors that they expect to enact at col -
lective events (Stott et al., 2001) and performing these behaviors demonstrates group membership to others, can be encouraged by others, and is an important part of enjoying the events (Hopkins et al., 2019).”
The act of “moshing” dates 
back to the 1970s, in which punk rock groups encouraged a high level of physicality. The practice, 
over the course of the years, tran -
sitioned into EDM and hip hop events as well. When a high in -
tensity song comes on, the crowd releases some of the energy from the performers. 
With the higher intensity, 
especially the energy Scott de -
mands from his fans, a need for responsibility also comes about. Scott Ian, the guitarist for the band Anthrax, addresses the re -
sponsibility that performers have on the crowd. 
“If I’m egging a crowd on to 
get more crazy, I’m also keeping an eye on them the whole time,” Ian said. “And if something starts happening, we stop the show and that diffuses the whole thing. I don’t know what planet you’re on if you’re performing onstage and you’re oblivious to what’s going on in front of you.”
At no point in the show did 
Scott stop the show for more than confusion about the abun-dance , even though ambulances made their way into the middle of the crowd. He did stop to no -
tice them, but did not guide the crowd to make room or ask any -
one what was happening. 
Templeton endorses some 
sort of communication with the crowd so they can act accord -ingly. Some attendees can remain unaware of what is happening and it is up to the organizers to establish control and relay the circumstances at the event. 
“Organizers of crowd events 
could have prototypical group members communicate and dis -
play the expected behavior and emphasise how it is within the crowd’s interest to adhere and 
against the crowd’s interest to do 
the opposite. For example, orga -
nizers could emphasise that fol -
lowing the safety guidance is in 
the group interest because it is an 
act of care for fellow group mem -
bers, and encourage self-regula -
tion within the crowd by asking them to ensure others act safely. They could also demonstrate how it is against the crowd’s interest 
not to adhere to the guidance 
since nonadherence could stop 
future events,” Templeton said.
The show organizers and Tra -
vis Scott encouraged the energy 
present at the festival — tons of energy and a showcase of the passion fans have for the music. When supporting this kind of 
behavior, the responsibility is left  
on those who start the energy to 
manage it. 
Their measures of crowd con -
trol provide a way to prevent this 
kind of tragedy in the future, with more willingness to stop shows for breaks and more com -
munication within everyone at 
the festival. 
The Astroworld tragedy could 
have been avoided, but the spot -
light on crowd control planning 
provides an avenue for focusing 
on safety at music festivals.MON 11.15
10am
PRICE CENTER PLAZADE/hyphen.caseSTRESS MONDAYS
TUE11.16
FRI, NOV 19 • 3PM • TOWN SQUAREASCE
PRESENTS:
asce.ucsd.eduBEAR GARDEN
Start the week off right with University 
Centers and DeStress Mondays!Come by PC Plaza for quick crafts that will have you relaxing all week.
5pm
MATTHEWS QUADA QUIET PLACE 2/CANDYMAN
Grab your popcorn and blankets and 
join AS Concerts & Events for a SPOOKY outdoor back-to-back movie night happening on Monday night.
12pm
LIBRARY WALKFOUNDERS DAY CELEBRATION 
Celebrate UC San Diego’s founding 
with FREE treats, music and giveaways!  4pm
TOTES THANKFUL
STAGE ROOM UCSD
Come join us in decorating a thankFALL 
tote bag at the Stage Room!
Free for UCSD students with ID!
12pm
MOMENTUM: A FASHION & 
SUSTAINABILITY POP/hyphen.caseUP
THE HUMP @ STUDENT 
CENTER
University Centers presents
Momentum: a fashion & sustainability 
pop-up. Donate old clothes and pick out new ones, or come screen print and spice up your closet. Find your best look and fight fast fashion..11am
STUDENT SERVICES & 
ACADEMIC SUPPORT FAIR
GETINVOLVED.UCSD.EDU/E
VENTS/ANNUAL/SSAS/hyphen.caseFAIR.HTML
Swing by Town Square from 
11am-1pm and check out over 50 academic and student services departments to learn about their resources, programs, and opportunities. Find ways to get connected and involved!
2pm
IEXPLORE LUXEMBOURG!
bit.ly/3AkM6yD
Let's explore the world! Join us as we 
embark on this new adventure full of adventure, food, sights, and more!!! FRI11.19
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN’S 
VOLLEYBALL V. LONG BEACH STATE
UCSD/hyphen.caseRIMAC ARENA
Come and support Tritons WOMEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL as they take on the SHARKS OF LONG BEACH STATE. The game will take place at 7PM at UCSD-RIMAC ARENA. Admission to UC San Diego home matches is free for all students!
Are you a spirited Triton? Do you love 
giveaways and free stuff? Join Triton Tide, the official UC San Diego Student Section! FREE for all UC San Diego students- visit our webpage at www.ucsdtritons.com/tritontide for more information about our upcoming events!
All fans are required to wear a mask 
covering their nose and mouth at all times – regardless of vaccination status – and food is not permitted inside the stadium.
8pm
BLACKTRONIKA: THE CLUB 
EXPERIENCE 
THE LOFT AT UCSD
Please join us bi-weekly for an open to all 
dance party, focused on all forms of electronic music rooted in Afrofuturism. This is a physical extension of the Blacktronika course (MUS 19). 
Music: King Britt. Free for UCSD w/IDSymptom screening (Green Thumb) and 
Proof of vaccination against COVID-19 required to attend. .WED11.17
THU11.18
7pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE 
LOFT FALL 2021
THE LOFT @ UCSD
The quarterly open-mic night brought to 
you by UCSD AS Concerts & Events."
No auditions, just a sign-up. Guitar 
performances, stand-up comedy, rap... bring any and all of your talents!
Free for UC San Diego Undergrads with 
valid student ID
SIGN-UP HERE: https://bit.ly/YATLF21
Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
NOV 15 - NOV 212021
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EVENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Lima’s locale
5. Small nail9. Keyboard instrument14. Stratford-upon-____15. Vex16. Worth17. Juan’s house18. Heroic19. FBI employee20. Foodstuffs22. Eases up24. Staggered25. Oceans26. Foes28. Hide32. Mule’s father35. Trampled36. Moneymaker38. Florida metropolis40. Nectar collector42. Skier’s hotel43. Capital of the 
Philippines
45. Grouch47. Wind direction (abbr.)48. Forewarning49. Hollywood hopeful52. Row53. Pencil rubber57. From Naples61. Magazine item62. Crowlike bird63. Revise copy65. Ark patriarch66. Solo67. Ocean current68. Carry around69. Salamanders70. Ran71. Rose stalkDOWN
1. Trotter’s kin2. Elude3. Comic ____ O’Donnell4. Incapable5. Puppy supplier6. Shreds7. Frazier’s rival8. Pronouncement9. Track shapes10. Fury11. Secluded valley12. Mother’s sister13. New Jersey team21. Soup bean23. Alleviate25. Motorcycle adjunct27. Disorderly crowd28. ____ and con29. Odds and ____30. Table parts31. Birch or spruce32. Bullets, for short33. Thailand, once34. Of sound mind37. ____ Einstein39. Hr. part41. Mess up44. India’s continent46. Warned50. Beliefs51. Contaminates52. Prongs54. Hurry55. Gladden56. Tailor again57. Persia, now58. Yarn59. Assert60. Gave temporarily61. Assistant64. Quick swim
 t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeetorganization with Triton Outfitter’s Made TO Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian.orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  1112 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 15, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs San Diego Christian
vs Westcliff at Dixie State Inv.at Dixie State Inv.vs Concordia UniversityUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W Basketball
SwimSwim
MW Waterpolo7PM7PM
TBATBA
9:30AM11/1611/1711/1811/1911/19
Prior to last Tuesday, UC 
San Diego’s men’s basketball 
team had never beaten any 
current members of the Pac-
12 Conference. As for their 
opponents, UC Berkeley, the 
UCSD Tritons hadn’t even 
played the Golden Bears since 
1985. UCSD hadn’t even won a single road game as a Division 
I team, going 0–7 away last 
year. So when Cal opened up 
a double-digit lead early in the 
first half, nothing seemed out of 
the ordinary.
Instead, it was not so golden 
for the Bears then on out, as the Tritons closed the first-half 
lead, blitzed Cal with an 11–0 run midway through the second half to take control of the match, 
and held on for by far their most 
significant victory as a Division 
I squad, 80–67.
Senior forward Toni Rocak 
led UCSD with a career-high 27 points and 8 rebounds, redshirt 
sophomore guard Bryce Pope 
added 18 points, including 4 
three-pointers, and the Tritons 
held the Golden Bears to 34.5% 
shooting in the second half to their 66.7% to earn the win.
Tuesday’s match was both 
teams’ season opener, and 
both squads have a lot to prove 
coming out of last season. UC 
Berkeley was 9–20 in 2020, last 
place in the Pac-12, and third-year coach Mark Fox will need 
to impress quickly if he wants to 
keep his job after 2 postseason-less seasons. Meanwhile, UCSD 
is looking to finally play a 
normal season of Division I basketball after an abbreviated, 
cancellation-filled campaign in 
which they went 7–10 and 4–8 
in the Big West.
Rocak opened the scoring 
with a steal and a dunk off a 
turnover from Cal guard Joel Brown. But after some back-
and-forth play as both teams 
sought to feel each other out, 
the Bears charged ahead with 
a 9–0 run, capped off by a jam 
from forward Andre Kelly, that 
put Cal up 18–8 with 12:26 remaining in the first half. The 
Tritons were finally able to 
answer as redshirt sophomore 
forward Jake Kosakowski 
drilled a fastbreak triple off a 
steal from freshman forward 
Francis Nwaokorie, and soon after, a pair of free throws 
each from Pope and Rocak 
had UCSD in striking distance 
down 5 with 8:50 to go.
But Cal once again pushed 
the lead to double digits, with an 8–2 run consisting solely of 
paint buckets to go up 28–17 
with 6:17 remaining in the half 
— a lead that would end up 
being their largest of the game. 
The Bears still led by 9 with 3:07 to go, when within the span 
of a minute, Rocak hit a pair 
of free throws, then redshirt 
junior forward Matt Gray hit a 
triple and a fastbreak layup on 
consecutive possessions to cut 
the lead to just 2. (The match against Cal was also Gray’s first 
career start.) For the remainder 
of the half, UCSD matched 
Cal punch-for-punch, and the 
Tritons entered the half down 
by just 4, 37–33.
The intensity was high 
coming out of the halftime break, as Cal held on to their tight single-digit lead. With 17:06 to go, Pope converted on 
a huge four-point play, and on the next Triton possession he 
knocked down another three-
pointer to tie the match at 43. 
A minute later, a pair of free 
throws from Nwaokorie gave 
UCSD their first lead since the 
first minute of play, 45–43.
Now it was the Tritons’ turn 
to defend their small lead, but it wouldn’t be long before that 
advantage began to grow. Up 
49–48 with 11:48 remaining, 
Rocak hit 2 free throws, then 
knocked down the paint jumper for a 5-point lead. 
On the next Cal possession, 
redshirt sophomore guard Jace 
Roquemore stole the ball on 
one end of the floor and then 
drained a three on the other 
end to put UCSD up 8 with 10:39 to go, 56–48, and force 
a Cal timeout. But after that 
timeout, after the Bears’ Kelly 
missed his shot, Rocak laid it in 
on the other end to give UCSD a double-digit lead and cap off a 
game-changing 11 unanswered 
points.
Unlike the earlier Cal 
advantage, the Tritons’ lead 
held steady, aided by free throws 
from Gray and Nwaokorie. The Bears cut the lead to 7 with 6:55 
left, but Pope staved off the 
threat with his third long-range 
shot of the afternoon, and Cal 
wouldn’t get even that close for 
the remainder of the match. Back-to-back triples from Gray 
and Pope pushed the Triton 
lead to 13 with under 2 minutes 
to go, and Rocak once again hit 
a pair from the charity stripe 
with 34 seconds to go to cap off 
the milestone victory, 80–67.
The name of the game 
on Tuesday was efficiency, especially in the second half, where UCSD was on fire and UC Berkeley was ice-cold; in the half, the Tritons were 12-of-
18 from the field and 7-of-10 
from three, while the Bears 
were 10-of-29 from the field 
and 2-of-8 from three.
The foul line was also a big 
player, with UCSD getting 22 points at the stripe, 11 coming 
from Rocak, and shooting 
80.0%. The Tritons also 
capitalized on the fast break, 
notching 12 points off the 
break to just 2 from Cal. Still, 
there were points for the UCSD squad to improve on, especially 
on the glass, as they allowed 
10 offensive rebounds and 15 
second-chance points.
“It just tells you about our 
potential as a team. We still have a long way to go, and a lot 
of mistakes we can fix, but our 
ceiling is extremely high,” said 
Rocak after the game to UCSD 
Athletics. “We’re yet to play our 
best basketball, and we’re all really excited about that.”
Asked about how the team 
responded to the early deficit, 
Rocak said, “In those moments 
it’s easy for players to just try to 
do their own thing, but we stuck 
in a group and were unselfish, and great things happened 
when we shared the basketball.”
While Cal hasn’t been 
nationally competitive in 
years, UCSD’s victory is still 
a milestone for the Triton 
program, which hadn’t won any of 12 previous meetings 
against current Pac-12 teams. 
The Tritons will next take on 
San Diego Christian College at 
RIMAC Arena on Tuesday, Nov. 
16, then travel to Sacramento 
to take on California State University, Sacramento on 
Saturday, Nov. 20.Tritons Hand Cal
Un-Bear-Able Defeat in 
 Opener
By Praveen Nair
Sports Editor
The UCSD Guardian sat 
down with thirteen-year head coach Jon Pascale of the UC 
San Diego men’s soccer team 
to discuss their first season 
in Division I, the positives 
and negatives of his team’s 
performances, and how the Tritons are looking to tackle 
next year. This interview 
transcript has been lightly 
edited for clarity and length.
This was UCSD’s first Division 
I season, and I’m sure the results weren’t as positive as 
you might have hoped, with 
the team only winning 5 of 
the available 16 fixtures in all 
competitions. What was the 
most challenging aspect or 
biggest learning curve of the transition to D-I?
There were a couple big 
takeaways. I remember from my time before Division I as 
an assistant coach that pretty 
much every team you play is pretty good, regardless of their 
record. So we felt there were 
a few teams throughout the 
season that we were better than, 
but everybody has enough to 
beat you on a given day if you 
don’t finish your chances, or if you give away a silly goal. Those 
teams make you pay for your 
mistakes a lot more than at the 
Division II level, so that was certainly a big takeaway. 
The other one was 
challenging when you’re not 
getting the results, keeping a 
positive mindset and having a 
good attitude, working hard. 
The guys, it was tough for them 
— they’re used to winning and 
they’re competitors. It didn’t 
really matter that it was our first Division I season. We wanted to 
win, and we expected to win 
going into games and it was 
disappointing when we didn’t 
win. But it showed me just how strong our team’s resolve 
was because no matter what 
happened in the game before, 
we had a great response week 
in and week out and I give 
our guys a lot of credit. They 
kept coming back for more, approaching every day, every 
training, every game with a 
good mindset, a good mentality 
to win, and that was great to 
see.
It must have been 
psychologically taxing at least 
in some way to go from such a strong season in 2019 to this 
one. How did the team keep 
their spirits up?
Any time you’re not getting 
results, I think it’s natural 
or easy to fall into this rut 
of questioning things and 
thinking, “We should be doing 
things differently,” or what have 
you, but the guys were great to 
work with. They just came out every day and really got after 
it. I think it’s a testimony to the fact that they actually really like each other. Player to player, 
there’s great chemistry on the 
team. They’ve bought into 
this idea of just being present 
and working hard every day. 
It’s not just so much about the destination but the process and 
the journey and they bought 
into that. If you tracked our 
team from the first game to the 
last game, there were a lot of 
significant improvements, and 
that’s not easy to do when you’re not getting the results. So, I give 
them a lot of credit.
A lot of the losses the team 
took this year were really 
close. What do you make of 
the difference between what you saw on the field and the 
statistical results?That was one of the 
challenging parts of the season. 
Had we been losing by 3 goals, 
it would have become clear that 
“Hey, we’re not going about this 
the right way. We need to make 
some serious changes.” But we weren’t. We finished second in 
the league in goals against and 
it’s something that we’ve always 
built the program on, even at 
Division II. When we took over 
the program, we asked ourselves 
how we thought we could be successful. We knew we had 
really honest, hardworking, 
intelligent players. We knew 
that we could teach them how 
to defend and they picked up on it right away. Again, in Division 
I, the teams make you pay for 
your mistakes a little more, 
so it was a little disappointing that we weren’t able to really shut out anybody. I think that’s 
something, moving forward, 
that we can look to build on. 
Honestly, our guys weren’t 
intimidated by anybody. We 
created enough chances — not 
a ton of chances — but the 
other teams didn’t create a ton 
of chances either. That’s the 
way soccer goes sometimes. 
You’ve got to finish those 
chances and not give away silly 
opportunities. We were close, but we’re not quite there, and I 
have full confidence in the team 
that we’re going to be able to 
close that gap even more going 
into next season.By Emer Nolan
Staff WriterCoach Jon Pascale on the Division I Transition 
and the 2021 Season
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics.
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics.For rest of article, 
visit UCSDGuardian.org