(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Connection and Community: Emily Loui’s Pursuit to
Transform the Student Experience
 June 21, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/06/21/connection-and-community-emily-louis-pursuit-to-transform-
the-student-experience/) Hannah Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Hidden between the buzz of students jumping from academics to different aspects of student
life such as student organizations and other extracurricular programs, stand the people who
make it all possible. The faculty operating Student Affairs often go unnoticed; in fact, many
students never even meet these individuals and teams who are champions of enriching the
student experience. Without them, non-academic, but highly fulfilling programs, such as the
Alternative Breaks program, would not be possible. Meet Emily Loui, the National and
International Community Service Program Manager here at UC San Diego. Loui’s list of
student initiatives stands as tall as her passion for enhancing the student community around
her.
Loui was sitting next to a dissected cadaver during an anatomy lab at the UC Davis School of
Medicine, when she first questioned her healthcare career path. At the time, the clear road to
working in the medical field felt safe because of the tangible steps that are set out in front of
those who pursue it. The lack of direction for less ridgid career routes was terrifying to med
school-era Loui.
While she always knew there were people who “helped students,” on college campuses, Loui
didn’t know that Student Affairs was an entire industry geared towards bettering college
student quality of life. Originally initially hired at UC San Diego to oversee the nursing
program at UC San Diego Extension, and then working as the Director of Alumni Affairs for
Biological Sciences and School of Medicine, it was a particular conversation outside of thenursing program that changed her career trajectory. Seven years before she would begin her
first job in Student Affairs, Loui had a particular meeting with the Executive Director of the
Center for Student Involvement Emily Trask. “I thought I completely embarrassed myself by
tearing up when explaining my personal mental wrestling with accessibility to all students,”
Loui said. “I truly found the situation heartbreaking,” she continued. At the end of the
meeting, Trask offered a sentence that slingshotted Loui’s career in a different and
unexpected direction: “You have the heart of a student affairs professional.”
Coming from her position as Manager of Service and Civic Leadership in Extension and co-
founding the Center for Global Volunteer Service at UC San Diego Extension where she
planned eight international service immersion initiatives in six countries, the task to build
these programs as National and International Community Service Program Manager was a
natural progression. “I co-founded the Center for Global Volunteer Service which was aimed
at providing education and realistic, hands-on experiences,” Loui told us. “One of our first
courses was based in Tijuana focused on educational access. [I] was overwhelmed by the
number of UC San Diego undergraduate students who were interested in joining,” she
continued. “I learned that I loved working with undergraduate students so much that I
volunteered my time serving as an advisor for a program for students called Alternative
Breaks. I volunteered with Alternative Breaks for almost seven years before being hired as
the advisor for the program!” Since uncovering and growing in her love for changemaker
initiatives, Loui has developed a multitude of programs that have since impacted hundreds of
UCSD students. These programs include the Alternative Breaks program, the Clinton Global
Initiative University, the Social Innovation Fund, and other educational efforts and
changemaker initiatives. 
Within Alternative Breaks, Loui’s programs include the Alternative Breaks Civic Engagement
program which is an education and service-learning experience in Washington, D.C., focused
on civic engagement. Students represent UC San Diego by lobbying California’s
congresspeople in support of the DREAM Act and immerse themselves in the world of policy,
advocacy, and social justice. Another Alternative Breaks program is the Alternative Breaks
Public Health program which guides UC San Diego students to learn the multifaceted
perspectives of medicine through visits to non-governmental organizations that promote
alternative methods to western medicine. Students look at the social issues of access to care
and the importance of religion and tourism in the Balinese culture, assist with administering
preventative health check-ups to the local community with medical students from Bali, and
lead workshops about exercise, nutrition, and hygiene to local youth. Other AlternativeBreaks programs include the Alternative Breaks Sustainability program, the Homes for the
Homeless program, and the School Reform program, all which consist of incredible hands-on
opportunities.
When asked to walk us through a stand out story from her work, Loui took us along for the
ride of one particular story that ended with the creation of yet another one of her community
service programs. “When I was volunteering as an advisor with Alternative Breaks, I went on
a service trip to the Dominican Republic with Student N who decided she didn’t like me. She
would make fun of me both behind my back and to my face and continually said rude
comments to me,” she explained. “I tried so hard to be nice to her but being kind almost
made things worse. I couldn’t wait for that trip to end and to be out of the hostile
environment,” she went on. “When I came back to the U.S., I was tempted to never talk to the
student again- but decided that I didn’t want our story to end that way. I reached out to her a
couple of times and never heard back,” Loui recounted. “Months later, after she had already
graduated, she reached out to me because she was in the emergency room. I immediately
dropped everything and stayed with her that night. She later told me that she called me
because I never gave up on her, even when she tried her hardest to push me away.” After that
night Loui and Student N took on a new dynamic. “She shared with me some of her struggles
and I shared mine. She ended up overcoming many obstacles, volunteered with City Year and
eventually became a 3rd grade teacher at a school in Washington, D.C.,” she noted. “Almost
nine years after our service trip to the Dominican Republic, Student N and I collaborate each
year where a group of UC San Diego students are penpals with her third grade students,
offering encouragement to seek higher education and then visit her students over spring
break.”
Another stand out story that Loui told us is that of the first cohort of Alternative Breaks Civic
Engagement which was focused on lobbying for the DREAM Act for undocumented students
to our congressional representatives in Washington D.C. “We were fortunate to receive a one-
time grant to offer the trip for only $200, including flight, hotel, meals,” she said. “This low
cost made the trip accessible to many students who would not have the opportunity to
participate otherwise. It was an extremely meaningful trip, particularly for students who
were undocumented and those who came from immigrant families.” Upon flying back to San
Diego, Loui was impressed when the group empowered and advocated for each other by
lobbying university administrators to fund the next cohort of Alternative Breaks Civic
Engagement which paid off and ended with the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs funding
the second cohort of the program. “It was so inspirational that the students would advocate
for their peers. Unfortunately, the trip was cancelled due to COVID-19, but we look forward
to offering it again in 2022,” she finished.As our conversation continued, Loui brought up the efforts in place to ensure that these
community service initiatives continue to do good and come from a genuine place for all
people involved. “Community service demands one’s most precious resource: their time,” she
pointed out. “I’ve learned that community service is actually quite complicated, particularly
people’s relationship with community service.” While some volunteer their time for altruistic
reasons such as to learn from the community or because they feel a sense of duty, others
might be acting out of a desire for personal gain, commonly referred to as “performative
activism,” in order to make themselves look good to others. Loui makes it a core goal to make
every one of her programs as beneficial as possible to the receiving party. “We have to think
critically about our role, our effect on the local community and economy, our long-term
impact, conduct a thorough community assessment, an assessment of our skills and training,
and more,” she said. In conclusion, “we also need to accept that sometimes the best way we
can empower an international community is by not entering it to prevent inadvertently doing
more harm than good.” 
Hearing about the lengthy collection of programs that Loui has set sail on creating and
running begs for one question: what drives her to put in the massive amount of heart and
work to make it all happen? As we came to learn, Loui is driven by seeing the drastic changes
that can take place in the span of just a couple of generations, as seen in her own family. “I
often think about how my grandmother was raised in China and had bounded feet because it
was considered a form of beauty in her society and culture,” she told us. “As a result, she had
difficulty walking more than a few minutes and now I’ve run marathons. In two generations,
our lives are radically different due to the work of so many past changemakers who worked
tirelessly to change our world because they were in love with the vision of a better future,”
she explained. ”As a female person of color who is the daughter of immigrants, I’m standing
on the shoulders of countless past giants so I have the privilege of being able to vote, seek
higher education, work, own property, and so much more today. The best way I can honor
their legacy is by serving my community and continuing their work towards an equitable
future.” 
Loui continues to be a pillar of support for UC San Diego students. In addition to her position
with UCSD’s National and International Community Service Program, she is the License
Holder for the student organization, TEDxUCSD, UC San Diego’s TEDx conference
organizing team. Loui believes that the key to building a strong community is held in the
power of strong individual relationships. In traditional Emily style, she left us with some
parting advice. “A common problem is for UC San Diego students to feel like they have a lot
of acquaintances but no or very few true friends,” she expressed. “I like to describe adult
friendships as overlapping venn diagram circles. If you only know a person from one circle,
i.e. from class, they will always feel like an acquaintance. However, if you know them from
two circles, i.e. from class and from your student org, they will start to become more like afriend. If you know them from three circles, they start to feel like a good friend. If you want
someone to develop from an acquaintance to a friend, I recommend inviting them to another
circle in your life.”(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Senior Sendo  : Hannah Rosenberg
 June 22, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/06/22/senior-sendo  -hannah-rosenberg/) Hannah Rosenberg
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)I was sitting in one of the hard, plastic seats of Center Hall during my second year at UC San
Diego. My senses focused on the shuffling of everyone finding chairs, the bustle of campus as
the end of some classes and the beginning of others fused together chaotically but in a way
that had rhythm, and hearing myself in conversation with class acquaintances as we waited
for those few awkward pre-class minutes to pass. Instead of Professor Michael Trigilio
kicking off the lecture, a representative from The UCSD Guardian stood at the front and
pitched the different newspaper sections and teams. 
I’d always wanted to be part of a newspaper. I’d attempted to start a neighborhood
newspaper at home when I was younger. I always looked up to the fictional Kit Kittredge, the
American Girl character who was an aspiring journalist in the books and movie. I toured the
Los Angeles Times during high school, obsessed with the buzz of the newsroom and printing
empire. In a pie contest, I was judged by the late and great Johnathan Gold, former chief food
critic for the LA Times. I’d taken photography classes through the years. All in all, everything
pointed at joining a college newspaper. But with trying to find my place in this huge school
with endless options for extracurriculars swirling around me at all times, I hadn’t found the
focus or push to go for it until then when this 2-minute announcement turned into me
mentally checking out of class and instead spending its entirety on my laptop filling out the
UCSD Guardian application.
I applied for the Photography section because the amount of writing I was already doing for
my classes made me resent writing for a while. Over the course of the next year, I covered
campus events, concerts, music festivals, volleyball, and more. On site at some of these
assignments, I was up close and personal, while at others, I was a complete fly on the wall. I
learned what it’s like negotiating with festival security to let me stay in the pit for one more
song even though people with press passes were supposed to be out by the 2nd. I learned
what it was like to run (or bike) around with a camera bag on me, crossbody. I learned to ask
for shows I wanted to cover even if the paper wasn’t writing on them because that electric
feeling can’t be replaced.
Early in 2020 before COVID-19 struck, friend and then lifestyle editor Annika Olives asked
me about joining the Lifestyle section. I applied, interviewed, and joined because joining a
writing section was a goal I knew I wanted to fulfil at some point. Our team meetings and
brainstorm zoom calls became something I looked forward to every week, especially during
the stagnation of pandemic lockdown. From giving documentary recommendations to seeing
my restaurant review printed and in stacks around campus, Lifestyle became my favorite
outlet to share my local discoveries, self experiments, recipes, and more.While all the above greatly contributed to my college experience, perhaps the greatest and
most rewarding part of being part of the UCSD Guardian came when I was passed the Photo
Editor torch one year ago. I knew we had amazing people and photographers on our team but
lacked the structure that was conducive for team bonding. Additionally, assignments were
slow since campus and all that comes with it was shut down for the most part. In order to get
our team shooting assignments again, we launched the photo essay section which I am
excited to see continue into the future. After the year of COVID-19 shutdowns and not being
able to see each other in person as a team, I’ll never forget the magic of our first meetup
which was at the iconic Scripps Pier. We took photos for fun, splashing around in the shallow
water in between, watched the sunset, and made our way to Scoops for ice cream, but even
then this amazing group of humans decided that our hang out wasn’t ready to be over. Before
I knew it, we were piled into two of our team member’s cars and headed to Mount Soledad
for a continuation of the social. On top of the mountain, we brainstormed plans for our next
meeting. They begged me to make it happen soon. On the drop-off circuit home, our car ride
turned into yet another brainstorming session mixed with questions they had for me on how
to make the most out of this opportunity as a student journalist. Their pure excitement
reminded me of why I joined the newspaper in the first place, and it was in this moment that
I felt assured that the future of the photography section will be nothing short of stellar. 
Another memory during my time as Photo Editor that I will always remember was when I
planned a trip to Linda Vista Skate Park with the team, inspired by a field trip my high school
photography teacher Cole did with my class. Although some skaters were hesitant when we
first arrived with cameras in hand, even calling us out despite being in a public space,
throughout the late afternoon we ended up making genuine connections with the skaters and
were able to later send them what we had captured of them in their flow state. As it turned
out, not many of them had ever seen images of what they look like while in their element.
Feeling like I had the responsibility to always keep track of everyone, I would often look up
and take a scan of the park to get a head count. I saw Clarence in a patch in the middle
talking to a skater for a long enough time to hear their life story, I saw Millie on one end of
the park amusing kids who were showing off for her on their skates and scooters, I saw
Howard on the opposite end befriending the very group of skaters who weren’t at all pleased
when we first walked in, and behind me was Irvin surveying his next mission. We created a
photo family during one of the most difficult times in our lifetime to feel connected to other
people, and for that I’ll always be thankful.
Irvin, I can’t wait to see what you do next as you are passed the Photo Editor torch. The
section has an amazing leader with you taking the reins. Thank you to The Guardian for
bringing me incredible experiences and people who have taught and continue to teach me somuch. Thank you for giving me a voice, a journalism community, and the motivation to keep
aiming higher no matter what.