(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A New Year, A New Quarter… A New Closet?
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/a-new-year-a-new-quarter-a-new-closet/) Priscilla
Puno (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/priscilla-puno/)
Whether it be picking up a new hobby or adopting new habits, we all discovered new ways to
comfort ourselves with the stress of the pandemic, our education, and our social lives. If
you’re anything like me, I used retail therapy as a coping mechanism, only to realize I would
be wearing my new platform boots to grab groceries and wear around the house. 
With the rise in TikTok trends during the early months of quarantine, many, including
myself, have begun to take a deeper look into different styles of fashion, exploring clothes and
accessories that enabled them to take self-expression to a whole new level. With the “Y2K”
phenomena and “Pinterest Girl” aesthetic, many have gone out with the old and in with the
new. Trendy fashion has become a large part of people’s lives, not only giving them the space
to experiment with new patterns, textures, and colors like never before but creating a
pathway towards more eccentric trends and personalized styles.
After the hectic year we had, the start of 2021 calls for a complete restart in certain aspects of
our lives. As a shopaholic with an impulse to buy the first article of clothing that catches my
eye, I accumulated maybe a little too much clothing throughout the past few months. With
my overflowing drawers and cramped clothing rack, I found it was time to let some of my
clothes go. Not only did I free up room within my closet, but I realized that a new and clean
space is exactly what I needed going into the New Year.
Here are some steps that I took to declutter my closet that I hope will help you or a friend:
“Does this spark joy?”
Also known as part of the Konmari method, this practice comes from the Japanese
organization consultant, Marie Kondo. When accumulating articles of clothing throughout
the years and continuing to wear your favorite sparkly pants to their last seam, you grow to
associate certain memories and experiences with clothing items. Whether or not you can
physically tell, our material possessions hold emotional and mental weight, therefore causing
us to grab tightly to our favorite shirts, pants, and dresses, even when we haven’t worn them
over 6 months. This is your chance to ask yourself “Do I need this? When was the last time I
wore this? Will holding onto it make me happy or heavy?” Consider these questions and
begin to make a “keep” and “no keep” pile.
One man’s trash is another man’s treasureAfter you have sorted through your clothing and accessories, you are left with the possibilities
of what to do with the items. Considering the environmental impacts of the fashion industry
and how it’s quite resource-intensive, there are two options that I usually choose when
decluttering my closet: selling and donating. First, I will usually turn to resell apps such as
Depop, Mercari, and Poshmark to find a new and loving home for some of my favorite items.
With these apps at our fingertips, we can resell our gently used clothing to get back some of
our money over items that were barely touched or never even worn. I find that it’s a win-win
situation for both parties… as long as you don’t sell a plain black tank top for $70. Lastly,
when I am left with clothing items that won’t sell or have been too worn in, that’s my call to
donate to some thrift stores.
Let’s play a game called Categories
Now comes down to the nit-picky part: Organization. I find that breaking up my wardrobe
into a few different categories helps keep my closet from becoming a hot mess. Categorizing
my wardrobe by color allows for an orderly fashion and when coming up with new outfit
ideas, I can direct my attention to that one portion of my wardrobe rather than sifting
through random long sleeves, jackets, and dresses. From here, I can further categorize each
color by the article of clothing: Coats, pants, dresses, blouses… The list goes on. Many people
may have different ways of organizing but this is personally what has helped me as I
continued to experiment with my fashion sense.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
What Happened When I Started Journaling Every Day
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/what-happened-when-i-started-journaling-every-day/) 
Hannah Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
At the ripe age of 5 years old, I received my very first journal. This Winnie the Pooh journal
became the place in which I documented my life from 2004-2007. Added to it were large,
uncontained words as if the letters themselves were begging to spill off of the pages. Among
entries are the happenings of my little sister eating mango for the first time, swim lessons,
and the wonders of everything being new. Back then, my journaling was inconsistent and half
the time prompted by my mom’s suggestion to write. From my youngest ages, some entries
were as short as one sentence or abruptly left mid-sentence due to my single digit-aged brain
finding something else more interesting to do. Regardless, my first journal was my doorway
entry to the concept of writing and documenting, unknowingly something that would later
become a staple in my life. 
After I took a liking to journaling, however inconsistent it was, I started accumulating more
journals. Somehow I ended up with several, all untouched or lightly touched. Some say that
book buying and book reading are two separate hobbies. Well, the same concept applies to
journals. Have you ever browsed bookstores, seen a cool journal cover, and decided you
needed it? Yep, me too, except that I was barely a decade old and somehow others had picked
up on the fact that I thought journals were nice to look at, resulting in a popular gift to give
younger me. My lock and key journal with the words “keep out,” my pink glittery journal that
shed fake feathers like fur on a dog that triggers allergies, and my magnetic journal that was
similar to refrigerator poetry all sat staring back at me. 
Up through 2011, pencils touched their pages only every few months. Then one day towards
the end of 2011 while swiveling around in the cream colored family room chair during one of
these spaced out occasions, I flipped to the very end. Its blankness saddened me but the
thought of seeing what it would be like to fill a journal up excited me. The kid in me simply
wanted to see what it would be like to reach the last page, a feat that felt like a marathon at
the time. New Years was coming, so I decided that I’d start daily journaling on January 1st,
2012. I was 12.
Looking back, I’m shocked by my commitment to write everyday. I wasn’t some child writing
prodigy, in fact my writing experience up until that point was mainly taking 3 hours to write 3
sentences for whatever schoolwork I was working on. It was uncomfortable and felt silly, and
yet somehow I forced myself to continue. I cared way too much about spelling, grammer, and
punctuation. I’d write about my day-to-day life and usually kept it to a highlight reel because
at that point I was still heavily censoring myself. Certain spots around the house, exciting new
pens and pencils, and rainy days were and still are oddly motivating. By the time I finished
the 6-ish journals I already had, it became necessary to number them on the inside of the
cover for future reference. It was an exciting event to make the trip to the bookstore for mynext one and 6 finished journals turned into 10, which turned into 20, which turned into my
now 33 finished journals. What started as a dare to myself changed my writing and changed
me.
A motif in my life has been learning how to step out of my own way. This goes for a plethora
of areas, but in terms of writing, I would always claim to have writer’s block and never work
to get past it. I also had the belief that I didn’t have what it took to be “a writer.” Because I
had set the rule for myself that I had to put something down on at least one page every day, I
learned that overcoming writer’s block, and mental blocks of any kind, is always possible.
Once, in third grade when I was struggling to write, an old teacher performed a little
demonstration that turned out to be hugely impactful. She set a timer for 1 minute and told
me not to think. I sat there in utter silence minus the ticking of the clock. After the minute
was up, she asked me if it was a success. Obviously it wasn’t, which conveyed her point that if
I had thoughts, I had words to write down on paper. From then on, I learned to write what I
was thinking before I had time to judge it. This stream-of-consciousness method, rarely
lifting my pencil, was a way of bypassing whatever is in our brains that prevents us from
getting down what’s already circulating within us. Some call it “brain dumping,” others call it
”free writing.” The book, The Artist’s Way, calls it “morning pages,” but regardless, this type
of journaling is what has helped me round up anxious thoughts as well as tap into my
creativity that quietly slips under the external chaos. I view brain dumping as a personal
maintenance system. 
Writing consistently in my journal without the pressure of being seen has made my writing
process much less painful when it comes to writing for classes, newspaper articles, and even
everyday emails and general correspondence with different people across all kinds of
platforms. Because of my daily writing, I’ve jumbled and unjumbled words and their
arrangements and meanings far more than I would’ve otherwise. Because of my daily writing,
I’m a better communicator. I in no way feel as if I’ve “arrived” at some writer’s destination,
nor do I ever want to. Instead, I want to keep writing and seeing how journaling continues to
play a role in my life venture. 
As I was brainstorming this article, I realized that, in a way, the fact that it’s been 9 years
since I started could work against my hope to convey every day journaling as attainable.
Others’ reactions to learning about this endeavour of mine were much more positive my first
couple of years because I hadn’t been doing it for that long. After that, I began sensing that it
was coming across as distant. Recently I was even in a Zoom breakout room and the
conversation got to journaling. When asked, I explained how I write every day and have been
for awhile. Immediately I heard responses akin to “oh I could never do that” and “there’s noway.” To those in my breakout room and to you reading this now, actually, yes, it is very
much possible and based on my experience, the outcomes are only positive. If you have
considered journaling or not, I encourage you to get out there, buy a journal that calls your
name, and start writing!
Artwork courtesy of Ava Bayley for The UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
City of San Diego Increases the Minimum Wage
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/city-of-san-diego-increases-the-minimum-wage/) 
Caledonia Davey (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/calli1davney/)
The City of San Diego will increase its hourly minimum wage from $13 an hour to $14 an
hour, beginning January 1st, 2021. This increase applies to all employees, in all industries,
within the city limits who work at least two hours per week.
According to the City of San Diego’s media release
(https://www.sandiego.gov/sites/default/files/2020-10-15_minimum_wage_increase.pdf)
from Oct. 15, 2020, the change is in accordance with the Earned Sick Leave and Minimum
Wage Ordinance (https://www.sandiego.gov/sites/default/files/tr_final_faq_9-2-16_0.pdf)
that was approved in 2016. This Ordinance increased wages to $10.50 an hour in 2016,
$11.50 an hour in 2017, and ensures that wages of San Diego’s employees will increase each
year by an amount corresponding to the prior year’s increase.
“The purpose and intent of the Ordinance is to ensure that employees who work in the City
receive a livable minimum wage and the right to take earned, paid sick leave to ensure a
decent and healthy life for themselves and their families,” the City’s Office of the Treasury
said in an email to The UCSD Guardian. 
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics has measured that the cost of living, or the Consumer
Price Index, in the area of San Diego has increased 1.6 percent in the past year, and 0.6
percent in the past two months. 
“This increase in wage is a little concerning because it’s really just showing how much the cost
of living in San Diego is increasing by each year. That being said, I am grateful that the
administration of San Diego is recognizing how much the cost of living is rising and doingtheir best to offset the struggles we are all facing,” freshmen at Roger Revelle College, Jordan
Zamora said. 
The Ordinance also mandates that tips or gratuity cannot be counted towards the minimum
wage. Because of Labor Code Section 351
(https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?
lawCode=LAB&sectionNum=351.), California law prohibits employers from keeping any
portion of gratuity given to one or more employees by a patron.
It is also stated in the 2016 Ordinance that each employee must be provided with earned sick
leave — no less than one hour for every 30 hours worked — and that these notices must be
posted in a conspicuous place within each business place for employees to see. These notices
must be reposted each year in relation to changes the city makes.
ON JANUARY 1, 2021 THE MINIMUM WAGE IN SAN DIEGO INCREASED
FROM $13 TO $14 AN HOUR! 💲 LEARN MORE AT:
HTTPS://T.CO/SQ7X8Z2GEI (HTTPS://T.CO/SQ7X8Z2GEI)
PIC.TWITTER.COM/SJORIIJAXM (HTTPS://T.CO/SJORIIJAXM)
— CITY OF SAN DIEGO (@CITYOFSANDIEGO) JANUARY 3, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/CITYOFSANDIEGO/STATUS/1345791368459911171?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
This change will have minimal effect on campus, because many employees already make
above the current minimum wage. Full-time Custodial positions such as Senior Custodian,
Environmental Services Custodian, and other positions make an hourly wage of $17.82 –
$22.16. Student Academic Title positions, including readers and tutors, make an hourly wage
between $17.26 – $31.44, depending on education level. Teaching assistants make a monthly
wage that, when broken down (https://grad.ucsd.edu/financial/employment/Student-
Academic-Title-Rates-2020-2021-121520.xlsx---Student-Academic-Title-Rates-1.pdf) , is also
well above the minimum wage. “I feel that my circumstances are somewhat unique as with most people, but in general it is a
livable wage where I am able to pay for my rent with graduate student housing, purchase
groceries and pay other expenses related to transportation, supplies, and such,” UCSD Math
Teaching Assistant Terry Le said. “In short, what I am being paid is within a slim margin of a
livable wage, though everyone’s circumstances are different which allows some more
flexibility and others more compromises they have to make.”
Looking forward, the City of San Diego minimum wage is set to continuously increase each
year in relation to the increase in the Consumer Price Index.
Photo courtesy of Irvin Yang for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A New Precedent from the President’s Supporters
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/a-new-precedent-from-the-presidents-supporters/) 
Nelson Espinal (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/nespinal/)
The events earlier in the week established a new set of circumstances with a lack of clarity
on how to progress.Less than a week ago on January 6, various supporters of Donald Trump and the Make
America Great Again movement stormed the Capitol in Washington, D.C. The protesters, who
began the day with signs and chants aimed at the electoral process, quickly turned into rioters
as they pushed past the guards and police to enter the legislative building. 
The last time that the Capitol (https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jan/06/us-
capitol-building-washington-history-breach) was breached in this fashion occurred more
than 200 years ago. A group of British troops, during the war of 1812, set the building on fire. 
This is the first time that American people entered the building and destroyed it on their own
accord. The Trump supporters destroying the location where the representatives elected by
the people unite to craft legislation marks a moment in history which has never been seen
before. 
LaGina Gause, a political science professor at UC San Diego, attempts to figure out the
reasons that people protest and how effective the protests can be in terms of influencing
legislation. In her study “How Legislative Behavior Following Protest Advantages Low-
Resource Groups,” she connects the lack of representation from legislators to race and class. 
“Legislators are less likely to represent the preferences of low-income constituents than
higher income constituents … Legislators are also less likely to represent the preferences of
Black or Latino constituents than White constituents “
The lack of representation that these groups feel in terms of policy and arguments showcase
the creation of resentment towards their officials. And on January 6, this resentment boiled
over in an extreme fashion. 
This subsection of Trump supporters always existed. According to a study from Pew Research
(https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2020/08/13/the-2020-trump-biden-matchup/) , 47
percent of 2016 Trump voters had no college degree. A portion of Trump supporters are not
in the higher income bracket which places them on the middle to lower income part of the
spectrum. These people are not happy with their current circumstances and are open to doing
irrational things. 
The Trump supporters without a college degree remain a part of a group that has low
resources and has gone through monetary disadvantages in life. Their reaction was fostered
from the attention that legislators tend to pay to those that are a part of the non-elite section
of the party. “This suggests that while technology may alter the way people protest, things probably have
not changed enough to alter many of the circumstances that make legislators more likely to
support the concerns raised during protest by low-resource groups relative to high-resource
groups. Disparities in resource capacity and representation remain, which makes legislative
roll call voting behavior following protest more likely to support disadvantaged, low-resource
groups.”
While the groups of Trump supporters may have been from low resource groups, they are not
as disadvantaged as the black people that protested during the Black Lives Matter protests.
These protests were able to happen without violence aimed at the Washington D.C. area and
remained peaceful for the most part. 
There must be some kind of difference between the Black Lives Matter protests that
happened in the Washington area that remained peaceful and the violence shown at the
capitol storming. The key factor was the cost for the mainly white Trump supporters was
lower than that for the Black Lives Matter protests that feature more people of color. 
Brandon Ives, a professor at the University of Maryland, studied which factors played the
biggest role in escalating a protest into a violent riot. His publication centered around the
idea that it is the lack of consequences that can give rise to the violence
(https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0022002719887491). 
The actions of the protestors crossed a new line in terms of pushing the bounds of a protest
and the ultimate, immediate  consequences of the gathering becoming violent.
In a similar fashion, people are questioning the various institutions of democracy more often
which is leading to more uncertainty. 
The trend is growing to the extent that more experts are picking up on its popularity. Barbara
F. Walter, a political scientist at UCSD, believes that this trend is one of the factors that could
cause a second civil war. The aspects of democracy being attacked are foundational which
means their weakening could cause massive damage to the country as a whole.“And I think most Americans don’t know that what happened yesterday dropped the U S even
further on the democracy scale that scholars use to measure the level of democracy,” Walter
told KPBS. (https://www.kpbs.org/podcasts/kpbs-midday-edition-
segments/2021/jan/07/political-scientist-warns-second-civil-war-after-c/#transcript)  “What really was under attack yesterday was the cornerstone of our democracy, which is free
and fair elections. So it was surprising because it was so extreme, but it’s part of a larger
pattern that we’ve been observing over the last four years.”
Donald Trump has been the president during the last four years and while in power, has
pushed the checks and balances of power more than many presidents have prior. 
The consequences of this behavior are beginning to arise with all of the political backlash
aimed at Trump for the behavior of his supporters. People on the right side of the political
spectrum are beginning to abandon their support of Republican Party. A fourth year student
from Thurgood Marshall College is one of the conservatives that is identifying herself as a
“never-Trump” conservative. 
“I thought Trump, policywise, was doing good enough to outweigh all of the bad that he did in
office. It became a good defense for his actions until Wednesday. His comments following the
violent protest were indefensible to me. My parents are not going to be happy with me, but I
am done with the Republican Party.” 
The ramifications within the GOP are clear: there are voters and legislators that are
distancing themselves from his wing of the party.
Both the protestors and Donald Trump created new precedents in terms of handling key
American ideals and beliefs. The protestors took advantage of the freedom to protest so that
they could send a message to the legislators while Donald Trump used his position of power
to question the integrity of the mechanism that will give representatives power and influence.
Americans are left to figure out how to adjust and strengthen things that have never needed
to be touched before. 
The party will make decisions about where they will go after president Joe Biden is
inaugurated. In the long term future of the country, the new precedents set with the events on
Capitol Hill  from Trump and his supporters leave democracy and the country as a whole on
uncharted territory. 
Future generations of America are left with this mess of precedents as it relates to freedom to
assemble and populist leaders question internal parts of the country. The following actions
will take careful consideration, but there are ways to move forward, starting now. “We need to remove the barriers to voting that have been increasingly placed on certain
citizens over the last few years,” Walter told KPBS. “And then we need to reduce the influence
of money in politics. So strengthen our democracy, full democracies, don’t tend to have civil
Wars. Um, and then the second big thing is I do think we need to regulate big technology
companies. I think it’s no coincidence that, um, civil society has become more divided and
more angry.”
Photo by Thomas Lin from Pexels.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Wake Up America: Capitol Hill Riot Exempli  es
Conservative Hypocrisy, White Privilege
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/wake-up-america-capitol-hill-riot-exemplifies-conservative-
hypocrisy-white-privilege/) Zara Irshad (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zirshad/)
The word “protest” is defined (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/protest) as
“the act of objecting or a gesture of disapproval.” Historical examples include the Women’s
March, the March for Our Lives, and Black Lives Matter protests, each of which were derived
from a set of morals and beliefs that demonstrators valued. 
This is how news outlets (https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/08/us/oregon-legislator-entry-
protest-december-trnd/index.html) are describing the group of conservative extremists that
stormed the Capitol Building, vandalized and stole from offices in the building with zip ties in
hand, and incited violence that resulted in five deaths
(https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/07/us/capitol-mob-deaths/index.html)  this past
Wednesday. The term “protesters” seems rather unfit for such a display of barbarity.
This wasn’t about “objecting” or “disapproval,” it was about the inability to accept defeat, a
sense of entitlement, and the thirst for power that many Trump supporters have, despite the
fact that Trump lost both the electoral and popular vote (https://apnews.com/article/joe-
biden-270-electoral-college-vote-d429ef97af2bf574d16463384dc7cc1e)  last November. These
are desperate and wildly misguided attempts to “Make America Great Again.”
This is perhaps one of the most appalling aspects of this situation: the blatant hypocrisy of it
all. Rioters wore the phrase “Make America Great Again” on their hats and clothing, but what
is American about breaking into a federal building? Replacing the American flag with a
Trump flag (https://people.com/politics/pro-trump-rioters-tear-down-american-flag-
replace-with-trump-flag-at-u-s-capitol-building/) and parading around Confederate flags
(https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/09/us/politics/confederate-flag-capitol.html) ? How
patriotic is the destruction of what’s meant to be a sacred American space? These self
proclaimed “patriots” claim to care for the well-being and dignity of this nation, but they are
the very ones dismantling it. This was not a protest; this was an act of domestic terrorism. 
The word terrorism is defined (https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/terrorism) as “the
unlawful use of violence and intimidation, especially against civilians, in the pursuit of
political aims.” Now this sounds like a spot-on description of the events that unfolded,
doesn’t it? Let’s break it down. 
“Unlawful use of violence and intimidation.” Well, these people broke into a federal building
and left shattered glass, bullet holes, and a trail of destruction
(https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/shattered-glass-ransacked-offices-images-
damage-u-s-capitol-left-n1253302) behind. “Especially against civilians.” The casualties (https://www.theguardian.com/us-
news/2021/jan/08/capitol-attack-police-officer-five-deaths) speak volumes here.
“In the pursuit of political aims.” This entire riot was held because Donald Trump will not be
in power in two weeks’ time. 
The magnitude and hypocrisy of this attack is being overshadowed by the media’s toned-
down depiction of events and the absence of police condemnation.
Where was the tear gas? The rubber bullets? The riot gear? Let’s not forget that when people
were peacefully protesting the barbaric police brutality that has stolen the lives of countless
Black people this past summer, they were met with brute force and violence
(https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/oct/29/us-police-brutality-protest) .  
There is an obvious racial double standard here; those who broke into our sacred Capitol
were calmly escorted out by police, some of whom even took selfies with the violators
(https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/capitol-police-treatment-trump-rioters-
underscores-america-s-racist-reality-ncna1253293). Those who congregated in the streets
during BLM protests were shot at and dragged away. 
This hypocrisy is not surprising, nor should it be. These are the same people that
continuously created fear of voter fraud during the election last November, just for it to be
revealed that the candidate they supported was caught insinuating a request for fraudulent
votes (https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/03/us/politics/trump-raffensperger-georgia-call-
transcript.html). 
The same conservative figures who denounced BLM protests this summer for escalating to
violence — primarily self-defense from the police — have now remained silent amid the mob
of Trump supporters looting federal property and destroying precious artwork
(https://nypost.com/2021/01/07/pro-trump-mob-caught-looting-items-during-capitol-
siege/). So physical violence and vandalism is all right, but fighting for equal rights is where
you draw the line? 
Not to mention that these aggressive and intolerant sentiments have reverberated across the
country, provoking a slur of hate crimes, from DC to Los Angeles. For example, in LA, a
young Black woman named Chizam Berlinda Nibo (https://momentum.medium.com/los-
angeles-police-reportedly-stood-by-as-pro-trump-mob-attacked-young-black-woman-
56fe3d0ed029) was attacked, beaten, and maced by a mob of Trump supporters near the“Stop the Steal” rally last Wednesday. LAPD reportedly “stood by” along with roughly 50
bystanders, only three of whom eventually intervened and carried Nibo away from the scene.
She was only trying to walk home. 
This behavior is sickening, and furthermore, the very man that enabled this barbarity is still
in power, practically untouched. President Donald Trump not only helped to plan this event
(https://abcnews.go.com/US/trump-allies-helped-plan-promote-rally-led-capitol/story?
id=75119209), but once the violence had ensued he told rioters
(https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/07/politics/trump-history-comments-trnd/index.html) “we
love you, you’re very special” after claiming for what feels like the hundredth time that the
election “was stolen.” For reference, he called BLM protestors “thugs” and “terrorists”
(https://www.forbes.com/sites/tommybeer/2021/01/06/trump-called-blm-protesters-
thugs-but-capitol-storming-supporters-very-special/?sh=2aecde5b3465)  last summer.
Being a sore loser is one thing, but Trump has incited violence and unrest time and time
again, to the point where social media platforms (https://www.axios.com/platforms-social-
media-ban-restrict-trump-d9e44f3c-8366-4ba9-a8a1-7f3114f920f1.html)  including Twitter,
Instagram, and Facebook have placed restrictions on his accounts following the events at
Capitol Hill. With the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden coming up on Jan. 20, it may
seem as though there is nothing more to be done, but there has been talk
(https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/08/us/politics/democrats-trump-impeachment.html)
both of impeaching Trump, for the second time, and invoking the 25th Amendment which
would remove him from office.
Regardless of whether or not this comes to fruition, the takeaway here is simple. What
happened at Capitol Hill was the polar opposite of “patriotic.” No matter your political
leaning, the one thing that should bind us all is pride in our country. Unfortunately that has
diminished in many of our eyes over the past six months, or even four years. 
Understanding that violence and looting is not the answer is the first step to salvaging even
an ounce of this dignity. Education, peaceful protesting, and patience have proven time and
time again to carry one much further. 
That’s what many Democrats did back in 2016 when they were unhappy with the results of
the election. They did not riot, they did not vandalize, and they did not attack. Rather, they
focused their energies on educating others, registering voters, and moving forward. Because
of Trump supporters’ failure to use these methods, one of the most powerful men in the world
has become one of the most dangerous. We shouldn’t view Wednesday’s events as a warning, but rather, we should view them as a
wake-up call.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Film Review: “Promising Young Woman”
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/film-review-promising-young-woman/) Hanaa Moosavi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hanaa-moosavi/)
Byline:  “Promising Young Woman” makes Shane Dawson’s “Not Cool” seem Oscar-worthy.  The following review contains spoilers for “Promising Young Woman.”  
Trigger warning: the following review contains sensitive topics of discussion including rape
and sexual assault. 
Following its release to the film festival circuit on Jan. 25, 2020, Emerald Fennell’s
directorial debut “Promising Young Woman” was released to the general public on Jan. 15,
2021. Fennell’s efforts towards this film did not amount to anything, despite many news
outlets proclaiming it to be the feminist film of the year and Fennel having both written and
produced this project. A horribly written and produced motion picture, “Promising Young
Woman” is truly one of the worst movies to hit the big screen since Tommy Wiseau’s “The
Room.” 
To begin, “Promising Young Woman”’s storyline lacks intention, as several plot points are
thrown together with no true meaning behind them. For example, the main character Cassie
Thomas (Carey Mulligan) feigns inebriation to single out predatory men who take her home
for nonconsensual sex to chastise and punish them. After twenty to thirty minutes of building
this plotline without truly unveiling what exactly Cassie does to the men that take her home,
the audience is introduced to Ryan Cooper (Bo Burnham), a friend from her medical school
who convinces Cassie to go out with him, making her forget her “bring men down and make
them understand that they embody rape culture” drive. Before long, it’s gumdrops and
rainbows and entire falling-in-love montages—at least until Cassie discovers Ryan’s presence
in a video of her best friend’s sexual assault by a fellow medical student, laughing and
disregarding the assault competely. 
At this point in the film, the narration of the movie switches to a chapter format from a
regular sequence of scenes, displaying hot pink roman numerals on-screen to represent the
phases of Cassie’s plot to enact revenge on her friend’s rapist. Upon realizing that Ryan is
exactly like the men she had been tracking down, she breaks up with him before returning to
her quest of abolishing rape culture. Consequently, Ryan and Cassie’s romance is the biggest
letdown of the entire film; it is not exceptional storytelling to have the main character, “a
proclaimed feminist icon,” fall for a man who is just like the other predators she works
tirelessly to chastise. This flaw suggests that Cassie has a feminine weakness—one that
dictates that a woman can easily be distracted from her own self-constructed path by a man’s
mediocre jokes— which does not bode well for a pro-feminist main character. If anything, she
lost some credibility as a writer with a half-hearted potential feminist character. Ryan is not the only poorly constructed character that Fennell included in her movie. Gail
(Laverne Cox), the only BIPOC actor and character with a prominent role in the film, serves
as the comic relief of Cassie’s trivial, childish inconveniences. When there is a lull in the story,
Gail is used as a narrative crutch to explain Cassie’s next moves in an overt and
unimaginative way. If Fennell wanted to cast BIPOC characters she would have, but placing
one specific BIPOC actor in a sea of white actors, disappointingly, feels as if Gail is used as a
token minority character piece to appease BIPOC audience members, which essentially tells
the audience that Fennell was not going to cast a BIPOC actor in this movie. BIPOC actors are
not actors to be thrown into supporting roles to help out the amazing white leads; Hollywood
has enough of those types of leads and films and Laverne Cox’s character in “Promising
Young Woman” is a perfect example.
Additionally,  there are many issues with the film’s production quality and narrative
intention. Production-wise, it seems as if all of the sequences in the film are segmented and
asynchronous with the overall plot structure leading to halts in narrative flow. Audience
members get lost in the scenes because character emotions seem to flip from happy, to sad, to
happy again while scenes remain five minutes or longer, making for a very confusing and
packed sequence. On top of this, the film score is akin to how a high schooler might score
their video film final; jarring instrumental preludes shock audience members out of the plot,
making it difficult to connect with the characters on screen. There are moments where the
film’s audio sounds as if it was done in post-production instead of just refilmed on-scene to
maintain natural quality. These different discrepancies in production leave the film with a
sloppy and thrown together feel.
“Promising Young Woman” was supposed to be “the feminist film of the year,” yet the plot is
overly sympathetic to its problematic male leads. As a result, Cassie becomes heartless and
cold when compared to the men in the movie who are written as caring and mindless with a
why-would-anyone-hate-me-when-I-work-as-a-child-pediatrician mindset. A true feminist-
facing film is one that clearly teaches young femme-presenting individuals that it is possible
to stand up against the oppressive community and toxic masculinity that plagues society.
Instead, however, this movie leaves the viewer feeling hopeless.
There are a myriad of points I could continue to critique, but I would be left with a
dissertation and no readers. There are audience members who are waiting for a film that will
make them feel seen or inspire them to create for themselves, and as a result, there should be
filmmakers in the industry who believe that to be a top priority. The next time there is mass-
market branding for a feminist film of the year, I expect not to give it an F-.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A Step Back into Darkness
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/a-step-back-into-darkness/) Sparky Mitra
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sparkymitra/)
How a new age of media-driven echo chambers has allowed a schism between enlightened consensus and
public opinion.
Truth is based on facts. Facts are based on science. Science is based on data. Data is undeniable. It is time to
make a distinction between fact and fiction. As many Americans disavow masks and vaccines, COVID-19
continues to wreak havoc and tragedy. We are seeing many abandon hard numbers to advocate instead for a
person who lost the presidency. There was once a time when the common man did not concern himself with science or math — that responsibility
was left to the academics, the elite. But with the Enlightenment and eventually the rise of mass communication
networks, every layperson was afforded access
(https://www.deseret.com/platform/amp/2017/6/9/20613876/how-reading-the-bible-changed-in-the-early-
16th-century-during-the-reformation) to sources of basic facts and science. Publicly-sponsored news networks
streamlined objective reporting on politics, research, and many other intellectual fields. This access helped the
common man draw conclusions based on facts rather than conspiracy. Though we have seen misuse of this
access by authoritarian
(https://web.archive.org/web/20100412212011/https://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?
pubID=611) governments, general consensus backed by unbiased investigations and information allowed the
people to disagree without abandoning reality. 
But now, a schism between science education and public opinion is once again apparent. With monied extremists
creating alt-right pipelines and fringe social-media-based echo chambers, the learnèd are being overshadowed by
propagandists. It is time to return to formulating opinions based on reality, not fantasy. It is our responsibility as
the public to bolster academics while disparaging conspiracy theorists. 
A country led by its people and for its people relies on an educated populace. Without a direct flow of facts
between scholars and citizens, information fed to the masses by powerful propagandists is accepted despite its
general baselessness. Though general knowledge about scientific and political consensus is the expectation we
now accept as the norm, this was not always the reality. 
When Galileo Galilei first constructed the Theory of Heliocentrism (https://phys.org/news/2016-01-
heliocentric-universe.html), the belief that the earth revolves around the sun not vice versa, his findings
(https://www.worldcat.org/title/galileo-the-man-his-work-his-misfortunes/oclc/3036700)  were largely
inaccessible to the public. Rather than preaching science to the masses, he went to the elite, the Pope. Without an
informed public to opine based on the evidence Galileo presented, the Catholic church was quick to falsely
reassert the “truth” of geocentrism (https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/cross-check/the-rise-of-neo-
geocentrism/), the belief that the entire solar system revolves around Earth: that the universe revolves around
humans. The Pope was able to swiftly squelch any credibility Galileo previously had by imprisoning him during
the Inquisition. “Scientific” consensus was based on manipulative opinion, not scientific fact. General consensus
relied on illiterate citizens’ blind faith in the aristocracy.
But with the Age of Enlightenment, more members of the citizenry were allowed at least some access to
academia. As we forayed from the Middle Ages to the Age of Discovery, more common men and women became
literate and informed. Increased access allowed the public to decide on the plausibility of theories based on data,
not based on what the political authority wanted them to believe. Slowly, this unity between education and
common knowledge led to other advances, such as when an emphasis on sanitization
(https://www.nationalgeographic.com/history/2020/03/handwashing-once-controversial-medical-advice/)
with public action led to the creation (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1113797/) of the Public
Health Act for England and Wales. Publicly-funded media such as PBS allowed the public to interact and listen to
experts from all fields. Upon receiving data and scientific evidence, we were able to formulate our own opinions
without debating on widely-accepted facts. But today is different. Today, media has become a source of not only
science and news, but also of entertainment, and many of us are starting to conflate the two.Debate over the meanings  of fact is acceptable. Debate over the facts themselves  is not. The COVID-19 guidelines
(https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html) presented by the CDC are backed by research
(https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-02801-8)proven to be effective. The certification
(https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-electoral-college-saved-the-election-11610133725)  of the election results by
the Electoral College is backed by countless verification processes. But millions have chosen fiction over fact.
They have chosen to listen to Tucker Carlson (https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/tucker-carlson-cult-of-mask-
wearing) over the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Dr. Anthony Fauci
(https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-factcheck-fauci-outdated-video-masks/fact-checkoutdated-video-of-fauci-
saying-theres-no-reason-to-be-walking-around-with-a-mask-idUSKBN26T2TR) , with the former claiming that
there is “no evidence they [masks] work.” It is important to note that Carlson has been involved in lawsuits
where his legal defense (https://www.npr.org/2020/09/29/917747123/you-literally-cant-believe-the-facts-
tucker-carlson-tells-you-so-say-fox-s-lawye) has been that he, a reporter, a conveyor of news and data, is not
“stating actual facts” when speaking to his audience. Then what is he stating? He is a story-teller. A propagandist.
A reality TV star. Not a journalist. And yet, millions upon millions view his commentary as fact: as reality.
Primetime propagandists like Carlson are profiteering off presenting false narratives as the truth. It is time for
us, the people, to lift scientific sources and headlines over clickbait-y fantasy headlines. Running an effective
democracy necessitates that its people unite behind facts. It necessitates that they debate based on a set of
accepted statistics and theories. Without our active pushback, millions are suffering from the pandemic. And
millions more are spiraling into a black hole of baseless beliefs that the election was “stolen.” 
Just as the Age of Enlightenment forced (https://io9.gizmodo.com/when-did-the-church-accept-that-the-earth-
moves-around-1295437000) the Catholic Church to accept the legitimacy of the Heliocentric Theory, we must
usher in an Age of Deprogramming to force powerful and influential people like Donald Trump to lead his
followers (https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-election-2020/republicans-congress-
capitol-support-trump-b1783807.html) to the truth. The fact is that Trump never
(https://apnews.com/article/AP-explains-elections-popular-vote-743f5cb6c70fce9489c9926a907855eb)  won
the popular vote, neither in 2016 nor in 2020. This alone should be proof enough that Joe Biden’s electoral win
was not an anomaly and was in fact backed by a true majority of Americans. Trump’s election fraud claims have
been shot down by virtually every court and scholar, yet he (https://www.bbc.com/news/55561877) and multiple
Republican (https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2021/01/09/amanda-carpenter-ted-cruz-riot-capitol-
vpx.cnn)lawmakers (https://www.npr.org/sections/congress-electoral-college-tally-live-
updates/2021/01/07/954380156/here-are-the-republicans-who-objected-to-the-electoral-college-count)  refused
to accept this science-backed fact. This misinformation resulted in an assault on Capitol Hill
(https://www.nytimes.com/live/2021/01/06/us/washington-dc-protests) , propagated by his followers. On Jan.
6th, 2021 we saw an insurrection. We saw an act of domestic terrorism undermining the basic tenets of our
democracy. We saw the dangers of conspiracy when such falsehoods are presented as unequivocal fact. While
many were broken from Trump’s spell (https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/01/08/trumps-spell-
seems-have-broken/) following the attacks on Congress, prevention is always better than cure
(https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/07/politics/what-matters-january-7/index.html) .  
Now is the time to draw a clear and undeniable distinction between reality and reality TV, news and
entertainment, and, of course, science and conspiracy. It is time for us to decide whether we step forward into an
enlightened future united by objective consensus, or step back  into a dark past divided by subjective delusions.
Art by Kalo Grimsby and Sparky Mitra for the UC San Diego Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
New Living and Learning Neighborhood Approved, Garners
Criticism
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/new-living-and-learning-neighborhood-approved-garners-criticism/)
Jose Chavez (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/j2chavez/)
The Theatre District Living and Learning Neighborhood has been the subject of a recent lawsuit
(https://www.lajollalight.com/news/story/2020-10-19/la-jolla-shores-association-and-homeowners-
group-sue-to-fight-uc-san-diego-development-project) posited by the La Jolla Shores Association. UCSan Diego approved the construction of the project on Monday, Jan. 4, which seeks to bring nearly
2,000 undergraduate students on campus in addition to five new buildings ranging in size from nine
to 21 stories.
According to the president of the La Jolla Shores Association Janie Emerson, the grounds of the case
are based on the California Environmental Quality Act. This act generally requires state and local
agencies to inform the public on the environmental impacts of proposed projects and feasibly reduce
their environmental harms.
The two areas of concern are environmental and structural. The lawsuit argues that the number of
huge buildings and stores will take out trees and local wildlife while also increasing vehicle traffic in
the area. The project is constrained to an aging parking lot space with not many trees or wildlife
present.
“We’re also very concerned about traffic, not only the amount of traffic but the pollution generated.
The other part of the traffic is that the main and quickest artery from La Jolla for anybody who lives
here works here or visits here to an emergency room is Torrey Pines road,” Emerson said.
She also stated that there are four different projects the university has planned that will impact that
same traffic area. The increased construction would also contribute to the worsening of rolling
blackouts (https://www.10news.com/news/local-news/sdg-e-not-set-to-resume-rolling-outages-
saturday-but-warns-customers-to-prepare) in La Jolla and Torrey Pines. Additionally UCSD hasn’t
performed a seismic retrofit, otherwise known as upgrading buildings so they are more resistant to
earthquakes, on campus infrastructure for years. According to Emerson, a decision to bar said
evaluation passed on Nov. 2, 2020.
This ties into the second concern brought up by the association regarding UCSD’s infrastructure.
According to Emerson, water rationing in San Diego is likely to worsen due to the construction, with
sewage being of special importance — it has reached its capacity and has blown out regularly.
“Why are you [building the project] when you can’t even service the debt on the brand new one that
just came out and you don’t have the money to maintain your buildings? Those are bad business
decisions… As a student, what I would be most concerned about is what is the cost to me,” Emerson
said.
The La Jolla Shores Association claims to have been repeatedly denied access to the decision-making
process in accordance with the university’s timeline and thus hasn’t been able to make these concerns
clear and “on the record.”
The UCSD Guardian reached out to some first-year students who were dorming on-campus during
the Fall Quarter 2020 to get their thoughts on the matter.Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman Daniel Barquero said that he knew very little about the project’s
impact on the environment until the project was announced. Most of his concerns lie with funding the
project, as universities like UC Berkeley are leading the way with green energy
(https://gspp.berkeley.edu/news/news-center/the-us-can-reach-90-percent-clean-electricity-by-
2035-dependably-and-without-increasing-consumer-bills).
“I feel like, well, there’s been much more of an emphasis on like green buildings, you know, and just
being eco friendly,” Barquero said. “We’re going to be a fully green campus by 2025 or 2030 and I feel
like I’m just like, ‘go embark on this new project’ as well.”
Similarly, Roger Revelle College freshman Tanzi Terry had similar concerns regarding tuition
increases and the displacement of majors throughout the colleges as construction progresses. The
availability of parking discounts in light of the closed lots also crossed her mind.
“Yeah, I know a lot of people already that are complaining about the tuition, as it is being high and
how there isn’t really any layaway no really forgiveness, per se. And so I do worry that tuition could be
a major factor into a lot of students not really endorsing this project as a whole,” Terry said.
In response to these concerns and the La Jolla Shores Association’s lawsuit, UCSD responded to
multiple inquiries from The Guardian.
On the topic of tuition, the university denies that funding will come from tuition or increases thereof.
The budget for the project is $565 million, externally financed through a bond that will be repaid over
time from rents. The university was able to reduce the project’s budget by 12 percent by cutting
construction costs, financing costs and “making scope adjustments to reflect a post-pandemic reality.”
Parking discounts will not be provided, but alternate parking will be available for the duration of
construction at the nearby at the Scholars and Osler parking structures.
UCSD claims that they have continuously tried to get community input on their new projects. Firstly,
in collaboration with local community groups, UCSD formed the Community Advisory Group in 2016
to seek input during the development of the 2018 Long Range Development Plan. Secondly, UCSD
reportedly meets individually with five different La Jolla and University City community groups on a
monthly basis.
In response to concerns of upkeep, the campus will retrofit, replace, or vacate all buildings with
significant seismic performance deficiencies no later than the year 2030. Seismic performance ratings
were developed by UC, in collaboration with the California Department of General Services and
California State University.Lastly, in regards to increased traffic obstructing emergency vehicles traveling along North Torrey
Pines Drive, UCSD stated that the new district is being constructed with occupancy in mind so as to
maximize safety and ease evacuation processes. 
UCSD has provided the city with the land and approximately $21 million in funding to build a fire
station on campus. This city operated station will be located at the corner of Genesee Avenue and
North Torrey Pines Road and will significantly improve emergency response in the area that includes
the campus and the surrounding communities.
The project will impose immediate restrictions (http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2020/2020-
12-22-1.html) on parking and pedestrian access. Parking lots P102 and P103 are now closed until the
Theatre District Living and Learning Neighborhood parking structure has been completed.
Alternative parking will be provided at Scholars and Osler Parking Structures.
The Theatre District Neighborhood will be constructed on an 11.8 acre site next to campus housing
along North Torrey Pines Drive and will connect to Ridge Walk, the primary north-south pathway
connecting housing and academic units within the undergraduate campus. 
A Projection Presentation
(https://plandesignbuild.ucsd.edu/_files/planning/TDLLNAugust2020Update.pdf)  from August
2020 stated that an estimated 2,000 student beds will be made available to residents. This is a
response to data from the 2018–19 academic year that found that undergraduate facilities were 2,100
beds over design capacity.
Non-residential benefits include the increasing of administrative space through five classrooms, a
480-seat lecture hall, various meeting facilities, and new dining and retail locations. Approximately
1,200 new parking spaces will be created with a net gain of 360.According to an Open House Presentation
(https://plandesignbuild.ucsd.edu/_files/planning/CommunityOpenHousePresentationFutureCollege1-
22-20.pdf) from January 2020, these characteristics will aid in the further development of the 2018
Long Range Development Plan (LRDP), which anticipates a total campus population of 65,600 and
up to 8.9 million gross square feet of varying UCSD facilities. The goal is to house 65 percent of
students and become “the nation’s largest Residential Campus.”
Project Rendering courtesy of UC San Diego.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC Chancellors Discuss Possible Tuition Increase
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/uc-chancellors-discuss-possible-tuition-increase/) 
Jocelyn Brossia (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/jbrossia/)
University of California chancellors are considering a tuition increase in order to mitigate the
financial impact that the UC System faces in light of the COVID-19 pandemic
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/05/07/breaking-ucsd-releases-statement-on-financial-
impacts-related-to-the-pandemic/). In March 2020, the UC Board of Regents had a proposed
five-year plan (https://regents.universityofcalifornia.edu/regmeet/mar20/b3.pdf) to raise
tuition by 2 percent for undergraduate students, but the vote was postponed
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/03/19/uc-regents-postpone-five-year-tuition-increase-
vote-in-wake-of-coronavirus-pandemic/) as the pandemic increased in severity. 
“We’ve been eating at our fat for a long time and what I’m saying now is that we’re down to
the bone,” UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep Khosla said in an interview with  The Los
Angeles Times (https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-12-12/uc-chancellors-
tuition-increase). “Even though this is not a perfect time for a tuition increase, it is a good
time to start thinking about it.”
A university-wide tuition increase, in part, would provide the university with greater funds to
increase financial aid and manage campus costs. However, the increase could become
burdensome to students and families who may currently struggle with financing higher
education or who would if the tuition were to increase. 
Stett Holbrook, the Senior Communications Strategist for the UC Office of the President,
provided The UCSD Guardian with the UCOP’s statement regarding potential tuition changes
through email correspondence. 
“Early in the pandemic, the University of California decided not to raise systemwide tuition
and fees for the 2020–21 academic year, in recognition of the uncertainty and anxiety that
the pandemic was already creating for students and families,” Stett said. “In fact, the
University has held tuition flat for eight of the past nine years.”
Regardless, the University finds it necessary to continue to explore ways to increase funding
for rising costs.
“[However], the University must and will explore long-term ways to support the operating
costs of instruction, academic advising, and student services, among other priorities in the
midst of the budget-related challenges of the pandemic,” Stett said. The most recent approved vote to hike tuition was in 2014:  the UC Board of Regents
authorized a five-year plan to increase student tuition by up to 5 percent per year. When
passed seven years ago, the decision was met by protests from students
(https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/university-of-california-to-raise-tuition-despite-
protests.html) throughout the state and UC system. 
In his interview with The Los Angeles Times, Khosla furthered the discussion surrounding
UCSD’s campus. At the campus, fall enrollment in 2020 reached unprecedented levels
despite the fact that the University expected lower enrollment rates due to the pandemic. 
Khosla told The LA Times that despite the increased University revenue brought about by
enrollment rates, the University should still begin the tuition conversation in the imminent
future. Khosla also said that the campus is now able to postpone pandemic-related layoffs
until the summer of 2021.
“By investing in UC, you’re literally investing in the state and job creation, technology
creation, economic development,” Khosla also said to The LA Times. 
Associated Students Financial Controller and Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Nicholas
Butler recognizes the potential benefits and detriments that would arise as a result of a
tuition increase.
“On one side, there’s a clear detriment that if you raise tuition, that’s gonna negatively impact
students,” Butler said. “As a working student, I know that would negatively affect someone in
my position. On the other hand, raising tuition would allow for a greater financial aid for
students who need it and it would also be able to make sure that all employees stay employed
if tuition was raised. […] I would lean more towards the negative [perspective] at this point —
that it is more harmful than beneficial.”
Despite the UC’s proposal to increase student tuition, California Governor Gavin Newsom
rejected the concept (https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2021-01-08/newsom-
california-budget-rejects-uc-csu-tuition-increases) at a Sacramento briefing on Jan. 8.  
“We do not believe it’s time for tuition increases and fee increases,” Newsom said to the Los
Angeles Times. “And we do believe it’s time to invest more in student aid across the
spectrum. And that’s exactly what this budget proposes.”Instead of the tuition hike, Newsom proposed a general fund increase of $786 million
(https://www.gov.ca.gov/2021/01/08/governor-newsom-proposes-2021-22-state-budget/)
for the UC and the California State University, both of which suffered financial impacts as a
result of the pandemic. Newsom’s budget proposal (http://www.ebudget.ca.gov/2021-
22/pdf/BudgetSummary/HigherEducation.pdf)will provide investments with the expectation
that tuition will not be increased across the UC, CSU, and California Community Colleges. 
“The Budget reflects an expectation that one of these costs — tuition and fees — remain flat at
all three public higher education institutions in 2021-22 and also includes student basic
needs investments, emergency financial assistance investments, and investments supporting
expanded mental health services and students’ access to electronic devices and high-speed
Internet connectivity,” the budget states.
Part of Newsom’s investment provides an ongoing base fund of $136 million to support a
three-percent general fund increase for the University of  California; such funding would
support UC Payroll, Academic Personnel, Timekeeping & HR, the Division of Agriculture and
Natural Resources, UC Programs in Medical Education, and student mental health resources,
among other things. In addition, a one-time fund of $225 million would go towards deferred
maintenance, energy efficiency projects, the California Institutes for Science and Innovation,
and more. 
With this proposed budget, the UC is also expected to make efforts to reduce equity gaps,
improve online learning, adjust academic goals to better fit workforce needs, and create a
new dual immersion program that would guarantee UC admission for first-time freshmen
when they receive an Associate Degree for Transfer. 
The UC has not yet responded to Newsom’s rejection of possible tuition increases but has
expressed their thanks to Newsom for his investments.
“We thank Gov. Newsom for these critical investments in UC students and California’s future,
especially given the fiscal uncertainty during COVID-19,”  the UC Board of Regents Chair
John A. Pérez and UC President Michael V. Drake said on Jan. 8. “We will collaborate with
the governor and Legislature in the months ahead to secure additional funding and continue
our University’s vital work of expanding access and affordability for California students,
delivering quality health care, and driving the state’s economic recovery.”The UC Board of Regents will hold a public meeting on Jan. 20
(https://regents.universityofcalifornia.edu/regmeet/jan21/fin.pdf) to review the 2021–22
proposed budget plan (https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-statement-
gov-newsom-s-2021-2022-budget-plan) from Newsom; the meeting will occur directly after
the ending of the 2 p.m. closed session meeting.
Photo courtesy of Siddharth Atre for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was edited on Jan 11, 2021 at 11 PM to include Governor Newsom’s response to
the UC’s proposed tuition hike.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
University of California Begins to Phase Out Single-Use Plastics
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/university-of-california-begins-to-phase-out-single-use-plastics/) Nikita
Cardozo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ncardozo/)
University of California campuses announced that they will begin to phase out single-use plastics with the
goal to eliminate all unnecessary plastics by 2030. This change was brought about by the UC Office of the
President and California Public Interest Research Group. The UCs will discontinue plastic bags in retail
and dining locations and eventually eliminate single-use plastic food service items and plastic bottles. Single-use plastics are plastic items that are used once before they are thrown away or recycled. Common
items include straws, coffee stirrers, soda and water bottles, plastic bags, and food packaging. According to
KPBS, around 300 million tons (https://www.kpbs.org/news/2020/sep/08/uc-takes-lead-phasing-out-
single-use-plastics/) of plastic each year is globally produced and only half is disposable. Around the world,
only 10 percent of plastic items are recycled. Moreover, plastic releases toxic chemicals into food and water
supplies when it is breaking down.  
David Phillips, associate vice president for the UC’s Department of Energy and Sustainability, said that,
“The persistent environmental damage wrought by plastics on the environment and human health is well-
known. With changes in the recycling industry that make it more difficult to reuse plastic products, the
clear solution is to phase out single-use plastics so they never enter our waste stream in the first place.”
In accordance with the policy, plastic bags in food service and retail will be removed by Jan. 1, 2021.
Single-use plastics, like straws and utensils, will be replaced with compostable or reusable alternatives by
July 1, 2021. Dine-in facilities will supply reusable food service items, like plates and cups, for food
consumed and to-go locations will provide reusable or compostable options by July 1, 2022. On-campus
food services will phase out the sale, purchase, and distribution of single-use plastic beverage bottles by
Jan. 1, 2023. UC campuses will be encouraged to install water refilling stations. 
Even though the UCs have had zero waste goals in place since 2008, UC San Diego has had problems due
to competition for space, staff turnover, and a lack of regional infrastructure. In 2018, they formed a Zero
Waste Working Group (https://sustain.ucsd.edu/_files/UCSanDiegoZeroWastePlan.pdf) of students and
staff to tackle these issues; however, as of September 2019, UCSD is not on track to reach 90 percent waste
diversion by 2020.  
This policy allows the different UC campuses to decide how to comply with the new regulations. For
example, UCLA has decided to develop a new policy to remove single-use plastics from campus food
services by July 1. UC Berkeley plans to eliminate all essential single-use plastics by 2030. They plan to
replace them not only in foodware, but also in research, administration, events, and campus academics. 
Leslie Sepuka, the Associate Director of University Communications at UCSD, said to The UCSD Guardian
that “there are many efforts underway across the UC San Diego campus to lessen the use of single-use
plastics. UCSD Housing, Dining and Hospitality has drastically reduced the amount of single-use plastic
through the launch of the Triton2Go reusable container program in Fall 2020. Through the replacement of
single-use containers with durable and reusable OZZI containers, more than 75,000 single-use containers
have been saved to date; the program will eliminate the annual use of more than 2 million single-use
plastic containers on campus. Furthermore, paper bags are in use at the Bookstore with reusable ones
coming soon. Many of the campus vendors have compostable food containers and none of them use plastic
straws or single-use water bottles.”
In 2021, the campus retail vendors hope to eliminate plastic bags and replace all plastic foodware items by
July. However, the pandemic has raised several challenges, especially since campus vendors are not
allowed to handle a reusable bag from the customer. Some single-use plastics are still used in HDHfacilities because of the precautionary measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and because
of dietary restrictions. 
The California government is also reducing single-use plastics across the state. The House of
Representatives passed two bills in November 2020 that will ban the use of single-use plastics and
polystyrene. House Bill 1162 prohibits restaurants and other food retailers from using polystyrene
(https://www.coloradopolitics.com/legislature/bills-to-ban-single-use-plastics-and-styrofoam-clear-
house-committee/article_b62c3464-5813-11ea-8ebd-
83fa20f35358.html#:~:text=House%20Bill%201163%20goes%20after,as%20of%20July%201%2C%202022.)
for packaging take-out food by Jan. 1, 2022. House Bill 1163 will eliminate single-use plastics, like straws
and plastic bags, in grocery and retail stores on July 1, 2022. 
For more information on the ban, go here (https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-moves-
scrap-single-use-plastics).
Artwork courtesy of Andrew Diep for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Film Review: “Soul”
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/film-review-soul/) Marina Lee
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)
Incredibly tender moments of character development, quick-witted dialogue, and intricate
animation reignite the meaning of the word ‘heartwarming’ in Disney and Pixar’s newest
dynamic film, “Soul.”
The latest animated collaboration between Disney and Pixar, the film “Soul” arrived on
Disney+ on Christmas Day. The story centers around Joe, an increasingly desperate jazz
pianist who teaches middle-school band, as he attempts to reunite his soul with his body. The
audience is taken through the chaotic events of a life in limbo, in a careful magnifier of daily
existence and what is to be found within it. Directors Pete Docter and Kemp Powers deliver a
benevolent punch in this breakthrough film.
“Soul” strikes a careful balance between snappy, comedic dialogue and its more intense
moments of human hopelessness and self-actualization. This thorough concoction of
emotional elements is perfectly suited to appeal to an audience of a wide age range. It’s
important to keep in mind that this is a movie primarily marketed towards families. From
slapstick demonstrations involving actual slapping, to impersonations of prominent historical
figures like Abraham Lincoln, the film exists within a solid comedic spectrum that never feels
disingenuous or patronizing. Its dramatic moments are paired extremely well amid this
spectrum, utilizing moments of breath and pause to highlight the amassed tension of being
alive and feeling purposeless. The film consistently pushes up against the line of self-pity, but
refuses to cross it, in a surprisingly rousing way that pricks at your nose just enough for you
to be rescued by a warm or wild character interaction.
However, the real star of the show is the animation. The human forms of characters are
startlingly realistic, with a beautiful emphasis on shadowing. From the folds of Joe’s suits and
sweaters, to the fluorescent light cast in a middle-school hallway, to the dank overhead of a
subway stop, the accenting of light and shadow is visually stunning without having to scream
it. Deep reds and blues cling to Joe’s heightened moments of musical passion, contributing to
the surreal feeling of liminal space that evolves throughout the film. In the moments of the
souls, the animation emphasizes lighted lines, almost like a Lite-Brite version of building
schematics, with these extraordinary genderless beings of the universe as extensions of these
lines. The shifts in animation styles are purposeful and clean in this artistic execution. 
Alas, movies do not exist in special sacred fun-time media land, alone, floating free of flaws.
Consequently, this movie certainly has some, regardless of how much I truly enjoyed it.
Movies are mixed bags of simultaneous truths that can snarl right through rose-colored
cinematography and spunky quotes. In this case, having a character of color remain in a non-
human form for a significant portion of the film is a Disney animation trend that has beenbrought back to light with this film’s release. Prior examples of this occurring include
“Brother Bear,” “The Emperor’s New Groove,” and of course, “The Princess and the Frog.”
This may not be as noticeable an issue looking at the film by itself, but again, all movies exist
within a social context. This points at a larger problem in animation, where there are already
so few animated films with protagonists of color, and even fewer Black protagonists
specifically. When the visual representation of a BIPOC character’s narrative arc involves a
literal process of dehumanization that takes up a significant portion of the film, it worsens the
already-minimal representation.
The way progress operates in filmmaking can be infuriating, hopeful, and contradictory. With
the continuance of this trend in animated BIPOC protagonists, I must also note that “Soul” is
Pixar’s first animated feature with a Black director (Kemp Powers), as well as its first Black
protagonist (Joe). These are landmark achievements a long time coming. These
characteristics exist together, as this film holds this complexity in both its cinematic
positionality and its thematic exploration. It dampens the appeal of rigidity, especially as it
applies to defining success, and carves out love in deep existential pockets. The film reminds
audience members to make use of the whimsical in the day-to-day and to free themselves
from the idea of a one true miserable purpose. For me, this was a check in hyperfixation and
sustainability of self, when all seems stagnant, lost, and impossible.
Grade: B+ 
Director: Pete Docter, Kemp Powers  
Starring:  Jamie Foxx, Tina Fey, Angela Bassett  
Release Date:  December 25, 2020  
Rated: PG
Image courtesy of The New York Times.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Despite Early Lead, D-I Debut Snaps 24-Game Win Streak
for UCSD Men’s Basketball
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/despite-early-lead-d-i-debut-snaps-24-game-win-streak-for-
ucsd-mens-basketball/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
UC San Diego’s men’s basketball squad has had a chaotic start to the season; their intended
season opener, as well as their New Year’s Day Big West and Division I debut, were cancelled
due to COVID-related issues. 
But after having an intended series at California State University Northridge cancelled, the
Tritons were able to schedule back-to-back games at RIMAC Arena against defending Big
West champions UC Irvine. While the first game was postponed due to a UCSD player with
possible COVID symptoms who later tested negative, the Tritons suited up Jan. 9 for their D-
I debuts — but despite jumping out to an early lead, the Anteaters began to pull away in the
second half to secure the win, 79–65.
The Tritons, coming off of a 17-day layoff, were without senior guard Mikey Howell, who was
out with a non-COVID illness, which led to redshirt freshman guard Jace Roquemore making
his first career start. UCSD had it going early, with a stifling defensive start helping them out
to an 11–2 lead in the first seven minutes of play. Roquemore’s fastbreak layup with 18:07
remaining in the first half scored UCSD’s first two Division I points. 
The Tritons would not give up a field goal to the Anteaters until 12:16 remaining in the first
half, and while Irvine would quickly tie the score at 20, UCSD regained the momentum with
an 8–4 run to close out the first half with a 28–24 lead. The Anteaters made just eight of their
27 field goal attempts in the first half, including a chilly 0 for 8 from behind the arc.
However, coming out of halftime the teams were on level terms, going back and forth with the
lead for the first five minutes of the second half. Unfortunately for the Tritons, the Anteaters
found the three-point touch that had eluded them in the first period, and their 15–4 run gave
them a 50–39 lead with 10:35 to go. While Roquemore and graduate-transfer guard Jake
Killingsworth tried to chip away at the UC Irvine lead with three-pointers, it was too little, too
late for the Tritons, as the Anteaters held their double-digit lead for most of the remainder of
the match for a 79–65 win.
Despite the loss, it wasn’t all bad for the Tritons, especially as they came into the game
against the twice-defending Big West champs with little tuneup opportunity and as
significant underdogs. Redshirt freshman guard Bryce Pope and junior forward transfer Toni
Rocak each had career scoring highs, with 21 and 20 points, respectively, with Rocak doing so
off the bench. Saturday’s game was technically considered a non-conference game in the record books, as it
will not replace the two teams’ official Big West matchups on Feb. 26 and 27. Nonetheless,
the match was UCSD’s first look since 2000 at an opponent they’ll be facing yearly going
forward.
If anything, as head coach Eric Olen told UCSD Athletics after the game, the Tritons are
largely just happy to finally be playing D-I basketball. 
“We’ve waited a long time to play a Division I game, a Big West opponent… But I thought our
guys were ready to go and we played really hard,” said Olen.
Still, UCSD will be disappointed to have their 24-game win streak, dating back to December
2019, snapped, and would have certainly liked to shock the Anteaters in their first D-I
matchup. Nevertheless, the Tritons will still have a chance to win their first official Big West
conference game, currently scheduled to be at UC Santa Barbara on Jan. 15.
Photo courtesy of UCSD Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Playo   Was Never Going to Fix College Football. What
Can?
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/the-playo  -was-never-going-to-fix-college-football-what-
can/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
When it was created for the 2014 season, the College Football Playoff (CFP) was hailed by
many as a more equitable way to decide college football’s national champion. While it gained
its fair share of detractors, the CFP further widened access to the national championship
game, compared to the previous Bowl Championship Series (BCS) regime. But as years have
gone by and the same teams have appeared in the bracket time and time again, frustration
with the CFP and its selection process has grown. But while the CFP, flawed as it is, takes
much of the blame, the root of fans’ issues with the game are far deeper, and far more
entrenched in college football than the bracket itself.
If we take a step back, we can at least say for sure that things used to be worse. For most of
the history of college football, there was no unified national championship. Prior to the 1998
introduction of the BCS, there were 10 different occasions where the Associated Press Poll
and the Coaches Poll —the two most prestigious rankings — disagreed, leading to a split
championship. In order to fix that, the BCS system instituted a championship game, at first as
one of the major existing bowls, and later as a separate match.
But the BCS received criticism over its use of computerized algorithms as a factor in ranking,
its lack of representation of mid-major conferences, and the fact that it didn’t always solve the
problems it was meant to — in 2003, the championship was split yet again between the
University of Southern California and Louisiana State University, and in 2004, five teams
went undefeated, only two of which could play for the title. So, we got ourselves the College
Football Playoff — four teams, selected by a 13-member committee, adding just one game to
the college football schedule. Fans who had advocated for “giving everyone a shot” had finally
received their wish, right?
If only things were so simple. See, college football, as a profoundly American institution, has
its fair share of systemic inequality. The teams in the CFP have started to look awfully
familiar: just four teams — Alabama, Clemson, Oklahoma, and Ohio State — account for over
70 percent of CFP appearances. The situation has worsened in the 2020–21 season, where
teams may have played drastically different numbers of games. Ohio State made this year’s
playoff undefeated, but having played only six games, leading to criticism from fans of teams
like 8–1 Texas A&M, 9–0 Cincinnati, or 11–0 Coastal Carolina. 
But many of the issues with the CFP are really deeper issues with college football. Unlike
professional sports, there is no expectation of parity between teams, and the lack of turnover
at the top means that schools like Alabama and Ohio State are able to recruit astoundingly
talented players year in and year out. Furthermore, there is no formal structure whereby any
team can become a champion, meaning that many mid-major teams, like the aforementionedCincinnati and Coastal Carolina, cannot make the playoff even if they go undefeated for their
entire schedule. The small number of games in a season doesn’t help either — a massive,
March Madness-style tournament where even an unheralded newcomer like UC San Diego
could theoretically win a title wouldn’t work with football — so fans are constantly left
wondering if the best team really does win.
Perhaps our attitude about the game just needs to change. College football is the most top-
heavy major sport in the US, but it pales in comparison to the major continental European
soccer leagues, where teams like Bayern Munich, Barcelona, Real Madrid, Paris Saint-
Germain, and Juventus routinely dominate their worse-funded, less-prestigious competition. 
But fans of those less-fortunate teams still love them, because their year revolves around non-
championship incentives, like getting far in the domestic cup, beating their rivals, or having a
chance to play in pan-European competition. It certainly might help that in a playoff-less
system, you can have a great season that doesn’t end in a gut-wrenching loss. Is the key to
enjoying sports for non-title-caliber teams — as Jon Bois advanced in his exceptional
documentary last year about the Seattle Mariners — to abandon the dream of a ring and just
enjoy the ride? Such an idea is certainly unfair, and might go against the heart of American
sports fandom, but for fans of mid-major and small schools, it’s the best they’ve got right
now.
If it’s not clear by now, there doesn’t really exist a system that could make everybody happy.
The closest might be an eight-team playoff, with the champions of the top five conferences
qualifying and the remaining three bids being chosen at-large — perhaps mid-major
conferences could be guaranteed one of these at-large bids. But that would add another game
to the season, and might be seen as unfair to the top teams, who may have already decisively
defeated the at-large teams in the regular season. What’s more, for every underdog this
system includes that rises to the top, we might see far more unwatchable, low-rated blowouts
between teams of different calibers. (Not that this doesn’t happen already — sorry Notre
Dame.) And one can’t help feeling that the corporate sterility of the CFP infringes on the rich
history and conference associations of the major bowl games, which would lose out even
further with a three-round playoff. This isn’t to say the eight-team playoff isn’t superior —
from a fairness standpoint, it absolutely is — but every cry to once again widen the playoff
field should merit at least this brief consideration of the tradeoffs.
Whether Ohio State or Alabama is victorious on Monday, the controversy about who gets a
shot at a championship will continue to be a topic of debate, in the barbershop and in the CFP
boardroom. And maybe it’s better that way. Yes, avoiding a split championship or a left-outundefeated team is better for the game as a whole. But a single-minded obsession with
widening the playoff field for fear of losing out on that occasional sleeper champion not only
ignores the issues with a larger field, but it also loses sight of the broader reality of college
football’s inequality. Dealing with that reality instead of trying to abstract it away might be
the only real solution to the playoff problem, even if that means letting some of the what-ifs
remain.
Photo courtesy of Wikipedia / J1n9(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
If Blake Bortles Can Win a Playo   Game, So Can Mitch
Trubisky
 January 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/if-blake-bortles-can-win-a-playo  -game-so-can-mitch-
trubisky/) Wesley Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
The 8–8 Chicago Bears and quarterback Mitch Trubisky backed their way into the seventh
seed of the NFC playoffs, and are set to face the second-seeded New Orleans Saints.
FiveThirtyEight gives the Bears a 15 percent chance at winning against the Saints, ranking
them the least likely team to advance to the next round of the playoffs (6 percent less than the
7–9 Washington Football Team). But while the Bears might come into this game as
underdogs, they’ve made adjustments down the stretch that will give Trubisky a fighting
chance of shocking New Orleans and proving Chicago deserves their place in the playoffs.
There’s a lot of good reasons for those low odds, like the Saints’ top-five defense, running
back Alvin Kamara, or Chicago’s laundry list of injuries. But there is one man that can throw
a wrench into all that sound logic and common sense: Bears quarterback Mitch Trubisky.
Leading up to the playoffs, Trubisky was rolling. Since winning the starting job back in Week
12, the team has gone 3–3. While Trubisky was out, the team went 2–5 under Nick Foles.
With Trubisky back under center, the offense scored 30 or more points 4 times over the
course of the last five games. During those final five games, he completed 73.55 percent of his
passes and put up 7.83 adjusted yards per attempt.
These stats deserve some context. Trubisky didn’t magically become a more efficient and
capable passer while riding the bench for a third of the season. Watching him play, he looks
like the same old Trubisky that we’ve seen for the past four seasons. What’s changed has been
the play calling. 
The Chicago offensive staff have created a play-action heavy offense based on the offenses
employed by the San Francisco 49ers and Cleveland Browns. The offense focuses on well-
timed bootlegs and rollouts, taking advantage of Trubisky’s legs. Reads are simplified, so
Trubisky does not have to scan the entire field; most of the time, Trubisky only needs to read
one or two defenders before he makes a throw.
A prime example of this is the Bears’ win over the Houston Texans in Week 14, arguably
Trubisky’s best performance of the season. Trubisky used play-action on 15 out of 33 total
pass plays, and he scored three touchdowns in the first half and threw zero interceptions.
Trubisky’s passes were not high-difficulty throws: he only attempted one pass over 20 yards
and was 2-for-5 on passes over 10 yards. The majority of his completions were check downs.
But the Bears still won.I don’t know if Trubisky is a good quarterback — four seasons worth of game film show that
he probably isn’t — but I do think that he and the adjustments made by the Bears coaching
staff have a chance to win against the Saints. Trubisky is a limited passer, but he does have a
clear set of talents and Chicago’s offense has adjusted to emphasize them. So long as the
Bears coaching staff stays aware of Trubisky’s shortcomings and doesn’t put him into
challenging situations, I believe the Bears have a fighting chance.
If nothing I’ve said so far has convinced you, then consider this. The Saints have a ton of bad
playoff juju. Over the past three years, New Orleans’ postseason runs were spoiled by
miraculous late comebacks at the hands of NFC North teams or refs going momentarily blind
during big plays. The Bears, on the other hand, have exorcised their playoff demons. Bears
kicker Cairos Santos has made 93.8 percent of his kicks this season and isn’t double-doinking
anything.
Bad quarterbacks have won playoff games before and, especially with the adjustments Matt
Nagy and the Bears offensive staff have made, Trubisky isn’t that bad. So, I’ll say it again: if
Blake Bortles can win a playoff game, so can Mitch Trubisky.
Prediction: Bears , 25–18
Photo courtesy of All-Pro Reels