(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Exploring the La Jolla Cove Secret Swing
 May 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/10/exploring-the-la-jolla-cove-secret-swing/) Hannah
Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)“Secret swings” exist around the world, especially in coastal areas that scream appreciation
for the great outdoors. While some outdoor swings are widely known about and are tagged on
maps leading you straight to them, “secret swings” are instead notoriously known for having
no geotag anywhere online. The popularity of secret swings has grown and caught fire
through social media where secret swing-seekers will tag the more general location and leave
the viewers of the image to use the hints from the photo to find it themselves. During my first
year at UC San Diego, a friend and I laced up our exploration shoes and made it our mission
to find the La Jolla Cove secret swing. Using clues from Instagram posts tagged with the
general La Jolla Cove geotag, we hunted around for the secret slice of paradise until we
landed at our goal destination. While it would be against the secret swing code of conduct to
give away the precise location, this article is designed to inform those who have never heard
of the swing and guide you to discovering it for yourself.
The Cave Store is the closest landmark to the secret swing, so set your GPS to this cute shop
and get driving. After you have parked, set out on the dirt trail that goes behind the shop. If
you thought this article would be a dead giveaway for the location of the secret swing, I regret
to inform you that you will have to discover it for yourself. What I will say though, is that
once you see the bridge, you are getting much warmer. While the area you suspect the swing
is might look unreachable, there are in fact ropes to guide swing seekers to the special spot.My favorite part about secret swings besides the swings themselves is that there seems to be a
communal understanding among swing-goers that when one is due for a repair or upgrade, it
is swiftly taken care of before you can notice it was replaced. Thanks to general area
Instagram location tags and analysis of consistent posting from a range of people, I once
discovered that a swing was replaced less than 24 hours earlier and that the anchor was never
left without a replacement swing suspended while in transition. While this is my general
observation, I one time discovered the Scripps secret swing located near graduate housing
missing for at least an afternoon. Who knew there was a secret swing community?If this article inspired you to seek out secret swings, email us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
with feedback.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A Doggy Doge World
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/a-doggy-doge-world/) Nelson Espinal
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/nespinal/)
The entire experience of owning Dogecoin is filled with ups and downs. With the future of
the currency undetermined, its volatility is likely to continue. It all began with the Shiba Inu dog. 
The founders of the infamous meme cryptocurrency Dogecoin began a movement that
started from the dark corners of the internet. Small subreddits powered the coin early on,
generating enough buzz about the currency to enjoy a few outlets continuing the momentum.
(https://www.cnet.com/news/dogecoin-the-origin-story-of-the-elon-musk-supported-
cryptocurrency/)
The coin began, according to the Robinhood app, at $0.0002 around 2016 which featured a
large bump to $0.007 as the media became aware of the momentum. The coin then fell down
and remained stable around $0.004. The original floor of the coin’s price was raised with this
initial push.
It wasn’t until the subreddit Wall Street Bets blew up that some redditors attempted to push
Dogecoin. As Robinhood and other platforms shut down access to stocks like Gamestop and
AMC, users turned to cryptocurrency as the next target to push up in value, soon enough, thecoin reached $0.01 and then went as high as $0.07.  
The currency was pumped up through the subreddits and the more it grew, the more noise
grew from it. There were various moments in which the coin was trending on Twitter with
various users constantly tweeting about making the coin “go to the moon” or have it reach$1. 
The second wave of support for the coin could only take it so far as it eventually hovered
around $0.05 following the push. The days following featured high levels of volatility as the
coin would continually be pumped and dumped. 
This strategy involves buying the coin at “dips” where several people sell due to any reason
and the value of the coin falls. Buying at low points and selling at high points is risky business
as the trader can either lose out on more potential gain or buy at a point too high that it willnot end up reaching. 
The volatility of cryptocurrency is centered around various factors such as the media
narratives around the currency, which are adopting it as a means of purchasing a good, and
the overall knowledge of cryptocurrency from the backers. According to eToro, (https://www.etoro.com/en-us/crypto/why-bitcoin-fluctuates/)  Bitcoin
is one of the most volatile cryptocurrencies due to their size. A lot of Bitcoin’s value stems
from projection about its viability and future as a currency. When a more optimistic report
comes about the coin, people get excited and back the coin. 
“A lot of it has to do with the uncertainty of bitcoin as a viable form of currency or store of
value. Sprinkle in questions about how bitcoin is currently being used and unethical trading
practices by cryptocurrency exchanges, and you have a recipe for wild price swings.”
Dogecoin’s volatility is centered around similar principles, but there is a stark differencebetween both coins: how people view its future. 
Bitcoin is being adopted constantly as a source of payment for various items. Tesla adopted it
as a payment method and several other vendors as well. This type of narrative creates
excitement about the currency and its future.
Dogecoin’s value and excitement is more centered around its prospects as a near future
profitable coin. (https://www.cnet.com/news/bitcoin-and-dogecoin-have-rollercoaster-
week-amid-musk-tweets/)  The goal of many people backing the coin is to reach $1. This
milestone is referred to as “the moon” and it remains the point in which the true future of the
coin will be revealed. Either the coin tanks in value due to everyone selling at one time or itremains afloat at a higher floor. 
Even before the coin reaches this point, the value will fluctuate as more news and
information circle about the coin. In his now infamous appearance on Saturday Night Live,
Elon Musk’s appearance was a huge driver for the coin.
Musk took to Twitter since the boom in January to boost the value of Dogecoin with constant
tweets and retweeting memes related to the dog-themed coin.
Along with several other famous people, Elon became the face of the coin which prompted alot of excitement for holders. The value of the coin shot up to as high as $0.75. 
Then, during his performance on Saturday Night Live, Musk referred to the entire industry as
a “hustle” and repeatedly failed to define what the currency was in any serious manner. “It’s the future of currency,” he said at one point in reference to Dogecoin during the sketch
(https://www.nme.com/news/tv/elon-musks-saturday-night-live-comments-cause-the-
price-of-dogecoin-to-tumble-2937167) . “It’s an unstoppable financial vehicle that’s going to
take over the world.”
The ripple effects of his performance resulted in DogeCoin plummeting all the way down to
$0.47. 
The coin, at the time of printing, rebounded a good amount to $0.53, with news of Elon
Musk’s SpaceX promising to fund a mission to put Dogecoin on the moon with a rocket and
parts all bought with Dogecoin.  (https://screenrant.com/spacex-dogecoin-crypto-payment-
doge-moon-meaning-explained/)
With all of the peaks and troughs, the coin is left in a spot with its future unclear and the next
jump or fall without any sort of timeline. The creator of the coin, Billy Markus, addressed the
constant changes in the value of the coin and a lot of it has to do with the nature of the beast. 
(https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1432980/why-is-dogecoin-going-up-doge-creator-
billy-markus-dogecoin-price-latest-evg)
“Why does $DOGE fall? Same reason as why $DOGE rises. Buying and selling. That’s it. The
crypto space is ruled by emotion and sentiment. People buy and sell for their own reasons,
and those decisions move the price. Always has been. Markets gonna market,” Markus said.
Over the past few days, the environmental impact of mining cryptocurrency was the next stop
on the cryptocurrency rollercoaster. Musk tweeted that Tesla would stop receiving Bitcoin as
a payment and highlighted the amount of electricity needed to mine crypto caused a lot ofnegative effects for the environment. 
As a result, the value of several coins fell within hours. Several other vendors suspended the
use of Bitcoin as a currency as well. 
The unpredictability of the coin can leave the owner in a position that is uncomfortable.
Every day, the latest updates and news surrounding crypto can move the value of the coin in
either direction. In spite of the many charts and analysts that attempt to predict the future of the coin, it
remains impossible to predict the future of crypto. Entering the landscape while still in its
infancy can be exhilarating with the ability to make both short- and long-term income. 
Yet, the entire experience still holds a giant “buyer beware” sign. The ride may take people to
the moon, but the ride is going to be bumpy and there is no safety net. 
Photo courtesy of PANTHER MEDIA GMBH/ALAMY. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC International Students to be Required to Be Vaccinated for Fall 2021 In-
Person Learning
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/uc-international-students-to-be-required-to-be-vaccinated-for-fall-2021-in-person-learning/)
Zhuoying Lin  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zhl509/)
The University of California proposed a new policy on April 22 which includes requiring international students
overseas to receive World Health Organization-approved vaccines before returning to Fall in-person learning. 
The policy (https://universityofcalifornia.edu/sites/default/files/review-draft-sars-cov-2-vaccination-program-
participation-policy-04212021.pdf)  is proposed in order to secure the safety of the on-campus community in the fall. It
will be finalized and become mandatory for all students on campus after the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here →
(https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)approves the COVID-19 vaccines, with sufficient availability of vaccine doses. People who fail to comply and aren’t
approved for medical or religious exceptions will not have access to in-person university facilities and programs. 
“Most of the classes will be in person. We understand that there may be some remote instructions available as well
because we do have learners from all over the world whose circumstances continue to evolve,” Vice Chancellor for
Student Affairs Alysson Satterlund said in a student town hall  (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=VpY5siymypg&t=108s)  meeting. “But the intention is to highlight and continue to return to in person learning asmany ways as we possibly can.” 
Students who are partially vaccinated or have received a vaccine that is not FDA or WHO approved by the time of their
arrival on campus will be subject to revaccination. There is currently no available data on the safety or efficacy ofgetting revaccinated in the U.S. after receiving a non-FDA/WHO authorized vaccine. 
As of May 16, the WHO has approved the Pfizer/BioNTech (https://www.who.int/news/item/31-12-2020-who-issues-
its-first-emergency-use-validation-for-a-covid-19-vaccine-and-emphasizes-need-for-equitable-global-access) ,
Astrazeneca-SK Bio (https://www.who.int/news/item/15-02-2021-who-lists-two-additional-covid-19-vaccines-for-
emergency-use-and-covax-roll-out) , Serum Institute of India  (https://www.who.int/news/item/15-02-2021-who-lists-
two-additional-covid-19-vaccines-for-emergency-use-and-covax-roll-out) , Janssen
(https://www.who.int/news/item/12-03-2021-who-adds-janssen-vaccine-to-list-of-safe-and-effective-emergency-
tools-against-covid-19), Moderna (https://extranet.who.int/pqweb/vaccines/covid-19-mrna-vaccine-nucleoside-
modified), and Sinopharm  (https://www.who.int/news/item/07-05-2021-who-lists-additional-covid-19-vaccine-for-
emergency-use-and-issues-interim-policy-recommendations)  vaccines for emergency use.
California has the highest number of international students with more than 160,000
(https://opendoorsdata.org/fact_sheets/california/)  enrolled in the state, among which students from China and India
are the leading populations. UC San Diego houses more than 8,000
(https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/infocenter/fall-enrollment-glance)  international students. On estimate, 20 to25 percent of the campus’ enrolled international students are overseas during the pandemic. 
“There should definitely be accommodations for international students coming into the U.S.,” AS international senator
Dakssh Saraf said to The UCSD Guardian. “International students are one of the demographic groups that’s been most
impacted by the pandemic. Some are stuck in the U.S. and couldn’t go home, while some are stuck in their home
country and couldn’t come here.”
On April 21, the U.S. Department of State made a national interest (NIE) exception
(https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/News/visas-news/national-interest-exceptions-for-certain-travelers-from-
china-Iran-brazil-south-africa-schengen-area-united-kingdom-and-ireland.html) which loosened the travel restriction
on students from China, Iran, Brazil, South Africa, the Schengen area, the United Kingdom, and Ireland. Students who
will begin their academic programs on and after Aug. 1 with a valid F-1 or M-1 visa do not need to contact the U.S.embassy or consulate for individual NIE to travel. 
However, due to the current closures of many U.S. embassies and consulates and long visa processing times,
international students who need to apply for a new F-1 or M-1 may not be able to arrive on campus in time for Fallinstruction.  
“There are many efforts now ongoing about how faculty are made aware of the need for some students potentially to be
offered remote courses,” Director at International Students and Program Office (ISPO) Dulce Dorado said in the
student town hall. “We also encourage our students to work with your department and your faculty because there maybe planning that needs to happen in terms of academic plan.”
Beginning on July 1, academic departments will work with the Registrar’s office to accept changes to classroom
requests or instruction modality.  
In addition, because international students are not eligible for CARES Act or Higher Education Emergency Relief
Funds, the Associated Students will support ISPO with $250,000  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/a-s-council-
brief-subsidized-housing-apimeda-center-fall-reopening-updates/)  to help students with basic needs such as food and
housing costs, books and supplies, transportation, and more. They will also help supplement additional mental health
services for students.
The international student advisory council also has worked with AS to advocate for remote learning options for Fall
2021. Their advocacy letter
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf7TlsEZqCt_LLqtvMrjmOBdUPdgG63YuerZh5OKLiKDs1H3g/viewform?
gxids=7628) calls for faculty to consider the continuation of remote lessons amidst the return to in-person learning. 
“There is a need for everyone to realize that lots of international students might not be able to return to the US in time
for school,” Dakssh said. “To create that remote learning for these students is very essential for the continuation of
education.”
The letter is open for endorsement and will be sent to the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs after A.S. approval. 
“I wish to have remote learning in fall. I developed some serious mental problems during the pandemic and I always
felt lonely, so I went back to China in the Winter quarter to stay with my parents,” fourth-year international studentXinyi Zhang said. She will enroll in Fall quarter to complete her undergraduate degree. 
“The contract for my housing in San Diego will end in July, having the remote learning option will also save me from
finding new housing,” Zhang added.
Students who have questions about the proposed UC vaccine policy can contact the University of California Office of
President at CovidVaccinePolicyComments@ucop.edu  or reach out to ISPO
(https://ispo.ucsd.edu/contact/index.html)  for any concerns regarding the travel from overseas to campus.
Photo courtesy of Christian Duarte for The UCSD Guardian.
The article was updated on May 17, 2021 at 4:21 PM to clarify A.S. funding to ISPO .(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
San Diego ranks seventh among most ozone polluted cities
in the US
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguar
dian.org/2021/05/16/san-diego-ranks-seventh-among-most-ozone-polluted-cities-in-
the-us/) Nikita Cardozo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ncardozo/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)A report (https://www.stateoftheair.org/assets/sota-2019-full.pdf)  released by the American
Lung Association showed that San Diego originally had the sixth worst ozone pollution in the
country in 2019 for the fifth year in a row. As of 2021, they have moved to seventh. The
rankings are based on the number of “unhealthy air days” using the Air Quality Index
adopted with the 2015 Ozone National Air Quality Standard, the hottest time-frame recordedin global history, and the Air Quality Index. 
Chula Vista, San Diego, and Carlsbad were ranked seventh for high ozone days out of 226
metropolitan areas, 37th for 24-hour particle pollution out of the 216 metropolitan areas, and
43rd for annual particle pollution out of 199 metropolitan areas. Areas of Alpine, Borrego
Springs, and Warner Springs have the highest levels of ozone pollution in San Diego County.
The California Environmental Protection Agency has shown that the average daily maximum
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/data-watch/sd-me-ozone-map-20180130-
story.html) ozone concentration in central and northern Alpine is 0.057 parts per million,
which is the highest in San Diego County.
Ozone is the main ingredient of smog, which makes it one of the most widespread causes of
air pollution and other health threats in California. Ozone is created when pollutants from
trucks, cars, and factories chemically react with sunlight. When inhaled, it can actually causea sunburn of the lungs, which can lead to inflammation  (https://www.epa.gov/ground-level-
ozone-pollution/health-effects-ozone-pollution) , shortness of breath, coughing, and a
shortened life span. 
Research has shown that ozone levels are the highest on hot days and in the afternoon.
People with asthma, children, and the elderly are the most at risk from breathing in air
containing ozone. Moreover, people with lower levels of vitamins C and E are also at greater
risk. 
TODAY WE RELEASED OUR 2021 #STATEOFTHEAIR
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/HASHTAG/STATEOFTHEAIR?
SRC=HASH&REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) REPORT. LEARN ABOUT
THE AIR YOU #BREATHE
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/HASHTAG/BREATHE?
SRC=HASH&REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) AND STEPS TO TAKE TO
PROTECT YOUR HEALTH & MAKE OUR AIR CLEANER.
HTTPS://T.CO/8BT4OMSHDB  (HTTPS://T.CO/8BT4OMSHDB)
PIC.TWITTER.COM/NORTFCSHFO (HTTPS://T.CO/NORTFCSHFO)
— AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (@LUNGASSOCIATION) APRIL 21,
2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/LUNGASSOCIATION/STATUS/1384930599916429312?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
Addressing the high ozone levels, San Diego County Supervisor Nathan Fletcher told The San
Diego Union-Tribune (https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/watchdog/story/2019-
04-24/sd-me-air-quality)  that “more people die from air-related issues than they do from
breast cancer. I think this should serve as a sobering reminder but also a wake-up call for our
policy makers that we have to do more.”According to the report, the number of unhealthy ozone days grew by 42 percent since 2015,
averaging around 45 unhealthy days a year. The American Lung Association CEO Harold
Wimmer said that the air quality is getting worse especially because of wildfires and weather
patterns fueled by climate change. 
John Muir College freshman Sheena Patel  believes that “educating everyone about the
problem is the first step.”
“Switching to renewable energy, clean transportation, and consuming less meat are some
possible solutions,” Patel said. “While many people believe that they don’t have enough
power to do anything, change starts with just a few people who improve their own lifestyle
and educate others about the problem.”
Fletcher believes that a possible solution to this problem would be to get cars off the road and
invest in transit. California governor Gavin Newson announced in September 2020 that
California will begin to phase out gasoline-powered cars
(https://www.gov.ca.gov/2020/09/23/governor-newsom-announces-california-will-phase-
out-gasoline-powered-cars-drastically-reduce-demand-for-fossil-fuel-in-californias-fight-
against-climate-change/) and reduce the demand for fossil fuels to help stop climate change. 
The executive order states that, by 2035, all new cars and passenger trucks sold in California
will be zero-emission vehicles. The order also claims that the state will take more actions to
tackle the harms of oil extraction and support workers in the oil industry during this
transition.
Photo courtesy of Taylor Sanderson for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Struggle of Accessible Resources for Students Amid a
Global Pandemic
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/the-struggle-of-accessible-resources-for-students-amid-a-
global-pandemic/) Rodrigo Gutierrez  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/rodrigo-gutierrez/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)According to a survey (https://escholarship.org/uc/item/1rf4p547#main) done by the Seru
Consortium at UC Berkeley, the shift to online learning as a result of the ongoing coronavirus
pandemic has led to negative effects on students who identify as people of color. 
The survey, which interviewed 31,687 students from the nine campuses of the UC system and
from various races including White, Black, Asian, and Latinx, highlighted various obstacles
that were collectively experienced by those surveyed.
Surveyed students were asked questions from five categories of topics which included
academic obstacles, financial hardships, mental health challenges, safety, and feeling of
belonging. 
An overwhelming number of students of color indicated that they have found difficulty in
attending online lectures, finding adequate study spaces, and adapting to online learning
since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. 
The survey also reflected some of the hardships associated with students’ financial situations,
such as the loss of on-campus jobs, technological expenses, and living expenses. Source: The Seru Consortium Figure 4 (https://escholarship.org/uc/item/1rf4p547#main)
Some participants also critiqued college campuses which often operated under the
assumption that “one size fits all,” as in students would all adapt in the same way. 
At the conclusion of the survey, the Seru Consortium provided possible reasons as to why
students were affected so disproportionately. Dangerous home environments, high rates of
clinical mental health issues such as depression and anxiety, expensive technology necessary
for classwork, and even the strict meeting times for classes made it difficult for some to
adapt.
The survey used the results gathered to provide recommendations that both the UC system
and professors could use to resolve some of the issues. Recommendations such as providing
work from home opportunities, recording lectures, housing resources, and providing access
to mental health services were resources that the Consortium felt were responses that could
be undertaken.
Access to these resources is important especially for students of color who navigate the
college landscape — many of them first-generation students who struggle to overcome
obstacles  (https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2021-02-24/black-students-are-succeeding-in-college-at-higher-rates-but-far-behind-white-peers-report-says)  to be on par
with their peers.
As the school year comes to an end, the effects of online learning are clear: students do not
have access to the same resources and sense of community that being present on campus
provides.
In an interview  (https://www.chronicle.com/article/students-of-color-are-not-ok-heres-
how-colleges-can-support-them)  with The Chronicle, UCLA junior Alexa Sass described her
struggles in adapting to learning online in the midst of the protests regarding the murder of
George Floyd in May 2020.
“The way that I process my mental health is through support systems,” she said.
These support systems can be difficult for students to find, especially first-year students who
due to the pandemic have to adapt to significant changes in how they access resources.
For the UC San Diego campus, resources provided by the university include mental health
services such as CAPS, access to counseling through student’s respective colleges, and the
existence of various resource centers and living & learning communities.
For students of color, finding the same quality of resources that facilitate their success can be
difficult when everything has to occur online.
Places such as the Raza, Black, Women’s, Cross-Cultural, and Inter-tribal Resource centers
are tailored to address the needs of students of color. Yet their impact and accessibility to a
range of students can be difficult with the shift towards online-based services.
Communities such as the Raza, African Black Diaspora, and LGBTQIA+ Living and Learning
Communities foster the growth of community while providing resources for students
amongst such a large population.
For John Muir College sophomore Dumebi Uba, living in the African Black Diaspora Living
and Learning Community has granted her access to both resources and community as well as
given her a voice, she told The UCSD Guardian.“We form tight-knit families within the LLC where we connect to share adversities we face
and offer ways to uplift each other. We learn through each other how to be successful not just
personally and professionally, but academically as well,” Uba said. “They also give access to
CAPS, creative outlets such as painting, one on one mentoring with upperclassmen, and
game nights to meet other students in similar fields of study… Mental health isn’t talked
about often, so it helps to talk with other students in the community with similar struggles.
The LLC helps to give our community a voice and bring a call to action about addressing how
the school struggles in acknowledging the issues we face.”
For students that do not have access to the resources LLC’s provide, they may not have to
wait long to be able to access on-campus resources. Just last month, the Office of the
Chancellor at UCSD announced a return
(http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-4-5-3.html?
_ga=2.238887492.516533734.1618168241-1440209242.1603909842)  to on-campus learning
slated for Fall 2021. Spaces will have to operate under the guidelines recommended by the
CDC.
Until then, students can continue to utilize online resources through making CAPS
appointments here (https://caps.ucsd.edu/make-appointment/appointments.html) ,
receiving information about academic advising here
(https://students.ucsd.edu/sponsor/college-contacts/index.html) , and finding information
about resource centers here. (https://diversity.ucsd.edu/centers-resources/community-
centers.html)
Photo courtesy of  Kevin Tran for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
California Education Equity Taskforce Meets with Student
Journalists and Leaders
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/california-education-equity-taskforce-meets-with-student-
journalists-and-leaders/) Troy Tuquero  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/troy-tuquero/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Prominent members of California’s Recovery with Equity Taskforce held a virtual briefing
with campus student leaders and journalists on Tuesday, May 11 to discuss the findings of
their report titled “ Recovery with Equity: A Roadmap for Higher Education After the
Pandemic (https://www.capostsecondaryforall.org/initiatives/recovery-with-equity/) ”. The
briefing discussed the report’s aims of improving post-pandemic equity in higher education,
with a focus on the needs of Black, Latino, Asian Pacific Islander, and Indigenous students in
California.
The event was moderated by Varsha Sarveshwar, the 2019–2020 University of California
Student Association president and current Capital Fellow at the Office of the California
Governor. The panelists included the senior policy advisor for higher education to the
governor Dr. Lande Ajose, former president of the Cal State Student Association Michael
Wiafe, former UC student regent Dr. Hayley Weddle, president of the UC Student Association
Aidan Arasasingham, president of the Cal State Student Association Zahraa Khuraibet, and
president of the Student Senate for California Community Colleges Stephen Kodur.
Established in August 2020, the new taskforce, chaired by Ajose, is composed of 20
California state and local education leaders, with consultation from the Governor’s Council
for Post-Secondary Education  (https://www.capostsecondaryforall.org/). Ajose said that the
task force was a necessary endeavor to figure out ways to improve upon equity once the
pandemic ends.“What we wanted to do was develop a set of practical, actionable steps that were both around
policies and practices that could actually help our higher education systems, upon recovery,
really move with a more equity-centered focus so that students were more successful, were
better off as a result of their experience in higher education, and that our institutions were
able to serve those students,” Ajose said.
The findings of the taskforce drew upon previously released reports on education and
original analysis of publicly available data on state education metrics. Additionally, the
working group facilitated interviews and focus groups with 196 individuals across California
sectors and institutions, including 83 college students.
The report identified low-income, first-generation students of color in California public high
schools as a demographic group that is less likely to finish high school, complete A-G course
requirements, or enroll in and graduate from college. The Taskforce also cited a lack of
financial aid for students’ basic needs and an inability to use longitudinal data to track and
support students as examples of barriers to educational access and attainment for these
groups.
These basic needs issues have been particularly exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. A
student survey  (https://www.csac.ca.gov/sites/main/files/file-
attachments/2020_covid19_student_survey.pdf?1594172054)  released by the California
Student Aid Commission in Spring 2020 found that 71 percent of students reported losing
some or all of their income and 24 percent of students dropped one or more classes in the
spring. Student concerns about their own personal health and well-being tripled as a result of
the pandemic.
Then, Ajose summarized the 11 recommendations that the report offered as potential
solutions to the higher education issues identified by the taskforce.
1.Improving faculty, staff, and administrator diversity
2.Promoting inclusive, equity-focused learning environments
3.Creating inclusive support systems for student retention
4.Establishing an integrated admissions platform for California colleges and universities
5.Streamlining the college admissions process
6.Ensuring that all schools develop a common course numbering system
7.Promoting high-tech, hands-on advising
8.Supporting college preparation and early credit programs
9.Creating an integrated platform for state services10.Subsidizing internet access for lower-income students
11.Making colleges more affordable
“Imagine being able to go to a single website where you could apply for financial aid,” Ajose
said while discussing the creation of an integrated college platform for state services. “Where
you could apply for Calfresh. Where you could apply for a housing voucher, if you needed
one… How do we help a student who is on free and reduced lunch in 12th grade transition to
college, without that student then having to figure out where the food pantry is?”
After the summary of the recommendations, the panel then reflected upon their work in the
taskforce. Weddle, a UC San Diego alumna, said the approach that the report offers is unique
because it takes a structural approach to tackle higher education inequities.
“I am personally excited that the report is framed around holding institutions accountable for
inequities, as opposed to blaming students,” Weddle said. “In fact, I think it is really
transformative that the report tries to highlight students’ assets and again [puts] the
responsibility on [the UC, CSU, and CCC] to engage in the labor that it would take to have
student-responsive environments.”
Wiafe agreed with this sentiment and added that the report’s proposals should be
implemented differently from institution to institution.
“We were thinking about higher education in aggregate — what is happening in California’s
colleges and universities,” Wiafe said. “What we are talking about looks different to literally
everybody at that conversation… What [changes] students are looking at, the levers that
[students] are able to pull in order to reach the same destination, requires that student-
informed input from the institution level to truly know the changes that need to happen.”
In his remarks, Arasasingham said that the report offers solutions to the “triple pandemics”of COVID-19, systemic racism, and unaffordability in California. 
“So I think that the focus on these three areas, not just recovering from this pandemic, but an
intentional focus on making our institutions more inclusive and combating issues of racial
injustice,” Arasasingham said. “The campus climate issues. The policing issues
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/new-proposed-ucpd-policy-surfaces-amidst-
heightened-anti-police-activism/)  that students of the UC have been raising are not separate
from our educational experience but are a part of this more holistic conversation of how we
want our institutions to better support students and be better reflective of our values.”After the panelists offered their thoughts on the report, the meeting was opened up for a
Q&A. When asked by The UCSD Guardian about whether the Taskforce had any concerns
about implementation of the plan, Ajose stressed that the proposals should not be
implemented solely through state officials. 
“If we want this report to continue to be seen as authentic, then it can not be for [the]
government or the legislature to simply go about and start implementing,” Ajose said. “It
really needs to be students saying ‘yes, this is actually reflective of our experience. These are
actually the priorities we have.’ They need to say that not only to their elected leaders, but to
their [university] administrations.”
Ajose added that the report has been shared with a number of academic senates and has
received a “strong response.” She also encouraged student feedback to aid in deciding whichrecommendations to prioritize. 
Weddle followed up by adding that, while institutions have been responsive to the
recommendations, it is up to students to ensure that follow-through on the recommendations
is made and that there should be discussions ahead of time on transition plans with other
student leaders.
“Given Lande’s comments that some of these goals [will] take a long time to advance, or may
not be acted upon in the same timeline, I think that it is really important that students and
student leaders keep these issues on the radar, particularly as students’ formal leadership
roles tend to have one-year tenures,” Weddle said.
The Taskforce aims to fully implement all of the recommendations by 2030. Students are
encouraged to provide input (https://www.capostsecondaryforall.org/engage/contact/)  on
the report and advocate for the implementation of measures they support to institutional and
state leaders.
Photo courtesy of Siddharth Atre for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
XOXO, Guardian Girl: Ready to Party
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/xoxo-guardian-girl-ready-to-party/) Colleen Conradi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/colleenconradi/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Hey Girl,  My 21st birthday is coming up, any recommendations for mixed drinks
to make?  Sincerely,  Ready to Party 
Dear Ready to Party,
I am so glad you asked this because I’ve been waitin’ for this one! If there are bars open near
you, I assume you’ll be going to them, but if you need some pre-game inspiration or house
party favorites, you’ve come to the right gal! Here are some of my go-to’s for a good time:
Dirty Shirley:  This one is easy, cheap, and always a winner if you grew up drinking Shirley
Temple’s! Here’s what you’ll need: Sprite (or a lemon-lime soda), grenadine, alcohol of choice
(I prefer vodka!), and garnish with maraschino cherries!  
Sex on the Beach:  If you’re into fruity drinks, especially peach ones, this one is for you!
Also perfect if you can’t stand the taste of alcohol. You’ll need: 1–2 oz. of peach liqueur, 2–3
oz. of vodka, 2–3 oz. of orange juice, 2–3 oz. of cranberry juice, and if you’re like me, 0.5 oz.
of grenadine. If you have a shaker handy (if not, stirring is fine!), pour about equal parts of
each liquid (around 1–2 oz.) and shake with ice (add more or less of something to taste!). 
Electric Lemonade: This one is simple, yet effective and fun! Start with your desired
amount of lemonade, about 2–3 oz. of vodka, 1–2 oz. of blue curacao, and 0.5–1 oz. of simple
syrup for a tasty, electric blue cocktail! Pour over ice and if you prefer something bubbly, try
adding in some club soda. Blueberry Mojitos:  Now, these cocktails are a bit more involved, but always worth it!
You’ll need: mint leaves, blueberries, 2 oz. of blueberry juice (or any other related berry juice
— I get my blueberry juice from Trader Joe’s!), 1 oz. of sweetened lime juice, 2–3 oz. of white
rum, and club soda. Take a few mint leaves and blueberries and muddle them at the bottom
of your glass. Again, if you have a shaker on hand, put the remaining contents except for theclub soda into the shaker with ice. Then, pour into your glass over ice and top with club soda! Ron-Ron Juice: I have to be honest – this is not my personal recipe, but for those of you
who watched “Jersey Shore” and always wanted to try out Ronnie’s “Ron Ron Juice,” this one
is for you! Get those blenders out because you’ll need: watermelon chunks, blueberries,
cherries (optional), 2–3 oz. of vodka or white rum (I use Absolut Watermelon flavored
vodka!), 2–3 oz. of cranberry juice, and ice. Throw all of the ingredients together and blend.
In true “Jersey Shore” fashion, pour into a red solo cup and get dancing!Lemon Drop:  Okay, I know this is not what an “official” lemon drop is (most commonly
made as a shooter, not a cocktail), but that’s what my mom calls it and I have never
questioned it. Anywho, you’ll need: sugar, 2–3 oz. of vodka, 1–2 oz. of limoncello liqueur, 1
oz. of simple syrup, 1 oz. of lemon juice, and club soda (optional). Wet the rim of your glass
and dip into a plate of sugar. Then, throw all of the other ingredients together over ice andyou’re ready to go! Hopefully one of these speaks to you! Something you can also do to spice up any of the drinks
listed above is to look for edible drink glitter to really dress up your cocktails. Also, if you or
anyone else is looking for non-alcoholic drinks, all of these make great mocktails as well! If
you tried these and want to give feedback, send an email over to lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
(mailto:lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org). 
xoxo,
Guardian Girl(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Solidarity Not Sympathy: The Adivasi Struggle of India
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/solidarity-not-sympathy-the-adivasi-struggle-of-india/) 
Andrew Ha  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/a1ha/)
My life is like that of a tree chopped of its branches, with its roots chopped off. 
My heart throbs with heavy thuds,  
a thousand Himalayas dropping into the Pacific Ocean from the high skies. 
Excerpt from “I Think of Your Evergreen Smile”  
By G.N. Saibaba.
When we think of home, why do we often attach ourselves to the land that nurtured us? We
imagine its landscape, the people, and the communities born out of them. Many of us find
peace reminiscing about our upbringing. We think of our past and the generations that
preceded us. A sense of nostalgia rarely exists in the absence of a place. 
When this home of ours is threatened, we are quite reasonably aggravated. When those in
power attempt to dispossess us from our land, we innately feel the need to fight back. For
many cultures, their existence is inextricably tied to the land, so people will do everything intheir power to keep it. 
In the remote Indian villages of the Niyamgiri hill range, the region’s natural environment
and the livelihoods of the native Adivasi people are under constant risk of governmental and
industrial incursion. The violence, displacement, persecution, and imprisonment of these
Indigenous minorities for protecting their bauxite-rich land
(https://scroll.in/article/838121/the-dongria-kondh-defeated-vedanta-but-are-caught-
between-the-state-and-the-maoists)  underscores the injustice the Indian government has
been perpetrating in the name of economic profit. Their total disregard for the Adivasis isdeplorable and must be met with strong opposition worldwide. 
For generations, the Dongria Kondh tribal community –– made up of over 8,000 people ––
has maintained a symbiotic relationship with Niyamgiri, practicing sustainable agriculture
and holding the trees and hills sacred. Owning land (https://www.ritimo.org/Claiming-
Niyamgiri-the-Dongria-Kondh-s-Struggle-against-Vedanta)  on the mountain became
intrinsically linked to tribal identity and cutting down trees is often considered taboo. As the
Dongria ensure that their actions maintain the natural balance, the hill’s bauxite helps absorb
monsoon rainwater, which feeds into the nearby streams for consumption.
Industry interests to mine bauxite and develop aluminum drove the nationalist and
neoliberal Indian government to attempt to forcibly displace these people. In total disregard
of the National Forest Policy of 1988 and the Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act of 2006
(otherwise known as the FRA Forest Rights Act), the government has failed to properlycreate conservation reserves and recognize traditional land claims. Without this legal
recognition, the Adivasi’s homeland is at further risk of exploitation and destruction, not to
mention the displacement of thousands, depending on the village.
The government’s slow and reluctant response in helping the Adivasi was inversely mirrored
by its enthusiasm to grant bauxite mining permits to Vedanta LTD and Odisha Mining
Corporation in the late 2000s. The Indian government’s choice to prioritize economic over
human interests illustrates how those in power are fueled by greed and are careless to the
needs of their own people. The grassroots Adivasi movement, in turn, pushed back by
organizing a multitude of protests. Sometimes referred to as the ‘environmentalism of the
poor,’ the Dongria and other neighboring communities banded together to hold large
demonstrations (https://www.ritimo.org/Claiming-Niyamgiri-the-Dongria-Kondh-s-
Struggle-against-Vedanta)  in the state’s capital against government mining interests. Some
carried out civil disobedience, creating human walls and barricades of fallen trees to prevententry into the remote Niyamgiri range. 
“Let our blood flow like a river, but we won’t allow mining,” local Adivasi activist Lado Sikaka
said in an interview with The Economic Times
(https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/indl-goods/svs/metals-mining/theres-no-
mine-but-is-it-all-fine-on-niyam-hills/articleshow/63763978.cms?from=mdr) .
As a result of their continued pressure, the Supreme Court ruled on the case in 2013 and gave
tribal groups power to decide whether they wanted mining in their territory. In the
subsequent year, the environment ministry codified the Adivasi’s decision against bauxite
extraction by banning mining in Niyamgiri. A second attempt by OMC to mine in 2016 was
similarly shot down in court. However positive a result, these actions are merely exceptions
to an enduring legacy of disrespect and dispossession.
Although Niyamgiri is protected from mining for the foreseeable future, many other locations
along the northeastern belt of India, home to many Indigenous groups, must contend with
the coercion and animosity of government and industry influences. The FRA may, on paper,
require the Indian government to process and recognize land claims, but it has only done so
for 3 percent (https://science.thewire.in/environment/adivasi-struggle-environmental-
justice-consent-principle-economic-development/)  of tribal lands. The lack of recognition
allows India to continue with mining development programs that have disproportionately
displaced Indigenous peoples  (http://iosrjournals.org/iosr-jhss/papers/Vol19-issue7/Version-2/J019728288.pdf) . With each new project comes the displacement of tens of
thousands, not to mention the degradation of the natural environment that they have called
home for generations. 
Because Indigenous lands are not protected, nor do laws prohibit other industrial activities,
the Indian government has, through the last decade, issued permits for various operations.
One particular alumina refinery site at Lanjigarh has decimated the livelihoods of the nearby
communities and caused red mud pollution runoff  (https://thewire.in/rights/odishas-
niyamgiri-hills-and-its-people-are-still-under-threat)  in Niyamgiri. Those living directly near
the refinery have found that crops will no longer grow properly and that the land has become
too muddy for new construction. The red mud also caused pollution of the groundwater,
increasing sodium content and making it undrinkable for the villagers who live as far as the
Dongria or Kutia Kondhs. While this case was prominent in international media, these
problems are occurring in countless other areas throughout the region and other parts ofIndia. 
Adivasi opposition was swift in Lanjigarh. In early March 2019
(https://peoplesdispatch.org/2019/03/28/tribals-in-indias-niyamgiri-are-resisting-
vedantas-bauxite-mining/), fervent protestors stood in front of the refinery to demonstrate
against corporate greed, land degradation, and the imprisonment of prominent activists.
They were met with violence from security personnel, who killed one protester. The renewed
uproar against the government was further exacerbated by the Supreme Court’s order to
remove any Adivasis from their land if their FRA application was rejected
(https://www.reuters.com/article/us-india-landrights-lawmaking/indias-top-court-to-rule-
on-eviction-of-millions-from-forests-idUSKCN1UI1DQ) . According to some activists, the
rejection of more than half of the applications often did not have justifiable reasons for their
decisions. By influencing the bureaucratic process, politicians artificially skewed the results
in their favor in hopes that the lack of recognition will allow for more business, and thereby,profits.  
Far beyond just a question of climate justice and respect for indigeneity, the decision to
persecute and imprison activists has ignited debates on freedom of expression, assembly, and
dissent. Those living along the northeastern belt have increasingly been called Maoistinsurgents  ––  a group of political revolutionaries fighting for communism in India –– by
the government. With the region becoming more militarized
(https://thewire.in/rights/odishas-niyamgiri-hills-and-its-people-are-still-under-threat) ,
villagers often are arbitrarily stopped by paramilitary troops and interrogated. Thoseprotesting against industrialization find themselves the target of government persecution and
wrongful imprisonment. It is absurd that the country which prides itself with being “the
largest democracy in the world” fails to uphold their citizens’ basic rights. 
 Human rights activists, like Delhi University Professor G.N. Saibaba
(https://www.jacobinmag.com/2020/09/nerandra-modi-dissent-india-bjp) , have become
the government’s scapegoats and often are falsely charged with working with Maoist
insurgents. For the act of supporting the Adivasi movement, Saibaba was sentenced to life in
prison in 2013. Suffering from a multitude of pre-existing conditions, Saibaba’s health hasdecreased rapidly due to the lack of proper medical treatment in prison. 
This is the consequence of dissent. The true intentions of the Indian government should be
readily apparent: speaking up against the government’s interests and rallying supporters will
lead you into a jail cell. Saibaba’s case is disheartening but it should not overshadow the
reality that many other activists are also targeted by the government in a senseless attempt to
quiet the cacophony of indignation. It is a pathetic tactic to scare and suppress, one which
has failed incredibly. Since Saibaba’s imprisonment, the movement has grown even stronger:
livid at the government’s policies and detention of activists, protestors continue to fight back.
Saibaba and others lit a candle, galvanizing hundreds more to action. The flame is passedalong and has only grown. It has even managed to travel across oceans and continents. VIEW THIS POST ON INSTAGRAM
(HTTPS://WWW.INSTAGRAM.COM/P/COYLAZNTALY/?
UTM_SOURCE=IG_EMBED&UTM_CAMPAIGN=LOADING)
A POST SHARED BY FREE DR. SAIBABA @ UCSD (@FREESAIBABAUCSD …
It has come to us. While the Adivasi are far in distance, they are close to our hearts. One need
only look at the displacement of the Kumeyaay people in what is now called San Diego
County to recognize that injustice here is equally as prominent elsewhere. When hearing
about the Adivasi and Saibaba’s story, a group of UC San Diego students –– including myself
–– organized as part of their advocacy seminar to create the Hand in Hand Collective
(https://www.instagram.com/freesaibabaucsd/). We’ve already hosted a seminar decrying
political repression and will soon publish a book of poems, artwork, and testimonials on
behalf of G.N. Saibaba. However, this issue requires more attention; while our seminar will
end with the quarter, the movement and Saibaba’s imprisonment will continue.The narrative of this injustice is far too common. Land is taken from Indigenous populations
to serve the interests of a neoliberal government. The region’s natural habitat is
unsustainably exploited and subsequently destroyed. The former residents are dispossessed
and often persecuted if they protest. However often this may occur, each is still an egregious
affront to human rights and the environment. Collective action
(https://www.scholarsatrisk.org/actions/gokarakonda-naga-saibaba-
india/#Professor%20Gokarakonda%20Naga%20Saibaba)  is the best way forward. It is
necessary for us to speak up and continually support these people, for the Adivasi, and the
countless advocates –– like G.N. Saibaba –– who have risked their lives in the fight for abetter, more just future. 
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Distasteful Truth About Diet Culture
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/the-distasteful-truth-about-diet-culture/) Raymond Tran
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/raymondt/)
As summer approaches, obtaining the ideal summer body is at the top of many to-do lists. In an attempt to reach
the ultimate “hot girl summer” physique, those looking for ways to lose weight will turn to various types of diets and
workout routines. However, in the pursuit of a slimmer body, many remain blind to the realistic consequences ofTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here →
(https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)these so-called “diets,” most of which are eating disorders in disguise. While it is important for us to address
unhealthy habits, such as eating a tub of ice cream at 4 a.m., switching to unnecessary and intense diets in a
determined effort to lose weight is not a healthy solution. 
Whether it’s on YouTube or TikTok, we are constantly introduced to new popular diets that will help you “lose your
belly fat” or “cut 20 pounds in two weeks.” In reality, these “diets” are either quick-fixes that will work for a month
or are ineffective altogether, most of which cause more harm than good. Because of the rise of influencers
advertising special weight-loss teas and internet creators on strict diets making day-in-the-life videos,
impressionable, insecure, and susceptible audiences are getting roped into thinking about their bodies in a negative
way, causing them to turn to unhealthy measures in order to meet these newfound standards. This is an effect ofwhat is known as “toxic diet culture.” 
The Alliance for Eating Disorders  (https://www.allianceforeatingdisorders.com/breaking-up-with-diet-culture/)
defines toxic diet culture as, “Any programs that encourage extreme weight loss, require restricting yourself, and
suggest cutting calories […] as well as programs that advertise weight loss pills and shakes.” 
Especially on social media, we are led to believe that weight equates to health when in reality, it is not as cut and
dried. Research has shown  (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7098708/)  that there are
metabolically healthy thinner people and metabolically healthy larger people. Our behaviors and routines influence
the status of our health, not weight itself, and putting the emphasis on weight loss and body size makes people more
susceptible to turning to unhealthy eating habits in a desperate attempt to fit the mold.This leads to the bigger question: what is our true motivation to go on a diet? 
Diet culture often utilizes and exacerbates fatphobia. We shouldn’t be scared to “look fat” and for it to be our main
motivator to lose weight. We should be striving to live the healthiest lives possible, which doesn’t always mean
being supermodel skinny or having a six-pack. And for those that cannot lose weight through special and intensediets, the obsession with diet culture leads to various eating disorders and mental health issues. 
Within diet culture, there is the idea that there are superior ways of eating, such as “clean,” Paleo, low-carb,
intermittent fasting, and keto. This encourages us to be insanely cautious about everything we eat instead of eating
for the enjoyment and satisfaction of eating. Restriction of certain foods only leads to shame and guilt whenever we
“fall off the wagon” or have a “cheat day.”
The glorification of toxic diet culture on social media has not gone unnoticed. In September 2019, Instagram
announced (https://docs.google.com/document/d/17FKWeFq1z7zmVS8Zm3EGFhalKl1whT8yI10EnAPgtp8/edit)
that they will be hiding posts that promote weight loss from users under the age of 18. Due to social media being
such an influential platform for advertising and influencing, the rise of posts regarding diets and weight loss can bedetrimental not only to young impressionable audiences but also to anyone with insecurities about their body.  
According to a clinical report by the American Academy of Pediatrics
(https://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/138/3/e20161649) , those who dieted moderately were five times
more likely to develop an eating disorder, while those who restricted food intake extremely were 18 times more
likely. The more extreme or restrictive a diet is, the more likely it is to lead to orthorexia — a term that refers to an  
individual having an unhealthy obsession with healthy food. Much in the same way a person who struggles with  
anorexia or bulimia obsesses over calorie count and weight, someone with orthorexia fixates on clean eating
(https://www.eatingdisorderhope.com/blog/clean-eating-orthorexia) . 
One-track diets such as keto imply that cutting out an entire food group is somehow healthier than our previous  
lifestyle. We are taught that everything is good in moderation; this philosophy should not only apply when we have  
excess intake but when nutrient deficiencies are occurring as well. 
Many go “Keto” in hopes of losing weight and managing their blood pressure; however, because the keto diet is so  
restrictive, health experts say it’s not an appropriate plan to follow long-term. It can actually cause
(https://www.health.com/weight-loss/keto-diet-side-effects) constant weight fluctuations, less muscle mass, 
decreased metabolism, and even an increased risk of heart disease and diabetes. 
Most people hear about these diets from social media, and just like any other trend, people try them. However,  
because they are convinced that their unhealthy habits can only be combatted through these glorified health risks,  
many people fall victim to toxic diet culture.
Even purchasing the detox tea from that YouTube ad is essentially just purchasing laxatives and offers no
nutritional or beneficial gain. Detox teas (https://www.healthline.com/health/detox-tea-side-
effects#:~:text=Detox%20teas%20commonly%20cause%20abdominal,stress%20on%20the%20digestive%20system.)  
commonly cause abdominal pain and discomfort, leading to cramps, bloating, gas, and nausea. The high levels of  
caffeine and laxative ingredients put stress on the digestive system and are ineffective for maintaining any type of  
weight loss.
Most diets are nearly impossible to keep up with, which makes falling off of them even worse on people’s mental  
health and their outlook on food. Associating carbs with gaining weight and losing weight with self-satisfaction only  
creates an environment of insecurity and fear.  
We are scared of food. We are scared of eating the wrong thing and fearful of how society will see us because of it. 
Realistically, no one on social media is equipped to tell you what is healthy for your body and what works for losing  
weight in a healthy way. Instead of jumping from one unhealthy eating habit to another, we need to find a healthy  
way to address the parts of our diets we need to fix. If you are serious about kicking your bad eating habits or
finding truly healthy alternatives to foods, a simple and smart solution is to go to nutritionists — who are qualified
to give advice and can help you come up with a plan specialized for yourself.
As a species that has spent centuries testing and creating a plethora of foods, we should not fear it. While it can be  
easy to fall into the habit of snacking and overeating, we must also remind ourselves that less is not inherently  
better. 
From “what I eat in a day” TikToks to different teas and juices that show up on our Instagram feed, diet culture is
all around us. Instead of letting it control how we view food, ourselves, and others, we must understand the  
complexities of the human body and appreciate food for giving us the strength and nutrients we need to survive.
The bottom line is that we shouldn’t fear food, nor should we have to.Art by Andrew Diep for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Girl to Sex Object Pipeline is Real
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/the-girl-to-sex-object-pipeline-is-real/) Saida Hassan
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/saidahassan/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Recently, Billie Eilish had a Vogue cover interview discussing power dynamics, body
positivity, and the phenomenon of her culturally reneged pop image. For some people,
Eilish’s Vogue shoot represents the culmination of the “empowering” cultural narrative of
taking back historically misogynistic rhetoric — like “hoe,” “slut,” and “thot.”
 Eilish affirms this narrative in her interview, explaining how, “Suddenly you’re a hypocrite if
you want to show your skin, and you’re easy and you’re easy and you’re a slut and you’re a
whore. If I am, then I’m proud… Let’s turn it around and be empowered in that.” But does
empowerment truly lie in sexualizing yourself?
Women have historically only been valued for their looks, and nowhere is that more evident
than when examining mass media. From Instagram to pop stars, the vast disparity between
the beauty standards men and women are held to can be incredibly depressing. Eilish initially
managed to break from that mold, in that she deliberately flouted beauty norms she was
expected to adhere to — she wore very baggy clothes in order to avoid scrutiny and she dyed
her hair neon colors as often as she’d like. As a result, she was mostly able to avoid the overtsexualization of female pop stars that the music industry grooms its victims into. 
But her Vogue shoot is hardly as revolutionary towards these misogynistic beauty standards
as liberal feminism has posited it as. A mistake feminists make in asserting that sexualizing
yourself deliberately or calling yourself a “hoe” is that they believe these images and rhetoric
would challenge men’s perception of women as sex objects. In reality, men hardly see the
difference between an “empowered” sexualized image of a teenager and one labeled
neutrally. It is an image that is dehumanizing towards females regardless — the sexualized
image of women panders to the male gaze either way. Re-labeling beauty standards as
“empowering” instead of trying to completely abolish them is hardly challenging the statusquo. 
I do not hate Billie Eilish, nor do I think she is untalented. I do not even blame her for this
Vogue photo shoot — she is as much a victim of the misogynistic mass media as any other
woman. But to pretend as if she wasn’t pressured to take off her clothes — either explicitly by
the music industry, or from the larger subtext of our misogynistic society — is naive at best.
In her interview  (https://www.vogue.co.uk/news/article/billie-eilish-vogue-interview) , she
laments that the alternative fashion choices she engaged in left her feeling “undesired” by the
world — doesn’t the cultural expectation of engaging in femininity mean that her photoshootis superficially subversive at best? When you consider what female pop stars are expected to do to remain popular and relevant
compared to their male counterparts, it is unsurprising that Eilish questioned her
womanhood when she wore baggy clothes and refused to dress scantily. Consider the media
catastrophe that has become Britney Spears’ image in the paparazzi — she was villainized for
her sexualized image and simultaneously goaded into being a sex object. I truly believe that
because a woman’s worth is dependent on how appealing she is to men, there is no way to
repackage sexuality that is appealing to the male gaze as “empowering” — the only option
forward would be to convince women to abandon the sexualized image of females completely.
Not because sex objects are “sluts,” but because sex objects make no real tangible impact inundoing female socialization and misogyny in the minds of men or women. 
At the very least, I wish mass media would stop calling sexualized imagery “empowering.”
There is no need to re-package a trojan horse that diminishes a woman’s worth to her
appearance alone. Meanwhile, men still hate and create these “whores” in their minds,viscerally disgusted by the image of a woman in her most natural and unaltered form. 
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Book Review: “Goodbye, Again”
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/book-review-goodbye-again/) Marina Lee
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)
 With ruminations on productivity, loneliness, and farewells, “Goodbye, Again” is the
perfect read for any pending pandemic graduate.“Goodbye, Again,” put most simply, and most obviously, is a book about goodbyes. This
might seem particularly apparent, considering the title, but what does it really mean to say
“Goodbye?” Are all goodbyes permanent, or are some temporary? How do we unpack the joys
and sorrows of each? What roles do goodbyes play in our everyday lives? Author Jonny Sun
explores these questions in his newest book of short essays on temporary experiences and
toxic work culture.
Sun is no stranger to the existential question. In his previous solo book, a graphic novel
entitled “everyone’s a aliebn, when you’re a aliebn too,” Sun utilizes a little alien protagonist
so unsure of who they’re to become that they question all kinds of creatures and beings about
their existences, including Nothing. In his previous collaborative book, “Gmorning, Gnight!,”
Sun illustrates Lin Manuel Miranda’s famous tweets to open and close the day, breathing
visual life to these tiny musings about the everyday. Now in this most recent addition,
“Goodbye, Again” allows Sun to take an even more personal approach with his existential
explorations, baring his soul open in a display of anxieties through the conveyance of familial
memories, egg recipes, propagated plants, friendly conversations, apartment tours, recurring
dreams, yogurt indecisions, promised loves, and so much more.
Particularly hard-hitting sections of the book relate to the temporality of living in a variety of
places and the anxieties surrounding transition and capitalist culture. “Living in a place feels
like it’s bookended by parallel experiences,” Jonny Sun writes, and “You can’t outrun sadness
because sadness is already everywhere. Sadness isn’t the visitor, you are” (Sun 4, 7). Sun’s
relationship to the physical space around him imbues us with the notion that we are never
permanent and sets us up with a specific unease about accomplishment and satisfaction to be
thoroughly explored in the rest of the book.
However, the whole book isn’t just existential dread. Two of the most striking sections of the
book, in both writing and illustration, revolve around items passed down to Sun by his
parents. These items are recipes for how to cook eggs — specifically tea eggs — and
propagated plants from Sun’s parents’ houseplant collection. In the egg recipe section, Sun
describes several different ways to prepare eggs, and recounts memories of being fed the
eggs, and memories of receiving the recipes from his parents. In the plant section, Sun draws
through the main plants in his parents’ house, and recalls a specific cactus that he fell in love
with as a boy, a cactus that his parents had rescued from mites or spiders and taken care of
ever since. What makes these sections so inviting, and so intimate, are that they’re both
deeply tied to Sun’s relationship with his parents, and how he wishes so deeply to preserve it.
They both demonstrate a retrospective care that Sun notices his parents always havingprovided him with. As someone about to graduate from UC San Diego, this book was full of moments that tapped
at my tear ducts. I think of all the campus rooms I’ve ever lived in, all the people I’ve met, the
pressures I’ve faced, and what I’ve hopefully accomplished before leaving. I’ve come to realize
that everything and nothing mattered in the best and most honest ways possible. This book is
a great reminder to not let productivity culture ever best you, and to invest in the small lovely
moments of everyday living that make goodbyes ultimately difficult, but ultimately
worthwhile.
Author: Jonny Sun  
Published: April 14, 2020 
Grade: A
Image courtesy of shondaland.com.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
An Afternoon with the Stars of “High School Musical: The
Musical: The Series”
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/an-a  ernoon-with-the-stars-of-high-school-musical-the-
musical-the-series/) Marina Lee  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Arts & Entertainment writers Natalie Tran, Marina Lee, and Deyshna Pai interview stars
from the popular Disney+ series “High School Musical” The Musical: The Series” about their
experiences on the show in anticipation of its Season 2 release.
It’s no secret that “High School Musical: The Musical: The Series” has become a pop culture
phenomenon since its premiere last year. As a mockumentary following a drama club’s
reverence to the original “High School Musical” trilogy in Season 1, “High School Musical:
The Musical: The Series” has earned success with current college students, who were
elementary and middle school students during the original trilogy’s peak popularity in the
late 2000s. While HSMTMTS might borrow inspiration from the original “High School
Musical” series, the show takes on a distinct character that marks a shift from Disney’s past
projects: the series’ queer representation, casting diversity, and equal opportunity spotlight
for each of its characters allow audiences of a wide variety to find themselves in the
characters onscreen, and there is much that resonates. With the premiere of HSMTMTS
Season 2 on May 14, A&E had the opportunity to sit down with cast members Dara Reneé,
Joe Serafini, and Frankie Rodriguez who play characters Kourtney, Seb, and Carlos on the
show and interview them about their experiences as contributors on what is currently one ofDisney’s most popular series as it heads into Season 2. The cast was excited to share their experiences working on Season 2, which picks up after
their characters’ successful production of “High School Musical: The Musical.” According to
Dara Reneé, she along with other cast members had a bet for which Disney musical their
characters would be performing and were delighted to learn that it would be “Beauty and the
Beast.” With the musical backdrop of the animated classic, fans of HSMTMTS will see their
favorite high schoolers diving into a new semester of friendships, relationships, and
competitions. Already, tension arises between main characters Nini (Olivia Rodrigo) and
Ricky (Joshua Bassett), who rejoice in their rekindled relationship while finding themselves
at odds with Nini’s decision to attend a performing arts school.
Reneé, Serafini, and Rodriguez expressed their feelings toward their characters’ arcs from
Season 1 to Season 2. Throughout the process of developing their characters, each actor
incorporated their own personalities to create more unique and fleshed-out characters. Their
personal high school experiences, such as running theater shows, translated directly into
their roles as high schoolers who feel pressured to perform well. Additionally, both Reneé’s
and Serafini’s characters, Kourtney and Seb, were originally intended to have minor roles,
which grew over time. To Reneé, Season 2 improved upon its development of Kourtney bygiving her character an individual storyline, not relegated to the role of a “sidekick.” 
The cast also bonded over their comparisons between themselves and their characters. While
they may have not been as well-dressed or popular as their fictional counterparts, the actors
shared their characters’ love for all things theater.
“Carlos is a lot better dressed than I was in high school,” admitted Rodriguez, to the
amusement of his castmates. But, like Carlos, Rodriguez wanted to be the studentchoreographer and director in high school and is also very passionate about dance. 
“At my kindergarten graduation… I wanted to be a backup dancer for Jennifer Lopez and
Ricky Martin,” Rodriguez revealed.
Reneé felt similarly, finding both differences and common ground between her and her
character Kourtney. While Reneé admitted that she was “not one of the cool kids” in high
school  like Kourtney, she also loves fashion and makeup and was a part of her school’s
costume crew.
Serafini also discovered himself in similar shoes as his character Seb, both with their passion
for theater and musicals. However, “I was definitely not a farm boy. I mowed the lawn
whenever I needed to,” Serafini laughed. “High School Musical: The Musical: The Series” includes the portrayal of several queer
characters, which is a breakthrough for both the franchise, and Disney as a whole. Nini
(Olivia Rodrigo) has two moms, Ricky (Joshua Bassett) wears a “Pride” shirt from them, and
Carlos (Frankie Rodriguez) and Seb (Joe Serafini) go to prom together, all in explicitly queer
scenes that go beyond a mere cowardly coding of queer characters. With the positive
inclusion of multiple queer characters, whose performances have earned the show a GLAAD
(Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation) Media Award for “Outstanding Kids and
Family Program,” we asked Joe Serafini, who plays Seb, and Frankie Rodriguez, who plays
Carlos, what it’s like being able to portray these queer characters in this new iteration of awell-known franchise. 
Rodriguez responded, “To be the representation I didn’t see as a kid, and I get to now do that
for not only a new generation of kids, but adults who have reached out and said thank you for
what you’re doing — it’s just so exciting and very touching.” 
Serafini then added, “Yeah, I agree completely with Frankie. It means so much to be telling
these stories and I love the way that they’re handling the relationship. I feel like it’s just like
any other relationship, and you know, at the end of the day, it’s just Carlos and Seb really
care about each other and want to be good boyfriends to each other. It’s really sweet.” This
very representation allows for an inclusivity that never feels like pandering, and provides a
hopeful display of queer love for audiences of all ages.
The inviting nature of the show to both audiences new and old is largely helped by the show’s
soundtrack. The show incorporates familiar tunes from the original “High School Musical”
film that older viewers can recognize, but reworks them into fresh arrangements and
character combinations that also provide something new. Additionally, the show includes
several new songs that enhance character development and allow the cast members to
display their songwriting prowess that both younger and older generations are able to vibe to.
For example, Olivia Rodrigo, of “Driver’s License” fame and who plays Nini on the show,
wrote original songs titled “I Think I Kinda, You Know,” and “All I Want” respectively, both
of which went viral on Tiktok in addition to being well-received from the show itself. The
music is able to advance plot, showcase talent, and provide a relatable portrayal of a highschool musical theatre experience, all in a single series. 
During the interview, all three actors shared their lessons learned from their characters
Kourtney, Carlos, and Sebastian. For Serafini, it was the importance of pursuing one’s
dreams; for Reneé, it was that it’s okay to be vulnerable and to make mistakes; and for
Rodriguez, it was the value of having a community. Such takeaways encapsulate what makesthe show so special. After this past year, “High School Musical: The Musical: The Series”
reminds us of the importance of our dreams, our vulnerability, and, most importantly, our
friends and family. You can catch Season 2 on Disney+,  starting May 14.
Image courtesy of J-14 .(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Post-Draft Keys to Success for Each NFC Team
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/post-dra  -keys-to-success-for-each-nfc-team/) Donovan
Perez-Schipper  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)With the NFL Draft in the books and a long wait ahead for the next season, we’re taking a
look at the most important areas for each team to focus on to improve their chances. Last
week, we covered the AFC  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/post-draft-keys-to-
success-for-each-afc-team/) , and this week, the NFC.
DALLAS COWBOYS: Adequate rushing defense.
The Cowboys’ defense was very bad last season, though there was some improvement
towards the end of the year. That improvement did not change the Cowboys’ status of having
the second-worst rushing defense in the NFL by yards allowed. Even with a very strong
linebacking group headlined by Jaylon Smith, this team really struggled to stop the rush. The
safety position still seems mostly undefined at this point, but the Cowboys did invest a third-
round draft choice there, along with a third-rounder addressing the defensive line. The gem
of the draft class and likely the best defender from the draft, Micah Parsons, will work in
tandem with the other additions to potentially help the Cowboys improve this aspect of the
defense.
NEW YORK GIANTS: Daniel Jones taking positive steps in his development.
The Giants have gradually built up their roster and now seem to have put enough pieces in
place to expect the Giants to be in playoff contention this season. There may not be a more
important player for a team’s fortune than Daniel Jones with the Giants. When he is dealing,
the Giants offense led by Saquon Barkley is a juggernaut. More often than not, however,
Daniel Jones has been an albatross for this team with turnovers, and the offense has been
mired with injury issues. With new top wideout Kenny Golladay and a healthy Saquon
Barkley to go along with an improving offensive line, the focus turns to Daniel Jones. The
excuses are waning, and it is time to evaluate whether or not Jones can bring the Giants back
to contention.
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES: Getting quality play from the linebackers.
Much has been made about the Eagles’ maligned secondary, and the quarterback spot still
has question marks. While the quarterback issues will need to be worked on, the pass defense
for the team actually ranked about average in the NFL and the addition of talented safety
Anthony Harris tempers concerns. However, the Eagles linebackers really have not had any
star power for a long time. The Eagles rush defense was worse than the pass last season, and
tackling issues played a significant role in this regard. The Eagles did add another Minnesota
Vikings impact defender in Eric Wilson who will probably head the group, but quality playfrom other projected starters Genard Avery and TJ Edwards will be important for a quality
Eagles defense. General manager Howie Roseman has been known to invest very little for
this position group even compared to other teams, and it will be seen how far the secondary
and defensive line can take this team without improvement from the linebackers.
WASHINGTON FOOTBALL TEAM: Separation from the receivers.
Washington has become a trendy pick to win this division considering a very strong defense,
the signing of Ryan Fitzpatrick, and the weak current status of the division. While the
problem for the team last season was the offense in general, a particular issue was the
passing game. Kyle Allen, Alex Smith, and yes, even Dwayne Haskins have performed well
enough in certain games behind an above-average offensive line and serviceable support
from the rushing game. What the team really struggled with was the lack of quality play from
the receivers, specifically outside of Terry McLaurin. Fitzpatrick has been known to take
some risks, so getting separation from the secondary is of even greater importance with
Fitzpatrick. With speedy Curtis Samuel as a free agent addition along with dynamic receiver
Dyami Brown recently drafted, Washington will hope to form a more explosive offense
behind Fitzpatrick’s arm.
CHICAGO BEARS: Having a dominant defensive line.
Khalil Mack is an absolute problem, but his pairing with elite defensive lineman Akiem Hicks
seems to be close to coming to a close after Hicks requested a trade. The Bears offense is
likely to be pretty bad this coming season, so this team will need to hang their hat on the
defensive end just as they have in recent years. Last year, even the defense had an off year,
with Mack producing a little less than he normally does and the defense falling to the middle
of the pack after an elite start carried the Bears to 5–0. The Bears lost Kyle Fuller but
replaced him with Desmond Trufant, and they have rising star Jaylon Johnson at cornerback
to pair with him. Losing Hicks up front would leave a massive hole in this defense, making
quality play from the defensive line the point of emphasis for this team to return to theplayoffs this coming season. 
DETROIT LIONS: Improvement from the secondary. 
The Matt Patricia tenure ended in disappointment after he was unable to rebuild a defense
after multiple attempts at retooling. This year, coach Dan Campbell comes in again with
some quality draft picks and signees that seem to have given the Lions the best on-paper
team defensively that they have had in recent memory. However, the secondary struggledimmensely last season, giving up the worst passer rating to opposing quarterbacks at an
unthinkable 112.4. The secondary was addressed by adding Ifeatu Melifonwu in the draft, and
there is hope because this group is very young, but there will need to be significant
improvement for the Lions to take the next step to show the city of Detroit that this team ismoving in the right direction after decades of ineptitude. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS: Keep Rodgers healthy, happy, and here. 
Green Bay would not be a good team without Aaron Rodgers. They will not be a great team
without a healthy and motivated Rodgers. They could win the Super Bowl with an MVP
Rodgers with enough of a supporting cast. As of now, GM Gutekunst and Rodgers seem to
not have a salvageable relationship. If Rodgers does end up being traded, there does not
seem to be any type of outcome in which the Packers would be able to adequately compete
with the top of the NFC. Rodgers has carried this team for what seems like forever and is still
capable of giving Packers fans a Super Bowl, but Rodgers needs to be given the respect he
deserves as one of the most influential players this game has ever witnessed.
MINNESOTA VIKINGS: Kirk Cousins being consistently above average.
The Vikings have invested in this team very well. Even without much cap flexibility, they have
added to the defense (while dealing with significant departures) as well as built the offense
through the draft. The offensive line will likely consist of a first or second round draft pick
from each of the last four drafts at four of the five spots, and Justin Jefferson was
unstoppable at wideout last season. The missing piece for the Vikings as it stands is the
quarterback. Cousins is good, but is he enough to take this team from just average to a true
competitor? This Vikings team did get exceedingly close to a Super Bowl with a much worse
offensive line, and it has been proven that you do not need to have a top flight quarterback to
win it all (see: the Eagles & Nick Foles), but the Vikings need Cousins to consistently protect
the football and make winning plays for this ball club.
ATLANTA FALCONS: Development of the young cornerbacks.
The Falcons had trouble defending the pass last season, allowing the most passing yards in
the NFL. This team has talent on the back end, but very young talent which is more potential
than NFL-ready competition at this stage. That showed last season, but there is the
possibility for this Falcons team to take the next step. The offense in Atlanta with Ryan and
Julio usually does its job, and the front seven for Atlanta improved significantly, mostnotably with Foyesade Oluokun breaking out as a turnover-creating machine. Now the
Falcons turn to corners Isaiah Oliver, Kendall Sheffield, and AJ Terrell to capitalize on their
talent and give new coach Arthur Smith a workable defense.
CAROLINA PANTHERS: Great play from the offensive line. 
Even though their record did not always reflect it, the Panthers were a competitive team last
season. The Panthers have invested in the defense with two impact draft picks in recent years
adding to both their secondary and their defensive line, making for a young and improving
defense in Carolina. The focus now turns to new quarterback Sam Darnold and his pairing
with the most electric player in the NFL, Christian McCaffrey. After losing left tackle Russell
Okung but retaining right tackle Taylor Moton and returning the rest of the starters, this
offensive line seems to be set up well. After years of truly terrible help from the New York
Jets, this offensive line will need to instill confidence in the young quarterback and open
lanes for the generational talent of McCaffrey. With success from the offensive line, Carolina
could be a surprising team this next season.
NEW ORLEANS SAINTS: Get the quarterback decision right.
For the twilight of Drew Brees’ career, it seemed as though the Saints just needed a few
things to go right to bring another Super Bowl to the Bayou. Of course, that didn’t work out,
and now the Saints are being ushered into the post-Brees era. The looming decision for Sean
Payton is choosing between very different quarterbacks in Taysom Hill and Jameis Winston.
Both have proven they can win and be effective, with Hill in a much smaller sample size than
Winston. Even with essentially no holes in the defense and a very impressive supporting cast
on offense, this team seems to have no certainty on whether they will be competitors, for the
reason that there seems to be no quality quarterback option on this team. On the other hand,
if one of Hill or Winston pans out and provides positive value, this team is constructed so
that they can make a deep playoff run.
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS: Continuing to be elite at stopping the run.
I could have easily said that the key is Tom Brady staying great, but that seems like a given at
this point. The hallmark of this team this past season, though, was their dominance against
the run, punctuated by completely shutting down the Chiefs running game. The Buccaneers
amazingly brought virtually everyone back from last year’s squad, but some players will not
be immune to aging like Brady is. This team needs to continue to be stout in the run game,
and that starts with continued dominance up front from Vita Vea and Ndamukong Suh, topair with elite linebackers Devin White and Lavonte David. There are playmakers all over this
defense with a great blend of youth and experience, and the Buccaneers seem primed to
rediscover their success because of great continuity on both ends of the ball. As long as this
team does not falter due to aging at some key positions along the defense, they should be ableto maintain their status as the best rushing defense and again stay atop the NFC. 
ARIZONA CARDINALS: Consistency in the running game.
Kyler Murray is an elite quarterback who will continue to improve, especially with the
presence of AJ Green and DeAndre Hopkins as his main targets. In the Cardinals’ West Coast
offense, the running game is often overlooked, which has led to teams loading up in the
secondary and forcing Murray into tough throws and scrambles. While Murray can do a lot
on his own, this offense would find a new gear with a running game that matched the
efficiency of the passing attack. To be clear, the Cardinals have racked up a lot of yards
running the football, though those stats are complicated by Murray’s contribution to yards
and yards per carry metrics. Losing David Johnson and replacing him with the struggling
James Conner will hope to boost a mediocre running game to add a new dimension to an
already explosive offense.
LOS ANGELES RAMS: Replacing John Johnson III.
By all measures the Rams had an elite defense the past season, ranking in the top three in
both pass and run defense in yards allowed. With a very difficult cap situation, the Rams had
to let some key contributors go, and their lack of draft assets did not allow them to replenish
their losses. Most notable of the losses, which included Michael Brockers, Troy Hill, and
Samson Ebukam, was John Johnson III. He was one of the leaders of the defense and
certainly contributed to the top defensive ranking the Rams enjoyed, but cashed in with the
Browns in the offseason. There does not seem to be an immediate replacement on this roster,
so the Rams will look for someone to step up and fill his shoes.
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS: Domination in the run game.
The focal point for the Niners’ offense in recent years has been the running game. Jimmy
Garroppolo and Trey Lance’s competition throughout the season will garner the most
headlines, but in all likelihood it will be an average at best passing game. Led by Raheem
Mostert, the Niners have used a committee approach to take over some games and let a
rested defense win the rest. This is and will continue to be the 49ers’ recipe for success. Theteam added promising draft pick Trey Sermon and will again have a great offensive line to
help bully the opposing front seven. As long as the defense remains a strength, the
combination with a strong running game should propel this team to the playoffs.
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS: Keeping Russell Wilson upright.
For a second it seemed as though franchise quarterback Russell Wilson might be on his way
out due to frustration with the front office. For now, though, moves made in the offseason,
highlighted by a trade for guard Gabe Jackson, have appeased Wilson. The fact remains,
however, that Wilson has not been supported by a quality offensive line for years. There was
some improvement last year, but the team still allowed three sacks per game, tying for fifth-
worst in the league. Wilson both demands and deserves a better performance from the
offensive line to enable him to find Tyler Lockett and DK Metcalf down the field. Letting Russ
cook is the key for this team to be great, and pass blocking is the way to ensure his, and theteam’s, success. 
Photo courtesy of All-Pro Reels(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Softball Closes Season With Series Win Over Cal Poly
 May 16, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/16/ucsd-so ball-closes-season-with-series-win-over-cal-poly/)
Wesley Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)The UC San Diego Softball team closed out their season with a three-game away series
against California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo. The Tritons won the first
and third matches, winning 3–2 and 11–2, respectively; they were edged out by the Mustangs
in the second game, losing 3–2. With the series in the books, UCSD’s record improved to 16–
19 overall (12–12 Big West).
Game one was a nail-biter that was decided in extra innings. In the fourth inning, freshman
shortstop Deena Pederson got on base on a single up the middle. Good baserunning, along
with poor pitching and fielding by the Mustangs, allowed her to cross home plate and give theTritons the first run of the game and a 1–0 lead. 
However, pitching difficulties would put the Triton lead at risk. For the first three innings,
the Triton’s starting pitcher, sophomore righty Kaia Simpson, had allowed four hits, but zero
runs. She would begin to struggle at the bottom of the fourth. Simpson hit the first batter,
gave up a single up the middle to the second, and allowed another single to left field to the
third. With the bases loaded and UCSD holding onto just a one-run lead, the Tritons made a
pitching change, taking Simpson out and putting senior lefty Robyn Wampler onto the
mound. (This was a big week for Wampler, who was selected on Friday to play for Team
Israel in the European Championships in Italy.) But the substitution did not save UCSD from
losing their lead. Wampler was put into a tough situation, inheriting three baserunners, and
she surrendered a 2-RBI double to the first batter she faced, allowing Cal Poly to pull ahead2–1. 
To her credit, Wampler was able to stem the bleeding, closing out the fourth without allowing
any more runs, and not allowing a hit for the next three innings. A sixth-inning RBI single by
freshman left fielder Deena Pederson drove in the tying run, bringing the score to 2–2. The
game remained tied at the end of the seventh, so the game was pushed into the eighth inning.
An RBI single by pitcher Gabby Williams that scored junior outfielder Kaleigh Lane, in as a
pinch runner, gave UCSD a pivotal 3–2 lead; a no-run eighth inning by Wampler iced the
game, giving UCSD the win.
Similar to game one, the second matchup was close, but UCSD would not come out on top
this time. Cal Poly struck first, scoring a run at the bottom of the second. The Tritons
responded by scoring a run of their own at the top of the third, evening out the score to 1–1.
However, the Mustangs were just getting started. At the bottom of the third, Cal Poly piled on
two more runs and regained the lead. UCSD would try to bridge their two-run deficit, but
their bats were dormant. Through the fourth, fifth, and sixth innings, the Tritons recordedjust one hit. The Tritons put together a valiant comeback effort in the seventh, but it would
not be enough. Senior outfielder Sherriah Harrington hit an impressive seventh inning
homer, pulling UCSD up to 3–2, but that would be the only run scored in the final inning.
After two tight games, UCSD closed out the series (and their 2021 season) with a bang. In
game three, the Tritons steamrolled the Mustangs. They smacked thirteen hits, earned 6
walks, and stole 5 bases on their way to an 11–2 victory. Redshirt junior first basewomen
Bobbi Aguirre led the team on offense, hitting .750 with 2 singles, a double, and 2 RBI. As a
team, the Tritons hit .314. The Tritons put together a strong showing on the mound as well,
as UCSD pitchers allowed 5 hits and 2 runs; the only blemish on their stat sheet was when
starter Gabby Williams hit a batter at the bottom of the second inning.
The end of game three of the Cal Poly series also marks the end of the softball season at
UCSD. The blowout victory in their last game of the season was a happy finale to their 2021
season. As Head Coach Patti Gerckens put it, “It was a great ending to our first year in
Division I.”
Photo courtesy of Scott Flanders / UC San Diego Athletics