(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Photo Essay: Dietary Restrictions and Campus Food
 June 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/06/07/photo-essay-dietary-restrictions-and-campus-food/) Millie
Root  (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/millieroot/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Coming to campus with dietary restrictions? This is your visual guide to eating red-meat free
at UC San Diego. All meals shown contain no beef or pork and most are part of the wellness
category for campus dining, meaning they are some of the healthiest options on campus. The
photos represent real meals I ate and are an honest representation of the food on campus.
Whether you have certain dietary restrictions or are looking for some healthier options, thisguide can give you a head start on your food journey here at UCSD. 
Rooftop — Hash browns, fried egg, turkey sausage pattyRooftop — BBQ salmon, green beans with tomatoes
Crave — Tuscan saladOceanView Terrace — Salmon bagel
Wolftown — Korean chicken burrito, chips and guacamolePines — Bobcat egg
OceanView Terrace — Herbed turkey kebab, lemon basmati rice, grilled vegetable kebab(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Submission: To Advance Equity Goals, UC Must Recognize
Student Researchers United
 June 10, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/06/10/submission-to-advance-equity-goals-uc-must-recognize-
student-researchers-united/) Guest Writer (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/guestwriter/)To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)This piece was submitted by Marina McCowin, a fourth year doctorate student at UCSD.
I am a fourth-year doctorate student in marine biology at Scripps Institution of
Oceanography at UC San Diego. I’m writing this op-ed to explain why I support forming a
Student Researchers’ union. At first I was hesitant to share my story, because it lacks an eye-
popping headline and a dramatic climax. But I then realized that’s precisely why my story is
important to share: because the day-to-day reality of being a student researcher is full of
small problems and inequities that on their own don’t sound bad, but add up to an
environment in which workers don’t have enforceable rights, and have to fight for basic
workplace protections. Some of us can get ahead by coming from more privileged
backgrounds, and exercising the confidence that comes with that, but those of us who don’t
have that privilege often struggle, and have no real recourse when things go wrong. By
forming an SR union, student researchers can make changes in theUC system that will giverights to all student researchers and make careers in science more available to everyone. 
When I began graduate school, I worked as a graduate student researcher in my advisor’s lab.
Here, erratic hours were to be expected. There would be weeks where things were normal,
followed by weeks where I worked up to double the hours I was paid to work. When I started
my doctorate, I expected to work long hours in service to my lifelong love of deep-sea biology.
However, coming into lab when I was sick and should have stayed home eventually started towear me down. I was not able to define my boundaries and limits. I never had the idea that things could or should be different until I worked as a TA. When I
was a TA, I noticed that my supervisor paid a lot more attention to issues like hours and time
off. I was also paid for all of the work I did, including prep-time. If I was too sick to work, I
could stay home without the expectation that I would have to make up the missed hours
later. The TA contract even stipulated benefits like long-term pregnancy and parental leave.
While I haven’t used these benefits myself, I am reassured by the freedom they give my
colleagues and me to avoid having to choose between our personal lives and our careers.
There is an irony behind this whole situation, which is that my supervisor as a GSR and as a
teaching assistant was actually the same person. The difference is that when I was a TA, they
were responding to the rules laid out in the union contract, whereas when I was a GSR, there
were no such rules to follow. The reason that TAs have guaranteed access to leaves and other
benefits than GSRs do is not because they have “good” supervisors and GSRs have “bad”
ones; it is because their supervisors, whatever their natural dispositions, are responding to
the rules laid out in a union contract.
Forming an SR union will ensure that our supervisors all play by the same rules. In my
current GSR position, I take sick days when I need to, and I work the hours I need to advance
my projects without jeopardizing my mental health. At this point in my doctorate career, I
feel comfortable advocating for myself and demanding what I need. This is great for me, but
many GSRs I know do not have this luxury. If their advisor decides they aren’t working
enough, or aren’t getting results, even if they work every minute of every hour they’re paid to
work, they could be terminated through no fault of their own. For those without familial
fallback plans, or international students who could be on the hook for expensive non-residenttuition, taking that risk often isn’t an option. 
SIO is one of the whitest STEM departments at UC San Diego ( 53 percent
(https://diversity.ucsd.edu/accountability/grad.html) of Scripps’ doctorate students are
white, compared to 25.6 percent (https://diversity.ucsd.edu/accountability/grad.html)  of all
graduate students). I cannot help but think that there is a connection between the arbitrary
way in which benefits are conferred to SRs and the difficulty my department has attracting
students from diverse backgrounds. If I had trouble advocating for my rights and benefits,
imagine how much more difficult it would be for other students who are less familiar with the
academic environment. I have personally experienced discrimination because of my gender; I
know my colleagues who are non-white, or non-citizens, endure more.An SR union will level the playing field and ensure that nobody’s workplace rights are
dependent on the goodwill of their PI. With a union contract, SRs can negotiate collectively
for the benefits they want. Sick leave, personal time, and parental leave can be negotiated and
enforceable, like they are for postdocs and TAs. 
I know I’m not the only person who supports this. In fact, over 10,000 of my colleagues agree
that SRs need a union. On Monday, May 24th, SRs delivered over 10,000
(https://www.dailycal.org/2021/05/25/graduate-student-researchers-organize-to-form-
new-union/) signed union authorization cards to the state labor board in Oakland. This is a
first step towards establishing a student researcher union. The state must now count and
verify the cards, and then it is the UC system’s responsibility to agree to recognize the union
and begin bargaining a contract.
I am fortunate I’m able to pursue my passion for deep-sea biology through my graduate
studies. This work is not only interesting to me, but is also an important part of the effort to
preserve biodiversity in the deep sea, where unique animals, chemical compounds, and more
have the potential to advance science and medicine. As a scientist, it is my goal to make
marine biology and oceanography accessible to everybody. This is actually a goal that the UC
system and I share; the UC system’s own website proudly states a commitment to educate
students “from all backgrounds, ethnicities, and incomes.” Forming an SR union, and
opening up careers in scientific research to people who have traditionally been excluded from
them, is a necessary step in that direction, and as such I hope the UC system quickly agrees to
recognize SRU.
Photo by  Vladimir Proskurovskiy  (https://unsplash.com/@proskurovskiy) on Unsplash
(https://unsplash.com) .