(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Musings from the Museum: The Indian Government Has
Failed its People
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/musings-from-the-museum-the-indian-government-has-failed-
its-people/) Sparky Mitra (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sparkymitra/)
Our present is tomorrow’s history. As such, it deserves equal scrutiny.
Leaders around the world have long relied on misinformation to hold onto their power. This
is maintained by encouraging relative ignorance among the people concerning their
criticisms of their leaders. This past week, India felt the effects of leaving the populace in the
dark as politicians placed efforts to maintain their public images over acknowledging their
mistakes and offering aid to help fight the rise of COVID-19 cases.
In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi prematurely
(https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-01059-y) lifted lockdowns to supposedly
support the people as their lives return to normalcy. But rather than holding himself
responsible for underestimating the virulence of the coronavirus, he attempted to block
efforts at public discourse. As COVID-19 cases started to rise in April, the leader of the
world’s largest democracy chose to prioritize a false image of success and stability. To this
end, social media executives allowed Modi to take free reign over which posts to allow and
which to ban (https://www.cnn.com/2021/04/26/tech/twitter-covid-india-modi-
facebook/index.html) on platforms such as Twitter. Instead of recognizing the issue and
proactively trying to increase access to equipment such as oxygen tanks and ventilators, he
attempted to cover up any reporting on the failures of India to stall the spread of COVID-19.
Modi waited for days as deaths piled up and hospital beds reached maximum occupancy.
Only when beds became deathbeds did he decide to contact other world leaders like President
Biden for support. A man so motivated to maintain his image among the people abandoned
this very proactivity when those who propped him up became sick.
This failure is highly reminiscent of the Soviet Union’s attempt to cover up the Chernobyl
(https://www.history.com/news/chernobyl-disaster-coverup) disaster which happened
exactly 35 years ago this week. In Chernobyl, evacuations due to a nuclear leak and
subsequent explosions were stalled by more than 12 hours as the government focused on
controlling coverage of the incident. Rather than deploying all efforts to control actual
damage in a city of 50,000 after exposure to radioactive material, good press took
precedence.
Such practices of placing media coverage over addressal of policy have left marks in other
aspects of world politics such as oppression. Rather than focusing efforts on the safety of
their people from disease and oppression, via preventative and curative tactics, they hoped to
ignore the people’s plight. This week alone we saw two separate instances where Israel and
Colombia (https://www.wsj.com/story/what-is-happening-in-colombia-425c8c43)attempted to cover up horrid policies until they became too large to keep hidden. Only after
hundreds of Palestinians (https://www.aljazeera.com/program/inside-
story/2021/5/8/what-can-stop-palestinians-being-evicted-from-sheikh-jarrah) were
terrorized and faced evictions did Israel propose discussions, though they have promised no
action. Only after Colombians were enlightened on taxation, did the government stall tax
hikes, addressing only one of several concerns. From the colonization
(https://www.haaretz.com/us-news/.premium-warren-urges-u-s-to-act-against-israel-s-
abhorrent-sheikh-jarrah-evictions-1.9785857) of Palestinian homes in Sheikh Jarrah to tax-
policies in Bogota, the people suffered first, the government acted second. 
Some blame the constituents of these leaders for bolstering propaganda machines, but
shifting blame like this only further allows these heads of state to shirk responsibilities for
these grave events. The people never voted for disaster to turn their lives upside down. So
when tragedy or change does strike, it is the responsibility of public servants to state the truth
and nothing but the truth. Positive public opinion should be earned via political transparency
and care for the people, not by active cover-ups.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Conditional Constitutionality
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/conditional-constitutionality/) Sparky Mitra
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sparkymitra/)
Cruel and unusual punishment prevailed as the Supreme Court addressed juvenile detention.On April 22, 2021, in a majority 6–3 vote, the Supreme Court decided to allow unrestricted access
(https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/22/us/supreme-court-life-terms-youths.html) to life without
parole sentences for juveniles as Brett Jones sought a lower sentence from the state of Mississippi.
This made the US the only country (http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2015/3/9/un-expert-
slams-us-as-only-nation-to-sentence-kids-to-life-without-parole.html?
utm_content=main&utm_campaign=ajam&utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=SocialFlow)  in
the entire world to allow such a harsh punishment for people under the age of 18. This also broke
precedents set by the Supreme Court to stand by the freedoms granted to minors in the
Constitution. Particularly, in 2005, the use of capital punishment was banned for juvenile offenders
in Roper v. Simmons (https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/03-633.ZS.html) as it was deemed
a form of “cruel and unusual punishment.” This was then extended to life without parole sentences
in 2012, a decision which was subsequently upheld in 2016. 
Though the decision reached this past month was a painful decision to come to terms with for many,
it also isn’t exceedingly surprising as the US continues to embrace the death penalty, a punishment
shunned by most progressive countries and primarily handed out in oppressive regimes. Despite the
decision’s predictability, it completely strays from the primary purpose of imprisonment of
juveniles. Instead of relying solely on subjective readings of the Constitution, the judges should
consider other elements such as science (https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/talking-
about-trauma/201509/rehabilitation-benefits-young-offenders) when determining the legitimacy of
sentences such as the ones they ruled on in Jones vs. Mississippi
(https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/22/us/supreme-court-life-terms-youths.html).
Unyielding, yet flexible at all the wrong times. This is our interpretation of the law. The Supreme
Court decision made on April 22 helped solidify our criminal justice system and its fickle nature as
our justices addressed an Eighth Amendment case. This case marked a historic day for our lack of
understanding of the purposes of imprisonment. In offering justice to one, it is imperative that our
system does not impose injustice upon another. 
The sentencing process in the US consists of four main goals (https://youth.gov/youth-
topics/juvenile-
justice#:~:text=The%20primary%20goals%20of%20the,of%20youth%20into%20the%20community) .
They are retribution, rehabilitation, deterrence, and incapacitation. The purpose of juvenile
detention is primarily related to rehabilitation. It is true that by the usual (https://www.sun-
sentinel.com/news/florida/fl-children-arrested-in-florida-20160122-story.html) minimum
(https://njdc.info/practice-policy-resources/state-profiles/multi-jurisdiction-data/minimum-age-
for-delinquency-adjudication-multi-jurisdiction-survey/) age of prosecution (10–12), most children
have a sense of right and wrong. But, even when they make mistakes, there is usually a chance for
redemption. The only exceptions previously made for life without parole sentences concerning
juvenile offenders, included cases where they were deemed “beyond hope of rehabilitation.” Thougheven having this option shows the incapabilities of our system, it ensured that juvenile life sentences
would require more than a conviction. They would also require proof of irredeemability. But the
decision last Thursday stripped such cases of this extra requirement, with Justice Kavanaugh
writing, “No specific finding concerning the defendant’s maturity or capacity for change was
required,” for life sentencing.
If our juvenile detention programs’ primary goal is to rehabilitate
(https://www.ojp.gov/sites/g/files/xyckuh241/files/archives/ncjrs/189106-2.pdf)  and treat
troubled youths, and they are capable of helping an offender, why are children subject to such cruel
sentences? When there is insurmountable evidence that teens are prone to impulsive — sometimes
even criminal — behavior, and given that 45 percent are not screened
(https://minds.wisconsin.edu/bitstream/handle/1793/77369/WalkerBrittani.pdf?
sequence=4&isAllowed=y) for mental health issues before sentencing, there is a clear lack of
willingness to understand the underlying causes of actions committed by many juveniles. 
Some might say that crimes such as murder deserve nothing short of a life sentence without the
possibility of parole. But the truth of the matter is that this decision did not take into account any
scientific evidence. Instead, the majority opinion relied on misinterpreting the Eighth Amendment
(https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/eighth_amendment). Some suffer PTSD from sexual
assault by the very abusers they end up murdering (https://apnews.com/article/sentencing-
3fbed43a2b6aeff1cd49ce675c83a116) and others find it increasingly difficult to to display socially
acceptable behaviors within common settings like school. Despite age and mental health being
extremely important to determining if a life sentence without parole is a properly thought-out
sentence, the justices this week decided to shift this importance to supposed justice for the victims
of the convicted. While it is true that 75 percent of incarcerated youth end up back in prison shortly
after, proper investment in therapy and skills-training could keep them out
(https://time.com/4543401/youth-prison-reform/) of these facilities. 
The simple fact of the matter is that juvenile detention has become an extension of our prison
system which works to attack rather than help its members. As people get older, the repercussions
of certain offenses become larger and larger. A very common example that many business
professionals and students are aware of is plagiarism. The punishment for such an act ranges from a
simple reprimand in kindergarten to expulsion and court cases in adulthood. It is time for these
facilities to focus on rehabilitating youth based on mental health evaluations, past trauma, and the
criminal offense for which they have been convicted. Our juvenile justice system must not be
allowed to give up on mere kids who are determined to be redeemable.
While justice must be duly served to the victim of a crime committed regardless of the age of the
perpetrator, we must also go back to the core goals of implementing a juvenile detention system in
the first place. The Supreme Court just took a step backwards as it disavowed science on brain
development and psychology as they concern juvenile behavior, regardless of whether such behavioris right or wrong. As more talks on proper investment and justice center around science, our courts
must embrace these facts when ruling on cases such as Jones vs. Mississippi. The Constitution
should work in conjunction with statistics, not in opposition to them.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Parent and Young Adult Dynamic amidst COVID-19
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/the-parent-and-young-adult-dynamic-amidst-covid-19/) 
Eunice Kim (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/eunice-kim/)
While the vaccine rollout continues to ramp up, the effects of the pandemic continue to
trickle out in minor ways. One of them being students coming home to parents. What once seemed to be nothing but a short-lived virus translated into a devastatingly
extensive pandemic. In fact, in a surreal way, the pandemic’s first “birthday” was just a couple
of months ago. Regardless of one’s political stance on COVID-19 and what it should mean for
the community, the pandemic has undoubtedly touched almost every corner of life. The term
“new normal” has held merit, as exemplified by how car keys have become as necessary as the
cotton mask many have come to get used to — or vehemently oppose.
But with news of authorized COVID-19 vaccines emerging and becoming available in a record
amount of time (https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55305720) since the virus’s
unfolding in the U.S., the power dynamic between people and the virus have shifted in the
former’s favor. The vaccine rollout has allowed many individuals some respite, although it
will continue to be bittersweet for many others. 
This is true considering not just this immense loss of life but also factors such as the surge of
different variants of COVID-19 potentially being less resistant to the vaccine, in places like
California and India. 
Also, there are other ramifications of the pandemic. In a more narrow scope, according to
Pew Research Center (https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/09/04/a-majority-of-
young-adults-in-the-u-s-live-with-their-parents-for-the-first-time-since-the-great-
depression/), since COVID-19 cases have spread, over 50 percent of 18-to-29-year-olds have
begun to live with their parents. 
In fact, the number of young adults living with their parents grew across the board for all
major racial and ethnic groups; among the adults who moved due to the pandemic, many
attributed it to their college campus closing or losing their job (or other financial reasons).
Still, despite the fluctuations — such as a decrease in the fall — the number of full-time
students who lived with their parents went up eventually around December 2020.
Thus, there is some relief here. Vaccine doses first became widely available to essential
workers — such as healthcare workers, grocery store employees, and more — around March
with the first dose being administered around December. This marks a remarkable keenness
to creating a vaccine in record pace but also delivering to people just as quickly in the U.S..
Since mid-April, everyone over the age of 16 has had the opportunity to get vaccinated. 
This means that according to President Biden’s promise since being elected, the vaccines have
vigorously expanded to as many American people as possible. For instance, there have been
monetary incentives to some essential workers so that they might obtain their vaccine as wellas for the general population to gain easier access to vaccines, such as being able to be
vaccinated sans health insurance. In Biden’s first 100 days, the plan to get as many
Americans vaccinated as possible has stood true. This, further, makes sense considering how
crucial this has been to his plan to confront COVID-19, even when former President Trump
was in office.
As of early May, the CDC (https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations) stated
that 257 million vaccines were administered in total in the U.S. and more than 110 million
individuals that are 18 years of age and older are fully vaccinated (which means two weeks
after the final dose of vaccine). The vaccines in the U.S. include the Johnson & Johnson
vaccine (single dose), the Pfitzer-BioNTech vaccine, and the Moderna vaccine while there are
a few that other countries are utilizing.
For students, vaccines have slowly allowed the opportunity to return to what they’ve known,
albeit carefully and with masks at this present time. According to UC San Diego’s Return to
Learn Weekly program, students no longer need to test weekly if they’ve been fully
vaccinated, as long as they don’t continue to present symptoms. Further, in a message earlier
this month, there is a plan for Fall 2021 teaching to be primarily in-person
(http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-4-5-3.html?
_ga=2.105574915.1679226630.1617638163-1407889900.1563300100) and of normal
occupancy.
But this news has come with something curious as well. A return from home to campus for
many young adults has woven a recognition of the parent dynamic with their children. 
A change in environment can change one’s headspace, but in a prolonged period, there must
be deeper ramifications. 
In a research article by Jennifer Caputo
(https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/2156869318812008), a researcher of Max Planck
Institute for Demographic Research, analyses indeed displayed that those who have
experienced independence (such as in their own apartment or in-campus dormitories)
reported an increase in depressive symptoms upon returning to their parents’ places. What
makes this thoroughly intriguing, though, is that this data stands despite the recognition of
other factors such as mental health issues like depressive symptoms and evaluations of
relationships with parents. This implies that the depressive symptoms can be attributed not to living with parents per se
but with returning to them following an emergence or resurgence of independence. The
symptoms, after all, are higher than those who still live independently and the statistics were
different between teens who never moved out.
Sarah Ketchen Lipson, a Boston University mental health researcher and a co-principal
investigator of a nationwide survey on mental health, reported that half of students in fall
2020 were not faring well and had depression and/or anxiety. She did not specifically state
where the students were studying from. This points to an awareness that these statistics do
not merely shift the blame on COVID-19 or even a new, alien problem with young adults.
With COVID-19,  times have been taxing both physically and mentally. After all, the  struggle
of COVID-19 is still gloomingly present. For instance, India has reported thousands of deaths
daily with possible links being the new variant among other factors like prime minister
communications on the still-present virus.
In regards to depressive symptoms, potential loneliness and lack of physical companionship
seem to be part of the costs one has had to recognize when they left campus to home, on top
of their classwork.  While technology, such as Zoom and other platforms have risen to meet
the challenge of connecting people, such do not necessarily bridge the gap between present
communications with loved ones and that loss of independence. 
The consequences are clear as detailed by Caputo. Perhaps one of the reasons why there has
been turbulence in living with parents is due to this lack of control that followed a time of
some order. This could be further exacerbated by a society that honors self-sufficiency and
autonomy. 
For some, though, the idea of returning to a home one grew up in has been comforting.
“I knew that we’d be shipwrecked. [So] I’ve been able to build better relationships with my
family,” Marshall College sophomore Sonia Hamid said. “[Of course] I needed my alone time.
But [being with them] isn’t a suffocating feeling. I was in San Diego for more than a year.
Being in their vicinity made me interact with them more. When I came back, it was a mixture
of ‘I’m home’ and stability. COVID, in a twisted way, gave me permanency, something
stable.” Though Caputo stated that parent-children relationships prior to their child’s move-in were
not really impactful, there have been some first-hand experiences of consistent, steady
relations with parents even after returning.
“[In my first year] I went home almost every weekend. [So] I think I’m thriving being at
home,” Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Timothy Nakamura said. “[There is] more food
and overall more privacy. I’m an only child and not having that privacy just was weird to me
when I was on campus. It doesn’t really feel too much different since my parents both still
work during the day. At night we all eat dinner. I think we’re all pretty close since we don’t
have direct relatives here. It’s really just us.” 
With the potential return for the fall semester or quarter for many in higher education, the
question is if these depressive symptoms are more likely to vanish or manifest in new forms.
On a positive note, perhaps the tools and recollections we’ve gained combined with our
increasing ability to return to what we’ve known may better gear us for the year to come.
Photo by Vlada Karpovich from Pexels.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Study shows Increased Vaccination Hesitancy among
Republicans
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/ucsd-study-shows-increased-vaccination-hesitancy-among-
republicans/) Rodrigo Gutierrez (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/rodrigo-gutierrez/)
A recent study (https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0250123)
conducted by the Rady School of Management at UC San Diego found that individuals
identifying as Republican are more likely to express vaccine hesitancy. In the midst of a
COVID-19 vaccination push by the U.S. government, this study provides evidence that there
may be a partisan divide on this issue.
The survey used the six-point Likert scale to gauge the political affiliation of those being
studied. The range for the study, which consisted of the classification from “Strongly
Republican” to “Strongly Democrat”, compared political affiliation with coronavirus-related
topics such as perceived COVID-19 threat, vaccination attitudes, and the intention of being
vaccinated.
The study found that political affiliation correlated strongly with how those surveyed
responded to each question. COVID-19 vaccination attitudes ( Fig 1  (https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?
id=10.1371/journal.pone.0250123#pone-0250123-g001) , Panel A).
Democratic-leaning survey respondents showed higher probability and trends of perceiving
COVID-19 as a credible threat as well as intention toward receiving a vaccine. Republicans,
on the other hand, demonstrated greater hesitancy, lower trends, and less likeliness of
receiving a shot as well as less trust in the media and government.
For institutions such as the University of California campuses, this hesitancy may pose a risk
for students and staff who plan on returning to campus. In a statement (https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-encourages-covid-19-
vaccinations-university-communities-while-reviewing-policy) released by the UC Office of
the President on April 27, the UC system announced that they are seeking to implement a
policy where students, faculty, academic appointees, and staff who have access to UC campus
locations will be required to be vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus.
“Receiving a vaccine for the virus that causes COVID-19, is a key step people can take to
protect themselves, their friends and family, and our campus communities while helping
bring the pandemic to an end,” UC President Michael Drake, M.D., said in the statement. 
In a copy of the proposed policy (https://www.studenthealth.ucla.edu/file/fbf6ef98-ee64-
4355-a826-7dec3a1c23b2) last updated on May 4, 2021, the student vaccination requirement
outlines the repercussions for students who choose not to be vaccinated.
“If the proposed policy is adopted as drafted, students who choose not to be immunized and
who do not receive an approved medical exemption or religious belief exception would
remain eligible to receive university services, but will be limited in course registration, will
not be permitted to attend in-person classes or events, and will not be able to access campus
facilities including housing,” the statement read.
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Danniel Urena told The UCSD Guardian that he
believes that this policy is a step in the right direction to reopening the campus this fall.
“Just like any other vaccine that is required to ensure safety on campus, I believe that a
COVID-19 vaccine is keeping all students, faculty, and staff safe,” Urena said. “By
implementing this policy, they are reassuring their commitment to ensuring that returning to
campus will only be done when it is safe to do.”
“Having this policy installed within the UC system, makes me feel safer as a student because
all students I am interacting with are taking the same precautions I am,” Urena said. “Having
confidence in the university makes my community and I feel hopeful that returning to
campus will pose little to no risk.”
The strict policies implemented by the UC system mean that students regardless of political
affiliation will need to be vaccinated to be present on campus. State courts are currently in
the process of deciding whether or not a public agency, such as UC, can legally mandate
immunizations (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/the-uc-and-csu-campuses-to-
require-students-be-vaccinated-for-fall-2021/). Concerns have been raised that the hesitancy towards vaccination increased when the Food
and Drug Administration ordered a temporary hold
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/san-diego-county-will-soon-unpause-johnson-
johnson-vaccine/) on the usage of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. In April, six cases of rare
blood clots were reported in patients who received a dose of the J&J vaccine.
However, in an interview (https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2021/04/20/vaccine-
hesitant-republicans/) with The Washington Post, epidemiologist Brian Castrucci of the de
Beaumont Foundation disagreed with the view that the hold on J&J vaccines would lead to
vaccine hesitancy.
“Every public health person, me included, thought this would be a real hit to vaccine
confidence,” Castrucci said. “But we didn’t see folks really concerned with the pause in the
J&J vaccine.”
As overall vaccination trends continue to rise in the U.S, the CDC
(https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#datatracker-home) reports that as of May 7, 33.4
percent of Americans have been fully vaccinated, with 45.3 percent having had at least one
dose. With an increased push (https://www.npr.org/2021/05/04/993537622/biden-sets-
new-goal-for-at-least-70-of-adults-to-be-vaccinated-by-july-4) to have 70 percent of
Americans vaccinated by July 4, the Biden administration hopes this will inch the U.S closer
to the lifting of more health restrictions.
Greater vaccination rates mean the further reopening of businesses and schools within the
state of California. However, the looming risk of hesitancy can lead to a possible delay of a
complete reopening for California.
Until then, COVID-19 precautions such as social distancing, mask-wearing, and frequent
hand washing continue to be recommended. Vaccinations are also available for any UCSD
student here (https://covidvaccine.ucsd.edu/home/sites/rimac).
Graphic courtesy of Plos One
Photo taken by Hakan Nural for Unsplash(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: Subsidized Housing, APIMEDA Center,
Fall Reopening Updates
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/a-s-council-brief-subsidized-housing-apimeda-center-fall-
reopening-updates/) Troy Tuquero (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/troy-tuquero/)
Week 5
At Associated Students’ Week 5 meeting on April 28, senators were presented with a finalized
A.S. budget reallocation proposal. Updates were provided regarding a proposal to fund
subsidized housing for graduated students during the summer as well as plans for the
creation of an Asian Pacific Islander Middle Eastern Desi American Center.
Senators had previously discussed the reallocation of the $1 million A.S. budget at their Week
3 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/a-s-council-brief-edi-the-separation-of-senate-
and-executive-bodies-and-the-budget/) meeting. After receiving feedback, A.S President
Kimberly Giangtran said that the numbers remain unchanged from the last time they
discussed the reallocation.
$450,000 given to the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations
Act (CRSSA) grants;
$250,000 given to the International Students and Programs Office (ISPO) for
academics, basic needs, health and wellness, travel, summer transition, graduating
seniors, and administrative purposes; $125,000 to the Asian Pacific Islander Middle Eastern Desi American (APIMEDA)
Center in order to create a physical space for the group in the original Student Center; 
$100,000 to graduating seniors’ emergency subsidized housing for this summer; and 
$75,000 to the experience of current freshmen, incoming sophomores, in order to
facilitate the creation of services, programs and events current freshmen missed out on
due to the pandemic.
The presentation was then turned over to Vice President of Campus Affairs Hannah
Kreitman, who updated senators as to how the $100,000 allocated for emergency subsidized
housing for graduating students would be used. Kreitman said that subsidized housing costs
$51 per night, meaning that the allocated money could fund 1,960 beds/night for graduated
students over the summer. 
The $100,000 allocation can be broken up in any way, meaning that this program could
hypothetically cover 32 students for 60 days, or 65 students for 30 days depending upon
student demand. A.S. will have to fully fund each night, as Housing Dining Hospitality has
said  that they are not allowed to offer different rates to students.
The initiative that allowed for graduated students to remain on-campus during the summer
began last year for those who needed flexible housing accommodations. Students had to pay
out-of-pocket and the program was used for a total of 114 beds/nights. Kreitman said that HDH thinks that the program is going to be utilized more this year.
“[HDH] anticipated that the [number of students participating in the program] would be a lot
bigger for this upcoming summer,” Kreitman said. “A) Because it is a much more established
program now. B) Because… last summer had more [COVID-19 restrictions] and this summer
there are more people in San Diego. And C) because [A.S.] will be paying for a big chunk of it
so more students will be able to enter the program.”
Kreitman noted that the program will prioritize graduated students. Leftover funding may be
used to aid the Basic Needs Center in providing housing to continuing students as well.
The conversation then turned to the A.S. proposal to provide funding for the APIMEDA
Center (https://apimeda.ucsd.edu/). Giangtran updated A.S. regarding her meeting with Vice
Chancellor for Student Affairs Alysson Satterlund and Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion Dr. Becky Petitt to discuss the proposal.
Giangtran said that the proposal for the new cultural center would require a sustained cost of
$500,000. She was allegedly informed by Petit and Satterlund that they appreciated A.S.’s
advocacy for the center, but that they had expressed concerns about the proposal’s
“prioritization” and “sustainability.”
Giangtran furthered that her takeaway from her conversation with administration was that
they were disinterested in creating the APIMEDA center.
“My interpretation of [the conversation] is that it was a very flowery way of saying that this
was not something they wanted to take on right now,” Giangtran said. “[Petit and Satterlund]
never both explicitly said that there was no money for [the APIMEDA center] or that there
were things in the way or obstacles that would prohibit them from pursuing [the center].”
Giangtran expressed interest in further discussion as to whether A.S. should fight in favor of
the center, pursue alternative programming in support of the APIMEDA community, or
reallocate the funding entirely. 
At Giangtran’s request, Senate temporarily tabled the motion allocating the $125,000 to the
next week. All other budgetary items were approved by A.S. later in the meeting.
Week 6A.S. Senators held their Week 6 meeting on May 5. The items discussed included further UC
response to the Accellion cyberattack (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/accellion-
cyber-attack-on-the-uc-network-prompts-new-personal-safety-measures/) , reallocation of
$125,000 in A.S. funds meant for the APIMEDA center, as well as updates to the Fall 2021
campus reopening.
Vice President of External Affairs Becca Paskowitz said that she was working to collect
feedback in opposition to proposed changes (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/new-
proposed-ucpd-policy-surfaces-amidst-heightened-anti-police-activism/)  to UC Police
Policies and Administrative Proposals, also known as the Gold Book. UC student
organizations such as Cops off Campus (https://www.instagram.com/p/CObS-xLAKV5/)
have begun to campaign against these proposed changes, including creating system wide
response teams and allowing UCPD to turn off body cameras. 
Paskowitz also noted some agenda items that the UC Board of Regents was planning to
discuss at its meeting on May 13. The Regents are expected to debate a proposal to implement
cohort-based tuition (https://regents.universityofcalifornia.edu/regmeet/nov19/b3.pdf). If
implemented by UC, systemwide charges including base tuition, the Student Services Fee,
and Nonresident Supplemental Tuition would remain flat for most students while enrolled at
a UC school. Changes in these charges would then apply only to incoming cohorts of
students. 
Paskowitz said that the UC Student Association is opposed to this change. She went on to
invite those opposed to the measure to reach out to her and encouraged the public to provide
comments at the Regents meeting.
Paskowitz also noted that she had spoken to UC President Michael Drake and expressed
concerns regarding April’s Accellion cyberattack
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/11/accellion-cyber-attack-on-the-uc-network-prompts-
new-personal-safety-measures/). She said that UC acknowledges that steps are being taken to
improve data security.
“[UC] is still trying to get everything sorted out,” Paskowitz said. “They are trying to provide a
little more support to students, [but] it is still concerning to me. Some of the things that they
are advising students to do is to keep safer passwords, to make more complex passwords, and
to use password keepers to keep track of them.”Paskowitz said that UC has received complaints from students that there have been delays in
customer service from Experian, the company that UC is working with to provide students
with free credit monitoring and identity theft protection in response to the cyberattack. UC is
hoping to establish its own hotline for students to call in and receive assistance with Experian
and data breach information.
A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran then updated A.S. Senate on her meeting with APIMEDA
Program Manager Windi Sasaki. Giangtran said that she and Sasaki agreed that there is not
much feasibility in establishing a cultural center in the near future.
“The amount of money that would be required to renovate the space above Blue Pepper and
the cost situation is not in our favor,” Giangtran recalled. “[Sasaki] said ‘the thing that you
can do right now to help me the most is to hire new staff.’ She is a one-person office… and
with all the conversations that are happening… it has been difficult for her to do her job when
she is supposed to represent 60 different ethnic communities under [UC San Diego’s]
definition of APIMEDA.”
Giangtran then moved on to provide further information about the Fall 2021 campus
reopening. She said that UCSD administration is hopeful that international students who
already have visas will have an easier time entering the United States in the fall due to the
lifting of COVID-19 related travel restrictions. However, other international students may
have difficulties with getting visas due to current embassy closures. 
UCSD administration expects that most students will be taking courses in person unless they
have a legitimate reason (https://ucsdnews.ucsd.edu/pressrelease/uc-san-diego-plans-to-
significantly-increase-campus-density-in-fall-2021) that they can not, particularly students
who are unable to arrive from abroad. Roughly 80 percent of courses offered in Fall 2021 will
be in-person, while the other 20 percent will be remote. However, Giangtran added that she
was informed by UCSD that they do not plan to prioritize course enrollment for students who
are unable to attend classes in-person.
Additionally, students who are immuno-compromised will have to file an accommodation
with the UCSD Office for Students with Disabilities (https://osd.ucsd.edu/). Once processed,
OSD will provide any academic accommodations the student may need.
Finally, Giangtran updated A.S. on comments made by President Drake at a meeting she
attended regarding plans for a UC vaccine mandate
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/the-uc-and-csu-campuses-to-require-students-be-vaccinated-for-fall-2021/). While UC waits for state court decisions regarding the legality of
vaccination mandates, Dr. Drake seemed to indicate that the school can still require daily
COVID-19 testing regardless of the eventual decision. 
A.S. Senate then moved to discuss possible ways to reallocate the $125,000 from the A.S.
budget that had been meant for the APIMEDA center. 
Citing the likelihood that the next A.S. administration would likely continue the push for an
APIMEDA center, Biological Sciences Senator Mihir Pandya asked whether A.S. could set
aside the funding for use on the issue next year.
“Is it possible for [A.S.] to appropriate this money under the title of ‘APIMEDA Center’ and
then keep it there in its own pot, and then wait until the project gets clearance?” Pandya said.
“…Can we just appropriate it for somewhere down the line? Or does it have to be spent within
a certain deadline?”
In response, Giangtran said that the money could be saved for use by a future administration.
However, she recommended against it as UCSD has not committed to building an APIMEDA
Center and that the money could be used to support students in other ways.
International A.S. Senator Dakshh Saraf recommended that the funding be reallocated to
support international students instead.
“Considering that an APIMEDA center may not be a very viable idea right now, I think it can
be used to support international students further,” Saraf said. “International students don’t
receive any scholarships, grants, [or] financial aid… They have been severely impacted,
especially with everything going on in India.”
Sixth College A.S. Senator Zaccary Bradt said that further funding can be provided to
initiatives that support campus public safety and transportation.
“We have several initiatives coming up that have started recently and then some more capital
projects that are happening around campus, including some cycle tracks,” Bradt said. “The
initiatives I mentioned [include] the rider rewards program and the helmet safety program
that have received some funding from A.S. and I think if A.S. is willing to contribute more,
that could be beneficial to campus safety.”After the discussion, A.S. Senate approved a motion to table the APIMEDA center budget
allocation for another week. Further deliberations on what to do with the $125,000 is
expected to continue at their Week 7 meeting.
A.S. Council meetings take place every Wednesday and are open to students. Students can
participate in these meetings by joining their Zoom link
(https://as.ucsd.edu/Home/OrderOfBusiness?
fbclid=IwAR00sAh8ojGxo0lsExekNGJS4qWwKPrxPr-mGmHksrGvexjYozX74cxkIOI) or
tuning in on Facebook Live (https://www.facebook.com/ASUCSD).
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
New Proposed UCPD Policy Surfaces Amidst Heightened
Anti-Police Activism
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/new-proposed-ucpd-policy-surfaces-amidst-heightened-anti-
police-activism/) Andrew Ha (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/a1ha/)
Contrary to calls by student and faculty activists to abolish the University of California Police
Department, the UC system proposed new measures to strengthen their police. Recently
publicized documents (https://senate.universityofcalifornia.edu/_files/underreview/gold-
book-systemwide-review.pdf) from February 2021 show that the UC system plans to provide
funding for a Systemwide Response Team with new riot-gear, allow officers discretion to turn
off body cameras, revise the proper usage of police force, among other things. These
measures were proposed to better comply with UC policy requirements, previous task force
recommendations and recent state legislative changes.
As the UC system’s proposed policy circulated through social media on May 3, the UC San
Diego Cops Off Campus Coalition, or UCSD FTP, used the public backlash to galvanize more
people within the UC community to take part in demonstrations against police. As part of the
Transnational Day of Refusal, FTP called on members to withhold their labor at work and to
not attend classes. On the same day, a few dozen UCSD students and faculty marched along
North Torrey Pines Road to further raise awareness about police abolition. 
“Our goal is to end policing on campuses, but we don’t see that happening overnight,” UCSD
FTP affiliate and history professor Simeon Man said to The UCSD Guardian. “Part of the
work is to imagine what a police-free campus looks like. Abolition is not just the removal of
police, but it is also about creating the conditions to not need police. On our campus, it is
important to think about how we address food insecurity, housing insecurity, and the lack of
mental health counseling. What if we divested funds from the police and funneled money into
these other programs?”@UCFTP (HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/UCFTP?REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) 
#ABOLITIONMAY
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/HASHTAG/ABOLITIONMAY?
SRC=HASH&REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) WE NEED SPACES OF CARE
NOT CARCERATION PIC.TWITTER.COM/AWZTOSQVWN
(HTTPS://T.CO/AWZTOSQVWN)
— SAIBASPACE (@SAIBAVARMA) MAY 3, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/SAIBAVARMA/STATUS/1389302072437186560?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
Intense public debate has taken shape over the concept that police presence is not a necessary
component for a safe campus community. According to a recent report
(https://escholarship.org/content/qt4jm4t63k/qt4jm4t63k.pdf) from UC Los Angeles, less
than 10 percent of UCLA campus policing activity actually involved force or the threat of
violence. As a result, the use of police for non-threatening events has been called into
question, since a majority of incidents reported are property-related.
As more students and faculty demand for divestment of campus policing in exchange for
community-based notions of safety, the UC system has been imbalanced with their response.
While UC President Michael V. Drake lamented the persistence racial profiling and police
violence against protestors, his administration proposed to create a Systemwide Response
Team that is akin to a traditional police SWAT team. While the statement of purpose remains
vague on the role of the SRT, the equipment provision for weapons such as chemical agents
and kinetic energy projectiles — tear gas, smoke grenades, or pepperball guns — indicates
that the group may be deployed against large gatherings.
“We’ve seen egregious examples of police using force on students when they are protesting,”
Man said. “UC Davis had the infamous pepper spray incident
(https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/apr/14/university-of-california-davis-paid-
consultants-2011-protests). At UC Riverside, students were protesting a UC Regents meeting(https://newsroom.ucr.edu/2840) and were met with rubber bullets. In the last decade,
we’ve seen these examples of peaceful protestors, students demanding changes to their
university, where the police were called to quell and suppress.”
The proposed policy further stipulates that officers will be able to have discretion to turn off
body cameras under certain circumstances regarding public safety and privacy. While
generally required to be on for investigative or enforcement activities, body cameras could be
turned off by the officer based on their personal judgment. All usage or the lack thereof would
later be logged by the officer after the incident. 
@UCSD_FTP (HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/UCSD_FTP?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) HAPPENING NOW
PIC.TWITTER.COM/D7SRERIOJN (HTTPS://T.CO/D7SRERIOJN)
— SAIBASPACE (@SAIBAVARMA) MAY 3, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/SAIBAVARMA/STATUS/1389288273147740164?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
UCSD FTP affiliate and professor of literature Sal Nicolazzo expressed concern that increased
militarization of campus police would detract from addressing student needs.
“UCOP is claiming the need for reforms in order to prevent some of the problems that
happened [in the past, like at UC Davis],” Nicolazzo said. “If the response is, ‘let’s arm more
officers with pepper spray,’ it seems like the real goal is to prevent student protests against
things like tuition hikes. Why are we not thinking about how to meet the demands of students
for an affordable and accessible education? [The proposed policy] is obviously going to
increase the budget, scope and militarization of campus police, when instead we could be
asking how we can foundationally rethink what safety looks like on our campuses.” 
In response to these concerns about the use of force, the UC system pointed to their
Universitywide Policing Implementation Report (https://www.ucop.edu/policing-task-
force/uptf-final-implementation-report_june-2020.pdf) to highlight their previous reforms.
UC San Diego in particular has been compliant with UC recommendations to train officers onde-escalation techniques and the proper use of all equipment. The university also claims that
it has fully implemented a system to review uses of force post-incident to ensure its
compliance with state and federal laws. 
“UC convened the two-day Campus Safety Symposium (https://www.ucop.edu/research-
policy-analysis-coordination/policies-guidance/campus-safety/index.html)  on Feb. 2 and
March 24 to continue engaging with the University community on this critical issue, while
exploring various perspectives and experiences,” UCOP Senior Communications Strategist
Stett Holbrook said in an email to The UCSD Guardian. “As a result of the valuable input we
received during the symposium and subsequent feedback from a wide variety of University
stakeholders, President Michael V. Drake, M.D., plans on issuing new campus safety
guidelines this summer.”
While the UC system stated that they are currently under a review process until the end of
May with various stakeholders about UCPD policies and procedures, the UC system may still
go through with new policy implementations via a presidential plan on public safety.
Although Professors Nicolazzo and Man –– who both have done research on policing and US-
race relations –– stated that they were not contacted for comment, the UC system claims that
they asked the UC Student Association, faculty, staff, students, the Academic Senate and
union leaders for review. The review process may provide recommendations for changes to
police practices, but the UC system is not beholden to follow through with them. 
“The proposed changes to the UCPD’s policies completely ignore people’s demands, and
further the UCOP’s push for a militarized form of policing, particularly with the proposed
Systemwide Response Team,” third-year anthropology student Skye Zhang said to the UCSD
Guardian. “These policies are not just the tired ‘reforms’ we keep seeing meant to quell
rightfully outraged civilians; these are actively harmful and threatening policies that prove
abolishing university campus police is absolutely essential.”
The Cops Off Campus Coalition will continue to hold events throughout the month for
Abolition May (https://copsoffcampusucsd.org/system/files/2021-
05/abolitionmaycalendar.jpg). Please refer to the University of California’s June 2020
implementation report (https://www.ucop.edu/policing-task-force/uptf-final-
implementation-report_june-2020.pdf) or the February 2021 management and employee
consultation document (https://www.ucop.edu/policing-task-force/uptf-final-
implementation-report_june-2020.pdf) to learn more about UCPD and its recent policy
initiatives. New official guidelines for UC Policing will be issued this summer.Photo courtesy of Simeon Man on Twitter .
This article was edited on May 13, 2021 at 10:58 AM to address additional context for the
new UCPD policy.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Men’s Volleyball Coach Kevin Ring on Shocking No. 1
Hawaii, an Unconventional Season, and the Program’s
Future
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/mens-volleyball-coach-kevin-ring-on-shocking-no-1-hawaii-an-
unconventional-season-and-the-programs-future/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
UC San Diego’s men’s volleyball team, playing a shortened, but grueling, schedule of solely
Big West opponents, finished 3–12 in the 2021 regular season. But after notching their first
Division-I postseason victory against California State University, Northridge, the Tritons
knocked off undefeated national No. 1 Hawaii in a massive upset
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/mens-volleyball-shocks-undefeated-no-1-hawaii-
in-big-west-tourney-before-falling-in-finals-to-ucsb/), but could not repeat the feat a night
later in the finals against UC Santa Barbara. The Guardian sat down with UCSD’s 16th-
year head coach Kevin Ring to talk about the pandemic-affected season, a historic Big West
tournament run, and more.
This season has obviously been a very unusual one. What sorts of adjustments
did you have to make this season to accommodate all the changes, both in
scheduling and with COVID protocols?
Throughout the fall, we had a very untraditional training block.  Most of our practices were
socially distanced, we were not able to play 6-on-6 in the practice gym, we were not able to
have attackers hitting against blockers, so we very much had to adjust how we train.
We were still able to serve and pass and hit and do block moves at different times, but it was a
lot more individual work — which is still very valuable, but you just don’t get the team
dynamic to put in your blocking and offensive systems.
Throughout the fall we were looking at what the season was going to look like. We were still
trying to schedule with teams outside of the Big West, but that was still very much
uncertainty… We got to a point where the Big West basically said we’re not going to play any
non-Big West opponents throughout the year, and that we wouldn’t play until the end of
February. We were able to pick up four non-conference matchups against Big West
opponents — we played UC Santa Barbara twice and [the University of] Hawaii twice at the
end of February and the first part of March — before we got into our ten conference matches.
As far as all the protocols, [there was] obviously a lot of testing, with weekly testing and
sometimes multiple tests a week, daily screenings for how the guys are feeling, coaches
included. I think the guys did a great job just to make this happen. There were so many
protocols, and I appreciate the support of our administration, our athletic training room, and
Claire Pointer, our athletics trainer, to put us in a position that we were able to have practices
and ultimately matches there.But as far as being in the gym and training, it’s still just coaching volleyball, and trying to get
the guys to get better, giving them a lot of good reps and feedback, so I think the guys made
the most of that.
Getting into the Big West tournament, that first match against CSUN was the
program’s first postseason victory at the Division I level. What did it feel like to
finally get that milestone, especially after how the previous season ended?
You mentioned last season, and yeah, when the season shut down we were 14–5, ranked No.
6 in the country, really having a great season. We had played maybe three conference
matches at that point, so we had seven more to go and then the conference tournament. That
unfortunately didn’t happen for us. But heading into this year and then getting into the
conference tournament, there are only six teams in the conference and we’re in it. 
We were the four seed facing Cal State Northridge. We had beaten them twice during the
regular season — beat them in three at their place, and then we had a very competitive close
match where we beat them in five at our place. So I knew they were certainly a talented team,
and they had some really good athletes there. So for us to be able to come out and also travel
all this way on a neutral court, I thought we played a really good match.
The sets were close, but I was really proud of the guys, and — I’m an alumni of the program. I
played here at UCSD, and after the match, I said, let me speak for all the men’s volleyball
alumni and just thank the guys for their efforts. This is something that for years now, whether
we were in the MPSF as a Division-II program and then now in the Big West, this is
something we’ve been shooting for for a long, long time.
So to get that that first one was really special. The guys played well, and it was well earned.
But the nature of the tournament is, well, that one is done and we’re set up to play three
matches in three days, so you have a quick turnaround — to beat Northridge, and then face
the No. 1 seed in the University of Hawaii.
Entering the game against Hawaii, they were not only the undefeated No. 1 team
in the nation on their home floor, but they had also four victories against your
team in the season. What was your message going into the game to prevent that
from happening another time?Easier said than done, for sure. They’re number one in the country for a reason. They’re very
good, very talented, and [the player] who ended up being the AVCA [American Volleyball
Coaches Association] Player of the Year was their opposite [Rado Parapunov]. So that’s a tall
order to try to slow him down. I thought we had a good game plan on him, and we just
executed well. I think the guys were motivated and focused, and the matchups we got and
how the guys played them worked out in our favor.
It went five sets, and the three sets we won were all deuce games where we won by two points,
with the fifth set being 18–16. Those are close games, and that’s something we talked about
earlier in the year where we had lost some of those close games. We wanted it to be more than
just a coin flip, just luck of the draw. When you’re that close, when it’s 20-all, 22-all, 23-all,
who’s going to win that set? That shows a lot of maturity by the team, and experience making
heady plays late in the game to do that. So I was really proud of the efforts there, and it was
just a huge, exciting win.
Again, it just meant hey, we still had one more match the next night moving onto the finals,
but still a historic victory for us — beating a No. 1 ranked team, a team of Hawaii’s caliber.
We’ve beaten Hawaii in the past, but that stage was possibly one of the biggest matches in the
history of our program, and to come out with a victory is pretty huge.
Where would you say this victory ranks in your time in the program?
Well, I played here at the time when we won the Division III Invitational, and a
championship is a championship, so that was very meaningful for that group.
But certainly, in my time here as a head coach for 16 years, I’d rank that right there at the top.
The stage that it was on, and it was a conference match playing a No. 1 team in the country on
their court in the playoffs, that meant a lot.
After the Hawaii game, to what degree are you celebrating taking down the top
team in the nation, but also keeping your eye on a tough opponent the next
night?
Obviously the guys celebrated right after the match on the court. There was definitely a lot of
excitement for the fans that were able to watch that match, and in the locker room
afterwards, just how fired up the guys were and how impactful that was for them. At the same
time you’re on this emotional high, we all knew that we had a very good opponent the next
night in Santa Barbara. Obviously they had beaten us during the regular season… We had acouple of close matches with them, and we felt that was a team that we could be in a position
to win [against]. We knew it was going to be difficult, but like you said it’s definitely a balance
celebrating that victory. 
I think we came out the next day and got into that match, had a little bit of a lead midway
through the second set, so I don’t think we had any sort of emotional hangover from the big
victory versus Hawaii the night before. We came out with really focused play, it was good
volleyball back and forth, and we played at a high level in the first and second set. Then,
unfortunately, we came up short. 
This is where the regular season comes into play, and the seeding. Hawaii was the No. 1 seed,
and Santa Barbara was No. 2, so they didn’t play until Friday and the finals was Santa
Barbara’s second match. It was our third match in three days, and that’s a lot, but it was the
situation we were in and we didn’t back away from it. We gave it everything we had, but
there’s a level of fatigue that goes along with that. Doesn’t mean we couldn’t have won the
match, and I think we did a lot of good things to put ourselves into a position to do so. Even
losing that second set and going into the third and fourth, those are still close games and we
still had our chances. 
So, I’m just really proud of how far and how hard the guys fought throughout the season.
Looking at what we accomplished on the year, I think we played 18 matches overall. Well, 11
of them were against either No. 1-ranked Hawaii or No. 3-ranked Santa Barbara. 11 of our 18
matches, and so that is a brutally tough matchup. That’s just the way it worked out, but those
are fun matches to play, and that’s only going to make us better moving forward.
Once again, this has been a very unusual season, but capped off with some really
great wins at the end. Now that you have both the first postseason win and an
upset of a No. 1 team under your belt, how do you try and build on that for next
season?
I don’t know that anyone knows exactly what next year will look like. I think there’s a lot of
people that are optimistic about having a lot of things getting back a little closer to normal. In
our world, maybe that’s a more standard season, nonconference matches, starting
competition in January. So hopefully that’s where we get to. 
With that, we know that the Big West conference tournament will be back in Hawaii next
year, and we know that all six teams will make it in. We’re going to fight and claw so we can
be one of the top two seeds, and get that bye so we don’t have to play on Thursday, and don’tplay until the Friday night match. That puts you in a little bit better position there.
So for us, I think the guys are really motivated. When you compete at a really high level and
you’re in that position, that gets addicting. The guys want to get back to that, and we want to
have those kinds of matches, meaningful matches, to win and move on, to fight and claw to
put ourselves in a position to get to the NCAA tournament.
Photo courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Post-Draft Keys to Success for Each AFC Team
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/post-dra  -keys-to-success-for-each-afc-team/) Donovan
Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
With the NFL Draft in the books and a long wait ahead for the next season, let’s take a look
at the most important areas for each AFC team to focus on to improve their chances. Next
week: the NFC.
BUFFALO BILLS: Finding a consistent running game.
The Bills will run it back with recent draft picks Zack Moss and Devin Singletary after heavy
speculation that they would select a running back early. Although they did not choose a
running back, a few mid-round selections for the offensive line will beef up the depth inside
for the Bills. Taking the pressure off of Josh Allen’s electric arm and legs will be a big key for
the Bills going into next season. The Bills defense regressed last year, and that would be a
potential point of concern with an aging defense. However, they adequately addressed their
two other significant needs through the draft, edge rusher, and offensive tackle. With
improved health, the biggest need for the Bills will be giving the offense some balance
through the rushing attack.
MIAMI DOLPHINS: Putting Tua Tagovailoa in positions to succeed.
The Dolphins found Tua lots of help this offseason. The joint custody of the quarterback
position last year between Ryan Fitzpatrick and Tua showed a significant edge for Fitzpatrick,
but Tua still had some admirable performances. The Dolphins loaded up at receiver, adding
likely the most impactful free agent wide receiver in Will Fuller V to go along with draftee
Jaylen Waddle. The young offensive line having more experience will also help Tua have
more time as well as buoy a suspect rushing attack. For the offense to succeed, the Dolphins
will need to find a balance between giving Tua the keys and protecting him from mistakes
after playing it fairly conservative in his first year. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS: Rediscovering an elite defense.
Much has been made about a questionable Patriots quarterback situation. There continues to
be questions at wide receiver. Still, a return to greatness for the defense will be crucial for a
return to the playoffs. Getting back key contributors like Dont’a Hightower will be key for an
aging Patriots defense that seems like it could go either way this coming season. New
defensive coordinator Matt Patricia will once again lead the Pats defense, and the familiarity
could go a long way. Having a consistent pass rush spearheaded by signee Matthew Judon
will be a game changer to go along with an already elite secondary. 
NEW YORK JETS: Improved offensive line play.Though Sam Darnold undeniably struggled as a Jet, there was no infrastructure in place for
success. Offensive line play, the rushing attack, and receivers all consistently ranked amongst
the bottom of the NFL. For new quarterback Zach Wilson, this must change. Being a young
quarterback in the NFL is certainly hard enough, so giving Wilson weapons will be important.
The Jets have invested in all aspects of their offense, but for Wilson specifically, improved
offensive line play will be necessary. Wilson and his huge arm will prefer to let plays develop
to gradually learn to read NFL defenses. For a successful Jets offense, the line must enable
Wilson to develop.
BALTIMORE RAVENS: Lamar Jackson taking the next step as a passer.
Jackson is an explosive athlete who is changing the game, and he is a very effective passer.
For the Ravens to move into contention, Jackson needs to show that his passing can be just as
dynamic as his rushing. With new draftee receiver Rashod Bateman in tow, to pair with
Hollywood Brown and tight end Mark Andrews, there will be sufficient weapons for Jackson.
There is no questioning that this is an effective offense, but Jackson did take a step back last
year as a passer, with a worse completion percentage, fewer yards, and more picks thrown.
The Ravens need an MVP Lamar Jackson to take over the division and challenge the Kansas
City Chiefs for AFC supremacy.
CINCINNATI BENGALS: Improving the rush defense.
After ranking 29th in rushing yards per game allowed, it makes sense to focus on improving
that aspect of your squad. The Bengals heavily invested in linebackers in the 2020 draft, but
still have a relatively suspect defensive line that lost long-time Bengals Carlos Dunlap and
Geno Atkins. Improvement from a very young linebacking corps will be important, as well as
strong performances from the defensive line. The Bengals brought in Trey Hendrickson after
a very strong season for the Saints the year prior, and they will hope that Hendrickson along
with linebackers Logan Wilson and Akeem Davis-Gaither will highlight an improved front
seven.
CLEVELAND BROWNS: Consistent pass rush opposite Myles Garrett.
Myles Garrett was an outstanding draft choice a few years back and is seemingly the
undisputed top pass rusher in the game at the moment. Like many dominant pass rushers,
Garrett is given a lot of attention and has to deal with a heavy amount of double teams — he
was ranked third in double team rate (24.1 percent) in 2020. The Browns invested in their
pass defense with coverage stud Jeremiah Owusu-Karamoah and first round cornerback GregNewsome II. The Browns filled the need of a secondary pass rusher with Jadeveon Clowney,
who has solid advanced stats without the counting stats to show for it. For the Browns, they
will need Clowney to produce in a big way for this defense to take the next step.
PITTSBURGH STEELERS: A renaissance for Big Ben.
The Steelers are another team with questions going into next season, including significant
holes in the defense after departures in free agency. For the Steelers, the key will be Ben
Roethlisberger proving he can help carry the Steelers to glory. There are great pieces on the
outside to pair with newly added running back Najee Harris. While the offensive line is aging,
and the Steelers lost long-time center Maurkice Pouncey to retirement, the onus will be on
Big Ben to take care of the football and lead the team to victories. Roethlisberger’s penchant
for turnovers has hurt the team in the past, and the defense can not keep holding this team
above water for the Steelers to emerge as contenders. 
HOUSTON TEXANS: Sorting out the quarterback situation.
At this point, it seems exceedingly unlikely that Deshaun Watson will quarterback for the
Texans ever again. That leaves the Texans with Tyrod Taylor and newly acquired draft choice
Davis Mills. While Mills has potential, he is definitely a project after starting less than 15
games at Stanford during his college career. In all likelihood, Taylor will be the quarterback
for the Texans throughout the season. While this isn’t ideal, Taylor is serviceable and will
certainly give the Texans enough to win some games. With a questionable supporting cast
after significant free agency losses in JJ Watt and Will Fuller V, the Texans will need Taylor
to go above and beyond to approach being a competitive squad this coming season.
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS: Production from the receiving corps. 
The Colts have been spoiled for elite quarterback play for decades, from Manning to Luck to
Rivers (effective even past his prime) to now Carson Wentz. However, since the days of
Marvin Harrison and Reggie Wayne, the Colts have had some suspect groupings at receiver.
Aside from the ultra-productive T.Y. Hilton, the Colts have not given their quarterbacks much
to work with. Now, the Colts move into next season with an aging Hilton and promising
young receivers Michael Pittman and Parris Campbell. There is potential for this group, but it
was questionable that the Colts did not address this need in the draft. For Wentz to rediscover
form from his early career in Philadelphia, effective play from the receivers will be
important. JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS: Protecting the prized young quarterback.
After selecting Trevor Lawrence with the first pick, he will be the focus of the franchise for
years. The Jaguars gave him his backfield mate in Travis Etienne and also added to the
receiving room with Marvin Jones Jr. The key for this team is to keep Lawrence upright so he
can give his skilled players pinpoint throws. 2020 draft choice Jawaan Taylor struggled
mightily at right tackle last season, and the rest of the offensive line did not succeed in
protecting the rotating Jaguars quarterbacks last season either. The Jaguars will have the
same projected five starters on the offensive line, and improved play will be necessary for
Lawrence to find success in his rookie season.
TENNESSEE TITANS: Above average pass defense.
The Titans defense was solid last year but had some struggles defending the pass, allowing
the 24th best QB rating to opposing quarterbacks. The Titans lost Malcolm Butler, Adoree’
Jackson, and Desmond King in their secondary, but chose cornerback Caleb Farley in the first
round and added Janoris Jenkins. The effect of retooling is yet to be seen, but on paper there
is less talent than before in this secondary. The Titans will hope for a strong rookie season
from Farley and strong play from ballhawk safety Kevin Byard to result in a more balanced
defense.
DENVER BRONCOS: Trade for Aaron Rodgers.
With Teddy Bridgewater or Drew Lock at quarterback, the Broncos will be fine. Paired with a
strong defense and up-and-coming receivers Jerry Jeudy and Courtland Sutton, this team has
the makings of a playoff team with average quarterback play. This supporting cast paired with
Rodgers, though, would compete for a Super Bowl. The Broncos are ready to compete now
and John Elway luring Aaron Rodgers to Mile High would rock the league and pit the
Broncos against the Chiefs in an entertaining intra-division battle.
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: Protecting Mahomes.
The Chiefs frankly do not have many issues with their football team, and for a long time it
seemed as though they were on their way to another Super Bowl. Tom Brady, as he does,
ruined those plans, but he didn’t do it by himself. The Buccaneers defense really got after
Mahomes after key injuries to the Chiefs O-line. While parts of the defense certainly will look
to improve, Mahomes is the lifeblood of this team and needs to be protected. The Chiefs willget guard Laurent Duvernay-Tardif back after opting out, and made a big trade for tackle
Orlando Brown Jr. Although the Chiefs lost two very good tackles this offseason, a healthy
Chiefs offensive line will be effective and have the team once again in contention. 
LAS VEGAS RAIDERS: Better play from the defensive line.
Maxx Crosby has been a revelation for the Raiders, but aside from him the Raiders have had
substandard play along the defensive line. The Raiders had a far below-average run defense
while only generating 21 sacks, the fourth-worst in the NFL. The addition of Yannick
Ngakoue will be significant for a team who has really struggled to generate a pass rush, along
with improvement from former high draft pick Clelin Ferrell. The interior of the defensive
line will be headed by signee Quinton Jefferson, a proficient pass-rusher, along with run
stopper Jonathan Hankins. Along with depth added from draftee and popular sleeper
Malcolm Koonce, the Raiders seem primed for improvement on the defensive line that will
likely give the defense a much needed spark. 
LOS ANGELES CHARGERS: Success in the running game.
Even with another year of a bad Chargers offensive line, Justin Herbert was spectacular last
season. However, the Chargers offense did struggle with running the ball after losing Austin
Ekeler to injury for most of the year and Melvin Gordon to the Broncos. With more offensive
line improvements on the way with the addition of Matt Feiler and Corey Linsley in free
agency, along with recent draftee Rashawn Slater, the revamped offensive line seems poised
to improve. After placing third to last in yards per carry this past season even with a strong
emphasis on the run game, improvement is sorely needed.  With the line in place, the success
of Ekeler and the other running backs will be crucial for a balanced Chargers offense to move
from good to lethal in what promises to be a competitive AFC West. 
Photo courtesy of Erik Drost(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
An Afternoon with UCSD Photographer Erik Jepsen
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/an-a  ernoon-ucsd-photographer-erik-jepsen/) Natalie Tran
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/natalie-tran/)
Arts & Entertainment writer Natalie Tran sits down with prize-winning UCSD
photographer Erik Jepsen, who sheds some light on all things UCSD and photography  in
this interview.
Photographing UC San Diego, one of the world’s top research universities, is no small feat.
How does one capture everything from the university’s biggest events and breakthrough
accomplishments to the daily, bustling lives of its students and staff?
With over ten years of working for UCSD, photographer Erik Jepsen shared some of his
insight and experiences. If you’ve attended, worked at, or simply visited UCSD, it’s hard to
miss his work — his photographs can be found in official university brochures, newsletters,
websites, and even Zoom backgrounds.
Before working for UCSD, Jepsen attended UCSD as an undergraduate. He graduated in
2010 with a B.S. in Management Science and a B.A. in History. Throughout his four years, he
was a staff photographer of The UCSD Guardian and eventually became its Photo Editor. He
photographed various campus events, including the racial injustice protests
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2010/05/10/art-in-action/) surrounding the 2010 Compton
Cookout (https://ucsdguardian.org/2020/01/05/remembering-the-compton-cookout-
analyzing-our-coverage/), and won various Associated Collegiate Press awards for
photography.
“The Guardian put fuel on the fire for my enthusiasm for photography,” Jepsen said as he
described how he drew inspiration from every photographer he worked with there. In
particular, he thanked past Photo Editors Arash Keshmirian, Will Parson, John Hanacek, and
Andrew Oh. “Their encouragement and willingness to always help has left a lasting impact on
me,” Jepsen said.
As an undergraduate, Jepsen also photographed for several of the departments at UCSD.
Working with the Qualcomm Institute, he photographed the research of scientists, such as
Dr. Albert Yu-Min Lin, a valuable opportunity that led him to be published in the National
Geographic Society. 
Upon graduation, Jepsen continued to photograph freelance for various UCSD departments
while working at the former North County Times. After a year, he returned to UCSD for a job
at the University Communications and Public Affairs (UCPA) division, working on web
content before transitioning into his current role as a photographer.Work as a photographer at UCSD varies. On a typical day, Jepsen finds himself attending
events and visiting labs while taking portraits of professors, students, and staff. While his
services are requested by numerous departments, the UCPA also sends him to photograph
noteworthy occasions and people. “I’m on campus at all hours,” Jepsen said. “I’ll be there at 1
a.m. or 5 a.m. to get a certain photo.”
After taking photos with his Nikon DSLR, he uploads them to Adobe Bridge and edits his
selections in Adobe Photoshop. 
One photo that took careful planning was Jepsen’s capture of Comet NEOWISE underneath
Falling Star, a Stuart Collection art piece, in July 2020. To capture the moment, he camped
out in Warren Mall for five nights in a row, trying to find the right angle and waiting for the
skies to clear. 
“I was greeted by a family of raccoons,” he laughed.Besides raccoons, notable figures he’s encountered on campus include Bill Clinton and the
Dalai Lama, the latter of who was the keynote speaker for UCSD’s 2017 Commencement.
Jepsen was the Dalai Lama’s personal photographer during that time. “That was a really cool experience,” Jepsen said. “He’s a pretty funny guy, actually. I was
lucky enough to be in private things a couple times, so I just had small conversations with
him. He’d try to cheer up the room whenever it was just the two of you.”
However, the COVID-19 pandemic has put an unfortunate halt to such opportunities.
Campus events that draw crowds, like Commencement and Sun God Festival, have not taken
place in the past year. Jepsen, along with the University, has adapted to the changing
circumstances by producing virtual content for such events.
Today, work for Jepsen has resumed with some sense of normality. With the University
gradually reopening, many on-campus events and newly constructed buildings need to be
documented. Yet, while campus life still looks a little different, other things haven’t changed.
In his free time, Jepsen continues to chase glowing sunsets at Scripps Pier and vibrant
rainbows over Geisel Library. 
Nonetheless, Jepsen is excited to return to photographing the moments that define the UCSD
experience. To him, there is no “UC Socially Dead” — there’s always something to do and
something to photograph.
“I love taking beautiful landscapes of the campus, but at the same time, I also love capturing
the emotion of a student at graduation,” Jepsen explained. Capturing the happiness of people
and spreading that happiness to others can be empowering. “When someone’s received a
scholarship, just to show the joy in that and then be able to give those photos to our donors,
so they can see the impact that they’re having, is really rewarding.”
When asked about his favorite photograph, Jepsen referred to his shot of Geisel Library
during a lightning strike in 2018. On the day of the photograph, he had been photographing
an alumni anniversary event for UCSD’s School of Medicine when he noticed a thunderstorm
rolling in. “I booked it out of the event,” he said, and reached the Library as the thunderstorm
passed over. It was perfect timing, and it paid off. The photograph went viral and earned a
Circle of Excellence Award from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education
(CASE).Having photographed the University as a student and staff member for 14 years and ongoing,
Jepsen has won several competitions and awards, from the international Circle of Excellence
CASE awards, including Photographer of the Year
(https://ucsdnews.ucsd.edu/feature/uc_san_diego_earns_four_prestigious_case_awards)
in 2013, to international photography awards in athletics.
Yet, the biggest reward to Jepsen is being able to share UCSD’s beauty and successes with
others. “I love being able to tell people, through my photos, everything that’s going on on
campus, from research to student excellence to even community work,” he said. “I’m not the
one doing any of this awesome work, I’m not the one giving scholarships to students, but I am
able to show people the impact that all those things have.”
Ultimately, Jepsen hopes that people come away from his photos feeling excited, empowered,
or willing to learn more about an important issue. He pointed to his photographs of Black
Lives Matter protests in 2020. “If somebody sees those photos and then tries to understand
what’s actually happening in the United States and tries to do something for change, that is
more meaningful than anything that I could ever hope for. That’s why I love to photograph.”
“We’ll see where life takes me,” Jepsen said when asked if he has any future plans. “But right
now, I’m happy at UC San Diego.” Wherever he ends up, Jepsen will undoubtedly leave big
shoes to fill.
Images courtesy of Erik Jepsen.
(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
TV Review: “Invincible” Season One
 May 9, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/09/tv-review-invincible-season-one/) Elias Roman
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/eliasroman/)
“Invincible” soars high above today’s superhero media landscape, giving viewers a
refreshing take on the genre.The following review contains spoilers for season one of Invincible.
Back in March, I was lucky enough to attend a virtual screening of Lee Isaac Chung’s
“Minari,” starring Steven Yeun (read A&E editor Hemmy’s phenomenal review of it here
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/24/film-review-minari/)). I couldn’t get enough of
Yeun’s performance. I consumed every interview and profile piece on him in existence, but it
wasn’t enough — I needed more. I’d tried watching “The Walking Dead” in the past but found
that it just wasn’t my cup of tea, though Yeun still delivers a memorable performance, as
many Walking Dead fans can attest. I was interested in watching “Burning,” but the two-hour
runtime felt too daunting. Enter: “Invincible.”
“Invincible” is an eight-episode adult — emphasis on the adult — animated series based on
the Image Comics series of the same name. Steven Yeun delivers a remarkably natural
performance as Mark Grayson, a regular 17-year-old high schooler, as he figures out how to
balance his relationship, family life, work, extracurriculars and oh, yeah, living up to being
the son of the world’s most powerful superhero. With a star-studded cast that includes the
likes of Sandra Oh, J.K. Simmons, Gillian Jacobs, Zazie Beetz, and Jason Mantzoukas, it
would have been easy for this show to lean on its cast’s starpower to draw viewers in. Instead,
these stars serve as the cherry on top to a well-written and well-paced show.
Throughout the series we often see ordinary and quotidian moments juxtaposed with intense,
fast-paced action; this constant switch in pace immediately draws viewers in, never knowing
when things could take a turn. The first episode of “Invincible” opens with a conversation
between two White House security guards about the many mundanities of their lives: crisis
training, step-sons, vacations, etc. This scene sets a mellow tone that leaves viewers
wondering where this could possibly be heading. Suddenly, the ground begins to shake, as the
massive blue-skinned Mauler Twins erupt out of it armed with guns, the size of which only
makes sense in a super-world. What follows is a fast-paced, action-packed, and engaging
introduction to this world’s best superhero team: The Guardians of the Globe. This fight
scene gives viewers a small taste of the many battles that the show has in store, with smooth,
flowing animation that makes every punch and kick immensely satisfying to watch. 
In the midst of this fight, we’re introduced to Omni-Man, the world’s greatest hero. Omni-
Man’s immense strength and ability is made clear in his first scene, as he defeats the Mauler
Twins with relative ease, making it back home just in time for breakfast with his wife Debbie
(Sandra Oh). At home he ceases to be Omni-Man, instead taking on the role of father and
husband Nolan Grayson. He’s shown to be a warm and affectionate father, trying to cheer
Mark up after the latter is disillusioned with his lack of powers, telling him “they’re bound tocome in any day now.” Their relationship evolves over the course of the series, but always
serves to anchor Mark as he struggles to acclimate to his newly gained powers and the
Invincible lifestyle, something that makes the season’s finale so devastating to watch (more
on that later). 
“Invincible” excels at weaving together a number of different subplots, both super and non-
super, without losing focus of the bigger picture or neglecting character development in favor
of reaching the finish line. At the end of the first episode, we’re treated to the first of many
twists in this series, as Omni-Man sadistically beats and murders all seven of the Guardians
in a shower of blood and viscera. This scene serves as an immediate hook, leaving viewers on
the edge of their seats wondering what the hell just happened, but it also serves to set up the
season’s main storyline in a seamless and effortless manner. As the series explores the
implications of the episode one finale, we’re also introduced to a number of characters, who
we grow to care about through their smaller stories. While Mark’s powers are something he
and his father are able to bond over, that’s not the case for everyone. We’re given glimpses
into Mark’s super-friend Atom Eve and her contentious relationship with her parents. The
toxic relationship is explored in small scenes throughout the season, giving depth to Atom
Eve’s character and inviting viewers to empathize with her. This balancing act between
subplots and the main plot also keeps things from stagnating, maintaining viewers’ interest
throughout. Despite the superpowered action, some of the series’ best moments occur in its
most mundane moments (Debbie and Omni-Man’s domestic arguments come to mind) as we
see how these characters’ relationships either become stronger, or end up as broken and
mangled as Mark often does.
Where most superhero shows might see their protagonist triumphing over any and all
obstacles they meet, “Invincible” is not afraid to leave Mark bloodied and broken — both
emotionally and physically. The show’s subversion of expectations makes it stand out from
the rest of the superhero media landscape. Episode five contains a prime example of this,
where we see Mark suffer a brutal maiming at the hands of the interdimensional warrior
Battle Beast. As Mark lays in a puddle of his own blood, staring up at the broken skylight, we
expect Omni-Man to come in and save his near-dead son and defeat the villains. In any other
superhero show this would probably happen — except, this isn’t any other superhero show.
This is “Invincible,” a show that’s not afraid to remind us that winning is much harder than
we want to think it is. In this scene, Mark doesn’t discover any new powers that will help him
defeat the bad guys and save everyone; instead, he discovers how naive and weak he still is.
“Invincible” is not afraid to put its characters in difficult situations, and it is a better series
because of it as these moments are where its characters shine the brightest.As the season progresses, it’s made clear that we can never really trust any of the character’s
intentions, as is proven by Mark’s run with a local villain in episode five, a point that is
brutally driven home by the season’s last two episodes. After massacring a surveillance team
that’s been placed on the Grayson family, a brutal couple of fights with a kaiju and the revived
leader of the Guardians, Omni-Man finally explains why he killed the Guardians; revealing
that his time on Earth has all been a lie and that his true purpose is to weaken and enslave the
world. Mark doesn’t believe it at first, thinking his father’s being controlled. In any other
superhero show, this might be the case. But this is “Invincible,” where Mark’s — and viewers’
— hopes are very rarely realized. As Mark fights, or more accurately, becomes a punching bag
for his father, both him and viewers try to rationalize what’s happening. How could the
greatest superhero on Earth turn out to be the greatest villain on Earth? We want to think
that he’ll have a change of heart, that he must be being controlled, and that maybe Mark’s
bruised and disfigured face will break him out of it. But this never happens. Instead we see
Omni-Man beat his son within an inch of his life before flying off into space with tears in his
eyes, solidifying this episode’s reputation as the most heartbreaking and emotionally
impactful thus far.
“Invincible” has made some changes to its source material, most of which has worked in its
favor, expanding on scenes — such as when Mark and Omni-Man are playing catch in the
Earth’s atmosphere — to add more emotional depth to the characters’ relationships. Many of
these changes work in the show’s favor, but others left me wanting more. Mark and Debbie’s
ethnicities were both changed to fit Yeun and Oh’s Korean background, a change that the
show and comic’s writer Robert Kirkman felt was important for today’s world. The problem is
that outside of their character design (mainly Debbie’s, as Mark appears more ethnically
ambiguous), there’s no real engagement with Korean culture, making this decision feel
somewhat hollow and performative. Allowing these characters to explore this aspect of
themselves would not only fulfill Kirkman’s goal, it would also provide more depth and
nuance to Mark and Debbie’s characters. The animation during the fight scenes is fluid and
smooth but it can feel a bit stiff — even amateur — in the show’s more mundane moments.
It’s not the worst animation by any means, but it can at times be distracting, pulling focus
away from the story and characters. This is most likely due to budget restraints, and with the
show being greenlit for two more seasons, will probably (hopefully) be something that will be
fixed.
In a world inundated with extremely commercialized superhero media, “Invincible” is a black
sheep — a very gory and violent black sheep. It takes many of the superhero tropes that
viewers are used to and flips them, leading to many unexpected twists and crushing
emotional moments. Its compelling characters are not only built on great writing, but also ongreat performances; and despite its flaws, it manages to entertain viewers while keeping them
emotionally invested in the lives of its characters. The entire first season is now available to
watch on Amazon Prime Video, so grab some popcorn and a box of tissues (trust me, you’ll
need it) and spend some time wondering what it must be like to be Invincible.
Created by: Robert Kirkman  
Starring: Steven Yeun, J.K. Simmons, Gillian Jacobs, Mark Hamill, Seth Rogen, Zazie
Beetz, Sandra Oh, Jason Mantzoukas, Walton Goggins, Zachary Quinto, Andrew Rannells,
Malese Jow  
Release Date: March 25, 2021  
Grade: A
Image courtesy of Skybound.com.