(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
How To Feed Your Boba Addiction on a Student Budget
 April 19, 2021  (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/19/how-to-feed-your-boba-addiction-on-a-student-budget/) 
Hannah Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19
pandemic, click here →  (https://ucsdguardian.org/tag/covid-19/)Although I had an affinity for boba before college, I didn’t reach boba-connoisseur status
until I began attending UC San Diego, where boba is the substance of the gods. Dare I say
~boba culture~ has been so intertwined with my college experience –- reaching for it and
making plans around it, like coffee –- that I can’t imagine its absence during these four years.
Bold, I know. Outliers exist, but are few and far between. Stocked fridges and happy taste
buds as a result of boba exist all around. Stressed about midterms? Boba. Drowning in
homework? Boba. Procrastinating listening to recorded lectures? Boba. Out and driving or
walking by a boba stop? Boba. Ok, I think the message is clear.
Too long without boba in your bloodstream is bound to result in a crash or a 404 error
message. Addictions must be fed. However, feeding your addiction doesn’t have to result in a
hurt bank account. Ever wonder how you could continue to feed your boba addiction while
on a student budget? Here I pose two main solutions:
Boba Semi-Homemade (yes, like Food Network’s Sandra Lee):
This method will partially save your wallet and, unlike the other option below, save you time. 
Purchase premade, but uncooked tapioca pearls at your nearest Asian market and cook as
directed. Standard-size eight-ounce packages will make four to six servings. Coat with a sugar
or honey syrup and add to your drink of choice. You can also find popping boba in common
flavors such as mango and strawberry, and jellies that are often topping options at boba
places in flavors such as rainbow, coffee, lychee, or aloe. If you are an avid boba consumer
with limited time, feeding your boba addiction this way will be more money-conscious than
buying from shops every other day. Flavored powders for the milk tea, such as for taro,
honeydew, mango, and all the above, can also be purchased at Asian markets or through
websites like Amazon and will pay off for the long-term boba drinker. If you are a Thai-teafanatic like me, you can buy a cost-effective large bag of Thai tea leaves at an Asian market
such as Ranch 99 Market and add in your favorite dairy or nondairy milk or creamer after
brewing.
Tapioca Pearls From Scratch:
Tapioca pearls have a sort of mysteriousness to them that leaves many wondering how
exactly they’re made. Besides a special few, most restaurants and cafes buy their boba
premade, which saves time, only requiring them to boil the pearls and bathe them in the
sugar or honey syrup after they boil. Have you ever thought a step beyond that? It turns out
that a bag of tapioca flour, which makes multiple batches of boba, can be purchased at Asian
markets for around $1.00–$1.50. The other ingredients you probably already have on hand,
such as water and brown sugar, making the only factor between you and an endless boba
supply some time to master the recipe. If it takes you many rounds of trial, keep going. I
promise it’s worth the frustration. Trust me, it took me many, many times to somewhat nail
the recipe, and even still I have a lot of improvement to make. The following is a recipe
adapted from a friend who is one of my boba-making coaches.
Tapioca Pearl Ingredients:
1 cup (135 g) tapioca starch , + 2 Tbsp. + more for adjusting and coating
6 Tbsp. (90 ml) water
60 g Brown Sugar
Brown Sugar Syrup Ingredients:
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
1/3 cup (100 ml) water + 1.5 Tbsp.
In a small pot, heat the 6 tablespoons of water on medium and dissolve the 60 grams of
brown sugar over lowest heat to avoid too much water loss. Keep on heat until sugar is
dissolved. Now, add 1/2 of the tapioca starch in, and mix quickly. Mix until it has thickened
to a consistency that is thicker than before you added the tapioca starch in. Remove fromheat and add the remaining 1/2 of the tapioca starch. Mix until gathered. Work quickly. Generously sprinkle tapioca flour on a cutting board. Transfer the smooth paste and knead
into a dough. At first, it might be slightly sticky, but continue kneading until smooth. Work
quickly, as the dough becomes hard to control when cooled down completely.
Divide the dough into four portions and cover the other three with plastic wrap. Shape into a
long log (around 1.5 cm in diameter) and cut the log into small cubes. Roll into small balls.
Yes, this will take a while, so make sure you have a good playlist going.
In a small pot, dissolve brown sugar with 100 ml water. Heat until there are large bubbles
and liquid thickens into more of a syrup.
On a large plate, spread some flour and coat each tapioca ball with enough flour to avoid
them sticking to each other. After the pearls are coated, shift the extra flour off. Bring a large
pot of water to a boil and cook the pearls for 20 to 30 minutes. Transfer the balls into a cold-
water bath. Drain and mix with the brown sugar syrup.
Assemble by adding boba into the bottom of a cup, swirling it around to let the syrup coat the
sides before adding tea or other drink of your choice. Now you’ve reached boba-connoisseur
status.
I hope this article helps you along your boba and college student journey to happy tea
drinking! If you try any of the suggestions from this article, email us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org  with feedback.
Art by Andrew Diep(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
San Diego Mid-Coast Trolley Reaches Final Stretch
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/san-diego-mid-coast-trolley-reaches-final-stretch/) Jose Chavez
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/j2chavez/)
One of the largest infrastructure projects in San Diego’s history –– the Mid-Coast Trolley project
(https://www.keepsandiegomoving.com/Mid-coast/midcoast-FAQ.aspx)  –– is set to begin final construction
on April 16 on Genesee Avenue. The five-year project is expected to lessen traffic congestion within freeways
and arterials within the Mid-Coast Corridor. Additionally, it is expected to expand its San Diegan public
transportation capacity to accommodate future travel demands during peak period commute trips.“Having this trolley providing access to our South Bay, East County communities who can now get here by rail
rather than by car, it creates a whole level of opportunity that doesn’t currently exist,” San Diego Mayor Todd
Gloria told San Diego NBC 7. “That’s one of the reasons why I’ve been a strong supporter of this project for so
many years.”
The Mid-Coast Trolley extension route (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hmk6W27r92w) extends the UC
San Diego Blue Line Trolley service from the Santa Fe Depot in downtown San Diego to the heart of UCSD. The
project creates a one-seat (no transfer) ride from South San Diego county to the university, allowing for
individuals as far south as the US-Mexico border to arrive in La Jolla in a maximum time of 70 minutes. The
Mid-Coast Trolley is expected to begin service in late 2021.
There are three university stops intersecting at various points on campus. The first is the Veterans Affairs
Medical Center Station, located on La Jolla Village Drive, west of Interstate 5. The second stop is Pepper
Canyon trolley station, and the last is the Voigt Drive Station within the eastern portion of UCSD.
Photo courtesy of SANDAG  and TransNet.Funding for the project is largely attributed to the late MTS Chief Executive Officer Paul Jablonski, who was
able to secure a full-funding $2.1 billion grant agreement (https://www.sdmts.com/inside-mts/news-
release/final-trolley-arrived-san-diego-complete-mid-coast-trolley-project-
fleet#:~:text=During%20Jablonski's%2016%2Dyear%20tenure,extension%20in%20San%20Diego's%20history.).
In anticipation of this transportation upgrade, UCSD planned out the construction of several projects that
extend along the whole corridor from Old Town to University City.
The full-funding grant agreement in question originated from the San Diego Association of Governments
(https://www.sdforward.com/about-san-diego-forward/about-sandag) , a public agency that allocates funds
towards regional issues regarding growth, transportion, and other facets of regional development. In
September 2016, the Federal Transit Administration and SANDAG funded
(https://www.sandag.org/uploads/publicationid/publicationid_2102_21672.pdf) half of the grant’s funding
from TransNet , the region’s voter-approved half-cent sales tax for transportation improvements. The FTA
covered the other half of the funding, as per the agreement.
Among these UCSD projects (https://plan.ucsd.edu/campus-transformation) include the Design and
Innovation Building (https://ucsdguardian.org/2019/10/27/university-lays-groundwork-new-campus-entry-
point/) at the Pepper Canyon trolley stop, the UCSD Downtown Center located at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Park Boulevard and Market Street in downtown San Diego, and the now completed North
Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood.
Additionally, the trolley is expected to further aid San Diego’s historically disadvantaged Hispanic population.
According to a report released by The Chicano Federation (https://www.kpbs.org/news/2020/jun/18/latinos-
getting-covid-19-at-four-times-the-rate/) last September, Latinos make up 46 percent of So-Cal food service
employees, 32 percent of the overall workforce, and 67% of all COVID-19 cases in San Diego County. The Mid-
Coast Trolley extends the Blue Line service to many Hispanic communities in southern San Diego county,
which will allow people to have easier access to UCSD and other parts of the region.
Some students anticipate that the trolley will make off-campus excursions more affordable, while others look at
it as an environmentally friendly alternative to commuting.
“I drive fairly often out of La Jolla, as there aren’t many cheap activities to do inside the city,” stated Roger
Revelle College freshman Johnathan Gong. “I don’t think it’s necessary to be driving everywhere and honestly,
having another form of public transportation is super awesome for the environment. I think a lot of my friends
would say the same thing too — we’d all love to see a trolley take us around places that we’ve maybe never seen
before.”WE’RE EXCITED FOR MORE ENVIRO SUPPORTING PROJECTS AHEAD: OPENING
THE UC SAN DIEGO BLUE LINE EXTENSION THIS NOV, MORE HOUSING AROUND
TRANSIT, BUILDING BETTER ELECTRIC INFRASTRUCTURE/BUSES & MORE. FOR
ALL OF YOU WHO CONTRIBUTE TO A CLEANER SAN DIEGO BY CHOOSING
TRANSIT, THANKS 🌎 PIC.TWITTER.COM/KUHCDWNGTV
(HTTPS://T.CO/KUHCDWNGTV)
— SAN DIEGO MTS (@SDMTS) APRIL 22, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/SDMTS/STATUS/1385371248767553536?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
The Mid-Coast Trolley is also expected to drastically increase transportation efficiency to UCSD for off-campus
students. Commuters from Chula Vista to the main campus usually expect an hour-long drive, with Interstate 5
Northbound typically becoming congested (https://www.sandiegomagazine.com/san-diego-commutes-to-
avoid/article_d83720da-b9ab-5251-b5ba-8395b057a93c.html) with traffic around Pacific Beach. Additionally,
gas prices in the San Diego area have steadily increased (https://www.10news.com/news/local-news/san-
diego-county-gas-prices-continue-to-rise)lately, rising by 5.7 cents over the past 13 days and $1.23 since last
year.
“I think it is great that they are introducing a new form of transportation for commuters in Chula Vista,” said
John Muir College freshman Giselle Rodriguez in an interview with The UCSD Guardian. “The MTS trolley is
very accessible to Chula Vista’s surrounding regions, including San Ysidro and National City. Hopefully, it will
offer a more economical alternative to spending money on fuel and car maintenance.”
Individuals interested in staying up to date on the progress of the Mid-Coast Corridor project can visit its
Twitter (https://twitter.com/midcoasttrolley) and Facebook page
(https://www.facebook.com/MidCoastTrolley), sign up for its newsletter
(http://www.keepsandiegomoving.com/transnet-contact.aspx), or contact the project team at
midcoast@sandag.org or (877) 379-0110.
Photo courtesy of SD News.
This article was modified on Apr. 27 at 11:39 AM to include a mention of SANDAG and the trolley’s funding
mechanisms.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: EDI, the Separation of Senate and
Executive Bodies, and the Budget
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/a-s-council-brief-edi-the-separation-of-senate-and-executive-
bodies-and-the-budget/) Caledonia Davey (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/calli1davney/)
This is the A.S. Council Brief for Week 3 and 4 of Spring Quarter 2021.
At Associated Students’ Week 3 council meeting on Wednesday, April 14, senators discussed
the upcoming class of 2021 graduation and proposed revisions of the principles for UC San
Diego’s Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. Additionally, senators reviewed the A.S.
Budget Reallocation and proposed amendments to the A.S. Constitution.
A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran announced that there would be an option for students to
attend graduation in person. Each graduate will be allowed two guests, and every attendee
will be required to either be fully vaccinated or have a negative COVID-19 test from 24–72
hours in advance. 
Beginning the council meeting, Senior Diversity Officer from the EDI Office, Glynda Davis,
presented the revision process of EDI’s preamble and principles. Davis explained that the
principles, first written in the mid-1990s, no longer resonated as well as they once had, 20
years later as the conversation around diversity in America has grown and changed with the
times. In 2018, EDI began its revitalization process with a campus wide survey gathering
feedback from the EDI advisory council, and starting a strategic planning process. 
EDI received feedback from over 600 students, faculty and staff. Davis explained that the
revision process has produced a new, more concise set of principles, reducing it from a set of
nine to seven that is easier to understand and uses more relevant language. 
Davis provided examples of this language, including phrases like ‘civility and decency’,
‘climate of care’, ‘right to dignity’, and many more. 
The new document is closed as of now, but it will soon roll out to members of the UCSD
campus when finalized and will undergo a campaign process of events and activities designed
to elevate the new principles. Students can expect a campus wide announcement and visuals
that will be displayed throughout the campus in offices and other spaces around the campus.
Following Davis’ presentation, President Giangtran introduced a proposal for the reallocation
of the $1 million A.S. Budget. She proposed that the budget be split into five sections:$450,000 given to the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations
Act (CRSSA) grants;$250,000 given to the International Students and Programs Office (ISPO) for
academics, basic needs, health and wellness, travel, summer transition, graduating
seniors, and administrative purposes; 
$125,000 to the Asian Pacific Islander Middle Eastern Desi American (APIMEDA)
Center in order to create a physical space for the group in the original Student Center; 
$100,000 to graduating seniors’ emergency subsidized housing for this summer; and 
$75,000 to the experience of current freshmen, incoming sophomores, in order to
facilitate the creation of services, programs and events current freshmen missed out on
due to the pandemic.
In a straw poll conducted by President Giangtran to gage interest and support for the budget,
the majority of council members voted in favor of each proposed sectional budget allocation. 
Next, a proposed alteration of the A.S. constitution to include a Senate Leadership position
for the next term was debated. Though the specifics of the position had yet to be determined,
the idea entailed that the senators would have their own leading position that would oversee
their productivity and create a position between senators and executive members.   
Senator Mihir Pandya, one of the four sponsors of this proposal, argued that independence
between the A.S. executive and senatorial branches would be achieved by giving the senators
their own leadership position.
“In the middle of the last term there was some animosity between executive officers and
members of the senate in the past,” Pandya said. “There was a conclusion that senators
wanted a little more independence from exec, with respect to conducting their own week to
week affairs. So that means having these meetings as a space for senators only. And then in
that space to have a leader selected first among their peers … The senate would gather and
pick a leader to help guide them, advise, and conduct some oversight and accountability and
kind of devolve some of those responsibilities from exec back into senate.” 
Pandya went on to explain that creating a separation and distinction between the two bodies
was the idea.
“This is just a very clean break,” Pandya said. 
Another sponsor, Senator Tommy Jung, added that the new leadership position would also
provide needed internal support for senators, especially new senators who may find the
transition into the bureaucracy of the A.S. Council rather difficult.“I do think that there is a need for advising… There is a general lack of
community/connection that senators have felt to the body and having a point person that
they can talk to, that they can relate to and they can feel like they’re getting support from I
think could change a lot of that,” Jung said.
The language of the constitutional revision has not been drafted, but the sponsors urged their
fellow council members to vote yes during the meeting to begin establishing a framework and
continue the conversation. 
An open roll call vote was held on the topic of the new position, allowing senators who were
not present at the meeting two days to send in their votes. Subsequently, the majority voted
in favor of the new position, with the expectation that future meetings will involve further
discussion of specific details. 
Week 4
At the A.S. Week 4 meeting on April 21, the council had announcements for upcoming events,
a discussion regarding Fall Quarter instruction, and a detailed debate over the possible
creation of a new Senatorial Leader position within the senate body of A.S.
Senator Yarenni Medina announced that A.S. Transfer Senators, the UCSD All Campus
Transfer Association (ACTA), and the College Councils are working on a virtual graduation
cap decoration and graduation ceremony for transfer students. The Grad Cap Decoration
(https://ucsd.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMscOmprT4iHdNlXAaP0PBo0EhKKCa94g57)
will be held on May 20, from 7–9 pm PST while the Grad Ceremony
(https://ucsd.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcsd-mvrz8oEt0RC2H6PeO7yrwoclrfWKyS) will
be held on May 27, from 7–9 pm PST.
Senator Abby Rollison announced that she is working with the A.S. Office of Food and
Housing, Student Legal Services, and the Hub to create a workshop to educate students on off
campus housing for next year. Student Legal Services and the Hub Basic Needs Center will
give presentations on what first-time renters need to know and other information about first-
time housing. The workshop will take place during Week 7 of this quarter.
A.S. Vice President Hannah Kreitman also announced more details about the $100,000 of the
A.S. budget that is set to be used for graduating seniors’ emergency housing over the summer.
The portion of the budget will be able to pay for 1,960 rooms for one night, as each room ispriced at $51 per night. The money will be divided up by how many students apply and for
how many nights they will need to stay. It will be need-based.
Senator Corliss Lam stated that in a recent International Student Advisory Council meeting,
she and others decided a conversation with faculty needs to be had about remote options for
Fall Quarter.
“From the Chancellor’s message, a lot of people are assuming that everything is going to be
in-person and that no accommodations are going to be made, which is problematic because
they did say that accommodations would be made, especially for international students who
can’t come back,” Lam said.
President Kimberly Giangtran continued this conversation by stating that most classes during
Fall Quarter are going to be in-person, however, campus administration is looking for ways to
accomodate for students who cannot be present in-person at San Diego. Giangtran further
clarified that though the administration has said they are working on these accommodations,
there has yet to be a tangible plan that has been set forth.
Two-thirds of the Week 4 council meeting was taken over by an open forum about the new
Senate Leadership Position. To remedy the tensions between the executive and senatorial
bodies of A.S., presented in previous terms, the SLP would make the senate entirely
independent from the executive. Instead of allowing the executive body to oversee the senate
body, the SLP would be a part of the senate body and would be the designated oversight
position. The position is also meant to be a sort of helper to senators, especially incoming
senators who may need help becoming comfortable with the bureaucratic nature of the A.S.
council. 
“It’s inevitable there will be some sort of power dynamic between whether it be the exec and
senate or senate leader and the rest of senate. That’s going to always exist and to some extent
we accept that it should,” Senator Mihir Pandya, one of the four sponsors of the new position,
said. “What we’re trying to address is we want to shift that dynamic from exec to senate, to
into senate.”
Senator Pandya’s idea of a power shift faced opposition, however.
“I think if we start treating ourselves like a student government, spending so much time on
this ‘power dynamic’ and all of this and thinking it’s a structural issue, it minimizes our
reputation and really trivializes the reason we exist… We should spend more time consideringhow we can work as one association to benefit our student body,” Associate Vice-President of
Health and Wellness, Isaac Lara said in disagreement. 
Many, including Lara, believed that the idea of a Senate Leader would be beneficial if used as
an advisory position, not an oversight position.
“I think having a Senate Leader would be helpful in that regard where you’re just fielding
questions that are more procedural. I am not 100 percent liking the idea of this weird
separation thing,” Senator Nicole Thompson said.
Others believed that the creation of this position was unnecessary as the problem the
sponsors were attempting to resolve, the tensions between executive and senate positions of
last year, could not be solved by a further separation of bodies.
“With the creation of this position to fix the power dynamic or to rid the senate of this
‘animosity’, this honestly sounds like the most cowardly move that any senator could possibly
make,” Senator Adrian Blackshire argued. “Rather than trying to fix whatever minor
communication or any kind of small problem or slippery slope that caused that animosity
within senate, you are trying to create this stupid wedge between execs so that they don’t have
to be involved and you can just do whatever you want, and I’m not okay with that… And if
they’re going to be acting like this honestly I don’t think this should be a thing and I don’t
think you should really be here if that’s how you feel.” 
Others opposed the new position because they simply did not understand what problem was
supposed to be solved by creating the Senate Leader.
“When Senator Bradt mentioned at the beginning of the meeting that there is no problem we
are trying to solve, I realized that my anxiety about the Senate Lead Position is the fact that
we are trying to put a solution forward without trying to find a problem first,” Co-sponsor of
the position and Senator Tommy Jung said.
After a concluding statement by Senator William Wei, who summated that the position would
be valuable if strictly used as an advisory position that was given little power, the nearly 60-
minute open forum closed and effectively ended the council meeting. Discussion over the new
position will continue throughout the next weeks of the term.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
San Diego County Will Soon Unpause Johnson & Johnson
Vaccine
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/san-diego-county-will-soon-unpause-johnson-johnson-
vaccine/) Lindsey Choo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/tlchoo/)
Following a safety review and two meetings by the Centers for Disease Control’s Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices, the CDC lifted its recommended pause on the
Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, more commonly known as the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. The
distribution of the Janssen vaccine is set to resume in San Diego County this coming week,
awaiting further guidance from the California Department of Public Health.
In the CDC’s press release (https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/fda-cdc-lift-vaccine-
use.html) on April 23, the CDC and the Food and Drug Administration recommended the
continued use of the Janssen vaccine. The organizations cited the effectiveness of the vaccine
in preventing COVID-19, as well as the low risk of the development of rare and severe blood
clots that resulted in the recommended pause on April 14.
The recommended pause on April 14 followed six reported cases of a rare and severe type of
blood clot in individuals after receiving the Janssen vaccine. According to a press release
from the CDC (https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/s0413-JJ-vaccine.html) on April
13, all six cases occurred among women between the ages of 18 and 48, and symptoms
occurred six to 13 days after vaccination. 
FOLLOWING A THOROUGH SAFETY REVIEW, THE FDA AND
@CDCGOV (HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/CDCGOV?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) HAVE DETERMINED THAT THE
RECOMMENDED PAUSE REGARDING THE USE OF THE JOHNSON &
JOHNSON ( JANSSEN) #COVID19
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/HASHTAG/COVID19?
SRC=HASH&REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) VACCINE IN THE U.S.
SHOULD BE LIFTED AND USE OF THE VACCINE SHOULD RESUME.
HTTPS://T.CO/QSUSE0JYAS (HTTPS://T.CO/QSUSE0JYAS)
PIC.TWITTER.COM/CDIH1YHA8S (HTTPS://T.CO/CDIH1YHA8S)
— U.S. FDA (@US_FDA) APRIL 23, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/US_FDA/STATUS/1385744593669476353?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Dr. Chip Schooley, an infectious diseases expert
and one of UC San Diego’s leaders of the Return to Learn program
(https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/), said that the risk of an individual developing blood clots is
extremely low. He highlighted that the reported cases were among individuals with low
platelet counts, a condition otherwise known as thrombocytopenia.
“Platelets normally help your blood clot, and it’s kind of unusual to have platelets be low,” Dr.
Schooley said. “That’s a finding that we see in an unusual kind of reaction to a blood thinner
sometimes used, called heparin, that’s used to treat people with strokes and heart attacks.
There are a very small number of people who get treated with heparin in which the heparin
treatment triggers the platelets themselves to band together and form clots.”
Dr. Schooley noted that heparin is a standard treatment for blood clots, however, in the six
reported cases, a heparin treatment will worsen their conditions. 
He also pointed to research that suggested that reactions to the Janssen vaccine occur due to
a specific type of antibody found in about four percent of the population, called platelet
factor-4. While all six reported cases occurred in individuals with PF4 antibodies, not all
individuals with PF4 antibodies will develop blood clots, as there have only been six reported
cases amongst the 6.8 million doses of the Janssen vaccine administered. This type of rare
blood clots can be treated with other anticoagulants. 
On April 23, the CDC announced that the vaccine can resume its distribution as the vaccine’s
known and potential benefits outweigh its known and potential risks in individuals aged 18
years and older. 
Schooley suggested that women between the ages of 18 to 48 who are worried about the
development of rare blood clots can check for symptoms such as unusual abdominal pains or
leg pains, or any central nervous system symptoms including difficulty with vision, confusion
or headaches, and to contact a healthcare provider when these symptoms occur. 
Sophia Robinson, a junior in John Muir College who received the Janssen vaccine, said that
the process of getting the vaccine was fairly easy. 
“When I had initially heard about the risks of blood clots, I was worried, especially knowing
how rushed these vaccines were,” Robinson said. “Later, I saw some information comparing
the risks of blood clots in the [Janssen] vaccine with other common medications like birth
control. After that, I really was not worried at all.”The FDA estimated (https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-drug-
safety-communication-updated-information-about-risk-blood-clots-women-taking-birth-
control) that the risk of blood clots for women on birth control pills ranges from 0.09 percent 
to 0.3 percent. The risk of blood clots for the Janssen vaccine is 0.00009 percent. Blood clots 
associated with birth control can be treated with heparin, but ones associated with the 
Janssen vaccine cannot.
As of April 15, all California residents age 16 and older are eligible to receive a vaccine with a 
healthcare provider. All UCSD students can sign up for a vaccine appointment here
(https://covidvaccine.ucsd.edu/home/sites/rimac).
Photo courtesy of Dado Ruvic for Reuters .(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Saving Ourselves From the White Savior Complex
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/saving-ourselves-from-the-white-savior-complex/) 
Raymond Tran (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/raymondt/)
The White Savior Complex (https://medium.com/mama-hope/holding-up-the-mirror-
recognizing-and-dismantling-the-white-savior-complex-61c04bfd6f38)  is, simply put, a trope
in which a white person provides help to or rescues non-white people from unfortunate
circumstances in a self-serving manner. However, this concept is multifaceted and its
implications are more detrimental than beneficial to the people that are “being helped.” This
mentality puts marginalized groups in an inferior role
(https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/03/the-white-savior-industrial-
complex/254843/) when it comes to issues that they are facing firsthand which cuts into the
voices of minority groups and their experiences. Although, admittedly, the White Savior
Complex comes from seemingly good intentions, it is important to dismantle and challenge
this preconceived and subconscious notion that people of color are in need of saving by white
people and to shift focus to the real issues, realities, and experiences of BIPOC.
A very common perpetuation of the White Savior Complex is prevalent through the concept
of church missions (https://matadornetwork.com/change/4-ways-americans-taught-white-
savior-complex-can/), which are actually doing more harm than good. These missions imply
that the only way for a country to be “saved” is by a white person. In fact, there are instances
where those on missions have actually caused more problems for local communities.
For example, in 2019, Renee Bach
(https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2020/07/31/897773274/u-s-missionary-with-
no-medical-training-settles-suit-over-child-deaths-at-her-ce), an American missionary,
operated a charitable treatment center for severely malnourished children in Uganda despite
having no medical training. At least 105 children died in the charity’s care. Bach and the
charity, Serving His Children, settled a lawsuit brought against them in Ugandan civil court
by two women and a civil rights organization. Both Bach and the organization agreed to pay
about $9,500 to each of the mothers, with no admission of liability.
“It feels good to help.” “I’m making a difference.” 
Church missions are often self-serving and don’t even begin to address any systematic or
institutionalized issues that make these places impoverished. 
The construction of any building, whether it’s a church or a school, risks being unreliable
because it’s done by inexperienced teenagers and young adults trying to help. Meanwhile, the
workers of the village, most of whom are unemployed and all of whom have moreconstruction experience than the missionaries, remain unemployed
(https://www.bootsnall.com/articles/short-term-missions-trips.html). What these
communities need is not free labor, it’s employment.
Africa has poverty, as do virtually all developed countries. But Africa is so much more than
poverty. This simplistic narrative towards Africa is why some people genuinely think that all
Africans are poor and live in huts. There is a mentality that the Westernized lifestyle is the
“civilized” and “advanced” way of life. In the same way British colonizers tried to “help” the
Indigenous people of America in the 18th and 19th centuries, the modern-day white savior
has a subconscious bias that casts BIPOC as inferior and in need of rescuing. This mentality
lives on today, through gentrification, church missions, and less obviously, adoptions. 
The idea that adopting an orphan from a developing country is “saving” the child
(https://www.insider.com/im-an-adoptee-im-tired-white-saviors-like-myka-stauffer-2020-
6) fulfills a selfish need. The American foster care system also has children who are in need of
a home, so why the compelling need to adopt from other countries? It’s the savior mentality.Additionally, adoption in developing countries is a lucrative business. There are individuals
and organizations who profit off of fraudulent and unethical adoptions, taking advantage of
the often well-intentioned white saviors. While it is true that most coming to adopt children
here believe that they are doing a good and selfless act by taking in an orphan and giving
them a “better life,” one serious issue is that most of the children leaving for international
adoption are not actually orphans at all (https://nowhitesaviors.medium.com/international-
adoption-and-the-white-savior-industrial-complex-8075c4a67a57).
 
The same detrimental mindset is also perpetuated in other forms of the White Savior
Complex (https://medium.com/mama-hope/holding-up-the-mirror-recognizing-and-
dismantling-the-white-savior-complex-61c04bfd6f38). Voluntourists exploiting the lives,
stories, and culture of African people on social media is performative and fulfills the self-
fulfilling, superficial need to be seen as a hero. Additionally, storytelling that exoticizes the
community they are working in, such as talking about how “poor but happy people are,”
furthers the narrative that the people in these communities are ill-equipped to battle their
own issues without the help of white saviors and that the Westernized way of life is somehow
superior.
For those who truly wish to help developing nations and marginalized BIPOC, instead of
volunteering on church missions to Guatemala or adopting a child from Uganda, donate and
support organizations that have a localized influence on these communities. Organizationssuch as No White Saviors (https://nowhitesaviors.org/who-we-are/purpose/) aim to
dismantle the White Savior Complex and help communities in developing countries harness
resources and transfer control to BIPOC and communities affected by neocolonialism. 
More personally, it is important to examine the internalized biases that drive people to
believe that poorer countries are in need of American help and why acts of White Saviorism,
such as church missions and international adoptions, are the right solutions for issues that
are rooted deeper in foreign economies and communities. 
Whether it’s in developing countries or in underprivileged cities, the issues that plague these
communities become skewed when white people think that their understanding and
knowledge of these complex problems are enough to warrant a savior complex over the
groups who experience them firsthand. These communities are capable and resilient. Instead
of feeding into the White Savior Complex, we must shine a light on the voices and
organizations that are best equipped to handle these issues: those who live it.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Letter to the Editor: Textbook Prices Burden Students
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/letter-to-the-editor-textbook-prices-burden-students/) 
Guest Writer (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/guestwriter/)
In this letter to the editor, Julia Archer, CALPIRGs 100% Clean Energy Campaign Visibility
Coordinator, presents her organizations stance on excessive textbook costs. Letters to the
editor do not reflect the opinions or beliefs of the UCSD Guardian. 
To the Editor, 
It has long been known that one of the largest burdens placed upon university students,
including us at UC San Diego, is the sky-rocketing price of educational materials, notably
textbooks. While there are some groups in America who are prepared to spend tens, even
hundreds, of thousands of dollars on upper education, as noted in the article, “Is Wealth
Inequality Corroding American Democracy,” roughly “56 percent of Americans have less than
$5,000 in savings.” The gross inequality in the nation’s population means that for many
young Americans, the extraordinary cost of education puts it firmly out of reach.
While closing the wealth gap is a goal that will take generations to achieve, the chance to ease
the costs of university is close at hand. Institutions across the country are facilitating the
switch to open textbooks through grants to professors to update their lesson plans and larger
grants for the creation of new open textbooks or course materials. Open textbooks are free
and published under an open license, making them accessible to all. With open textbooks,
professors can remix and revise open textbooks at no additional costs and students retain
complete access at the end of the term. The California Public Interest Research Group is a
statewide student-directed and student-funded organization working to protect our
environment and public health, increase voting accessibility, and make college more
affordable. Currently, CALPIRG is advocating for the UC Regents to implement its own Open
Textbook Grant Program at the UCs, incentivizing faculty to transition their classes to open
textbooks. With an initial investment of $1 million by the Regents, the UC’s could save
students $10 million on course materials.
This grant will ensure that everyone in the UC system has an equal opportunity to succeed in
education. The UC’s are seen as leaders in the realms of public education, and it is for this
reason that the grant should be implemented by the UC Regents as soon as possible. It’s time
for educational institutions to help relieve the burden of education on their students instead
of adding to it, but first, it needs to be us students who take a stand and say enough is
enough.
Best, 
Julia Archer, Eleanor Roosevelt College Class of 2022(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Submission: UCSD Graduate Housing Rent Increase
Undermines University’s Mission
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/submission-ucsd-graduate-housing-rent-increase-undermines-
universitys-mission/) Guest Writer (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/guestwriter/)
In his submission, graduate student Eric Snyder argues that the recent increase in housing
prices goes against the very foundation of this educational institution.
UC San Diego has been able to use affordable on-campus housing as a means of recruiting
students from a variety of backgrounds, including students who are parents or caregivers.
The recently announced rent increases of up to 85 percent in the Grad and Family housing
will prevent many students with dependents from attending UCSD, and greatly limit the
range of talent and experience from which our faculty can recruit. 
When my son was born, I was starting the final year of my undergraduate degree at the
University of Utah. I found myself juggling the tasks of parenting, classes, a senior project,
interning, and a part-time research job. While stressful, I also found myself in a supportive
environment with understanding professors, family members nearby, affordable childcare
options provided by the university, and a relatively low cost of living. I knew many of these
support systems would be lost when I moved to a new state to begin a Ph.D. program. Nearly
all the programs I was considering had a higher cost of living than my home city, and we
would no longer have extended family nearby. However, I knew I wanted to continue my
education. Getting a Ph.D. was a long-held dream of mine, and I hoped to pursue this dream
despite the difficulties would set an example of resilience for my child.
Ideally, a prospective Ph.D. student can select a program solely based on the reputation of the
institution or the advisor they most want to work with. In my case, however, I had to also
consider the quality of life for my family — would we be able to afford childcare? Would my
spouse be able to find employment? Would we be able to afford an apartment? I began
looking into graduate programs, and the resources universities offered for students who were
parents or caregivers. At the time, UCSD offered a comparatively affordable on-campus
housing option for students with dependents. This meant, at the very least, that we could
survive on my graduate student stipend. This allowed us the flexibility to move to San Diego
and figure out my spouse’s employment and find childcare once here.
This, however, will no longer be an option for incoming students. The two-bedroom
apartment I am renting will cost future students $1,998 per month, which, despite being one
of the cheapest two-bedroom options, would be 75 percent of my salary. I would not have
been able to come to UCSD if this were the cost of rent when I was accepted.
My situation is not unique, nor is it the most precarious. A recent survey of students with
dependents at UCSD showed that, of the 167 survey respondents, 72 percent have a total
household income of less than $50,000 per year, and 43 percent earn less than $25,000 peryear. For these 43 percent of households, the cheapest family housing option available is at
best 91 percent of their income. This is also ignoring the 3 percent annual rent increase UCSD
will implement, and the fact that administrators intend to tear down the most affordable
apartments and replace them with more expensive, less family-friendly options.
These apartments also serve undergraduate students with dependents. In the survey, 64
percent of undergraduate students with dependents reported having a total household
income between $0 and $25,000 per year.  Undergraduate students with dependents already
face additional challenges to their success, including greater financial stresses, less time,
inflexible course demands, and cultural exclusion. A recent analysis by the Institute for
Women’s Policy Research (IWPR) (https://iwpr.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Busy-
With-Purpose-v2b.pdf)found that despite earning better grades on average than students
without children, students with children experience higher rates of attrition (52 percent of
student-parents leave college before graduating, compared with 29 percent of students
without children). Preventing student-parent success is an issue of equity -— IWPR found
that 70 percent of student parents are women, and 62 percent of these mothers are single
parents. Additionally (https://iwpr.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/C481_Parents-in-
College-By-the-Numbers-Aspen-Ascend-and-IWPR.pdf), 51 percent of student-parents are
people of color, and two in five black women in college are mothers. Rather than seeking to
ameliorate conditions for student-parents, UCSD has added another barrier to their success
by making rent drastically less affordable.
Many students depend on federal and state assistance, like Medicaid and SNAP, to help them
continue their education. However, for the over 100 international students with dependents,
federal and state financial assistance programs are rarely accessible. Using these resources
would risk them being labeled a “public charge” and being denied reentry into the U.S.
Students who can no longer afford on-campus housing will now be relegated to living further
and further off campus — increasing their commutes, and decreasing the time they can
dedicate to their research and studies — which ultimately adds more barriers to their success.
Alternatively, and perhaps more likely, these students will simply choose to attend a different
institution or give up on their dreams of continuing their education altogether.
Affordable on-campus housing is crucial to UCSD’s ability to recruit a diverse and
competitive student body. Chancellor Pradeep Khosla and CFO Pierre Ouillet must act to
correct these mistakes, and not doing so will cause lasting damage to UCSD’s reputation as a
diverse and competitive institution.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Capturing History Through Photographic Documentation
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/capturing-history-through-photographic-documentation/) 
Mariam Mustafa (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/mariam-mustafa/)
The Museum of Photographic Arts’ virtual exhibition, “Illusion: The Magic of Motion”
explores the evolution of photography in conjunction with historic, scientific, and societal
developments.
Much of the way we want ourselves to be perceived is translated through our routine actions
— be it through our carefully curated social media presence, the way we dress, or the
influences we choose to adopt and welcome into our lives. Today, the notion of individuality
and personal sense of self has been recorded through the use of technological mediums — we
are able to track our evolution through photographic records such as photo archives on our
old devices or forgotten albums on Pinterest. However, the actual integration of photography
and videography into societal activities came as a progression of events. “Illusion: The Magic
of Motion” is the Museum of Photographic Arts’ virtual exhibition which mulls over the
development of photography through a series of early photos, illustrating the motions of both
the mundane and significant aspects of life. 
Eadweard J. Muybridge’s “Animal Locomotion” (Plate 580) (1887)
The earliest work in the Illusion exhibition is Eadweard J. Muybridge’s 1887 collotype titled
“Animal Locomotion” (Plate 580). At first glance, it seems like the series of pictures are the
same image. However, upon further inspection, it is clear that the photographs slightly differ
in regards to the movements of the horse and human. The main subject of this work consists
of various prints of a man riding his horse, capturing each minute movement of the horse’s
leg to collectively produce a narrative of a horse taking a few steps from various angles.
Collotype photographs are made by exposing light to plates and repeatedly printing the
results. Think film, but its even older, very distant relative. Animal Locomotion represents
one of the earliest types of documentary photography, and the stillness in the prints depicts
the ancient quality of this revolutionary technique. Phillip Leonian’s “Untitled #20” from the series Mini Cine (1973)
The occurrence of physical motion — a usually intangible concept — is literally illustrated
through Phillip Leonian’s “Untitled #20” from the series Mini Cine. Created in 1973 using
inkjet print, this work attempts to encapsulate time with a single photograph. The blurry
motions leading to a man and woman’s still embrace are depicted through swift and swirling
lines detailing hands, faces, and bodies. While most pictures capture a lone moment, this
work captures moments leading up to a still moment.Barbara Brooks Morgan’s “Artificial Life” (1967)
Barbara Brooks Morgan’s 1967 gelatin silver print work “Artificial Life” from the Laboratory
serves to capture a historic moment in science through photography. This picture highlights
the significance of photography — important societal developments have been recorded
through photography and influence historical records through the creation of documentaries,
telescopes, and various medical instruments. Without photography and related, successive
technology, physical development and societal enhancement would not be as groundbreaking
as they are today.
The Museum of Photographic Arts is located in Balboa Park in San Diego. The exhibition
“Illusion: The Magic of Motion” and all related works discussed in this article are available for
virtual viewing at https://mopa.org/exhibitions/motion/(https://mopa.org/exhibitions/motion/) until May 16, 2021. For more information about the
Museum of Photographic Arts and to stay updated on exhibitions and current events, visit
https://mopa.org (https://mopa.org). 
Images courtesy of the Museum of Photographic Arts.  
Featured Image: Harold Eugene Edgerton’s “.30 Bullet Piercing an Apple” (1964)(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Film Review: “Limbo”
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/film-review-limbo/) Hanaa Moosavi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hanaa-moosavi/)
Ben Sharrock’s film “Limbo” is a beautiful and vulnerable depiction of the reality of global
refugees and their experiences when seeking asylum. “Limbo,” the 2020 Cannes Film Festival’s official “Newcomer” selection, reimagines
immigrant filmography with its amalgam of a masterfully orchestrated score, holistic
depiction of refugees, and dedication to preserving authenticity in an often misrepresented
narrative. This dark comedy follows the lives of global refugees in Scotland, focusing on a
Syrian refugee named Omar. Omar’s life acts as the vessel through which audiences are
allowed a realistic window into the trials that refugees face: Omar learns English, tolerates
microaggressions from the Scotland locals, and endures obstacles that prolong his asylum, all
while struggling to maintain his Syrian roots.
An immediate aspect of the film that strikes audiences is the emotionally compelling musical
score in “Limbo”; it ushers the audience into feeling the exact emotions as the characters on-
screen. Film score composer Hutch Demouilpied transcends the film’s emotional aspects. The
song “Eh Fi Amal” by Fariouz plays near the film’s end and sings: “Even though flowers are
filling the fields…to get back together is impossible.” Demouilpied plays with the hearts of the
audience, adding this piece to hone in on the melancholia of how the narrative ends. A special
aspect of Middle Eastern music — that the outro song perfectly exhibits — is the deep sense of
longing conveyed through the tone of the artist; the violins and elongated, emotional versus
evoke such a deep sense of sadness in every sentence that is able to reach every heart in the
audience, no matter the viewer’s ability to translate the lyrics. 
Another integral component of this film is its offer of an authentic and humane glance into
the global refugee plight, devoid of the condescension and stereotyping that is otherwise
largely present in westernized depictions of immigrants, refugees, and asylum-seekers. This
can be seen in the subplot where Omar replicates his favorite dish, a recipe of his mother’s.
He calls his mother to write down all the ingredients, goes to the store and continuously
searches for sumac (a popular Middle Eastern spice used in many dishes), and even befriends
the store clerk in his endeavors. Small moments like these build Omar’s character — and
heritage — in the mind of the audience, adding a level of humanity and depth to Syrian
refugees that is not normally depicted in western media. The brilliance behind these scenes
creates a holistic, fully realized person within the world of this film.
Lastly, while Scottish filmmaker Ben Sharrock’s writing of a refugee-centric film may call into
question the authenticity of the narrative due to his non-Syrian heritage, the research
conducted to maintain the veracity of the narrative cannot be overlooked. Oftentimes,
filmmakers with no personal connection to the stories they tell fall into the trap of
manipulating or revising the narrative. Fortunately, Sharrock underwent many levels of
research when working on “Limbo,” ranging from majoring in Arabic and Politics in
university and living in Syria for a year. Sharrock, as revealed in an article with The WrapPeeling Back the Curtain
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/peeling-
back-the-curtain/)Capturing History Through Photographic
Documentation
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/cap
history-through-photographic-
documentation/) (https://www.thewrap.com/ben-sharrocs-study-abroad-syria-inspired-limbo-video/) , also
consulted with Syrian refugees on their experiences while immigrating. “We were lucky to sit
with them and for them to give us their time, tell us about their experiences, and what it felt
like to be in new territory and be away from their loved ones.” While ethnic stories told by
their owners secure the authenticity of the narrative, “Limbo” presents the narratives of
individuals who lack the privilege to do so themselves. In many ways, the film makes
monumental strides in humanizing and beginning the film industry’s unlearning of harsh
ideologies against Middle Eastern people and immigrants.
Full of unexpected comedy, desperately heart-touching moments of friendship and anguish,
and a taste of what Middle Eastern life is like, “Limbo” promises to be the culture shock
necessary for any cinephile’s watch list. 
Grade: A 
Director: Ben Sharrock  
Starring:  Amir El-Masry, Vikash Bhai, Kwabena Ansah, Ola Orebiyi  
Release Date:  April 30th, 2021  
Rated: R
Image courtesy of Focus Features.
POSTED UNDER ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT (HTTPS://UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/CATEGORY/ARTS/)
TAGGED BEN SHARROCK (HTTPS://UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/TAG/BEN-SHARROCK/)  LIMBO
(HTTPS://UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/TAG/LIMBO/)
One thought on “ Film Review: “Limbo” ”(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Peeling Back the Curtain
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/peeling-back-the-curtain/) Kylie Necochea
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/kylienecochea/)
With so many careers to choose from, pop culture mediums fill in the role of giving people an
image of the job. Michael, a local San Diego chef, peels back the curtain of what goes on
inside and out of a kitchen. 
Chefs face plenty of varying depictions across many artistic mediums. 
From Remy’s soup-saving antics in “Ratatouille” to Jon Favreau’s hyper diligence whilst
making a grilled cheese in “Chef;” from Chris Meloni’s impressive wielding of cooking knives
in “Wet Hot American Summer,” to Leona’s artful creation of the winning pizza in “Mystic
Pizza”, movies tend to portray the artistic side of the profession. TV shows like “Chopped” and
“Top Chef” tend to turn up the dramatic nature of the job inside the kitchen. 
Jiro and Anthony Bourdain, Julia Child and Gordon Ramsay: chefs seem to exude a level of
confidence and gravitas matched only by entertainers. Like musicians, there’s some unspoken
rhythm to how they move and work in the kitchen. 
Enter Michael.
Michael is an executive chef who works in a hotel restaurant in the North County area of San
Diego. He has been working in the restaurant industry for the past 16 years since his fifteen-
year-old debut in a Chicago kitchen. I asked him if he would pull back the kitchen curtain for a
moment and share what his experience as a chef has been like. He generously agreed. 
There are several ways aspiring chefs can begin their careers in a kitchen. According to Reuters
(https://www.google.com/amp/s/mobile.reuters.com/article/amp/idUSKBN0L91M420150205) ,
most chefs start off by “chopping or washing.” 
Celebrity chef Bobby Flay began his career as a salad chef. Michelin starred chef Thomas Keller
began by washing dishes in his mother’s restaurant in sixth grade. 
Michael started in a restaurant as a busser when he was 15. 
“My very first day in the kitchen was a blast. I started at the restaurant bussing tables, but I
was always curious as to what was going on in the kitchen. I washed dishes for a few months so
that I could sort of prove myself and then after that I would work the salad station and help the
grill guy at night,” Michael told The UCSD Guardian. “Really basic stuff but it was a whole new
world to me and I have enjoyed it since day one.”After this period, chefs can work their way up the kitchen ladder in different ways. There are a
myriad of paths that one can take in order to move up the ranks within a restaurant. Michael
recounted how he worked his way up the ranks.
“I washed dishes for six months before I started cooking. I worked at several high-end
restaurants over the next five years as a line cook and attended culinary school. I got my first
sous chef job and realized I was in over my head as far as management went, so I put a lot of
time and effort into studying and practicing leadership and management,” Michael told The
Guardian. “I think the road to being an exec is pretty much the same for everyone, work hard
and treat people well and the opportunities will come.”
Many aspiring chefs stay in the kitchen and work their way up the ladder to their desired
position; however, culinary school is often the next step many chefs take. 
Michael was placed in a position where he did not want to attend a four year university, which
made culinary school all the more appealing. He signed up for a two-year program at Le
Cordon Bleu in Chicago. 
Through his time in school, the skills he learned applied more to his life outside of the kitchen. 
“Networking through my school was a huge benefit for me, because I had just moved to the city
and didn’t really know anyone, especially in the industry,” Michael told The Guardian. “My
school had a job board and I was constantly picking up little catering events and random
dinners just to gain experience and meet other chefs. One of my biggest challenges was that I
was working full time so the class load was a lot to handle. Culinary school is basically set up
like a job, not how a regular university has classes. I went to school from 6 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Monday through Friday and then I was working at least 40 hours a week at night so it was just
non-stop.”
Although culinary school can offer a foundation for aspiring chefs to work off of, Michael does
not believe culinary school is best for all or even most aspiring chefs. Without school, aspiring
chefs would work their way up through the ranks. 
“Being a dishwasher requires zero previous experience but you will learn how to clean
vegetables, make pasta, stocks, how to work efficiently and deal with the environment. From
there you move up to prep cook and so on,” Michael told The Guardian. As chefs work their way up, there are different positions to explore including sous chef, chef de
cuisine, and executive chef. 
Executive chefs are at the highest level of the kitchen management structure and are generally
only present at large establishments. Executive chefs have a management role and generally do
minimal cooking as they are responsible for the operation of multiple outlets. 
Head chefs, or chefs de cuisine, typically control the entire kitchen such as managing staff and
controlling kitchen costs; however, they will often leave the day-to-day running of the kitchen
to the sous chef. 
The sous chef is second in command and the role may overlap with the head chef’s. The sous
chef tends to be more hands-on and actively involved in the day-to-day running of the kitchen. 
“As a sous chef, you are running the day-to-day and as an executive chef, you are thinking
months out about everything,” Michael said. “I am usually at least three months ahead of
myself for anything that needs a serious level of planning. You can think of the sous chef as the
one driving the car and the executive chef as the one who plans the road trip.”
Sous chefs, chefs de cuisine, and executive chefs have busy days. Daily tasks vary for chefs at
different restaurants depending on their levels of seniority. 
As an executive chef in a hotel restaurant, Michael’s days can vary.
“Every day is different,” Michael said. “It’s never boring. Some days I am the electrician, the
therapist, the prep cook, the office manager, the host, the landscaper. I get to problem solve all
day while being surrounded by a great team. It is a truly fantastic job for those of us that want
to be here.”
Typically, the average chef position requires 50 hours per week in the kitchen, including
nights, weekends, and holidays. Daily schedules can change for chefs as well, as their days can
range from eight to ten hours on average. 
“Right now I work from 5 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.,” Michael said. “Day-to-day for a hotel is very
office heavy, our labor and food costs are major concerns right now [due to COVID], so making
sure we have a clear budget and plan to meet those goals is a big part of my day.” Holidays and large events can bring him out of the office and into the kitchen. When the
restaurant has events or holidays, Michael tends to spend more time in the kitchen. He
currently has a younger, less experienced management team at the hotel and subsequently has
to be more hands-on than he was at his last place of work where the sous chefs were more
experienced. 
Although many may be drawn to the chef profession due to the excitement of working in a
kitchen, some may be surprised by the fast-paced, high-pressure environment that they end up
in. 
One reason kitchens may be stressful is due to the long working hours. According to trade
union Unite (https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.vice.com/amp/en/article/ypagxv/new-
study-reveals-just-how-unhealthy-it-is-to-be-a-chef), 44 percent of chefs report working
between 48 and 60 hours per week.
Though the kitchen can be a fairly fast-paced, tense environment place to be, the level of
organization chefs bring to their work spaces can play a critical role in minimizing their
employees’ stress levels. 
“I would imagine most cooks don’t really consider the job stressful,” Michael said. “As long as
you are prepared for the day there isn’t really much stress involved. I have worked in kitchens
that weren’t very organized and I always felt behind, but restaurants like that are usually the
ones you hear about closing down. The chefs you hear about that are yelling and throwing
things are super old school and they are all dying out.”
Steaming pots and sharp knives are as much a fixture of the job as is pressure in the pursuit of
perfection. Mistakes in the kitchen have traditionally not been tolerated. 
“I remember putting too much parsley as a garnish on a soup one time and my chef telling me
to act like I know how to work in a restaurant or get out. I’ve been told many times to count
how many doors they have, pick one, and get the fuck out for the most minimal of mistakes,”
Michael recounts.
This pressure can cultivate devastating consequences for the mental health of kitchen
employees. In a 2019 study (https://www.buzztime.com/business/blog/shedding-a-light-on-
mental-health-in-the-restaurant-industry/), 73 percent of chefs reported that they suffer from
multiple mental health conditions, including depression, anxiety, and substance abuse.“Anthony Bourdain was always a joy to watch, and as sad as it was to lose him to suicide he
was a big wake up call to the industry about taking better care of our co-workers,” Michael told
The Guardian. “Any kitchen position is replaceable, immediately. And you are reminded of
that regularly. On top of that, it’s the norm to drink and do drugs to your heart’s content until
your next shift.” 
Old school kitchen cultures can put restaurant employees’ mental health at risk. A 2015 study
by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration ranks the restaurant
industry highest among 19 industries for illicit drug use and third highest for heavy alcohol
consumption. 
“Honestly, I think the biggest solution to poor employee mental health is just to not treat them
like total garbage and to give them the time they need to take care of themselves without
consequences,” Michael said. 
Many chefs feel that destigmatizing discussion of depression and other mental health issues is
a significant positive first step in the industry towards a more supportive environment. Some
restaurants are beginning to employ different methods by which to support their staff. From
capped working hours to peer-to-peer counseling, restaurant owners and managers are
attempting to find ways to help their staff feel safe and stable. 
Philadelphia-based chef Jezabel Careaga started a non-profit in 2019 in response to the
industry’s lack of initiative towards treating their employees’ mental health. Her nonprofit,
Fuerza for Humans (https://www.jezabelcareaga.com/fuerzaforhumans), shares mental
health resources with hospitality workers while allowing space for dialogue and discussion
surrounding mental health difficulties.
Other resources such as Sanvello (https://www.sanvello.com), an app that connects those in
the restaurant industry with therapists and peer support, and Ben’s Friends
(https://www.bensfriendshope.com), a hospitality-focused substance-abuse support network,
offer mental health assistance to chefs and other restaurant employees. 
Despite the challenges that come with the fast-paced, high pressure kitchen space, being a chef
can be one of the most rewarding careers for creative, passionate individuals who thrive in the
restaurant environment.Successful chefs have different advice for those interested in entering their field. Michael
recommends that anyone with an inclination towards becoming a chef should begin working in
a kitchen as soon as they think it’s the career field they want to pursue.
“Go wash dishes for six months at the best restaurant in your city before you make any
decisions about what it is you want to do,” Michael said. “The industry isn’t for everyone and
no school or book or show can tell you what it’s really like. After that if you decide it’s for you
then get to work and don’t look back. Work at the highest level you possibly can at all times,
don’t let your standards slide for any reason and always treat everyone with kindness. Stay
away from the drugs, alcohol, and drama that comes with certain parts of the industry. Stay
focused and healthy. Follow that and you will be unstoppable.”
Photo by Adrien Olichon from Pexels.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The UCSD Guardian’s 2021 NFL Mock Draft
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/the-ucsd-guardians-2021-nfl-mock-dra  /) Donovan Perez-
Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
The 2021 NFL Draft will begin on Thursday, April 29, and draft speculation is, as always, at a
fever pitch. Below is The UCSD Guardian’s first-round mock draft, completed by Sports Staff
Writer Donovan Perez-Schipper, and Features Editor Nelson Espinal. We’ll use the
simplifying assumption that there are no new trades, even if there almost certainly will be, so
that both mocks pick for the same teams at the same time.
1.Jacksonville Jaguars
Donovan: Trevor Lawrence, Quarterback, Clemson University. Most first overall
picks are decided well before the draft actually starts, and this year is no different. Urban
Meyer’s team grabs the can’t-miss prospect, with the only question mark being whether they
can surround him with enough talent to be successful early on.
Nelson: Trevor Lawrence, Quarterback, Clemson. Duh. Trevor Lawerence has been
the #1 pick ever since he won a national championship in his freshman year. He will change
the franchise and take them as far as their roster-building allows.
2.New York Jets
Donovan: Zach Wilson, Quarterback, Brigham Young University. This pick seems
like it was made certain after the Jets traded former franchise quarterback and University of
Southern California product Sam Darnold to Carolina. Zach Wilson has a cannon arm and
showed precision accuracy on all three levels with good mobility. The glaring red flag is that
he only showed one year of truly elite play, but general manager Joe Douglas feels
comfortable enough to hand Wilson the keys.
Nelson: Zach Wilson, Quarterback, BYU. The Jets traded Sam Darnold because they
are taking a quarterback. Wilson lit it up this year and I think he is on the same tier as
Lawrence. His off-platform throws and playmaking ability will make him a fan favorite in
New York.
3.San Francisco 49ers (from Miami via Houston)
Donovan: Trey Lance, Quarterback, North Dakota State University. The first
controversial pick of the draft, where the Niners take Lance over more proven prospects such
as Mac Jones or Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields. Lance’s projected traits are simply too
difficult to pass up on, as Shanahan gets handed a fun new piece to develop behind Jimmy
Garoppolo. While it may take time for Lance to see the field as he makes the big jump to NFL-
level competition, the calls for a change will come quickly if the Niners struggle early on.Nelson: Trey Lance, Quarterback, North Dakota State. Everyone thinks this pick will
be Mac Jones, but I need to see it before I believe it. You don’t trade three first-round picks
for Mac Jones. The 49ers traded that capital to improve based on the system, and Lance can
do just that. 
4.Atlanta Falcons
Donovan: Penei Sewell, Offensive Tackle, University of Oregon. The run on
quarterbacks ends here, as Atlanta keeps Matt Ryan as the unquestioned starter for another
year with some reinforcements. Sewell is likely the second-best prospect in this draft class,
but after sitting out a year, his dominance seems to have been forgotten. One of the most
dominant offensive linemen ever in the college ranks, Sewell will anchor a Falcons line for
years to come giving new coach Arthur Smith a building block(er… get it?) to recreate his
smashmouth-style Titans offense.
Nelson: Kyle Pitts, Tight End, University of Florida. There are reports that the
Falcons might go quarterback and find a replacement for Matt Ryan, but I think they’ll try to
build around Ryan instead. Pitts is a special receiving weapon and he will complement the
Falcons’ receiving core well.
5.Cincinnati Bengals
Donovan: Kyle Pitts, Tight End, Florida. Joe Burrow is smiling. A generational
prospect gives Burrow an absolutely unfair red zone advantage. While teaming up with
former teammate Ja’Marr Chase would have been nice, Pitts is simply a can’t miss prospect.
Teaming up with Joe Mixon and receivers Tyler Boyd and Tee Higgins will give the Bengals
an offense primed for a big jump. Unless the defense and offensive line can improve,
however, the Bengals might be picking high in the draft again this time next year.
Nelson: Ja’Marr Chase, Wide Receiver, Louisiana State University. This selection
is a tough one. The Bengals can either go with Chase to help out Burrow or go with Sewell.
The Bengals shored up their offensive line enough during free agency to the point where they
can afford to go with Chase, a special wide receiver.
6.Miami Dolphins (from Philadelphia)
Donovan: Jaylen Waddle, Wide Receiver, University of Alabama. Another piece for
another quarterback drafted last year. Waddle is the third wide receiver on most draft
expert’s boards, but the Dolphins take a swing on an explosive athlete. Waddle was averaging21.1 yards per catch with Mac Jones at the helm this past season before he went down with an
injury. Tua Tagovailoa and Waddle undoubtedly had a connection at Alabama before and will
look to continue their partnership in Miami.
Nelson: Devonta Smith, Wide Receiver, Alabama. With Pitts and Chase gone, the
Dolphins will give Tua his former teammate back. They need to give their young quarterback
every reason to succeed so they can accurately gauge how good he really is.
7.Detroit Lions
Donovan: Rashawn Slater, Offensive Tackle, Northwestern University. Taking
Slater over a wideout would certainly be a questionable move for general manager Brad
Holmes, but there is an identity being built in Detroit. Coach Dan Campbell is coming for
your kneecaps and that starts with getting a road grader in Slater. Either way, improving this
offense and taking a long look at Jared Goff will be a priority for this new Lions staff. Look for
this spot to be a possible destination for teams looking to trade up in the draft.
Nelson: Micah Parsons, Linebacker, Pennsylvania State University. New Lions
coach Dan Campell wants someone who can bite a kneecap. Parsons is a coverage and pass
rusher, a do-it-all linebacker that can provide the rookie coach with a player to start the
rebuilding process with.
8.Carolina Panthers
Donovan: Ja’Marr Chase, Wide Receiver, LSU. Joe Brady gets his guy. The Panthers
recently traded for Sam Darnold, and either he or Teddy Bridgewater will inherit the best
running back in football to go with receivers Chase, DJ Moore, and Robby Anderson. An
explosive offense is key for coach Matt Rhule and offensive coordinator Joe Brady to
compete. This pick is a no-brainer if Chase falls to No. 8, especially when considering that
there are few defensive players with top-ten value in this draft class.
Nelson: Penei Sewell, Offensive Tackle, Oregon. Quarterback is no longer a need with
the Panthers. Darnold still has a lot of talent and now the Panthers need to build around him.
They have a huge need at tackle, and now they get a generational one.
9.Denver Broncos
Donovan: Justin Fields, Quarterback, Ohio State University. John Elway and the
draft room would be jumping for joy if they didn’t have to trade up to get their man. While
the likelihood of the Broncos selecting Fields at No. 9 is slim, the Broncos certainly could usea quarterback like Fields to come in and compete with Drew Lock. Lock has shown some
promise, but the ceiling for Fields seems significantly higher. To compete with Justin Herbert
and Patrick Mahomes in their division, the Broncos will have to swing for the fences with this
one.
Nelson: Justin Fields, Quarterback, Ohio State. The Broncos need a quarterback.
Drew Lock sucks, and they might need to trade up to get Fields, but he falls to them here.
Fields is my third-ranked QB and is a special talent overall.
10.Dallas Cowboys
Donovan: Micah Parsons, Linebacker, Penn State. The first defensive player picked
in the draft will land with America’s Team. Parsons is far and away the best defensive talent
going into the draft, and the Cowboys have one of the most struggling defenses. While Dallas
does already have Jaylon Smith and Leighton Vander Esch at linebacker, the pass rushing
proficiency of Parsons will give the Cowboys an extra boost off the edge. The Cowboys,
desperate for a playmaker, select the best defensive player available.
Nelson: Patrick Surtain II, Cornerback, Alabama. Surtain is everything a corner
prospect could be. He tackles well, covers and moves his feet better than anyone, and has
some playmaking ability too. The Cowboys need secondary help and the best corner in the
draft will help.
11.New York Giants
Donovan: Alijah Vera-Tucker, Guard, University of Southern California. While
this one might be a bit of a reach, the Giants really need to shore up their interior offensive
line. Daniel Jones has struggled with turnovers early on in his career and Saquon Barkley
could use some help up front. Vera-Tucker will immediately plug in to one of the guard spots
for the Giants, though he could also fill in at tackle. A versatile player for a team that has
struggled with injuries everywhere on offense makes for a great fit.
Nelson: Jaylen Waddle, Wide Receiver, Alabama. The Giants signed Kenny Golladay,
but that won’t be enough to help out Daniel Jones. Their number-two receiver is Sterling
Shepard, and that won’t cut it in that division. Waddle can elevate this receiving corps under
a good offensive coordinator.
12.Philadelphia Eagles (from San Francisco)Donovan: Mac Jones, Quarterback, Alabama. A surprise team selects the last of the
top quarterbacks in this year’s draft. General manager Howie Roseman can’t resist after
Jones falls all the way into his lap, resulting in the before- and after-Tua quarterbacks from
Alabama having a quarterback battle. Jones had an outstanding season, but the question of a
small sample size lingers. Adding a quarterback who thrives making plays down the field to
compete with an athletic juggernaut in Jalen Hurts will make for an interesting quarterback
room for the Eagles.
Nelson: Jaycee Horn, Cornerback, University of South Carolina. The Eagles need
to help out a secondary that has been poor for a while. They traded for Darius Slay and it
didn’t work out. Horn is the second-best corner and the start of a long rebuild in Philly.
13.Los Angeles Chargers
Donovan: Devonta Smith, Wide Receiver, Alabama. The last of the three elite
wideouts finally comes off the board. After winning the Heisman Trophy and putting up elite
stats, much has been made about his slight frame, recently weighing in at a little over 160
pounds. The third wide receiver paired with the third quarterback drafted last year will
certainly compete to be the most successful pairing, as they arguably have shown the most
success in college and the pro ranks, respectively. Though the Chargers have a glaring need at
left tackle, they do not pass up on a proven talent in Smith.
Nelson: Rashawn Slater, Offensive Tackle, Northwestern. Justin Herbert surprised
me last year. He played a lot better than I thought he would. I do not know if he can keep it
up, but the Chargers need to protect their asset. Slater projects as a good tackle, but a great
guard. Either way, he immediately upgrades their line.
14.Minnesota Vikings
Donovan: Patrick Surtain II, Cornerback, Alabama . The run on Alabama products
continues with Surtain. Minnesota selected Jeff Gladney in the first round of last year’s draft,
but they still are very thin in the secondary. Surtain was a three-year starter for Alabama,
impressively winning the starting job in his true freshman year. Surtain is a dependable, high
ceiling corner with the potential to be an All-Pro, combining elite measurables with elite
intangibles, and he will jumpstart a defensive retooling in Minnesota.
Nelson: Christian Darrisaw, Offensive Tackle, Virginia Tech. The Vikings got rid of
Riley Reiff over the summer and they could use a tackle. If Horn fell, I could see them getting
him, but Darrisaw can give them a future bookend.15.New England Patriots
Donovan: Kwity Paye, Defensive End, University of Michigan. The first edge rusher
comes off the board to New England after they miss out on the top quarterbacks selected.
Paye is a high-upside prospect who will fill an immediate need for a rotational pass rusher.
Paye, along with Michigan defensive end Aidan Hutchison, has been a terror for Big Ten
offenses the past few seasons, so the Patriots will get a proven player here in Paye. Still, many
fans will probably be left wondering where Belichick goes at quarterback for the long term.
Nelson: Mac Jones, Quarterback, Alabama. Mac Jones does not have a first-round
grade from me, but I still think he goes in the first round. He was incredibly accurate in the
short game and lit it up with NFL talent around him, but his arm talent is not special at all.
The Patriots need a quarterback and if any of the top 5 are in this range, they will take him.
16.Arizona Cardinals Donovan: Najee Harris, Running Back, Alabama. It is easy to tell who the dominant
team in college football is when looking at four of the last five picks. Harris is another great
Alabama product who will give Kyler Murray another fun piece for this explosive offense.
After the addition of James Conner in the backfield and AJ Green at wide receiver, the
projection at this spot has been mostly defensive players. However, the Cardinals remain thin
at running back and here choose to go with one of the more dominant backs in recent
memory, to pair with the speedy Murray to form a scary rushing combination.
Nelson: Rashod Bateman, Wide Receiver, University of Minnesota. The Cardinals
signed AJ Green, but he looked like a shell of himself last year. They need some new life in
that wide receiver room. With Bateman, they get a wide receiver talent that could of been the
#1 receiver in any other class. He can separate, win on the outside, and do great things with
the ball.
17.Las Vegas Raiders
Donovan: Jeremiah Owusu-Koramoah, Linebacker, University of Notre Dame.
The Raiders take one of the best players on the board in Owusu-Koramoah, an absolute stud
for the Fighting Irish. A blend between an old-school thumper and a sideline-to-sideline slot
defender, he will be the exact kind of playmaker the Raiders need.  After two impact signings
at linebacker in the 2020 offseason, the Raiders fill out their linebacking core with a possible
perennial top tackle player.Nelson: Alijah Vera-Tucker, Offensive Tackle, USC. The Raiders let go of a few
linemen and are in need of fresh blood in the trenches. If Rashawn Slater stays at tackle,
Tucker is easily the best guard in this class.
18.Miami Dolphins
Donovan: Azeez Ojulari, Linebacker, University of Georgia. The ‘Fins pass on the
two Miami university edge rusher prospects for Ojulari. For an edge rusher, Ojulari is small
at 240 pounds and projects better as a 3-4 outside linebacker, a scheme which the Dolphins
currently employ. Racking up 8.5 sacks last season for Georgia against SEC competition,
Ojulari has proven he can play against high-caliber competitors and would be a welcome
addition to the young core in Miami.
Nelson: Jaelan Phillips, Defensive End, University of Miami. The Dolphins built a
stable at cornerback already and all they are missing is some pass rush to help them not need
to cover for so long. Phillips has a lot of red flags because of concussions, but his tape is the
best out of any pass rusher. He is worth the risk at this point in the draft.
19.Washington Football Team
Donovan: Christian Darrisaw, Offensive Tackle, Virginia Tech. Washington
probably was a better football team than you thought last year. After struggling through much
of the regular season, they were able to win the putrid NFC East and matchup against Tom
Brady’s Buccaneers, and they were pretty competitive against the eventual Super Bowl
champions. Ron Rivera is rebuilding the culture here in Washington, and Darrisaw will go a
long way in helping to build that. Regarded by some draft experts as the best pass protector in
college football last year, Darrisaw will immediately plug in the spot vacated by former
Washington player Trent Williams to protect Ryan Fitzpatrick’s blindside.
Nelson: Kellen Mond, Quarterback, Texas A&M University. The Football Team
needs a quarterback. Fitz is not going to cut it for long and if the team cannot trade up, they
will need to reach for a quarterback. Mond has all of the tools to be a good QB, but he needs
to be helped along in his development.
20.Chicago Bears
Donovan: Trevon Moehrig-Woodard, Safety, Texas Christian University. The
Bears elect to fortify their defense with this pick, grabbing the consensus best safety in this
draft class. While the Bears offense is certainly the main issue plaguing Chicago, Matt Nagy’s
squad still has some holes to fill on defense. Moehrig-Woodard  should slot in next to EddieJackson to help a secondary that just lost a very quality player in Kyle Fuller. After going 5–0
to start out last season, the Bears struggled mightily because of an anemic offense and a
defense that went from elite to average. Reclaiming their defensive identity will be important
if they are to find success this coming season, and Moehrig-Woodard and Jackson as
ballhawks will certainly help in that regard.
Nelson: Terrace Marshall Jr., Wide Receiver, LSU. The Bears need a No. 2 receiver to
compliment Robinson. Marshall has the body and tools to be a receiver on the outside, but
his route running needs to develop.
21.Indianapolis Colts
Donovan: Terrace Marshall Jr., Wide Receiver, LSU. The second LSU receiver off the
board, the Colts go with Marshall to get incoming starter Carson Wentz some help. Ever since
the days of Marvin Harrison and Reggie Wayne, the Colts have struggled to find elite wide
receivers to help out their quarterbacks. TY Hilton has been good for a long time, but is
certainly past his prime. Combining Marshall with up-and-coming second-year player
Michael Pittman will be a welcome sight for Carson Wentz, whose struggles last year likely
had something to with a lack of separation from his receivers.
Nelson: Azeez Ojulari, Linebacker, Georgia. The Colts need an offensive lineman or a
pass rusher here. With the depth in the second round, they may want to go pass rusher.
Ojulari needs more pass rush moves and he is undersized, but he can get to the QB in a hurry.
22.Tennessee Titans
Donovan: Caleb Farley, Cornerback, Virginia Tech. After the surprising release of
Adoree Jackson, the Titans select Farley to help out their secondary. Farley, nicely sized at 6
feet 2 inches, fits the mold the Titans are looking for at cornerback. While he opted out of this
past season, he certainly has the tools to be a real difference-maker for the Titans. Though
Surtain and Jaycee Horn, the other high-graded cornerbacks in this draft, have more film
with SEC competition, Farley is a naturally gifted corner with heaps of potential for
defensive-minded coach Mike Vrabel. Although a risk, the Titans will likely get more
production out of him than bust Isaiah Wilson from last year’s draft.
Nelson: Kwity Paye, Defensive End, Michigan. I am not a fan of Paye. His technique is
not impressive, but his tools should make the Titans interested. They need a pass rush and
Paye could develop under Vrabel.23.New York Jets (via Seattle)
Donovan: Jaycee Horn, Cornerback, South Carolina.  The Jets take care of another
team need by adding Horn to their secondary. The son of great wide receiver Joe Horn, the
Jets use their second pick of the first round on their defense. Horn is certainly in the
conversation to be the best of the cornerbacks taken in this year’s draft, and will plug in as an
immediate starter for the Green this coming season. Horn should be taken in the top twenty
picks of this year’s draft based on his talent and resume, but an early run on offensive players
results in a little bit of a slide for Horn, allowing the Jets to swoop in and take another big
talent to add to their young pieces.
Nelson: Jeremiah Owusu-Koramoah, Linebacker, Notre Dame. Under the right
scheme, Owusu-Koramoah is a steal here. With Robert Saleh taking over in New York, he
won’t leave the draft without a defensive player. I trust Saleh to get the most out of Owusu-
Koramoah in the 49ers’ scheme.
24.Pittsburgh Steelers
Donovan: Joseph Ossai, Linebacker, University of Texas. The Steelers defense was
great this last year, in large part due to the contributions of edge rushers TJ Watt and Bud
Dupree. Dupree, however, left for the Titans in free agency, leaving his outside linebacker
spot to Steelers draft pick Alex Highsmith, but the Steelers pick Ossai for some competition
to pair with Watt. Ossai is a disruptor in the backfield, proficient in run and pass coverage
along with rushing the passer. He is a perfect fit as a Steeler and will compete for early snaps
for a stout defense.
Nelson: Najee Harris, Running Back, Alabama. The adage “don’t take running backs
in the first round” does not apply to Mike Tomlin. He will take a running back and it will be
Harris. Book it.
25.Jacksonville Jaguars (via Los Angeles)
Donovan: Asante Samuel Jr., Cornerback, Florida State University.  The Jaguars
select a local product in Samuel to fill a glaring need. Jacksonville was atrocious in many
facets last season, but pass defense was arguably the worst of them all, as they were third-
worst in QB rating allowed. Samuel is a recent riser up draft boards, and while he may be a
tier below the corners drafted above him, he can certainly be an impact player for the
Jaguars. The last cornerback prospect from Florida State drafted by the Jaguars was an
immense talent, and the Jaguars can only hope that Samuel is a similar gem.Nelson: Teven Jenkins, Offensive Tackle, Oklahoma State University. The Jaguars
took a special quarterback with Lawrence and they need to protect him now. Jenkins is one of
my favorite guys from this draft. He could end up as the second-best tackle and I would not
be surprised.
26.Cleveland Browns
Donovan: Greg Newsome II, Cornerback, Northwestern. The run on corners
continues with the Browns selecting this Northwestern product. For the Wildcats last year,
Newsome was one of the leaders for a surprisingly stellar defense. Though Newsome is
smaller and less speedy compared to his first-round counterparts, he certainly has proven
himself as a talented option. The Browns will pair him with Denzel Ward to form a young and
talented cornerback duo.
Nelson: Gregory Rousseau, Defensive End, Miami. Rousseau was the surefire bet to
be the first defender taken early last season, but due to his opt-out and tape leaving more to
be desired, he will fall. The Browns have a need at DT and Rousseau can kick inside.
27.Baltimore RavensDonovan: Rondale Moore, Wide Receiver, Purdue University. The Ravens get an
extremely fun piece in wide receiver Rondale Moore. The Ravens have invested in the
receiver position in the last few drafts for Lamar Jackson, and continue that run here. The
Ravens love versatile speedy receivers, and Moore fits the Hollywood Brown role. It is easy to
imagine all the fun play combinations that can be made with the stable of speedy skill
position players the Ravens would have at their disposal, and they will need to continue their
creativity to compete with the up-and-coming Browns.
Nelson: Kadarius Toney, Wide Receiver, Florida. Whoever takes Toney in the first
round will be committing the biggest reach in the draft. He cannot run a route. Even though
he can make magic happen with the ball, if he doesn’t get the ball, it doesn’t matter. Lamar
Jackson would like some weapons and someone will talk themselves into Toney.
28.New Orleans Saints
Donovan: Nick Bolton, Linebacker, University of Missouri. The Saints are looking
to move into the post-Drew Brees era and are facing a considerable amount of uncertainty.
They are in need of an influx of young talent as they are in a very tight cap situation, and they
choose to grab Bolton. The Missouri product is a mature prospect who will easily be able toearn snaps for Sean Payton’s defense. The Saints do not have too many holes on either side of
the ball, with the real question coming into this year being the future of the quarterback
position for the Saints.
Nelson: Christian Barmore, Defensive Tackle, Alabama. The Saints lost Sheldon
Rankins in free agency as a result of their insane credit card bill. Barmore is the best tackle in
the draft and is great value at the end of the first.
29.Green Bay Packers
Donovan: Elijah Moore, Wide Receiver, University of Mississippi. The Packers
finally give in and give Aaron Rodgers some help. For as long as we can remember, Rodgers
has only had Davante Adams as a dependable option on the outside. Moore will provide some
immediate help to jumpstart an already very productive offense returning Rodgers, Adams,
and running back Aaron Jones. While this might not put to rest rumors of Rodgers leaving
his longtime home, Moore is a productive receiver who will give Rodgers some separation he
desperately wants.
Nelson: Greg Newsome II, Cornerback, Northwestern. Poor Aaron Rodgers. First,
they drafted Jordan Love in the first, now they go corner. Newsome is too good to pass up at
this point. They need to go receiver in the second round, however.
30.Buffalo Bills
Donovan: Travis Etienne, Running Back, Clemson. The Bills ran out Devin Singletary
and Zack Moss to pair with Josh Allen last season, and they performed adequately. Running
back might not be a particular need, but the Bills take Etienne to give a new dimension to
their offense. Bringing more of an all-around punch is a privilege Buffalo can afford because
of their success last year, and Etienne certainly will provide just that. Etienne was at times the
best player on Clemson’s football team over the last few years and might be one of the most
slept-on players in this year’s draft. Buffalo might be getting a gem here.
Nelson: Javonte Williams, Running Back, University of North Carolina. The Bills
are rumored to be in love with Williams. They want to solve their running game problems
with another running back instead of a lineman. Javonte is the second-best back in this class
and if they insist on going RB, this is their guy.
31.Baltimore Ravens (via Kansas City)Donovan: Landon Dickerson, Center, Alabama. In the pick acquired in the Orlando
Brown trade, the Ravens choose to take care of their offensive line. Dickerson is an
experienced product from Alabama who could start at guard or center for the Ravens. After
recently drafting Alabama center Bradley Bozeman, the Ravens go back to the Alabama
offensive line factory and grab a player specializing in run blocking, having opened up many
lanes for fellow first-rounder Najee Harris over the last few seasons.
Nelson: Sam Cosmi, Offensive Tackle, Texas. The Ravens traded Orlando Brown to the
Chiefs which means they will need a replacement. Cosmi is raw, but if he can develop the
technique, he will be a good tackle.
32.Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Donovan: Zaven Collins, Linebacker, University of Tulsa. The Bucs grab an edge
rusher with the last pick of the first round in Collins. Collins might be a bit of a project as he
wasn’t very known coming into this season and has not gone up against the elite competition,
but his recent production is undeniable. Adding another versatile player, the Bucs defense
will get even more formidable with the addition of a tackling machine who is capable of
wreaking havoc in the backfield, especially after developing behind Jason Pierre-Paul and
Shaq Barrett.
Nelson: Caleb Farley, Cornerback, Virginia Tech. The Buccaneers have the luxury of
taking risks and Farley is one of the bigger ones. Their corners are not impressive and Farley
would be an immediate upgrade who could end up being the best corner drafted if healthy.
Photo courtesy of TigerNet.com(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Men’s Golf Goes Out on Top
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/ucsd-mens-golf-goes-out-on-top/) Wesley Xiao
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
Last week, the UC San Diego men’s golf team took part in the St. Mark Invitational
Tournament for their fifth and final outing of the season. The UCSD Tritons won the
tournament, emerging in first place out of the three-team field that also included California
State University, Northridge and UC Riverside. This was UCSD’s first win of the season and
their first-ever NCAA Division I tournament championship.
UCSD held onto first place throughout all three rounds of the 54-hole tournament. After the
first day of play, the Tritons had scored 565–275 in round one and 290 in round two — which
was good enough for three under par. Senior Ryan Vaughan and freshman Jerry Wu hit
below 70 in the first round, scoring 66 and 67, respectively. After the tournament, head coach
Fred Hanover said, “We got off to a tremendous start. We had our best score in the first
round of this tournament and by far the best score of the season.” In the second round, the
Triton’s performance dipped, with every player hitting in the 70s. Despite the lapse, UCSD
was still able to hold onto first place.
The slow play in the second round seems to have rolled over into round three, but UCSD was
able to return to form and hold onto the win. Hanover acknowledged the team’s day two
struggles but praised their ability to bounce back, saying, “We got off to a terrible start [in the
third round]. All year we’ve talked about overcoming adversity and showing character when
things go bad, and I was so proud when they held it together on the back nine … [they]
showed a lot of perseverance and played very well down the stretch.” The Tritons ended the
tournament with a score of 857, five under par.
Senior Ryan Vaughan and junior Jared Gross tied for second place, with scores of 211.
Hanover was effusive with his praise for Vaughan and Gross, saying “They played
spectacularly well, especially in the first round. They overcame some adversity in the next two
rounds and hung in there. They both played very well on the back nine [on day two].” The
second-place finish was the best tournament performance of both Vaughan’s and Gross’
careers. Fellow freshmen Jerry Wu and Davis Lee also found themselves at the top of the
rankings, as the two tied for fourth place, with scores of 213 each.
The St. Mark Invitational marked the end of the UCSD men’s golf season. The team hopes to
take their late-season success and roll it over to next year. As Hanover put it, “[The team] and
I are very excited to have our first Division I tournament win. Hopefully, it is the first of
many.”
Photo courtesy of Scott Flanders / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Men’s Volleyball Shocks Undefeated No. 1 Hawaii in Big West
Tourney Before Falling in Finals to UCSB
 April 25, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/25/mens-volleyball-shocks-undefeated-no-1-hawaii-in-big-west-
tourney-before-falling-in-finals-to-ucsb/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
Entering the Big West men’s volleyball tournament last weekend, the fourth-seeded UC San
Diego Tritons were just 3–12, were on a 5-game losing streak, and had never won a
postseason game in either Division I or Division II. Meanwhile, the top-seed University of
Hawaii Rainbow Warriors were a perfect 15–0 on the season, ranked No. 1 in the country,
and were the last team to win the conference tournament.
But when the Tritons met the Warriors in the semifinals in Honolulu, it would be UCSD that
got the upper hand, defeating the nation’s top team in a thrilling five-set upset, 22–25, 25–
23, 16–25, 25–23, 18–16. With the win, the Tritons advanced to the conference finals against
No. 3 UC Santa Barbara, and while UCSD came inches from taking a two-set lead, the
Gauchos outlasted them to win the conference championship, 22–25, 27–25, 25–21, 25–20.
UCSD advanced to the semifinals after a four-set victory over the California State University,
Northridge Matadors on Thursday, April 22. The Matadors won a close first set, 25–20, with
a couple of well-timed runs, but UCSD tied the match up with a second-set win, 25–23. In the
third set, the Tritons went on a 14–3 run early on to take a commanding lead and held on to
win the set 25–16. In set four, both teams had big runs, and while the Matadors came close to
an equalizer leading 23–21, 4 consecutive UCSD points won the set and match to put them
through to the next round.
Senior outside hitter Kyle McCauley, just named to his second All-Big West First Team, led
the Tritons against Northridge with 18 kills, while junior libero Matt Palma had a career-high
14 digs. The match also marked the return of senior outside hitter Wyatt Harrison, who had
been out with an injury for almost two months. The win against Northridge was the Tritons’
first-ever playoff victory in Division I — their previous two Big West tournaments produced
only a pair of first-round losses to UC Irvine — and set up a matchup the next day with top-
ranked Hawaii.
Entering the semifinal, the Tritons had lost to the Rainbow Warriors in every matchup since
2012, including four meetings this season in which the Tritons netted just one set total. In the
first set, both teams traded runs early, but an 8–2 run from Hawaii put them up 18–12. While
the Tritons scored the next four points to bring the deficit to two, including two McCauley
aces, the Warriors would hold on to eke out the set, 25–22.
In the second set, a rash of errors from Hawaii enabled UCSD to get out to a quick 8–3 lead,
and they were able to hold onto that lead by a razor’s edge for the remainder of the set. The
Warriors got within a single point multiple times down the stretch, but they could never tie ortake the lead, and while Hawaii turned away the Tritons’ first two set points, McCauley drilled
a kill to even the match at a set apiece, 25–23.
UCSD kept it close early in the third set, but a four-point run from Hawaii that ended with
three consecutive attack errors from McCauley had the Warriors up 12–6. The Tritons didn’t
get closer than five points away for the rest of the set, and Hawaii coasted to a key third-set
victory, 25–16.
With UCSD needing to win both remaining sets to stay alive, both teams went back and forth
at the beginning of the fourth set until a 6–1 run from Hawaii put the Rainbow Warriors up
15–12. The Tritons responded soon after with a 5–1 run of their own to take the lead, finished
off with an ace from redshirt sophomore outside hitter Ryan Ka. UCSD took a 21–19 lead late
in the set, but Hawaii scored 3 straight kills to take a 22–21 lead. But after a service error on
the next point, McCauley notched an ace and Ka drove home a crucial kill to give UCSD a pair
of set points. The Warriors repelled the first, but Ka nailed the second to send the match to a
winner-take-all fifth set.
That fifth set was perhaps the tightest of the match, as both squads stayed within two points
of each other for almost the entire set. The Tritons scored the first two points, followed by
four straight from Hawaii, and the Rainbow Warriors held a slight lead for most of the set. A
pair of errors from Hawaii’s Colton Cowell tied the game, then gave UCSD the lead, 11–10.
Though the Warriors got the lead back, another pair of Hawaii errors brought the Tritons to
match point, leading 14–13. But Hawaii would score the next two points to bring up a match
point of their own, leading 15–14 and needing to win by two scores.
But just as he had all game long, Ryan Ka came up clutch, scoring two straight kills to prevent
Hawaii from taking the match and giving UCSD a chance to win it, as they led 16–15. The
Warriors tied it back up with a kill, but Ka scored another kill to give UCSD their third match
point. With the game on the line, Hawaii’s Colton had his attack blocked by UCSD freshman
setter Andrew Boyle to hand the Tritons the upset win against the nation’s top team.
McCauley led the Tritons again with 18 kills, followed by 14 from Ka. Junior middle blocker
Shane Benetz, an honorable mention in the All-Big West Team, had a career-high 8 blocks to
lead UCSD. The victory wasn’t a dominant one for the Tritons on the box score — indeed,
they had a lower hitting percentage as well as fewer kills, aces, assists, and digs — but they got
the points they needed at the right times, and that was enough to take down a formidable
Rainbow Warriors squad.“We came in with a little bit of a chip on our shoulder hearing the announcers mention some
things about us, how Hawaii was going to have an easy night,” said junior middle blocker
Logan Clark after the game. “So we came in with a ton of confidence, and we knew we could
win this game, from start to finish.”
“We’ve talked all year about our resilience and the ability to win close sets. When our best was
required, the guys showed up tonight. It was a great team effort,” head coach Kevin Ring said.
“… It’s exciting to get this victory and beat a team of Hawaii’s caliber, and maybe the first
time we’ve knocked off a No. 1-ranked team in the country. But we’re not done.”
That game set up a Big West championship date with third-ranked UCSB, which had also
never before made it to the conference title game. Like Hawaii, Santa Barbara had UCSD’s
number all season — the Gauchos had defeated the Tritons in all five matchups this season,
including three sweeps.
In the first set of the title match, neither team could get the upper hand early, and while
UCSD strung together a 5–1 run to go up 15–12 midway through the set, Santa Barbara
scored the next 3 to tie it up. Still, the Tritons held a slight lead at the end of the set, and kills
from McCauley and Ka delivered the first set to UCSD, 25–22.
The Tritons would also lead for much of the second set, looking to put the Gauchos in a two-
set hole that would be difficult to salvage. Late in the set with the score 20–18, a controversial
call against UCSB gave UCSD a key point, and a block by Benetz on the next play gave UCSD
control of the set, up 22–18. The Gauchos responded with a 5–1 run, ending with a block on
Triton senior opposite hitter Collin Shannon that was originally called out of bounds, but was
reversed upon review to tie the set up at 23. UCSD scored next to bring up a set point, but
they couldn’t convert, and the Gauchos scored 4 of the next 5 points and won the set on a net
violation from McCauley, 27–25.
After a down-to-the-wire second set, UCSB seemed like they had much of the momentum
going into the third, but the Tritons kept it close early on. Down the stretch, though, the
Gauchos proved more able to string together points, and despite a big block from McCauley
and Clark to bring the Tritons within 2, UCSB held onto their slim lead to take the crucial
third set, 25–21.
Looking to finish off the Tritons, the Gauchos scored the first 4 points of the set. Despite
some great defensive play from UCSB, however, the Tritons were able to battle back, with a
5–0 run halfway through the set that ended with a block from Shannon and a wayward shotfrom UCSB to put UCSD up 11–10. It was a tense series of points after that, as the Tritons
sought to equalize the match as they had the night before, and the Gauchos looked to put
away a UCSD team that refused to go away. But with the Tritons up 17–16 after an impressive
dig from Palma, UCSB scored the next 4 to take a 20–17 lead. UCSD narrowed that lead to
22–20, but Santa Barbara finished off the final 3 points of the match to win the set, 25–20,
and the match, earning their first Big West championship and a berth in the upcoming NCAA
tournament.
UCSD was led in kills by Shannon and McCauley with 13, followed by Ka with 12. Shannon
also had a career-high 7 blocks, while Palma once again tied his career high with 14 digs.
While the Tritons held an opponent to under .200 hitting for just the second time this season,
they were still outhit by UCSB .190 to .173. UCSD also had a season-high 23 service errors.
Fatigue might have been a factor for UCSD in the loss, as they were playing their third game
in as many nights — the Gauchos, meanwhile, had a first-round bye — and the final ended at
around 1 a.m. Pacific time due to the Hawaiian time difference.
The deep tournament run caps off an unusual, pandemic-shortened season for UCSD men’s
volleyball, in which the Tritons often struggled against a grueling Big West schedule. Still, the
performance of Ring’s squad in the conference tournament, including the upset defeat of
consensus No. 1 Hawaii, shows that the Tritons can very much hang with the best teams in
the country on their best nights.
Photo courtesy of Andrew Lee