(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC San Diego Health Opens Vaccination Super Station Near Petco
Park
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-super-station-near-petco-park/)
Areni Hamparian (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ahampari/)
In partnership with San Diego County and the San Diego Padres, UC San Diego Health established the
“Vaccination Super Station
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/community_epidemiology/dc/2019-nCoV/vaccines/COVID-19-VaxEvents.html)” near Petco Park on Monday, Jan. 11. The site hopes to
accommodate (https://www.nbcsandiego.com/news/local/vaccination-super-station-set-to-open-
near-petco-park-will-vaccinate-5000-health-care-workers-daily/2492593/) the
approximately 500,000 healthcare workers in the region and is set to offer 5000 doses a day to eligible
healthcare workers, such as physicians, nurses and technicians as part of Phase 1A.
Upon arrival at the Super Station, healthcare workers are expected to show proof of their eligibility and
are required to stay in their vehicle. After the vaccine has been administered, there will be a 15 minute
window to ensure no side effects are present in the patient.
The super station comes as a surge of New Year’s cases have overwhelmed hospitals in Southern
California. In some areas, there are dire circumstances where there is zero percent ICU capacity. The
situation in San Diego County is not as adverse comparatively, as hospitals in the area maintain a ten
percent ICU capacity
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/Epidemiology/COVID-
19_Daily_Status_Update.pdf) as of Jan. 17. 
However, San Diego County has also seen a steady rise in the number of coronavirus cases according to
the County’s data
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/Epidemiology/COVID-
19_Daily_Status_Update.pdf). As recently as Jan. 16, 24,842 San Diegans tested positive for COVID-19
on that day alone.
UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep Khosla stated that the united effort of UC San Diego Health, the
County, the Padres and other groups will garner the desired increase in vaccination distribution. 
“Ending this pandemic requires using every tool available, from masking to testing to vaccinations,”
Khosla said. “The expanded effort to vaccinate more people more quickly requires the close
collaboration of multiple partners — UC San Diego Health, the County, the Padres and others. This
partnership’s unique combination of leadership, resources, expertise and logistics will bring optimal
public health results for the benefit of everyone in San Diego County.”
San Diego County Board of Supervisors Chair Nathan Fletcher, who represents both Petco Park and the
UCSD area, said that the opening of the site will benefit local efforts to ramp up vaccinations. 
 “Opening this supersized vaccination site will be an important milestone in the state of California’s
COVID recovery when it opens on Monday,” Fletcher said at a board meeting
(https://www.kpbs.org/news/2021/jan/12/coronavirus-san-diego-live-updates-covid-19/)  on Jan. 11.
“With UC San Diego Health assisting this new regional partnership, we will get vaccines into the arms
of healthcare workers much faster.”The distribution phases are guidelines set by the CDC to help determine who is eligible to receive the
COVID-19 vaccination. While the concept of these phases have been implemented nationwide,
California and other states have released different guidance based on the their state’s needs. The
qualifying criteria for California is regularly modified and updated by the California Department of
Public Health (https://covid19.ca.gov/vaccines/#COVID-19-vaccines-are-here). 
The next in line to receive the vaccine will be those under Phase 1B-Tier 1, which includes patients age
75 and older, as well as workers  in education, childcare, emergency services, food and agriculture. The
following Phase IB-Tier 2 includes patients ages 65-74 as well as those in specific occupations, along
with homeless and incarcerated populations. 
Colin, a UCSD freshman student from Muir College and healthcare worker, discussed his experience
with getting vaccinated. He did not provide his full name to the UCSD Guardian. 
“I felt only soreness in the arm and the vaccine shot itself was less [painful] than the flu [shot],” Colin
said. “However, with Pfizer and Moderna, you still need to [take precautions] as the first shot will only
give you half the immunity, while the booster shot which is scheduled 28 days later will give you the full
coverage. If given the chance, everybody should get [the vaccine] as soon as possible so that we can
return to a more normal environment.”
UCSD Health encourages healthcare workers to first contact their healthcare providers to request the
vaccines, but if none are available, they should make an appointment for the County’s COVID-19
Vaccine Super Station. If you are a senior who is 65 and over with underlying health conditions, please
visit your local healthcare provider to schedule an appointment for the vaccine at another location.
UCSD students are encouraged to sign up on My Chart
(https://mystudentchart.ucsd.edu/shs/Authentication/Login)in preparation for future vaccine
administration to students. There is currently no specific timeline for when college students can receive
vaccinations. 
Picture courtesy of UC San Diego News Center (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Guardian Editorial Board: On Prof. Fletcher’s Comments and College Republicans at
UCSD’s Calls for His Suspension
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/ucsd-guardian-editorial-board-prof-fletchers-comments-and-college-republicans-suspension-firing/) UCSD Guardian
Editorial Board (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/editorialboard/)
The opinions expressed in this article are those of the editorial board and do not necessarily represent the sentiments of each individual
member of The UCSD Guardian. We encourage other individuals and organizations on campus to sign this statement as well. Any
responses with competing viewpoints, either from within the paper or from other groups, are welcome.
The events at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, namely the violence incited by the president against the country he is sworn to protect, are beyond
unconscionable. The president’s repeated refusal to unequivocally condemn white nationalist and right-wing extremist groups has only
emboldened their presence within the Republican party. While some Republican members of Congress have firmly opposed this connection,
others were not only supportive but helped the president incite the seditious attack on the Capitol.
It is with these events in mind that we respond to the comments of UC San Diego Professor in Practice Nathan Fletcher from Jan. 13 and the
consequent call by the College Republicans at UCSD for Prof. Fletcher to be suspended or fired for these comments. It is our position that
Prof. Fletcher should apologize, but not be suspended or fired, for these comments. We will discuss the comments and our reasoning below.
As a key figure in the Democratic Party in California and as an elected representative of San Diego County, Prof. Fletcher spoke at a
Democratic Party virtual event, along with other prominent Democratic elected officials. During this event, Prof. Fletcher denounced white
supremacists and neo-Nazis unequivocally, a position that The UCSD Guardian fully supports.However, Prof. Fletcher continued, connecting these groups to the recall effort that is growing in California against Governor Gavin Newsom,
an effort being joined by Republican office holders (https://www.ocregister.com/2021/01/15/orange-county-republicans-help-drive-recall-
effort-against-gov-newsom/) across California that has garnered more than one million signatures. Here are his comments along with a video
of his statement (https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=105&v=qyfhl9SLAjI&feature=youtu.be).  
“The recall efforts led by Pro-Trump extremists seeks to undermine the Democratic process across our state. There is substantial evidence
that those who are leading this recall effort are linked and associated with Neo Nazis, with white supremacists, with right wing militia
groups, and we can’t stand for this.”
These comments are problematic in our eyes. In speaking of undermining the Democratic process, Prof. Fletcher was referring to the recall
election efforts against Gov. Newsom, which are efforts protected by California’s State Constitution under Article II
(https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/recalls#:~:text=Article%20II%20of%20the%20California,State%20Supreme%20Court%20from%20office.) . 
In his statement, Prof. Fletcher says the connection of the violent racist and anti-Semitic elements to this recall movement is backed by
“substantial evidence.” At this point in time, this evidence is not clear. Other speakers at the virtual Democratic Party event Prof. Fletcher
attended made similar claims. In their rebuke (https://www.latimes.com/opinion/story/2021-01-14/editorial-recall-is-not-a-coup-and-
certainly-no-joke) of these statements, The Los Angeles Times editorial board said this: 
“Speakers echoed this message by condemning the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week and hinting that the same forces rioting in
Washington are behind the recall. Those are alarming allegations, but they were not followed up with a single shred of evidence to back
them up.”
We feel that Prof. Fletcher’s comments, coming without evidence, create a damaging and othering generalization connecting California
Republicans with white supremacists and neo-Nazis that harkens to the damaging association GOP politicians make between Antifa and the
peaceful protests of the Black Lives Matter movement and other liberal groups. We feel that the hyper-partisan efforts of Prof. Fletcher, and
the CA Democratic Party he represents, to connect extremist elements of the GOP to the recall are disingenuous.
This sentiment is shared by the College Republicans at UCSD, though we believe the intended remedy they propose goes too far. 
The College Republicans at UCSD put out a statement
(https://www.facebook.com/CollegeRepublicansAtUCSD/photos/a.437837693048464/1723842124448008/) urging Chancellor Pradeep
Khosla to “either suspend or terminate” Prof. Fletcher. 
“After the horrific attack on the U.S. Capitol last week, Professor Fletcher chose to reignite the flames of division by labeling opponents of
his politics – many of whom are UC San Diego students – as being associated with neo-nazis and white supremacist groups. Many of our
club members, including myself, who are Jewish or of Jewish descent are deeply hurt by this accusation. By comparing the supporters of a
democratic process to neo-nazis, he has undermined the gravity of the Holocaust and has insulted Jewish-Americans nationwide.
Further, Professor Fletcher’s comments have smeared the reputation of Republican and Conservative-leaning students by associating
them with hate groups. In Professor Fletcher’s words, by simply exercising the constitutional right of the recall processes, you have
associated yourself with neo-nazis and white supremacists. This association is dangerous and smears the reputations of students who use
the democratic process to promote change in governance.
UC San Diego’s principles of community uphold the right to maintain a climate of justice marked by mutual respect while fostering an
understanding and tolerance among individuals and groups. Professor Fletcher’s words strike against the core of these principles that
make all Tritons safe and are simply unbecoming of a UC San Diego Professor. As such, we believe that Professor Fletcher’s actions require
discipline.”
We understand the merits of the position taken by the College Republicans at UCSD. We do not agree with Prof. Fletcher’s general association
of the events at the Capitol to the California recall efforts, primarily due to a lack of evidence to this point and due to its hyper-partisan
tarnishing of a group that is not primarily composed of violent extremists.
The UCSD Guardian is sympathetic to the damage that these comments could do to UCSD students, especially the conservative Jewish
students who could be taking his courses. These students, along with other Republican students, are protected under the UCSD principles of
community (https://ucsd.edu/about/principles.html), which calls for “a climate of justice marked by mutual respect for each other” along
with “the right to freedom of expression.”As stated by the College Republicans at UCSD, we feel that Prof. Fletcher’s comments have abridged these protections for some students, and
that this should not be tolerated.
As a Professor of Practice, Prof. Fletcher is in a difficult position, balancing the duties of his office as County Supervisor with his duties as a
professor. While his comments served the Democratic Party, they were not permissible conduct for a professor at UCSD, and for this he
should apologize and make clear that his comments were an overgeneralization that could damage the ability for Republican students to have
their views treated in good faith at UCSD. He should state that students of any political ideology have the right to live and learn at UCSD,
regardless of his own beliefs.
However, we also do not agree with the College Republicans at UCSD in their call for Prof. Fletcher to be suspended or terminated for these
comments. 
Especially at a time when there is a national debate over the restriction of right-wing political speech, we feel it does not serve the best
interests of the university nor of College Republicans to call for Prof. Fletcher’s firing. Campus conservatives should be more than aware of the
importance of freedom of speech at UCSD; the potential precedent set by the dismissal of Prof. Fletcher for what amounts to an unsavory
political move may damage campus free speech in the future, especially for the conservative community that is a minority on most UC
campuses. While Prof. Fletcher’s statement necessitates an apology, to say it rises to the level of dismissal creates a dangerously low bar that
could harm ideological minorities on campus in the future.
We feel that Prof. Fletcher should apologize to students for this generalization, but do not feel that these comments are grounds for
suspension or dismissal. We believe that an apology of this nature should alleviate the concerns outlined by the College Republicans at UCSD. 
But while College Republicans might be correct in their denunciation of Prof. Fletcher’s comments, they have shown a lack of consistency in
their own official statements since the election. They have rightly condemned the violence at the Capitol, but their statement ignores the fact
that the attacks on our democracy also came from Republican lawmakers inside of Congress. 
And while we support many of the claims of the College Republicans in their statement about Prof. Fletcher, they have not made a statement
since the election in opposition to months of unfounded conspiracy theories about election fraud coming from the president, several senators,
and dozens of representatives. We understand why members of the College Republicans, especially Jewish and other minority members, are
concerned with Prof. Fletcher linking them to white supremacists, but we hope they are equally concerned about President Donald Trump’s
repeated waffling when asked to denounce white supremacists and right-wing extremists, as he displayed prior to the 2020 election, after the
Charlottesville protests, and just last week at the Capitol. 
We feel this lack of consistency truly damages the very principles of community College Republicans at UCSD rightly hold Prof. Fletcher to in
their statement. With this in mind, we urge Prof. Fletcher to apologize for his comments and for the College Republicans to reconsider their
call to fire Prof. Fletcher for his statements. We hope that this incident can serve to illuminate the importance of mutual respect and
consideration at UCSD.
We encourage any individuals or organizations on campus at UCSD to sign on to this statement from The UCSD Guardian, to ensure the
voices of as many students as possible are heard by the university regarding this issue. 
UCSD Guardian Editorial Board Members
Jahfreen Alam – Editor-in-Chief
Jack Trent Dorfman – Managing Editor
Andrew Ha and Troy Tuquero – News Editors
Zara Irshad – Opinion Editor
Nelson Espinal – Features Editor
Additional Signees (will be edited as more signatures are added)Praveen Nair – Sports Editor
Sophia Nguyen – Chief Copy Editor
Sparky Mitra – Contributing Writer
Hanaa Moosavi — Staff Writer(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Constant Connectivity in the COVID-19 Era Proves Toxic,
Harmful to Health
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/constant-connectivity-in-the-covid-19-era-proves-toxic-
harmful-to-health/) Marcella Barneclo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/mbarneclo/)
I used to avoid checking my average daily screen time. A part of me preferred to stay in a
bubble of ignorance and refuse to acknowledge the frighteningly large spike in hours I spent
looking at a screen due to quarantine and the shift to the online world that boosted my digital
presence. However, it is important to be aware of our habits relating to technology because
our reliance and addiction to these devices has led to constant connectivity. Essentially, this
unhealthy behavior of consistently maintaining a digital presence comes with harrowing side
effects, including damage to the brain as well as mental health.  
Over the years, studies have proven
(https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00605/full)  that constant
connectivity harms brain functionality, directly contributing to the downfall of users’
attention spans and ability to focus during important tasks. Simultaneously, these devices,
particularly smartphones, also create a startling addiction by providing quick emotional
gratification through dopamine hits in the brain. 
Despite these drawbacks, constant connectivity remains extremely difficult to prevent,
especially with the recent Coronavirus pandemic. A survey conducted in 2019
(https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/fact-sheet/mobile/) reported that 81 percent of
Americans own smartphones and 75 percent own a desktop or laptop. In recent months, it is
highly likely that these percentages have significantly increased due to recent buying trends
(https://www.cnbc.com/2020/04/19/coronavirus-what-americans-are-buying-online-while-
in-quarantine.html) during the COVID-19 pandemic that indicated a surge in the sale of
electronic devices. In addition, the majority of workplaces and schools have transitioned
online, encouraging people to work from laptops, computers, and various electronic devices.
 This recent switch to an entirely online world plays a key role in keeping people plugged in
for highly unreasonable amounts of time. Based on my personal experiences with online
classes, it is now common to receive Canvas notifications, emails, Piazza announcements,
Discord notifications from class servers, etc. at all hours of the day. This very quickly becomes
overwhelming and stress-inducing, making it easier to feel burnt out due to a constant
bombardment of school-related material and what seems like very little time for relaxation,
which is not an uncommon experience. 
“According to my phone, I get 200+ notifications, combined from Canvas, emails, Piazza,
class- and organization-related Discords, and lab-related Slack groups, a day,” Sixth College
sophomore Chris Cha said. “The amount of notifications makes it so that I am constantly
engaged with work, and I don’t really get a break ever.”For both professors and students, this constant electronic connection is difficult to escape
from guilt-free because it feels both obligatory and necessary to maintain, given the
circumstances of online school and the pressure to not miss out on important information or
questions. In reality, this lack of crucial periods of disconnect harms both parties and upholds
an unrealistic expectation to always be available.
Even during non-school or work-related activities and conversations, constant connection
can come across as harmful due to a lack of personal boundaries. As opposed to earlier times
when phone calls and emails were the simplest digital ways to get in touch, we now have
countless applications and devices that contribute to the toxicity of 24/7 reachability. Many
apps, including Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook, Discord, GroupMe, and Canvas, all offer
some form of direct messaging and the ability to share anything from anywhere. With these
apps comes an intense social pressure to stay connected and relevant even if it clashes with
up-keeping mental health. This pressure also makes it difficult to turn off our devices and
completely disconnect. We are so focused on having a digital presence that the simple acts of
not responding to text messages for hours at a time or leaving someone’s messages unopened
are now commonly looked at as signs of distress. We have all become so accustomed to
instant responses that a lack of them is enough to be worrisome.
It is understandable why online communication has skyrocketed during this period of
isolation. On a personal level, having a variety of ways to converse and reach out can make us
feel connected to our community, which is not necessarily a bad thing. However, when the
nonstop communication becomes overwhelming and responding feels more like a duty as
opposed to a comfort is where we should learn to draw the line. The healthiest suggestion I
can make in order to avoid this is to create reasonable boundaries and prioritize personal
mental health over the expectations of others. For example, I recently made the choice to
delete Instagram, as it was monopolizing my time while simultaneously harming my mental
health. I left Snapchat and texting open and available as a means of communication and, in a
healthier manner, I occasionally began checking Instagram on a browser around once every
other month when it felt right for me, so that I no longer felt the social pressure of having an
obligatory online presence.  
Of course, this method of deletion is harder to use in cases that involve school or work.
However, it is still reasonable and possible to create boundaries, such as consolidating certain
devices for personal use and work use, making sure that the two do not overlap. This can look
like the following: deleting the mail app from a smartphone and only checking emails on alaptop or computer, checking Canvas only on a device used for work or school, or texting only
from a phone. Overall, the most important thing is to practice healthy habits that will
prioritize and uplift mental health. 
With the continuation of online school and work, it is impossible to ignore the reality that
many of us now spend a large portion of our day on or around digital devices. Whether we
like it or not, our situations are most likely going to remain the same for a fair amount of
time, so it is important to summon your courage and check your screen time. In the end, do
not be afraid to reflect on your mental health and implement changes that work for you. 
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego Guardian. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Anti-Abortionist Stances Fail to Advocate for Preventative Resources, Must Reconstruct
Priorities
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/anti-abortionist-stances-fail-to-advocate-for-preventative-resources-must-reconstruct-priorities/) Guardian Sta 
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/editorucsdguardian-org/)
When individuals walk up to Planned Parenthood, they must make a decision that is rarely easy to come to. They’re approached by activists
who are dedicated to preventing them from entering the building, begging them to reconsider what might be best for them regarding their
pregnancy; that’s a decent portion of what anti-abortionists delegate their efforts to. Anti-abortionists base their rhetoric on the limiting and
prevention of legal availbailty to abortions. (https://www.collinsdictionary.com/us/dictionary/english/anti-abortionist)More specifically,
those who oppose abortions to the capcity in which they band together with the purpose of advocating against it assert that their goal is to
make abortions “illegal and unthinkable.” (https://www.npr.org/2020/10/27/927862869/a-world-without-legal-abortion-how-activists-
envision-a-post-roe-nation) While anti-abortionists actively stand in favor of the increasingly difficult regulations placed on abortions,  which
have proven to make accessibility to abortions harder in some states,  (https://www.kff.org/womens-health-policy/state-indicator/state-
policies-protecting-or-restricting-legal-status-of-abortion/?
currentTimeframe=0&sortModel=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D)  there is another avenue the anti-
abortionists can take that truly could make the likelihood of abortion less considerable within America: promoting the increase of resources
that would lower the rate of unintended pregnancies rather than waiting to commence their advocacy until after individuals are pregnant. 
The rate of unintended pregnancies is not staggeringly high in America, but it is higher than other high-resource countries
(https://www.guttmacher.org/fact-sheet/unintended-pregnancy-united-
states#:~:text=In%20other%20words%2C%20nearly%205,the%20United%20States%20were%20unintended.) . Nearly half of abortions
within the United States are induced due to an uninteded pregnancy. There are two main areas in which anti-abortionists could redirect their
activism and efforts: the improvement and implementation of comprehensive sexual education and increased accessibility to contraceptives.As a disclaimer, there is no way to ensure the definitive end of unintended pregnancies;  however, if prioritized, the decrease of unintended
pregnancies could result in less desire for abortion.  
First area of advocacy: pushing each state to have improved, comprehensive sexual education courses for high school and college students.
Sexual education needs to be reflective of all the nuances that accompany sexual relations: the emotional, physiological, and psychosocial
aspects, cultural and economic differences, and student sexual orientation. When in place, these programs allow for students to be aware of the
peril of risky sexual behaviors; they have also been linked to lower rates of teen pregnancy. (https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-
guidance/committee-opinion/articles/2016/11/comprehensive-sexuality-
education#:~:text=Studies%20have%20demonstrated%20that%20comprehensive,transmitted%20infections%2C%20and%20adolescent%20preg
In California, for example, the teen pregnancy rate was exceptionally high in the 1990s, yet policy changes and increased efforts to improve
secondary school’s sexual education courses resulted in a lower pregnancy rate by 2005.
(https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/pubs/gpr/13/2/gpr130218.pdf)  While California is known to be a more liberal state,
even so, it took years after the reconstruction of the sexual education programs for the state to enforce mandated sex ed. in schools.
(https://nursing.usc.edu/blog/americas-sex-education/) More conservative states could present a new challenge in terms of changing schools’
sexual education curriculum. Discouragingly enough, only 17 of the  50 states require sexual education be medically accurate and only nine
require that instruction is appropriate for the students racial, ethinic, and cultural background.  (https://www.guttmacher.org/state-
policy/explore/sex-and-hiv-education#)
If anti-abortion activists used their efforts to call for sexual education reform, they would be benefiting many adolescents by enabling them to
make safer choices regarding their sexual behaviors. Alteration to policy takes time, and if the anti-abortionists began using their voice to call
for change, it would amplify the importance of these modifications and possibly encourage governors and legislators to amend curriculum. 
The second area anti-abortionists should be dedicating time to is in calling for increased accessibility to contraceptives. Anti-abortionists
usually exalt “life begins at conception,” leading them to strongly disparage the usage of IUDs; the problem being that IUDs have been believed
to be abortifacients (https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2014/03/heres-why-hobby-lobby-thinks-iuds-are-like-abortions/284382/).
However, there are other contraceptive options that very evidently prevent sperm cells from being able to meet egg cells. Not all anti-
abortionists are against contraceptives, in fact, some pro-life clinics will provide them
(https://world.wng.org/2020/07/pro_lifers_swallow_the_pill). Yet, there are still a decent amount of anti-abortionists that assert that their
religious beliefs do not align with sexual relations that occur outside of wedlock and continue to urge abstinence. 
(https://world.wng.org/2020/07/pro_lifers_swallow_the_pill)
While everyone is entitled to their beliefs, if your call is to prevent abortions to such a degree to which you protest outside of planned
parenthoods, the understanding needs to be that pleading abstinence is not going to resonate with everyone. What does have the potential to
stop abortions is stopping pregnancy through the use of contraception. Waiting until women are pregnant and trying to talk them out of
abortion forces them to completely ignore your pleas. Strangers approaching you as you are about to make a monumental decision and telling
you not to do something without ever having an understanding of your life situation can appear less-than convincing. 
What anti-abortionists can do to meet people in the middle is to supply contraceptives and explain to individuals that while they are supplying
contraceptives, they do not support sexual activity outside of wedlock. Telling people you do not encourage sexual relations, but still providing
them contraceptives leaves the decision making to the invidual. You did not explicitly encourage their behaviors, you simply told them your
stance and gave them the means to be safe in the chance they need to use it. In reality, anti-abortionists cannot make any decisions for anyone,
but if they want to prevent abortions, this is one way they can try to.
There are many ways to attempt to prevent unintended pregnancies. The ones listed above are simply two facets of the equation that would
most directly affect the chances of pregnancy. Whether or not someone feels prepared to enter parenthood is highly variable depending on
their life situation, and it is more beneficial to prevent pregnancies than try to fight abortion. If anti-abortionists expand their efforts by
directly working to decrease unintended pregnancies, they would be meeting their goal. 
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Let’s Talk About It — Olivia Rodrigo’s “Driver’s License”
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/lets-talk-about-it-olivia-rodrigos-drivers-license/) Erin
Chun (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/erin/)
Oliva Rodrigo made music history with her single “Driver’s License” — let’s talk about it.On Jan. 7, 2021, 17-year-old Olivia Rodrigo released her debut single “Driver’s License” and
was immediately met with unprecedented, shocking success. Her single smashed Spotify’s
records for the most streamed non-holiday song in a day, peaking at 17.1 million streams on
January 12. This is just shy of Mariah Carey’s 17.2 million one-day streaming record for her
iconic Christmas song “All I want for Christmas Is You.” Hailed by Rolling Stone as an early
“song of the year,” the debut success of “Driver’s License” is overwhelmingly dominating
Spotify’s global streaming records, surpassing all other radio hits by a definitive landslide; to
put into perspective the insanity of her success, her single streams quadruple the amount of
her nearest competitor, established Puerto Rican artist Bad Bunny, whose track “Dákiti”
reached around four million streams. 
“Driver’s License” has set off a frenzy on social media, where Rodrigo’s song has been the
subject of thousands of TikToks and tweets. Listeners can’t help but to empathize with her
soulful laments about heartbreak, with supporters deeply invested in the personal context
behind the single and speculating its meaning being tied to her co-star and rumoured ex-
boyfriend Joshua Bassett and his current rumored girlfriend Sabrina Carpenter. Regardless
of whether or not the truth of this rumor has basis in reality, Rodrigo has not gone on record
to explicitly confirm nor deny this suspicion. This rumor is more so a testament to the deeply
personal connection that her fans feel towards her as an artist, as her music extends a hand to
listeners past the veil of her artistry and into the heart of its creator. 
Although the burden of representation should not fall upon the shoulders of any one minority
who achieves success, Rodrigo is of Filipino descent, and her achievement should be
acknowledged as a optimistic new era of POC presence in contemporary media. “Driver’s
License” is a refreshingly positive reminder that talented, young women in the entertainment
and music industry are celebrated, seen, and recognized. I patiently await the arrival of her
EP, but until then, I hope we can all collectively support Olivia as she traverses through the
tumultuous terrain that is newfound fame within the framework of a hostile and selective
occupation.
Release Date: Jan. 7, 2021
Image courtesy of Popsugar.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A&E’s 2020 Favorites Rewind
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/aes-2020-favorites-rewind/) Marina Lee
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)
In a-less-than-perfect 2020, the writers at A&E found themselves with much time on their
hands to peruse streaming platforms and indulge in new hobbies. As we move into this new
year, we reflect back on the new films, television series, and video games that made
quarantine bearable.
Show: “Break It All” (Rompan Todo)
The Netflix original documentary series “Break It All” (Rompan todo) chronicles the birth,
growth, and evolution of one of the biggest musical and cultural movements in Latin
America. Beginning in the ‘50s, when the only Rock music available to the public were
Spanish covers of popular English songs, the series brings audiences through the late 20th
century and into the 21st with the rise of reggaeton. “Break It All” draws a clear line between
each decade, allowing viewers to see how each generation influenced the next. The series is
more of a crash course on Latin American rock, with only six episodes lasting between 45 and
55 minutes each. Audiences are introduced to major figures and bands in the movement,
from El Tri’s Álex Lora to Soda Stereo’s Zeta and Charly, through intimate interviews. In
these interviews, viewers are given a glimpse into not only the creative process of so many of
these bands, but also the political and social context from which they emerge. The politics of
the continent play a major role in the development of the genre, as many of the artists lived
through dictatorships or imperialist interventions from other countries. “Break It All” is a
must-watch for any fan of the Rock en español movement, and is a good starting point for
anyone interested in learning more about Latin American pop culture.
— Elías Román, Senior Staff WriterFilm: “First Cow”
Like so many Americans caught between the throes of a global pandemic and an incompetent
government, the protagonists in Kelly Reichardt’s “First Cow” escape to the wilderness and
find comfort in the isolation from society that it offers. Although “First Cow,” is set in the
1820s, the film resembles the chaos of current times.  In the case of Cookie and King Lu —
whose friendship serves as the center of the movie — relief is found in the 19th century
Oregon Territory. 
The film’s main storyline begins when Cookie (John Magaro) abandons the group of fur
trappers that he had been cooking for in order to help King Lu (Orion Lee) escape from
vengeful Russians. Cookie finds King Lu hiding in the woods and offers him blankets and
food. Here, we learn that King Lu had killed someone important to the Russian hunters,
athough the context of the murder as well as much of King Lu’s personal history are left
largely to the imagination. Both are ostracized by the larger society they inhabit: Cookie is
constantly ridiculed by the other fur trappers for his baking hobby while King Lu’s identity as
a Chinese man attracts the attention of racist frontiersmen. Cookie and King Lu form a
seemingly effortless friendship as they bond over their shared identity as outcasts and cohabit
Cookie’s humble cottage in the woods. It is upon the arrival of the first cow of the territory
that Cookie and King Lu attempt to profit off of their instant connection. The cow, who is
named Evie and owned by a wealthy English neighbor, is the most prized commodity in the
territory of frontiersmen who lack even meager luxuries. By secretly milking Evie, the pair are
able to bake and sell Cookie’s signature “oily cakes.” What ensues is a riveting tale of
friendship, capitalistic ventures, and baking.With much of the year spent indoors and away from friends and family, “First Cow” offers the
perfect retreat. Director Kelly Reichardt and cinematographer Christopher Blauvelt embellish
the film with scenes of the lush Pacific Northwest that free quarantiners from the confines of
their living rooms. The most poignant scene of the film is the movie’s ambiguous ending:
Cookie and King Lu are locked in an intimate embrace, sheltering themselves from the tumult
of the outside world. When pandemonium emerges — like a terrorist attack on the nation’s
capital, for example — human decency and connection prevail.
— Sarah Delima, Contributing WriterFilm: “Birds of Prey”
“Birds of Prey” was the incel repellant that comic book film viewers deserved. Between
“Joker” earning only two Oscar wins out of its 11 nominations, and the fresh release of “Birds
of Prey” occurring within the span of less than a week of each other, watching DC films finally
felt safe again. Although heavily criticized for its “surface-level” content and low box office
numbers, it’s worth noting that 1) Comic book films are rarely viewed for their profound
emotional depth and 2) Comic book films with female protagonists elicit a different degree of
judgment, often in the form of New York’s straight bro film critics absolutely itching to tell a
film and its female creative team that they failed to be feminist. These dudes can go back to
marathoning “Fight Club,” “Joker,” and the director’s cut of “Justice League.” I don’t care.
This was a film that raced through sickening villains, breakfast revenge montages, andconfetti stick-ups, all with heavily stylized fonts and neon accents. It had relevant political
engagement, bone-crushing fight scenes, roller derby competitions, and the perfect amount
of explosions. “Birds of Prey” is an assembly of cool women in a film destroying a homicidal
bozo, and it is wonderful. Relative to its genre, “Birds of Prey” ultimately gave audiences a
fast-paced romp with an engaging storyline, distinct characters, and punchy, comic-book
flair.
— Marina Lee, Senior Staff Writer
TV Series: “Normal People”
Hulu’s emmy-nominated series “Normal People” provided the breath of relief I didn’t know I
needed in 2020. “Normal People” tells the all-consuming love story between teenagers
Marianne (Daisy Edgar-Jones) and Connell (Paul Mescal) as they navigate life as young
adults. The show takes place in Ireland where Connell and Marianne first meet when Connell
picks his mother up from her housekeeping job at Marianne’s house. Marianne comes from a
privileged, albeit abusive household while Connell comes from a poor, yet loving family. Their
socio-economic disparity and different socializing behavior lead Connell to be embarrassed
about his relationship with Marianne. As the story unfolds, Marianne and Connell face
countless obstacles such as a close friend’s suicide and a physical abuse incident that bring
them together for occasional one-night stands, but prevent the two from being in a stable andhealthy relationship. Although they get together toward the end of the first season, Marianne
encourages Connell to pursue a job opportunity abroad in New York, leaving viewers
wondering if the pair will stay together after all. 
Different from other shows that dramatize teen romances, “Normal People” humanizes young
love and normalizes the cycle of falling in-and-out of relationships. It also touches on
important issues like Connell’s mental health, Marianne’s eating disorder, and family abuse
that all work together to tell Connell and Marianne’s complicated love story. “Normal People”
is a must-watch for those looking to indulge in a complex, twisted, charming, and most of all,
authentic love story in a time of uncertainty.
— Priscilla Hui, Contributing WriterVideogame: “Valorant”
Around the beginning of March 2020, I moved out of UCSD back to my home in Los Angeles
due to COVID-19, and around that same time, I bought my first gaming PC. Throughout the
entirety of 2020, I downloaded and played several games, although my interest in each only
lasted for a few weeks before they were uninstalled or forgotten in the corner of my desktop.
However, one game still has me going back time and time again — “Valorant.” Released on June 2, 2020 by Riot Games, the same creators behind “League of Legends,”
“Valorant” is a tactical shooter game in which an offensive and defensive team subvert each
other’s agendas to either detonate or prevent the detonation of a bomb before either team can
eliminate one another. After playing this game for over six months now, the aspect that has
kept me engaged for so long is the character depth both in game mechanics and in the world
of “Valorant.” 
One of the things I really enjoy about this game is how each character, or “agent” as they are
called, has a specific kit that allows players to take on specific roles. I also like how Riot
Games adds variation to abilities that would otherwise be the same amongst the kits. For
example, certain agents use an ability called flashes to blind opponents. There are currently
four agents as of January 2021 who use flashes: Yoru, Phoenix, Skye, and Breach. Each one is
completely different from each other in terms of their movement and how they are set off.
This depth in the specific kits of agents then flows into the other areas of strategy, including
the combat, set up, and execution of plays, seeing as different tactics are needed for different
agents. While some might view the specificity of each agent’s skillset as too rigid, I see it as
forcing the player to push the capabilities of the agent to the limit, thinking outside of the
box, and creating smart plays with what is given. 
I greatly appreciate Riot Games’s efforts to set themselves apart in the tactical shooter genre
through memorable characters and voice lines. Similar to  “League of Legends,” “Valorant”
features a diverse cast of colorful characters whose personalities are entertaining to play as
and hear interact with the other agents through short quips in between rounds. There are
dark, brooding agents like Omen and Reyna, stoics like Sova and Sage, cocky agents like
Phoenix and Yoru, and joyful, upbeat characters like Raze and Killjoy. Another aspect of the
agents that elevates the games is the lore behind each character. World-building is another
intriguing aspect of the game as it entrenches its agents into a lore that provides insight as to
which characters are enemies and friends through the use of agent biographies in-game and
the animated cinematic trailers posted on YouTube. 
Overall, “Valorant” makes for a rewarding tactical shooter game that rewards players for their
mastery of the characters and the proper execution of offensive and defensive strategies. The
agents are the highlight of this game, making for unique matches each time. “Valorant”
provided an escape from the chaos of the world in 2020 and allowed me to play with my
friends, while making new ones along the way.
— Hector Arrieta, Senior Staff WriterTV/Anime: “ Haiky ū!! To The Top ”
Four years after season three’s 10-episode-long game with powerhouse school Shiratorizawa
Academy finally comes Haikyū!!’s much-anticipated season four — and the arrival of
Karasuno High’s boys volleyball team to the Spring Interhigh, Japan’s national highschool
volleyball tournament. Titled “Haikyū!! To The Top,” the return of the popular shōnen anime
series is split into two halves, with the first half of episodes airing Jan. 11 and the second half
delayed to Oct. 3, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The first half follows the team’s
preparation for Nationals, with attention to Hinata’s and Kageyama’s development as players,
and their first match at Nationals against Tsubakihara Academy. Victory against Tsubakihara
finds Karasuno matched against the formidable Inarizaki High in a nail-biting battle that
stretches across the remaining half of the season.
“To The Top” sees Haikyū!! at its lowest and highest. Season four marks the series’
introduction of a new series director, chief animation director, and art style. The art style
differs from previous seasons, with characters redesigned to better imitate the style of the
anime’s original manga series. This decision met mixed reception, with the strongest critics
pointing out how the characters appear more child-like and less expressive. Furthermore, a
recurring critique is the season’s poor animation quality, especially within its first half.
Certain scenes lose their fluidity and razor-sharp impact due to off-model characters and
oversimplified action sequences. However, animation improves in quality with the later
Inarizaki game, with critical moments like a set point seeing a revival of the anime’s beloved
detailed close-ups and crisply shot spikes.Yet what draws Haikyū!!’s loyal fans is not its animation but its characters, and “To The Top”
builds upon what the series does best: creating a colorful, memorable cast of realistic and
empathetic characters. The season delivers a refreshing array of new opponents, including
Inarizaki’s Miya twins, who succeed in becoming instant favorites with their snappy humor,
daunting skills, and worthy motivations to defeat our protagonists. On the other hand,
familiar faces like Tanaka and Hinata shine in moments of growth and manage heart-
stopping saves that, with scene-stealing voice actors, continue to make the series well worth
watching.
Despite animation flaws, “To The Top,” like its characters, works hard to grow better and
stronger. Its efforts pay off, and the season ends with an unforgettable showdown of strength
and passion. Just as Karasuno’s team soars to extraordinary new heights, Haikyū!!’s fourth
season proves itself to be a winner in 2020.
— Natalie Tran, Senior Staff Writer
Images as they appear courtesy of: The LA Times, The New York Times, Film at Lincoln
Center, The Verge, NME.com, and Otakukart News.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: Increased Basic Needs Hub Funding, Sun
God Festival Update
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/a-s-council-brief-increased-basic-needs-hub-funding-sun-
god-festival-update/) Niloufar Shahbandi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/n1shahba/)
This edition of the UCSD A.S. Council Brief news update includes the Week 1 and Week 2
meetings.
Week 1
Associated Students held their first council meeting of Winter Quarter 2021 on Wednesday,
Jan. 6, in which they heard public input from the 100% Clean Energy Climate Campaign.
They also discussed a potential program by the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student
Affairs as well as a new Spring Quarter pre-med seminar. 
The meeting started with public comments  from the 100% Clean Energy Climate Campaign,
a student non-profit with chapters at eight UC campuses as well as California State
Universities. The Campaign asked for senators to collaborate with the campaign and said that
they would like to work with A.S. to fulfill their main goal of increasing campus civic
engagement. 
“Our ultimate goal is to see every eligible voter cast a vote, and we’re still a long way from that
goal. In our effort to achieve this goal, we are working on the state and campus level to
institutionalize voting,” one of the presenters said.
The senators then discussed a plan from the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs office to battle
the increase (https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/dashboard/index.html) in the COVID-19
positivity rate of on-campus students, involving more frequent student testing. 
A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran shared that the VCSA office and other UC San Diego
administrators have decided to give additional funding to the Hub Basic Needs Center if more
students get tested weekly.  
“If enough undergraduate students get tested every week, $50 a week will be given to the Hub
for weekly testing compliance. So if everyone on campus gets tested every week there can be
$500,000 given to the Basic Needs Hub,” Giangtran said.
During the reports of senator projects, Revelle Senator Andrew Shen shared that he has been
working with senators Mihir Pandya, Isabella Yin, and Ella McClaren to create a seminar for
pre-med and pre-health students that will focus on verbal communication. This seminar was
approved under the biology department and will be available to enroll in Spring Quarter
2021. The senators are in the final steps of finalizing the curriculum for the seminar. Senators also approved item F1 in an executive session, which allocates a confidential amount
from Mandate Reserves for Fourth Floor Upgrades, which includes the A.S offices.  
Week 2
On Wednesday, Jan. 14, Associated Students held their Week 2 Council Meeting, which
included a special presentation from the Office of Students with Disabilities. The senators
also discussed the virtual plans for Sun God Festival and Horizon Festival as well as acquiring
food resources for international students. 
The meeting started with a special presentation from the Office for Student with Disabilities
from its directors, Joanna Boval and Melissa Williams. They shared details about their
current initiatives within OSD, including giving a presentation to the Board of Regents
regarding disability services across the UC system. 
“We’re really trying to push for an inclusion that looks at universal design and access in all
aspects of campus,” Williams said. “So that might be physical access, that might be electronic
access. And certainly we have a lot of work to do across all campuses regarding additives
towards individuals with disabilities, and so there really needs to be a push at much higher
levels of leadership for these things to create change and to create lasting change.” 
Boval and Williams stated that they would like to emphasize that disabilities are also a form
of diversity and should be included in UCSD’s measures of diversity. 
During the dedicated Reports of Senator Projects portion of the meeting, it was reported by
the out-of-state Senator Abby Rollison that she will be working on a webinar with the
CalFresh team at the Hub as well as with the International Students and Programs Office
(ISPO) to gain food resources for international students at UCSD.
“For international students, CalFresh does not apply, and so ISPO has its own food resources
that it’s going to bring to the table,” Rollison said. 
The vice president of campus affairs, Hannah Kreitman, shared an announcement from A.S.
Concerts and Events regarding the annual Sun God Festival, which will be held virtually this
year.Kreitman explained that this year, instead of one large event, Sun God and Horizon will be
longer and consist of smaller events. 
According to the ASCE announcement
(https://www.facebook.com/ucsdasce/photos/pcb.3788468557841481/3788468404508163/) ,
they will hold a range of virtual events over the Winter and Spring Quarters. 
“Expand Your Horizons Series will feature a range of speakers and acts that will help
showcase relevant social and political topics,” the announcement states. 
ASCE has an Entertainment Survey (https://bit.ly/ascesurvey2021) in which students can
express which events they would like to see in the Winter and Spring Quarters. 
The senators then moved on to pass Item F1, which reallocates $35,000 out of the $65,000
budget from the Winter Quarter Programming for Student Orgs to the funds for Spring
Quarter Programming. The Finance Committee also shared that they will be discussing the
reallocation of Sun God funds this week, due to the event being held online. 
The Legislative committee then approved item L1, which increases transparency in A.S.
hiring procedures.
A.S. Council meetings take place every Wednesday starting at 6 p.m. and are open to the
public. Students can be a part of these meetings by joining with the Zoom link posted on the
A.S. website (https://as.ucsd.edu/Home/OrderOfBusiness?
fbclid=IwAR00sAh8ojGxo0lsExekNGJS4qWwKPrxPr-mGmHksrGvexjYozX74cxkIOI) .
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UC Provides Research Grant to Support Campus Network
Honeybee Research
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/uc-provides-research-grant-to-support-campus-network-
honeybee-research/) Zhuoying Lin (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zhl509/)
The University of California’s Office of the President awarded a three-year, $900,000 grant
for “Strengthening Honey Bee Health and Crop Pollination to Safeguard Food Availability
and Affordability” (http://cesanmateo.ucdavis.edu/index.cfm?
blogpost=45592&blogasset=107918) to support a network of bee researchers from UC
Riverside, UC Davis, UC Merced, and UC San Diego. The researchers have stepped forward to
develop a natural, evolutionary-sustainable way to preserve the health of honey bees.
“The four campuses bring together shared research interests that stem from a remarkable
range in research skills and infrastructure,” said Boris Baer, a professor at UC Riverside and
the co-principal investigator of the project. “We have experience with molecular-focused
approaches from systems biology and chemical ecology. A community ecologist and
evolutionary biologist will broaden the scope of our work to include consequences of stressor
effects. These broad biology skill sets will combine with those of team members with
engineering expertise.”
Based at UC Riverside, the multi-campus network (https://ciber.ucr.edu/mrpi) aims to
achieve four goals: 
1. Measure the effects of biotic and abiotic threats to honey bees to identify the biomarkers of
their health outcomes.2. Collaborate with local beekeepers and pollination-dependent growers to build a strong
research industry.
3. Integrate new insights to develop innovatives technologies that benefit bees assessment
and reduce proposed threats.
4. Offer training and outreach resources to the next generation of students in the use of
science-based solutions for bee health.
Honey bees contribute greatly to the agricultural and natural communities through
pollination, which helps produce future generations of crops. They are the key pollinators in
California, which is the country’s top agricultural state and produces an estimated annual
value of more than $9 billion. Several stressors including diseases, parasites (e.g. varroa), pesticide/chemical exposure,
deficient nutrition as a result of habitual loss, and poor management practices have
facilitated global declines of the honeybee population. This has been a threat to food security
and affordability in the recent decade, and southern-California bee researchers have been
working together to develop new strategies to safeguard the bees. 
Part of the grant will be shared with two UCSD researchers in the Division of Biological
Sciences, professors James Nieh and Joshua Kohn. Professor Nieh’s research has focused on
studying the social and learning behaviors of bees, while Kohn’s work has looked at genetics. 
Nieh and his group (https://labs.biology.ucsd.edu/nieh/) have stated that they will
investigate the factors of pesticide and nutrition. 
“We have done experiments with UCSD undergraduates and Masters students who have
found that when bees are exposed to pesticide, if they have a poor diet, meaning their diet
isn’t very rich in sugar, they actually suffer much more than if they have a good diet,” Nieh
said. 
In the lab, the research group has been supplementally feeding bees clean sugars to enhance
their nutrition intake. Their recent research finds omega fatty acids, nutrients found in fish
and other foods that are known to promote cardiovascular health, can help bees that are
poisoned by pesticides. By analyzing bees’ mortality rates and cognitive abilities such as
learning memory, the lab is interested in knowing whether bees with a diet rich in omega
fatty acids will be more resistant to pesticide. 
Kohn’s lab (https://labs.biology.ucsd.edu/kohn/styled-2/index.html) has done research on
the density of honey bees in southern California, finding that the population of feral honey
bees was one of the highest in the world. Among them are the hybrid Africanized bees which
contain genes from African subspecies of honey bee. 
While Africanized bees tend to have an aggressive trait and are commonly known as the
“killer bee,” Kohn found that they adapt well to stressors with valuable survival traits. 
“Because [Africanized bees] have displaced European honey bees and because these super-
abundant feral populations survive without human assistance that is needed to reduce
diseases now threatening managed European honey bees, their genomes may contain genes
useful for improving managed honey bee stocks,” Kohn said. “We hope to be able to locateareas of the genome that underlie resistance to diseases plaguing managed honey bees and
also those [that] underlie heightened nest defense, since this is an unwanted trait for
managed honey bees.“
With genomic techniques and observations from an apiary at UC Riverside, the lab will study
the offsprings of the managed European honey bees and feral Africanized bees to evaluate
their level of genomic admixture and behavioral changes. 
Other researchers on the UC network include Elina Lastro Niño at UC Davis, Kerry Mauck,
Tsotras Vassilis, and Hyoseung Kim at UC Riverside; and Marilia Gaiarsa at UC Merced.
The project is one of the 15 research projects awarded by the UC’s 2021 Multicampus
Research Programs and Initiatives (MRPI) (https://www.ucop.edu/research-
initiatives/programs/mrpi/2021-awards.html). Undergraduate students who are interested
in learning more about bee research are encouraged to reach out to the network and its
faculty members. 
Photo taken by Jenna Lee for Unsplash(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A New Way of Testing
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/a-new-way-of-testing/) Eunice Kim
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/eunice-kim/)
Instead of having candy bars and other snacks, vending machines around UC San Diego feature
COVID-19 self administered tests as a part of the “new normal.”The threat of the COVID-19 virus settled slowly — like a leaky faucet. COVID-19’s deceptive trickles,
though, ended up filling a bucket of water that overflowed, causing issues not just for a few but for
many. The virus uprooted settled communities and developed into a notorious household name in what
started as another school email alert. 
The process felt like a slow attrition to many — a short upheaval of traditions and then the more long-
lasting adjustment to a “new” normal. Adapting to the pandemic also highlighted a time of immense
scrutiny on understanding the disease — something that meant that previously established measures
evolved into more fleshed out ones. Testing, for one, grew not just to be a last-minute method, but a
necessary safety precaution for anyone to take.
As of Jan. 13, according to the Return to Learn Weekly newsletter
(http://sbo.nn.k12.va.us/returntolearn/), ten blue COVID test vending machines arrived on campus,
with nine more coming soon in locations from Osler Parking Garage to the Jacobs School of
Engineering. 
The vending machines, part of a process that started on Jan. 2, offer current UCSD students, campus
staff, and faculty the opportunity to obtain a test on a weekly basis and self-administer the test
themselves. Further, because there is no appointment or cost involved, testing can be all the more
convenient and accessible. 
In fact, students who study remotely and come onto campus sometimes as well as students who live
around campus can access the vending machines. This is crucial because while students on campus
absolutely must test once a week, visitors too must test themselves before stepping onto campus. 
The process is similar to other self-testing COVID-19 services — inside of the bag, there is a sterile swab
for the nostrils and a test tube. Upon signing into their personal UCSD app, the testee can scan their
test kit. After finishing the swabbing, one can leave the vials at drop boxes next to the vending
machines. Then, within a day or so, results are posted on the MyChart health app. 
In-person testing sites still include the Price Center clinic, Athena Circle, or a drive-thru location
(though these may have limited spaces). 
“The concept of a vending machine with tests is super cool and useful,” Eleanor Roosevelt College
sophomore Sanika Walimbe said. “The ability for anyone to get tested when they want without an
appointment and having to possibly be exposed to more COVID-inducing scenarios is smart. I really
hope they become normal around campus so that rapid testing and public safety can improve.”
In early May, following a time when COVID-19 cases were expanding across the U.S. (though they
hadn’t hit UCSD yet), UCSD enacted the Return to Learn program. The Return to Learn program arose
so that in-person teaching, learning, and more could resume amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, withsafety being the main priority. 
The resumption of in-person appearances came with some limitations regarding the number of people
on campus. These constraints became a necessary part of the compromise to accommodate students
who could not return home or wanted to stay and address campus density problems.
When remote learning commenced in Spring Quarter 2020, Chancellor Khosla addressed density
issues of individuals on campus by encouraging those to leave campus if they were able. Even during
Winter Quarter 2021, density issues remain crucial to confront. According to the Return to Learn
program on the UCSD website (https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/return-to-campus/campus-
plan/index.html), less than 10 percent of the Winter 2021 undergraduate class sections are in-person.
As of now, if classes are in-person, they will be conducted outside. 
The three pillars of the Return to Learn program include transmission-reductive strategies, monitoring
viral activity, and public health interventions. 
The first strategy tackles prevention or reduction methods. After all, amidst investment in tests and
tools that oversee the virus spread, preventative measures did not lessen in importance. This entailed
plentiful encouragement to social distance (which is also why campus density reduced), to wear masks,
and to sanitize one’s hands and common areas. These fall under transmission-reductive strategies as
they reduce the likelihood that one would be infected.
The second strategy focuses on innovation to aid early detection of the COVID-19 virus and observe its
spread as well as accommodate testing for individuals. The vending machines are just one of the newest
installments of this Return to Learn program that combat this. One of the quite striking tools to check
for COVID-19, too, is stool testing through the wastewater detection system. The system checks for the
virus that causes COVID-19 shed in these waters — all before someone develops clinical symptoms.
UCSD checks these systems — of which there are 70 active samplers — every day. Any discovery of a
positive sample encourages those in that area to test immediately or to monitor their own symptoms. 
Public health interventions involve being vigilant about who tests positive, seeing to it that they are
isolated in designated housing, and understanding who has been in contact with them.
Apps like the CA Notify Exposure System, which will not release one’s personal identity or location, lets
the individual of their phone know if they’ve been in contact with someone who tested positive. Around
December, it became available for all Californians, but its roots originated in UCSD.
These measures are crucial and increasingly so because, according to the current California COVID-19
data (https://covid19.ca.gov/state-dashboard/), California has had about three million cases of
COVID-19, resulting in over thirty-two thousand deaths. Based on daily dashboard reports by UCSD (https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/dashboard/index.html)
regarding student testing, since March 2020–around the same time there have been reported positive
cases on campus– there have been 792 cases in total. Currently, for Winter Quarter 2021, there are
7,306 students living on campus, but tests include all enrolled UCSD undergraduate students and
graduate students along with extension students coming to on-campus classes. 
This is still below-average, relative to San Diego county, according to its site monitoring the virus
(https://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/community_epidemiology/dc/2019-
nCoV/status.html), which has a rate of about 6,262 COVID-19 cases per 100,000 tests at this current
time.  
UCSD has strongly adhered to the Swiss Cheese Model
(https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/05/health/coronavirus-swiss-cheese-infection-mackay.html) , a
model that doesn’t see measures like social distancing or washing one’s hands alone as the holy grail.
Rather, these lines of defense must be utilized together to ensure risks of transmission are accounted
for.
According to the American Institute of Physics (https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/5.0029767),
researchers conducted a test on five different material masks with a machine that used an air generator
to imitate the coughs and sneezes of people; the results were that masks do facilitate the blocking of the
particles. However, this is compromised when social distancing of at least six feet is not done. 
Then, the question emerges. Without stringent measures UCSD took on, what could be the set of
potential results for campus life?
A Los Angeles Times article by Colleen Shalby (https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-10-
07/as-californias-universities-reopen-off-campus-activity-contributes-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases)
notes the measures taken on university campuses to safeguard students and the community from
COVID-19, but the problem is seeing student compliance, particularly within the students who live off-
campus and are not bound by the rules.
Perhaps, then, this is indicative not just of the significance of measures but also individuals themselves
taking direct action to be safe and keeping those around them safe. 
The winter quarter is now underway, but COVID-19 continues to prove itself to be quite a commanding
presence. There is strength here. Some individuals see the measures taken to combat COVID-19 as
proof of fear or weakness against authority. But there seems to be a kind of quiet power in being
cautious for oneself and for others. Tools such as the UCSD vending machines are just one of some
stunning reminders of ingenuity out of urgency — actions taken not out of fear, but for a desire for
normalcy and health in the community.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Hosts Independent Media Panel with Investigative
Journalist Amy Goodman
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/a-s-hosts-independent-media-panel-with-investigative-
journalist-amy-goodman/) Lindsey Choo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/tlchoo/)
Prominent investigative reporter and broadcast journalist Amy Goodman was featured at the
“Reimagining our Political Future” event hosted by the UC San Diego Associated Students
Office of External Affairs on Monday, Jan. 11. The panel event was centered around the
importance of independent media and its relation to political accountability.
Amy Goodman is the host and executive producer of “Democracy Now!
(https://www.democracynow.org/),” a national daily independent award-winning news
program airing on over 1400 public television and radio stations worldwide. Goodman is also
a co-author of six New York Times Best-Sellers and is best known for her award-winning
reporting on the East Timor independence movement
(https://www.democracynow.org/1996/12/10/massacre_the_story_of_east_timor) and the
Dakota Access Pipeline protests
(https://www.democracynow.org/2016/9/8/standoff_at_standing_rock_even_attack) . 
The panel was moderated by A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Alisha Saxena and A.S.
National Affairs Director Zoe Coutlakis. During the hour-long panel, Goodman tackled hard-
hitting questions surrounding the Jan. 6 Capitol riot
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/10/a-new-precedent-from-the-presidents-supporters/)
and its comparisons to the June 2020 Black Lives Matter protests, the impact of “fake news”
on democracy, and the importance of grassroots organizing. 
Saxena began the panel with an acknowledgement that UCSD’s campus is built on the
indigenous land of the Kumeyaay Nation.
The panel then kicked off with a discussion on independent media like “Democracy Now!”
and how it differs from the mainstream media that the majority of people consume.
Goodman stressed that how media outlets are funded can change how a story is covered. 
“We’re brought to you by listeners and viewers and readers like you and not like you, all over
the planet, and they contribute,” Goodman said. “When that many people contribute their
five or ten dollars, that makes it possible to bring you independent media. As George
Gerbner, the late dean of the Annenberg School of Communications, used to say, we’re not
brought to you by corporations that have nothing to tell and everything to sell that are raising
our children today.”
Coutlakis then segued into the events of Jan. 6 in Washington, DC, with a question on the
role of corporate media in portraying the Capitol riot and whether that media coverage
signals a more urgent call to action for Americans to transition towards independent media.“Could you imagine if this was Black Lives Matter activists? Do you think anyone would have
trouble calling this domestic terrorism?” Goodman said. “I think we must call this what it is,
when you’re killing people for political reasons, there is no question what took place on Jan.
6, the horror. And I am horrified … that we can only talk about this in the past tense.”
Goodman emphasized white supremacy as the United States’ greatest domestic terror threat.
She further elaborated on how she received word from the Federal Bureau of Investigations,
right before this event, that Trump supporters and right-wing extremists were preparing
attacks in all 50 states on Jan. 20, President-elect Joe Biden’s Inauguration Day. 
The discussion then shifted to the topic of “fake news” and how disinformation has
threatened democracy and democratic institutions. Goodman broke down the topic into two
parts, first acknowledging activists’ work in economic and racial justice, climate crisis and
LGBTQ movements. 
“When a country is going down a very dangerous road, and we are in a dangerous time right
now, make no mistake about it, the hope is the movements. All of these issues really combine
to form a pro-democracy movement, and I think we are seeing something coalesce like we’ve
never seen before. It goes across the political spectrum, [with] Republicans joining with
Greens, joining with Democrats,” Goodman said. 
However, she cautioned against the dangers of biased media and confirmation bias. She also
highlighted the importance of the media’s continuing to ask questions and challenge those in
power as the country moves into the Biden-Harris administration. 
“Right now what we’re seeing in Washington is largely [that] the Republicans have stayed
behind Trump, and they stay in a media universe that doesn’t challenge them,” Goodman
said. “There’s a reason why for so long, essentially, you could call Fox News ‘Trump TV,’ and
he even called it that. Now there is some questioning going on of him, and so he’s rejecting
even that right-wing network. We have to challenge fake news everywhere.”
Saxena then highlighted the crucial role of Black, particularly female, grassroots organizers in
the Georgia Senate runoff that culminated in the Senate flipping blue after Reverend Raphael
Warnock and Jon Ossoff were declared winners on Jan. 6. Subsequently, she asked for
Goodman’s opinion on why grassroots organizing is so powerful and how it can be used to
restore democracy.“Grassroots organizing is the engine of change in this country. It’s who’s making history, and
that’s what ‘Democracy Now!’ documents every single day. It’s critical, I think, because,
especially you as young people in school, to know that you are the engine of change,”
Goodman said. “We need a media that gives voice to, not describes, what you do, but hands
the microphone over so you can speak for yourselves.”
Goodman then said that she believes that those who are concerned about war and peace, the
climate crisis, LGBTQ+ issues, racial and economic justice are not a fringe minority.  
“[They are] not even a silent majority, but the silenced majority. Silenced by the corporate
media, which is why we have to take it back,” Goodman said.
The panel concluded with an audience Q&A and a meet-and-greet opportunity with Goodman
herself. 
The A.S. Office of External Affairs has an upcoming event titled “Indigenous Stewardship &
Environmental Justice: A Conversation with Winona LaDuke”
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSct55uVDLY-
d0H96Kipckj5dCWw77yjg5FnBItC8jqKzjh5Gw/viewform) on Jan. 25 that is open to the
general public. Registered participants will also have a chance to win a copy of one of
LaDuke’s books. Students interested in getting involved in civic engagement can find
resources at Free Expression at UCSD (https://freespeech.ucsd.edu/).
Artwork courtesy of Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Nickelodeon’s NFL Broadcast Was Fun, But Is it the Future?
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/nickelodeons-nfl-broadcast-was-fun-but-is-it-the-future/)
Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
Last week, the NFL tried out one of the most intriguing gimmicks in recent history, airing a
kid-focused broadcast of a first-round playoff game between the Chicago Bears and New
Orleans Saints on Nickelodeon. You may have already seen the highlights: animated slime
cannons (https://youtu.be/_7LH3K20lck) superimposed in the end zone after touchdowns,
Young Sheldon explaining pass interference, a graphic comparing Alvin Kamara to Alvin the
Chipmunk — you get the idea. But it remains to be seen whether these kid-friendly tactics,
among others from the country’s largest sports league, will be enough to attract the next
generation of fans.
Let’s go back to that Nickelodeon NFL game. It was, if I may opine, an unmitigated success.
Sure, it was a gimmick, but then again, three hours of the Bears offense failing to put together
a drive isn’t good television unless there’s a gimmick. 
Commentators Nate Burleson and Ian Eagle constantly explained the action with homework-
associated metaphors, and Gabrielle Nevaeh Green and Lex Lumpkin, stars in Nick’s reboot
of All That , brought a refreshing enthusiasm for the game, even if they weren’t exactly experts
on what was going on. While it would get tiring if every game was like this, the Nick broadcast
offered a brief respite from hot-take driven sports discourse and just let us enjoy how fun the
game really is.
Of course, the broadcast had its downsides. For starters, the nation was treated to Cordarelle
Patterson dropping a clear f-bomb
(https://twitter.com/PatrlckMahomes/status/1348407772724006912) after a referee call,
which has certainly prompted some letters to the FCC. For better or for worse, we got to see
the broadcast crew faced with the task of explaining why Mitch Trubisky, whose offense had
to that point scored three points, had won the Internet fan vote for the Nickelodeon Valuable
Player award. 
And frustratingly for the football fans watching the game, the Nick broadcast cut to the
commentators for the couple minutes after Anthony Miller was ejected for punching CJ
Gardner-Johnson in the face, never explaining what was happening on the field. For as much
fun as the slime cannons provided, we were reminded every once in a while that the NFL isn’t
always a G-rated show.
But the bigger question is whether this broadcast achieved its goal of getting kids to become
NFL fans, and while the data on child viewership isn’t public, it seems like most of the two
million people who tuned in were probably, like myself, curious adult fans who wanted to see
a one-time-only wacky football game. While that demographic certainly seemed to have loved the game, it doesn’t mean kids did.
Not only did the NFL get unlucky, with the Nick broadcast being the most boring game of the
week by a significant margin, but its experiment may lack real staying power. If the spectacle
that this broadcast provided is what attracted kids to football, are they going to enjoy the
game when SpongeBob and the slime cannons are missing?
The Nickelodeon broadcast is just the latest in a long line of marketing attempts the NFL has
made for children. I myself used to play mediocre Flash games on the NFL’s website for kids,
NFL Rush, and the league even produced 65 episodes of a lore-heavy animated TV show,
“NFL Rush Zone,” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NFL_Rush_Zone) from 2010 to 2014. 
NFL marketing also pushes fantasy football in kid-friendly packages, which is slightly more
worrying when you consider that the adult version of those same fantasy games, endlessly
advertised on the same NFL broadcasts that kids watch, are essentially gambling. None of
these tactics seem to have had any long-term success, and the large majority of kids who
become NFL fans probably do so because of friends and family rather than being convinced
by these kinds of marketing campaigns.
It’s understandable that the NFL is desperate for new viewership, however, since the amount
of competition for eyeballs has skyrocketed in the last decade. In 2017, marketing firm Magna
found (https://www.rbr.com/magna-the-aging-audience-for-live-sports/) that the average
age of NFL viewers has now pushed above 50, which is not only bad news for the future of the
sport, but also means that the viewer population is less valuable to advertisers. The NFL is a
brand that is inextricably tied to live television, but live TV viewership among young people is
in a steep decline, with social media, video games, and content platforms like YouTube,
TikTok, and streaming services taking up an increasing piece of the pie.
But the NFL isn’t dying. It still dominates other sports in viewership, with that same Bears-
Saints game pulling 28 million viewers on CBS
(https://finance.yahoo.com/finance/news/bears-saints-most-watched-game-
173246395.html). But, given trends in media consumption, the league just needs to innovate. 
A report from the consulting firm McKinsey
(https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/technology-media-and-telecommunications/our-
insights/we-are-wrong-about-millennial-sports-fans) notes that younger viewers still follow
sports at a high rate, but they just do so through the consumption of highlights and sports-
related social media content. It recommends the streamlining of sports content onto
streaming services, which Amazon’s Prime Video is currently lining up to do, and shorter,more packed viewing sessions, which the NFL already does with its Red Zone whip-around
coverage. With NFL broadcasting contracts all expiring within the next two years, we will
hopefully be entering a new age where it is less prohibitively difficult to watch the NFL action
you want to see, even if it means the network giants take a hit.
Still, even if Nickelodeon stars and cartoon cameos aren’t the real path to younger viewers, it
was fun for just a day to see a laid-back, entertainment-focused NFL broadcast. While there’s
no word yet on whether this will be an annual custom, Nickelodeon and CBS are part of the
same media conglomerate, and the game gave Nick its highest ratings in four years
(https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/12/nfls-playoff-openers-see-solid-ratings-nickelodeon-
draws-2-million-viewers.html), so the incentive certainly exists. While at the end of the day it
was just another marketing ploy, the broadcast gave pro football a one-time touch of whimsy
and wonder that it might normally lack.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Back in Action: Tritons Upset UCSB for Second Win of
Season
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/back-in-action-tritons-upset-ucsb-for-second-win-of-
season/) Wesley Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
The UC San Diego women’s basketball team returned to the hardwood to take on UC Santa
Barbara in a home Saturday afternoon matchup, and in defiance of the odds, the Tritons
upset UCSB, outlasting them in a close 73–71 game that went down to the wire. UCSB was
heavily favored over UCSD; the Big West preseason coaches’ poll had UCSB ranked third in
the conference, while UCSD was in last place at 11th.
UCSB was the first opponent the Tritons have played since Jan. 5, when team activities were
paused because of a positive COVID test within the women’s basketball program. The Tritons
were originally scheduled to play a two-game series on Friday and Saturday against the
Gauchos, but the first matchup of the series was cancelled due to medical concerns over
UCSD’s recent positive test.
Despite not having played a game in almost two weeks, the Tritons showed no sign of rust.
UCSD took a small lead in the first quarter and a strong second quarter allowed them to
extend it to 44–36. But that lead would not be insurmountable. In the third quarter the
Tritons were outscored 9–20. Their shooting percentage dropped from 51.7 percent in the
first half to just 20 percent. UCSD was able to hold onto their lead for most of the quarter but
was overtaken in the final minutes, 56–53.
In the fourth quarter, the Tritons struggled to climb out of their three-point hole. UCSB
stubbornly protected their lead for 9 minutes and 38 seconds of the final ten minutes. But
some late-game heroics helped UCSD ultimately pull ahead. With 37 seconds on the clock,
the Tritons trailed 71–68. Head coach Heidi VanDerveer called a timeout, and substituted
freshman forward Aishah Brown in for redshirt senior forward Layla Ybarra-Harvey. Coming
off the bench, Brown made a key low post jumper, putting the Tritons within striking distance
at 71–70. Two plays later, on a fastbreak, Brown drew a foul, again earning the Tritons points.
She made one of her two free throws, which was good enough to even the score at 71. With
just seconds remaining on the clock, junior guard Brianna Claros fed the ball to senior guard
Tyla Turner in the right low post. Turner knocked down a basket, pulling the Tritons ahead
73–71 for their first lead of the fourth quarter. After UCSB missed a last-second three-pointer
on the other end, the win was official, as UCSD defeated UCSB 73–71.
In the preseason, coach VanDerveer described the trio of junior guard Julia Macabuhay,
Turner, and junior guard Sydney Brown as the “meat and potatoes” of this basketball team.
Macabuhay has yet to make her 2020–2021 season debut; without her, Turner and Brown
have had to become the driving forces of this team. Turner was the star of the game; along
with hitting the last-second winner, she recorded 24 points, 7 rebounds, and 5 assists.Meanwhile, Sydney Brown had a relatively quiet game by her standards. After leading the
team in scoring with 31 points during the Triton’s first win of the season against Cal Poly,
Brown had only 4 points this game, although she did snag 10 rebounds.
UCSD also relied on contributions from some new faces. Freshman Parker Montgomery was
on the court for 27 minutes, fourth highest on the team, and had 14 points, 2 steals, and 1
rebound. Fellow freshman Aishah Brown, though she only played 8 minutes total, had some
key late-game scores.
Junior guard Madison Baxter, who had worked her way into the starting lineup in
Macabuhay’s absence, also did not participate in Saturday’s game. How the team works the
roster and handles their unavailable players will be key as they head into the most difficult
part of their schedule. With the win against UCSB, the Tritons have shown that despite being
ranked last in the conference in the preseason, UCSD can still make some noise in the Big
West. 
Next week, UCSD is set to face off against UC Davis on the road, but it is doubtful whether the
series will actually take place. Due to rising COVID cases in Yolo County, where Davis is
located, professional and collegiate sports have been put on hold per orders from county
public health officials. If the games are to be played, they will take place on Jan. 22 and 23. If
not, UCSD’s next game will be a two-game home series against California State University,
Long Beach the following week.
Photo courtesy of Scott Flanders / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Men’s Basketball Swept in First Two Games of Big
West Play
 January 17, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/ucsd-mens-basketball-swept-in-first-two-games-of-big-
west-play/) Donovan Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
On the road against UC Santa Barbara (8–3, 4–2 Big West) on Jan. 15 and 16, UC San Diego
(2–3, 0–2 Big West) finally reached their long-awaited Big West debut, but the Tritons fell to
the Gauchos in both games of this back-to-back series, 69–52 and 84–53.
The tumult of early season postponements and cancellations for the UCSD men’s basketball
program fortunately did not affect these games, but it has given the majority of other Big
West teams a head start on conference matchups. UCSD, already tasked with making the
jump to Division I competition, faced a tall task playing an experienced UCSB squad.
On Friday, Jan. 15, the first matchup between these squads, the teams began the game on
relatively even footing. UCSB took a 35–30 halftime lead, with both senior forward Hugh
Baxter and freshman guard Bryce Pope leading the Tritons with eight points apiece.
The game would be kept close for the beginning of the second half, with a decisive 6–0 run
coming to increase UCSB’s lead to nine points at the midpoint of the second half. UCSD
would hang around with strong efforts from Pope and junior forward Toni Rocak, but it
would not be enough as UCSB would end up victorious, with a final score of 69–52.
Although UCSD would not come out of their first Big West battle with a victory, there were
some bright spots.
As head coach Eric Olen said to UCSD Athletics following the first game, “I thought that we
played well for stretches and we did some good things, but ultimately they made a few more
plays and we weren’t able to take care of the ball well enough or rebound the ball well enough
to get the result we were looking for.”
In the rematch the following day, the matchup turned out to be much more one-sided. UCSD
would hold the lead for the last time at 4–2 with two minutes having elapsed, but the
Gauchos would jump out to a 24-point lead at halftime.
The second half would only increase the deficit, as UCSB would finish with a resounding 84–
53 victory over the Tritons.  Rocak was one of the few bright spots in this one for UCSD,
coming off the bench to record 16 points on 6/11 shooting to go along with seven rebounds.
This result means it’ll be back to the drawing board for coach Olen, who told UCSD Athletics
his takeaways: “We’ve got to learn from it and hopefully the experience of playing a really
good team like that will make us better going forward, make us more prepared for our nextopponent.”
After a sobering inaugural Big West road trip, UCSD heads home for a back-to-back matchup
with UC Davis Jan. 22 and 23 to again try to capture their first ever victory in conference
play.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics