(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Photo Essay: Crash landed
 March 29, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/29/photo-essay-crash-landed/) Howard Chang
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/howardchang/)
I wanted to take the opportunity of virtual school to find some interesting places to explore in
my home town of Portland, Oregon. I have always been intrigued by the beautiful drone shots
of the mysterious Boeing 727 in the forest. This spring, I had the opportunity to visit. In my
photos I wanted to not only capture the airplane simply as an airplane in the woods, but also
as the unique residence of the owner, Bruce Campbell. He is the one standing in the window
of his home. Bruce explained that his move to live in a plane was initiated by his desire to see
more retired planes transformed into homes for families instead of salvaged for scraps. In an
era where people all around the world are becoming more conscious about preserving the
environment, Bruce offers a unique perspective through which people can do their part in
protecting our nature.
(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Photo Essay: Local favorite – RIMAC Vaccination Station
 April 1, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/01/photo-essay-local-favorite-rimac-vaccination-station/) 
Jennifer Rodriguez (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/jenniferrodriguez/)
Whether it be Pfizer or Moderna, the vaccine is offering hope for us all as we continue to
strive for a safer and healthier community. Here is what a few fellow students and marvelous
members of the San Diego community thought of their experience: 
Charis Hales (4th year UCSD Student):
“Super excited to be fully vaccinated and ready to see what the next few years hold! Thank
you UCSD!“Maria Melvin (Community Member):
“We are so relieved to get the vaccine and felt that it was very well coordinated here. It’s
been a hectic year, but getting the vaccine helps make us feel hopeful for the future.”
Jim Melvin (Community Member):
“I was very happy to be back  on a college campus, I used to be a professor and it’s great
seeing students taking initiative to volunteer at the vaccination site.”Ray York (Hospital Contractor):
“The majority of my work is done in a  hospital so getting my second vaccine- well, I’m
happy to be able to worry less. I had an awesome experience at UCSD’s Vaccination Site,
everyone was very helpful and it was very well conducted.”
Eugenia Fernandez (4th year UCSD Student):“I’m super excited about getting the vaccine. It feels like the light at the end of the tunnel,
exactly a year ago everything went downhill and now it’s all just very surreal.“
Courtney Krennrich (UCSD Student):
“Oh I feel really good about getting the vaccine. It makes me feel a lot safer and in general
just makes my friends, family, and community safer. I’d say it’s a good thing all around!”
Miguel and Joyce (Community Members):
“We are very happy to get the vaccine and feel more at peace now with our second dose.”
Jackelee (Community Member):
“I am so grateful to get the vaccine and you know it was very well organized here at UCSD,
overall a good experience!”Jim Villani (UCSD Student):
“I felt good about the vaccine! I’m very glad for not having the same intense worry for when
I go back to visit my family. It feels a lot better to have a concern lifted and hopefully soon I
can also see a few friends that I hadn’t seen in a long time. “(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Poised to Become a Hispanic-Serving Institution
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/ucsd-poised-to-become-a-hispanic-serving-institution/) 
Niloufar Shahbandi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/n1shahba/)
UC San Diego is on the path to becoming a Hispanic Serving Institution, joining other UC
campuses who are already certified HSIs. UCSD must increase its current undergraduate
student population of 20 percent (https://ucsdnews.ucsd.edu/feature/becoming-a-hispanic-
serving-institution) Latinx to 25 percent to receive this certification from the U.S.
Department of Education (https://sites.ed.gov/hispanic-initiative/hispanic-serving-
institutions-hsis/]). 
Similar to historically Black universities, HSIs serve to provide higher education
opportunities to minority groups that often have been underserved at predominantly white
institutions. 
Receiving this certification makes universities eligible to compete for special grants
(https://www.usnews.com/education/best-colleges/articles/hispanic-serving-institutions-
what-to-know) set aside by the U.S. Department of Education for HSIs. It’s up to certified
institutions how they spend these additional funds: they can be used to enable universities to
further recruit Hispanic students and provide additional on-campus support or provide
specific cultural and language programs catered to Latinx and Hispanic students.  
While there is no official list of the number of HSIs given by the Department of Education,
U.S. News and World Report recognizes an estimated 400
(https://www.usnews.com/education/best-colleges/articles/hispanic-serving-institutions-
what-to-know) HSIs. The Southwest region of the U.S. has the highest number of HSIs, in
particular California and Texas. Many UC campuses including UC Santa Barbara, UC Irvine,
UC Santa Cruz, and UC Riverside, are already certified HSI universities as well as 21
(https://www2.calstate.edu/csu-system/media-
center/Documents/HSI%20Map%2022%20CSUs.pdf) CSU campuses.
UCR, which became the first designated HSI in the UC system in 2008
(https://www.highlandernews.org/81633/ucr-loses-federal-designation-as-a-hispanic-
serving-institution-due-to-filing-error-by-camus-administration-resulting-in-the-potential-
loss-of-millions-in-cares-funding/), has previously  used its funds from the HSI Stem grants
for programs such as their STEM Pathway Program. The program aims to increase the
number of Hispanic and low-income students receiving STEM bachelor’s degrees by focusing
on student success, outreach and retention efforts.
UCR’s Sequence to Success program which focuses on increasing recruitment and
partnership with campus admissions and their six community college partners has also been
funded by HSI grants. There are some criticisms of labeling universities as HSIs. The Department of Education only
bases this title off of numbers rather than what programs the institutions offer. Deborah
Santiago, the co-founder of Excelencia in Education (https://www.edexcelencia.org/about),
an organization dedicated to advancing Latino student success in higher education expressed
(https://hechingerreport.org/as-more-latinos-go-to-college-schools-vie-to-become-hispanic-
serving-institutions/) how the label can be hollow. 
 “As more and more institutions hit that enrollment threshold, we have to raise the standards
and expectations of what it is to be really serving our students,” Santiago said. 
HSIs can better serve their students by closing graduation rates between Hispanic and white
students while creating programs and events that suit and educate Latinx culture. 
Currently, UCSD offers many such programs and courses tailored to Latinx students. The
university offers a minor program as well as a Bachelor of Arts in Latin American Studies.
(https://las.ucsd.edu/) The Raza Resource Centro
(https://raza.ucsd.edu/about/index.html#Other-Campus-Community-Centers)  which is one
of the Campus Community Centers, focuses on building community on campus by planning
events and activities to Latinx students. There are also over 20 student clubs and
organizations (https://raza.ucsd.edu/resources/organizations/index.html#M---Z)  on
campus catered to Latinx students. 
However some students feel that these programs and organizations aren’t satisfactory. Earl
Warren sophomore Eduardo Vargas expressed his disappointment with UCSD’s approach. 
“UCSD has implemented programs for 1st Gen Students, many of which are
Hispanic/Lantiné. However, these programs are not directly targeting Hispanic students.”
Vargas said. “Other programs like Raza have glorified the image of leaders like César Chavez,
who engaged in colorism and spread discriminatory rhetoric towards the undocumented
community.”
There is also criticism about UCSD’s focus on Spaniard culture and history rather than Latinx
culture. 
“Events UCSD has held with a “Hispanic” focus have been so financially inaccessible that they
have been primarily attended by European Spanish Americans, the same people whose
ancestors disenfranchised the community through centuries of colonization in the first place.Overall, it’s current efforts are misguided and it needs to firmly stand with the community it
will actually be serving, not a socially palatable white minority.” Vargas expressed.  
With the number of Latinx applicants for the 2021-22 school year rising by 15 percent
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/17/ucs-receive-all-time-high-number-of-latino-and-
african-american-fall-applicants/) from the previous year, UCSD may find itself as an HSI
sooner than later.
The UCSD Guardian reached out to the Raza Resource Centro for a quote and will update
the article with their response.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Return to Learn Update for Spring 2021
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/return-to-learn-update-for-spring-2021/) Caledonia Davey
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/calli1davney/)
As new and previous students are welcomed back to campus, UC San Diego has released their
Return to Learn (https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/return-to-campus/campus-
plan/index.html) plan for Spring 2021. Because of the success of their strategies in previous
quarters –– leaving UCSD’s COVID-19 positivity rates far below state average with 350 cases
in on-campus residents since March 1, 2020 –– the plan for Spring Quarter 2021
incorporates many of the same procedures as well as others that will accommodate for the
inclusion of in-person classes. The plan also accommodates for the increase in campus-
housed students and includes modifications to the current asymptomatic self-testing system
in place on campus.
On March 16, public health orders made it possible for higher education institutions to
resume limited indoor instruction. According to UCSD’s Assistant Director of
Communications, Erika Johnson, 176 class sections (1.6 percent of all classes) are scheduled
for in-person instruction with an emphasis on smaller lab sections and fewer large lectures.
Approximately 1,900 students (5.5 percent of the student population) are registered for in-
person classes. Advising meetings, office hours, and other meetings and activities must still
be held remotely. Outdoor classroom occupancy will be capped at 50 to 75 students and
indoor occupancy will remain at 25 percent classroom capacity or fewer than 50 students,
depending on which is less. 
“Each instructor had the opportunity to choose the teaching modality best for their individual
class, and each student had the opportunity to choose whether to register for remote or in-
person options. If a student has chosen an in-person option, an instructor may require
attendance, with appropriate accommodations made for illness or other unforeseen needs,”
Johnson said.
In-person classes will observe the same requirements already in place for campus activities,
including the usage of face coverings and socially distanced seating. All students and
employees reporting to campus or any physical UCSD location will be required to continue
daily self-screening (https://blink.ucsd.edu/HR/services/covid-19/symptom-screening/) and
weekly testing. Students and employees are required to conduct a covid test every five to nine
days, even if vaccinated.
UCSD plans to return to primarily in-person classes by Fall 2021. Information for these
anticipated plans will be released in the coming weeks.On-site research activities that have already been approved will continue at current levels.
Instead of density limitations based on square feet or people per bay/aisle, 25 percent of total
personnel may work on-site at any one time. The Spring 2021 Plan released by UCSD makes
it very clear that if students would like to further their education through approved on-site
learning, they may do so, however, they should not be pressured in any way.
Undergraduate residents of UCSD will continue to be required to conduct asymptomatic
testing once a week, despite vaccination status, and will also need to continue self-screening
every day. On-campus housing will remain at single occupancy throughout the Spring
Quarter.
For prospective or incoming students, guided in-person tours will not be available during
Spring 2021. However, prospective students and their families are encouraged to participate
in live virtual tours (https://beatriton.ucsd.edu/portal/live-virtual-tour?
_ga=2.26490741.997191553.1616990281-2078726148.1609453441) or in self-guided tours
with maps provided online
(https://issuu.com/ucsandiego/docs/ucsd_self_guided_campus_tour_v7_ia?
fr=sNmZlNjI0Nzg3NQ).
At the beginning of Winter Quarter 2021, Covid Test Vending machines were introduced,
making weekly testing more accessible. Soon, these vending machines will require students
and campus employees to swipe their campus ID cards when picking up a self-administered
covid test to validate that the individual is a campus member as well as manage testing and
compliance. A charge of $1 will be made to the person’s account, but will immediately be
returned within 24 hours, as these test kits will remain free. 
By April 15, all adults over the age of 16 will be eligible for vaccination in the state of
California. Students and staff who are eligible are encouraged to “seek the most immediate
vaccination opportunity that arrives,” UCSD’s Return to Learn webpage states. Eligible
members of the UCSD community should register on the California MyTurn website
(https://myturn.ca.gov/) or check the CDC’s VaccineFinder website
(https://vaccinefinder.org/search/) for desired appointment times.
“Our Return to Learn plan and safety protocols will continue to evolve based on public health
conditions, what we learn through practice and what our predictive models tell us,” Johnson
stated.
Photo courtesy of Siddharth Atre for The UCSD Guardian. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
A.S. Council Brief: Campus Transportation Safety, Student Grants
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/a-s-council-brief-campus-transportation-safety-student-grants/) Areni Hamparian
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ahampari/)
This A.S. Council Brief is for Weeks 9 and 10 of Winter Quarter 2021.
Week 9
The Associated Students Senate held its Winter Quarter Week 9 meeting on Wednesday, March 3. Senators heard special presentations from
Transportation Safety and A.S.-Supported Safety Programs as well as the announcement of an upcoming Student Lobby Conference.
Associated Vice President of Transportation & Transformation Manu Agni conducted a presentation on A.S.-Supported Safety Programs on
Transportation Safety. He discussed two programs: Helmet Benefits and the Slow Streets project.
Helmet Benefits is a program in the planning stages that would seek to promote and de-stigmatize the practice of wearing helmets and reduce
micro-mobility accidents across campus by encouraging students to register their personal rides, such as scooters and bicycles, with
Transportation Services. Once students have registered, they could receive a discount sticker.
No discounts have been fully negotiated or finalized. Agni noted examples of other cities’ discount-sticker programs offering benefits such as a
10-percent discount on markets and vendors as well as free perks, including a free ounce of frozen yogurt or a free coffee.
The Slow Streets project is a campaign to reduce vehicle speeds to ensure the safety of pedestrians. The program would entail creating more
pedestrian zones to open safe spaces for individuals walking on the UC San Diego campus, and slowing the speed of cars passing by will
promote a safer campus that is more walker-friendly and contains cleaner air.Micro-mobility regulations have been ongoing, especially on the UCSD campus, as many regulations
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2019/11/17/ucpd-proposes-regulations-micromobility-devices/)  have been placed to limit the number of accidents
that can occur for individuals using these methods of transportation. To protect pedestrians and individuals using micro-mobility as a mode of
transportation, both programs seek to provide additional protection and safety for residents.
First Year Information released its first episode on Friday, March 5. FYI is a podcast centered towards freshman UCSD students to provide
information about ways to become involved around campus and learn about additional opportunities that exist for students. Host Ella
McLaren conversed with the podcast’s first panelists, which included A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran and Center of Student Involvement
Student Organizations Advisor and Program Manager Kristen Berg. The podcast can be found on Spotify
(https://open.spotify.com/show/57ay4rJE0Ry6NmXEA0EQnQ).
The Student Lobby Conference will be taking place on March 20–22 and is centered on educating students on how to lobby, featuring
workshops and the ability to hear from notable UC alumni who have worked in policy and advocacy. 
Week 10
At its Week 10 meeting on Wednesday, March 10, the A.S. Senate provided an update on remote instruction for Fall 2021 and the Find Your Fit
event.
Associated Students will be hosting Find Your Fit on April 12, Monday evening of Week 3 of Spring Quarter — the event is an opportunity to
meet current members of AS and learn more about your resources on campus as a student at UCSD. Additionally, those interested in holding
positions in the A.S. Council are encouraged to attend the event to learn more information as to how to get involved. 
Next, the A.S. Senate noted that there has not been an official approval of remote instruction for Fall Quarter 2021 because it must go through
the Academic Senate, which has caused a delay in posting a list of classes. The enrollment date for the Fall might be pushed back, but to
prevent inaccuracies, the process cannot be rushed.
A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran announced that students with high needs should have begun to receive the CARES Act Grant, which
translates to $900 in their student accounts; there is a seven-to-10-day period in which students will either receive a check or a direct deposit. 
The UCSD web page on financial aid and scholarships (https://fas.ucsd.edu/COVID-
19_faq.html#:~:text=CARES%20Act%20Grant%3F-,Undergraduates%20who%20receive%20Pell%2C%20Cal%2C%20or%20UC%20Grant%20ai
states, “undergraduates who receive Pell, Cal, or UC Grant aid during the academic year and are enrolled in 6 or more units for spring will
automatically receive spring awards of $900 to assist with COVID-19 related expenses.”
 Students are encouraged to reach out to Financial Aid if they have any questions. There is an A.S. Dining Dollar donation project in progress
for those who are in need. President Giangtran said that, generally, at the end of each year, students may find that they will have additional
Dining Dollars and tend to spend that money elsewhere — now, this program will be asking students to donate their extra Dining Dollars to
those who are in need of donations. New updates are to come at the next A.S. meeting.
Artwork courtesy of Yui Kita for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated on 4/5/21 at 8:26PM to clarify information about the programs discussed in Week 9. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: Preacher “Sister Cindy” Calls Campus Buildings Sexual
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-preacher-sister-cindy-calls-campus-buildings-sexual/) Jose Chavez
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/j2chavez/)
Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, which are a series of articles published annually for The Guardian’s
April Fool’s issue. 
Renowned evangelical preacher “Sister Cindy” of TikTok (https://www.tiktok.com/@ohohohorileyyyy/video/6936008266317188357?
_d=secCgYIASAHKAESMgow8okTpx9LWutMNSpFNqFsk38yRuXyTiXeP0TPEkvnvtTjw5%2F10fexpYPtVu%2FtYOIdGgA%3D&language=en&pr
gv8eSTIXOkHe3py2PJFq9CgMhuF46-KTJpe3I4iGVx0Yht8&share_item_id=6936008266317188357&share_link_id=725ACB43-B6B1-
498A-97B8-
1D0CF0CDF954&timestamp=1617311245&tt_from=copy&u_code=da362kjd41b3ei&user_id=6774731173002642437&utm_campaign=client_sha
visited UC San Diego today to protest against the sexual appearance of student residence halls, the Geisel Library, and other structures on
campus. Her appearance was one of many designed to stop the covert spreading of erotic sin in California college campuses through
inconspicuous means. The presentation was delivered to a vast crowd of five students in front of Tapestry Hall in the new Sixth College.
Sister Cindy began by standing tall on her soapbox to stridently recall how much more moral things were for her during college.
“When I was a bad girl at the University of Florida, the buildings never had this much phallic appeal,” Sister Cindy said. “The girth and
magnitude of these structures are unacceptable!”
The preacher shouted that buildings constructed during the twenty-first century are far too revealing and girthy, noting that corporate real
estate in the San Diego region has been “erected to inappropriate heights unknown to good, religious Americans.” She also found that the
Geisel Library was too “sexy” due to its circumference and “rotundness,” with her initially believing that it was a fraternity house when she was
exploring the UCSD campus. Sister Cindy then revealed a list of demands that needed to be met to save UCSD from “eternal damnation.” 
“In the first order of things, researchers at that Jacobs Medical Center MUST conduct several surveys on the promiscuous population to assess
the amount of spiritual corruption that has corroded our youth,” Sister Cindy started. “Secondly, every campus Dean of Student Affairs MUST
initiate the construction of Chastity Centers at every college… Especially Seventh, considering its fully erect towers. Lastly, the administration
MUST hire at least seven ‘hot, holy preachers’ to dissuade students from sinful and lustful inclinations.”
The UCSD Guardian reached out to the speech attendees to further assess general sentiment on the sexualization of buildings on campus. One
individual dressed as the UCSD Mascot King Triton agreed with Sister Cindy’s comments on Geisel Library.
“I believe that it is completely accurate to say that Geisel appeals to the prurient interest,”  King Triton said. “In fact, I’ve heard more than my
fair share of students saying that the library is ‘thicker than a bowl of oatmeal,’ as the youths often say.”
Shortly after the Sister arrived, a counterprotest started congregating in front of the new Sixth Market amid student outcry for further
sexualization of campus architecture. 
Earl Warren College sophomore and self-proclaimed “alpha male” Ben DiMova led the counterprotest and expressed the group’s desires. 
“Me and my homies Phil McCracken and Wayne Kerr would love to make our school more sexual,” Dimova said. “Taking away UCSD’s
badonkadonk would totally kill the vibe we’ve got going on campus. That and Geisel would look amazing in sweatpants, on God. Remember
fellow students, ‘64 Degrees’ isn’t hot enough … we’re looking to make it ‘64 + 5’ ;))).”
In a shocking turn of events, it was discovered that representatives of the university itself welcomed the Sister with open arms and vowed to
take her grievances into consideration. The administration said that they hoped that she would return during the Fall Quarter of 2028 to offer
valuable insight on the construction of the eleventh college.
“We have a grand vision for the new North Torrey Pines ‘Worship And Prayer’ District,” said Claire McClaire, Assistant Director of UCSD’s
newly established Department for Clean Souls. “Our university ought to have a safe haven from post-pubescent hormones, general feelings of
arousal, and other despicable adolescent features… Sister Cindy really aligned with our values.”
As the sunset approached and the attendants became restless, Sister Cindy picked up her soapbox and made her way off of Sixth College’s
campus. Before she set foot in the parking lot, she dramatically looked over her shoulder and delivered one last message.
“Progress starts with slut-shaming buildings and continues with you all,” Sister Cindy said to a passerby. “Students need to admit to their sins,
believe in the Lord Jesus, and become born again; only then will they become hoes no mo’!”
The UCSD Guardian will provide further updates on Sister Cindy as they come.
Photo courtesy of The Netline.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: Scam Likely
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-scam-likely/) Nelson Espinal
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/nespinal/)
DISREGUARDIAN: The number of scam callers are rising and they are on the hunt for
people’s personal information. One successful owner of a scam business, Ryan Kante, is
running for President of the United States due to his own “welfare” plan. 
The recent years featured a surge of scam callers. According to USA Today,
(https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2021/02/12/robocalls-scammers-fraud-phone-calls-
increase-fcc-ftc-efforts/6706727002/) This past January, there were 130 million robo-calls
sent out in America on a daily basis. 
During the pandemic, there were various of these centers that ended up closing up due to the
financial constraints and the ability to make any kind of calls. 
The consequences of these callers can lead to the exploitation of those vulnerable with
memory or language issues by relaying sensitive information. 
The callers may pose as an established institution attempting to get a social security number
from the person they call. In other cases, there are potential charges left on a made-up
account that need to be paid, leading to the caller asking for credit card information. 
With either method, the people who fall victim to these callers place their identity or finances
into jeopardy. A student at UCSD suffered from this similar fate. Kellen Waters, a second-
year student from Thurgood Marshall College, answered a call from a tele-scammer which led
him to giving away his card information. 
“The person said that they were with the IRS and that I owed four thousand dollars,” Waters
told The UCSD Guardian. “I believed them because I had been working since I was 15 and it is
possible I forgot to do something. I sent over my information via the phone to get it over with.
My friend saw the number and recognized that it was a number that previously called him
too, but he looked it up and saw that it was a scam.”
Stories like Kellen’s present the potential consequences of answering and believing what
these callers tell people. With so many calls going out on a daily basis, there are a lot of
opportunities for the owners of the call centers to make money.
In the market of scam telemarketers, no one does it like Ryan Kante. The 28-year-old
established a business that has yielded plenty of profits, enough to fund a staff of 100 callers,
20 creative directors, and an office building in downtown San Diego. His group, known as the “better IRS,” specializes in scamming as the IRS. The group tells
their target that they either owe money or are eligible to receive money. 
The voice that first speaks is a robot and if the person stays connected, there is a person ready
to retrieve the other person’s information.
“It is so easy,” Kante told The Guardian. “I don’t need to have so many staff members
introduce themselves. All I need is to create a robotic voice to filter out everyone that does not
answer. If they stay on the line, we rope them in with a serious delivery and follow the exact
same cadence as the actual IRS. We copy them better than anyone and that is what separates
us from the competition.”
Kante developed his skills as an IRS impersonator by taking careful notes when calling them.
He used these notes and Reddit threads detailing their experiences with the IRS to create a
program for the rest of his employees to adopt and apply. 
His success as a scammer allows him to pay his employees very well so they do not have to
work another job and provides plenty of benefits like insurance and a retirement plan. Kante
also donates to other charities and organizations in an effort to spread his wealth. 
“What I have going on in my company is revolutionary with the payments and structure
provided to all of my workers,” Kante told The Guardian. “I feel like this is just the beginning,
I have a feeling that this plan can become the standard nationwide. I know how I get my
money is illegal, but I do a better job of distributing wealth than the welfare programs here in
America.” 
And thus, Kante is running for President of the United States during the 2024 Presidential
Election. Because of his focus on welfare, he feels that he aligns more with the Democractic
party. 
He will continue to run the scam call business up until the Democractic primary starts. He is
willing to take donations from people who would like to donate. His donation methods are
centered around calling people on a daily basis and going door to door to ask for money. 
“America’s system is broken right now,” Kante told The Guardian. “There needs to be
innovation from the top down and if we are going to beat President Trump’s re-election
campaign, there needs to be something radical injected into our party. I think I can add somespice to this race and make people care about what happens in politics. My formula works
really well and I believe in the people making the right decision in the primary.” 
While there are no criminal charges yet, Kante’s plan is centered around having any court
cases to be drawn out through the courts until he wins office. Once elected president, he
wishes to pardon himself.
One worker, who wishes to be called “blocked number,” fully believes in Kante’s ambitions
and plans to become president. He detailed how Mr. Kante changed his life. 
“I was working at a graveyard shift at Seven Eleven. I had three kids and I was looking for a
second job,” the worker told The Guardian. “Kante approached me with a job at a call center
while I was working. He bought a slurpee and offered a tremendous amount of money. I was
willing to do anything at that price and I have been happy every day of my life. If he did this
for a random guy, he can do it for anyone.” 
The entire staff will shift focus to the campaign once the election kicks off with an “all hands
on deck” approach. 
All of the money and stress imposed on victims presented the opportunities for Kante to
succeed and develop this welfare plan. Come election time, people are going to weigh the
crimes he committed against the overall positive impact his plan could have. 
The results could show how far the American people are willing to go for a new system or Mr.
Kante could end up behind bars. 
His slogan is “Always on call” with signs and T-shirts already ordered for everyone to buy. 
Photo Courtesy of Lindsey LaMont of Unsplash. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: Lil Nas X is Going to Hell for his Montero
Music Video (I Would Know)
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-lil-nas-x-is-going-to-hell-for-his-montero-music-
video-i-would-know/) Medha Upadhyay (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/medhau/)
Editor’s note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, which are a series
of articles published annually for The Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Opinion will resume
publishing normal content next week.
It’s been a little over a week since Lil Nas X released his newest song, “MONTERO (Call Me
By Your Name)” and I haven’t been able to get it out of my head. The intricate three-minute
video has come as a surprise to many country fans who loved his smash hit “Old Town Road,”
myself included. That being said, Lil Nas X can’t even be considered a country singer; no
respectable country singer would ever dress like that, or question God’s will in any way. 
If you live under a rock and haven’t watched the Montero video yet, do yourself a favor and
watch it right now. You need to fully experience the song in its entirety to understand what
I’m about to say. Now that you’ve immersed yourself completely in the thrilling saga—back to
what I was saying.
In the Montero music video, Lil Nas X is about to be inducted to heaven, when he instead
decides to pole dance his way down to Hell. Since the Bible clearly states that being gay is
awful and will send you directly to Hell, it is not okay at all that Lil Nas X chooses to follow
this way of life. It is also insanely disrespectful that he ends up killing Satan, who is a
cherished deity.
Throughout the Montero music video, Lil Nas X is clearly glorifying Hell, which means that
he is teaching children to do bad things. You heard me right, there is a direct correlation
between young impressionable children watching a man in a red room and them instantly
becoming terrible people. And the worst part is, no one, absolutely no one, can prevent these
innocent little children from watching this video! Don’t even think about putting this
responsibility on parents; they could never have seen this coming. Since Lil Nas X released
one song about cowboys, it was written in stone that he would only make kid-friendly content
for the rest of his career. It was what he signed up for, and for him to double back on his
promise like this is blasphemous. This is almost as bad as when Taylor Swift came out as a
Democrat; at least her career ended shortly after.   
To make matters even worse, Nike was tricked into releasing a limited collaboration with Lil
Nas X (https://www.cnn.com/2021/03/29/business/satan-shoes-nike-lil-nas-x/index.html) .
Even though Nike had nothing to do with the “satan shoes” it is definitely a reasonable idea to
boycott Nike; who sells sneakers with a pentagram and a drop of blood for $1,018? I literally
have my own blood, why in God’s name would I pay so much money for one drop? Luckily,
Lil Nas X did come to his senses over this insane marketing gimmick and promptly releasedan apology (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ESf8Un3g9zM&ab_channel=LilNasX).
However, it was a little too late since all the sneakers did sell out in under a minute, which
unfortunately means that they are definitely more exclusive than a God-given eternal soul
according to Governor Kristi Noem
(https://twitter.com/govkristinoem/status/1376239196709478400). Thankfully, the
government stepped in and prevented Lil Nas X from giving away the 666th pair
(https://twitter.com/LilNasX/status/1377769656937631745) to one of his cult followers.
This has basically solved the entire problem, thank God. At the end of the day, everything
about Montero was a deliberate attack on American ideals. We cannot continue to allow
artists to undertake projects like this; if they think it’s okay to question religion, what will
they question next? Our sacred government? I think we can all agree that the Montero music
video will go down in history. Just to be sure, I’m going to go watch it one more time.
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: A Guide on How to Maintain Strong
Social Connections During a Panera Bread
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-a-guide-on-how-to-maintain-strong-social-
connections-during-a-panera-bread/) Raymond Tran (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/raymondt/)
Editor’s note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, which are a series
of articles published annually for The Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Opinion will resume
publishing normal content next week.
In honor of the one-year anniversary of the panoramic, many individuals decided to go out
and celebrate with their friends, with respect to Covid-19 obviously. However, for many, the
feeling of social ineptness has taken over as the effects of quarantine have taken a toll on their
socialization capabilities. While I think we have all managed to maintain our strong social
skills during these unprecedented times, here are some ways to keep the conversation going
even if it’s heading nowhere, as well as some tips to maintain a healthy state of mind. 
Conversation Starters:
1. Talk about Covid
This option is never exhausted because there is always something to talk about. With the
vaccine coming out, there is also an added layer to the stimulating conversation. This global
Panda Express has already taken over so much of our lives, so why not talk about it even
more? After all, some people do forget about it sometimes, especially our friends in Texas and
Florida. Maybe they’ll appreciate a little reminder. 
2. School never fails
This conversation topic works wonders in breakout rooms. As college students, we have
plenty of things to complain about, and we’ve gotten really good at it too. After all, we’ve been
complaining about the same things since the beginning of quarantine. It feels nice to get all
the frustration out into the open while simultaneously wondering if the person you’re venting
to will rat you out for violating the academic integrity policy that everyone definitely follows.
After this brief exchange of words, you guys can just sit in awkward silence waiting for the
breakout room to close, the classic way to end a conversation during Zoom University. 
Lifestyle Tips:
1. Look at the bright side of things
Now that social interactions have gone down, so has unnecessary drama. Doesn’t it feel
relieving knowing that annoying and unproductive drama has gone down tremendously
during quarantine? Then again, what do we talk about now that we cannot secretly judge
other people’s life decisions with our friend group that has a skewed perspective of the actualsituation? Weird. At least we have Cancel Culture to keep us updated on who to send
unproductive hate comments to and who to hypocritically excuse for their obviously toxic and
concerning behavior. Tony Lopez still has 22.5 million followers, by the way.
2. Download a dating app (or three)
Feeling lonely, ugly, and unlovable? By downloading a dating app, you are not only
exacerbating these issues but also opening yourself up to a whole other world of insecurities.
But that doesn’t matter, because the momentary validation you get from that random
stranger you will probably never meet in real life is enough to convince you to keep it. Those
borderline predatorial and superficial conversations you have will temporarily fill the void the
panini has created in your soul until you finally realize your self-worth and delete them, only
to redownload them again when you reached another  all-time low at 3 a.m. while listening to
“Drivers License” by our queen, Olivia Rodrigo. Anyways, stream “Deja Vu”. 
3. Gaslight yourself into feeling a sense of normalcyYou don’t feel lonely. Your feelings aren’t valid. Everyone is going through this, why do you
get to make it all about you and your feelings when people are literally dying, businesses are
going bankrupt, and the world is falling apart? It’s selfish and you have fewer problems than
everyone else. All your friends hate you for it and you should seriously consider being less
self-centered. 
Remember to practice self-love this pandora season!
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: The Confessions of an “Essential” Worker
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-the-confessions-of-an-essential-worker/) 
Zara Irshad (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/zirshad/)
Editor’s note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, which are a series
of articles published annually for The Guardian’s April Fool’s issue. Opinion will resume
publishing normal content next week.
Just like the millions of other college students that are currently paying full tuition for an
online education, I have a part-time job. I work as a barista at a coffee shop, and it’s no secret
that this past year has been an interesting one for customer service workers like myself. Many
of us have had the pleasure of meeting many creative anti-maskers, who always seem to find
a new way around mask mandates. They keep us on our toes and I am so thankful for all that
society has done for customer service workers during these times. 
I cannot begin expressing my gratitude without first recognizing the good ol’ US government
for deeming that coffee is an absolute necessity — a beverage worth risking your life for —
and certainly not something that could be easily made at home. Classifying coffee shops as
essential businesses was a no brainer! 
Now, I’d like to direct my attention back to the kind customers that care so deeply for us
workers. Don’t get me wrong, there are some less thoughtful people who simply wear a mask
and mind their own business when in a store, failing to go that extra step to show that they
care. But hey, that’s life. The few that do go that extra mile to show their concern for us
workers make it all worth it. 
There are a few different methods that they use to express this concern, the top three being
the “Peek-a-Boo”: in which a customer leaves their nose peeking out from under their mask,
the “Slippery Slope”: in which they let their loose mask fall as they speak, and my personal
favorite, the “Full Send”: in which they walk into a store proudly and confidently without a
mask. 
The “Peek-a-Boo” is great because it really helps us train our eyes to focus on the small
details. In a packed store during a rush, for example, keeping track of customers wearing
masks is simple enough. But further analyzing those wearing masks to make sure that their
masks actually cover the parts of the face that they’re meant to, well that takes a trained eye.
It’s almost like a real-life Where’s Waldo puzzle, how fun!  
Now for the “Slippery Slope,” which helps us to think on our feet. You never know when a
customer is going to let their mask fall, so it’s not something that’s easy to prepare for. Each
customer you interact with could be the mask slider, it’s just a gamble. Not only does this adda little spice to our otherwise bland and easy jobs, but it forces us to address the situation
head-on. For example, if the customer is in the middle of speaking when their mask falls, we
must find the perfect moment to slip in a “Sir/Ma’am, do you mind pulling your mask up?”  
And finally, the “Full Send” is a great way for customers to check our vocal chords are
working properly. Despite the “Masks Required” sign that graces the entryway of most stores
and cafes in California, some customers are still kind enough to walk in without one. As
customer service workers, this not only tests our vocal chords when we have to yell across the
store to ask them to put a mask on, but it also tests our patience! 
More hostile customers have also given us the opportunity to get comfortable with
confrontation! What to do when a customer is yelling at you for government-mandated
regulations that are out of your control? I can handle that! What about when a customer pulls
down their mask to speak to you? No problem at all. I feel better equipped for any challenge
life throws at me in the future. 
I truly admire the impartiality that so many people have had toward essential workers as well.
Yeah, we wake up early and risk our lives in order to serve our communities and provide
stability during these unprecedented times, but that doesn’t mean we should be treated
differently. By all means, treat us how you normally would. If you’re usually a little snappy in
the morning, or have some pent up rage that you just haven’t let out yet, we’ve got your back!
Let us be your emotional punching bag, it keeps us humble. 
At the end of the day, us customer service workers have had some amazingly thoughtful
customers who have been devoted to our welfare and entertainment this past year. But please
remember that there is no expectation for all customers to be this kind. If you walk into a
store with a properly fitted mask, and mind your own business during your trip, I promise
you that the customer service workers will not hate you. 
Art by Andrew Diep for the UC San Diego Guardian. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: 49ers Trade Up to Draft NFT of Justin Fields
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-49ers-trade-up-to-dra  -n -of-justin-fields/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, a series of articles published annually for The Guardian ’s April
Fool’s issue. Sports will resume publishing normal content next week.
In a move that shocked NFL general managers, the San Francisco 49ers traded a haul of picks to move up in the 2021 NFL Draft, where they
selected a non-fungible token (NFT) depicting Ohio State University quarterback Justin Fields.
“We’re really happy with this pick,” said 49ers general manager John Lynch. “There’s been so much speculation around which quarterback will
be the best in the long term, but when compared to recent top quarterback picks like Mitch Trubisky and Dwayne Haskins, we think that this
JPEG file offers us the most return on investment.”
Head coach Kyle Shanahan also seemed excited with the NFT pickup. 
“We looked at the rulebook, and there’s no rule that says that a blockchain token representing unique ownership of a digital image can’t play
football,” Shanahan said. “We even considered trading Jimmy [Garoppolo] for an NFT too, but have you seen him? He’s practically art
already.”
Meanwhile, Justin Fields, the man himself, said, “Great. Just one more group of people who are going to make money off me without giving me
any.”With the pick, the NFL is following in the footsteps of the NBA’s Top Shot marketplace, where a digital card displaying a LeBron James block
has sold for $100,000 (https://nbatopshot.com/moment/rundown_bull_shark9286+0ce6787a-e854-43db-a29d-90faffa9311c). Digital
marketplaces like Top Shot offer prospective buyers all the excitement of the card-based gambling in games like “NBA 2K” for many times the
cost and much less fun.
Even NBA owners are getting into the mix. “I get to enjoy knowing I own my Maxi Klieber [sic] dunk Moment, along with knowing the serial
number and much more,” wrote Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban on his blog, (https://blogmaverick.com/2021/01/31/the-store-of-value-
generation-is-kicking-your-ass-and-you-dont-even-know-it/) which one supposes is the sort of thing you say when you run out of any other
things to spend your $4 billion on.
For insight on what NFT’s are, I turned to Matt Sheffield, a computer science PhD recipient who specializes in blockchain and is now a
freelancer for tech website The Verge . The following is a transcript of our phone interview.
The UCSD Guardian: So what are NFT’s?
Matt Sheffield: NFTs are essentially a unique certificate that designates that you own the digital item in question, even though other people
will be able to view it.
The Guardian : So what you’re paying for doesn’t really have any value? Just the possibility that someone else could buy it for more money
for the same reason?
Sheffield: Exactly — but you might argue that this is what happens in the art world all the time, and it’s cool to see a decentralized system of
ownership that can adapt these hype-based markets to the digital age in a democratized—
The Guardian : So it’s a Beanie Baby, but you don’t even get a cute stuffed animal?
Sheffield: [hangs up]
Nonetheless, advocates of NFTs insist that the underlying system is fundamentally no different than the system underlying modern currency, a
fact that is supposed to make us more confident about NFT’s but instead inspires this writer to invest in a survival bunker. 
There are arguments on both sides: on the one hand, Elon Musk tweeting that we should buy US dollars isn’t going to quintuple the price of the
Namibian dollar, which is a real thing that basically happens all the time now (https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/11/signal-advance-jumps-
another-438percent-after-elon-musk-fueled-buying-frenzy.html). On the other hand, the US dollar depends just as much on trust as the value
of an NFT, and the dollar doesn’t even come with a cool picture of an astronaut with crystals growing out of him
(https://static01.nyt.com/images/2021/03/11/arts/11nft-explain-1/merlin_184196631_939fb22d-b909-4205-99d9-b464fb961d32-
superJumbo.jpg?quality=90&auto=webp). So you tell me which one is really valueless.
If this NFT trend does hold, I look forward to the day in 2052 when I trade  Julian Edelman’s NFT of a Patriots-inspired Pokemon
(https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/1101208849101390505355411402152542184641989762183813901
for bread to feed my children. Hey, if we’re going to live in a dystopia, we might as well live in one that has Rare items.
Photo courtesy of TigerNet.com(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: No More Pay in the NCAA
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-no-more-pay-in-the-ncaa/) Wesley Xiao
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, a series of articles
published annually for The Guardian ’s April Fool’s issue. Sports will resume publishing
normal content next week.
After almost a year out of action, it finally feels like college sports are back. March Madness is
in full swing, college football finished its season, and sports like soccer, volleyball, and water
polo, which were postponed in the fall, are all rescheduled for spring.
But it’s important to remember that college sports were not able to escape 2020 unscathed.
Like the rest of the US economy, the NCAA has sustained serious financial losses due to
COVID-19. Because of that, the governing body of college sports has recently announced that
college athletes will no longer receive monetary compensation from the NCAA or their
university. 
The new restrictions are not limited to just the NCAA or universities. In order to eliminate
loopholes — and the possibility a university tries to continue to pay their players under the
table or tries to gain a competitive advantage — the NCAA has prohibited players from
receiving compensation for their play from anyone.
Some in college sports felt this spirit of amateurism would rejuvenate the values of college
sports. Dabo Swinney, head coach of Clemson University’s football team, remarked that
removing money from college sports would get rid of “entitlement” in players. Swinney made
this comment to reporters as he swam in a pool of money made from his $9.3 million salary.
The NCAA seems to have come up with the most ingenious and groundbreaking business
strategy of the 21  century (maybe even of all time). If you are a company and need to save
money, stop paying your employees, but continue to make them work for you. Such a simple,
yet effective approach. I wonder why no other business has adopted this same strategy.
With this announcement, the NCAA has also become the first major sports organization to
eliminate the wage gap between male and female athletes. While men’s sport will continue to
garner better facilities, more media coverage, and most of the NCAA’s general interest, it’s
nice to see them making some social progress. One step back, one step forward.
It seems as though this cost-cutting measure is here to stay for the next few seasons.
Hopefully, the NCAA will be able to recoup their losses and once again have the financial
latitude to compensate their student-athletes.st(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
DISREGUARDIAN: Ron Burgundy, San Diego Icon, Dies at 23
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/disreguardian-ron-burgundy-san-diego-icon-dies-at-23/) 
Donovan Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, a series of articles
published annually for The Guardian ’s April Fool’s issue. Sports will resume publishing
normal content next week.
Broadcaster Ron Burgundy died Thursday, April 1, 2021 of natural causes, though his estate
disputed this claim, instead saying that he died of “acute classiness.” Mr. Burgundy was a
mainstay on the San Diego news station Channel Four, making many classic statements
filling San Diegans everywhere with joy and appreciation. This tragic loss can only be
remedied by the one thing Ron would want us to do — celebrate his life and
accomplishments.
Burgundy was more than just “Stay Classy, San Diego.” His one-liners and professional
coverage of the daily news will always be remembered by his loyal fanbase. From all of us who
loyally watch Channel Four news each day for the simple pleasure of hearing the news,
Burgundy will not be replaceable.
In the last known recording of Burgundy, he was on the Dan Patrick Show imitating some of
the most famous sports calls ever. While it was shameful that Patrick’s writers did not include
any of Burgundy’s great classic calls, his performance was still impeccable. Recapping “Duke”
Davis’ call of Doug Flutie’s famous 1984 Hail Mary (https://youtu.be/q3ykWbu2Gl0),
Burgundy correctly prognosticated Flutie’s lack of professional success after throwing such a
lucky pass, compared to what would have been a juggernaut career for Boston College
receiver Gerard Phelan.
Burgundy was known for many things, but he might have no greater legacy than his
championing of women’s rights. Burgundy is quoted as saying, “I’m gonna punch you in the
ovary, that’s what I’m gonna do. A straight shot. Right to the baby maker.” His fight for
equality truly knew no bounds, always looking for ways to bring women into the fold. The
only tiny exception is when it comes to his profession, but I’m sure we could all relate to the
sentiment he gives in, “It is anchorman, not anchorlady. And that is a scientific fact.” Biology
has always been the best way of supporting chauvinism, and there really is no doubt that the
anchorman has certain physical attributes which an anchorlady simply could not replicate,
hence Burgundy’s insightful commentary.
Another inspirational Burgundy attribute was his humility. Nobody could be humble like
Ron. Off the air, legend had it that he remarked, “Mmm. I look good. I mean, really good.
Hey, everyone! Come and see how good I look.” Only calling people’s attention to his looks by
describing them as good, rather than extraordinary and unfathomable, is masterful. Similarly, he described his great opulence in, “I don’t know how to put this but I’m kind of a
big deal. People know me. I’m very important. I have many leather-bound books and my
apartment smells of rich mahogany.” Allowing others to experience just a piece of his
exquisite life through his own account is charity enough, but combined with the
understatement of his own importance and riches really just takes the cake. It is almost as if
he did not recognize his own legend. Or perhaps he was aware, but knew that unleashing his
full glory unto the world would be too much for the public to handle, so he selflessly shielded
the world. 
Attempting to analyze the mind of Burgundy is a fool’s errand, but many will try after
running through the play-by-play of all of his newscasts throughout his time at Channel Four
news. Unfortunately though, in spite of the humble Burgundy indicating differently, all will
fail to decipher his true meaning and priorities as he simply operates on a higher plane. 
While Burgundy’s life met a premature end, his impact will certainly be felt for generations to
come. For all of us in the business of journalism, his complete dedication to professionalism
and workplace etiquette will be an everlasting goal. For all of us in the San Diego community,
his warm, knowing daily newscast will be sorely missed. Hopefully, we can all reflect on the
great moments that have been reviewed, and the so many more which could never all be
covered, to appropriately honor such a great man.
Stay classy, San Diego. 
Photo courtesy of Gareth Milner(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Four Films About Autism To Stream Instead Of Sia’s “Music”
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/four-films-about-autism-to-stream-instead-of-sias-music/) 
Bailey Bujnosek (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/bailey-bujnosek/)
In lieu of watching “Music,” here are two documentaries, a biopic and an animated short
that use research, input, and inclusion to tell meaningful stories about life on the autism
spectrum.Pop artist Sia came under fire upon the release of her directorial debut film, “Music.” “Music”
follows Zu (Kate Hudson), a young woman fresh from rehab who is thrust into the role of
caregiver for her autistic half-sister, Music (Maddie Ziegler). Helmed by big names and
distributed by a major international studio, “Music” had the potential to introduce all-too-
rare autism representation to a large mainstream audience. However, several poor choices
during the film’s production left critics and audiences alike decrying the film’s representation
as inaccurate and harmful. Criticism centered on three points of contention: casting a
neurotypical actress to play an autistic character, promoting the use of physical restraint
towards autistic individuals, and partnering with Autism Speaks, a controversial organization
that previously created fear-mongering “advertisements” demonizing autistic people. As the
sibling of an autistic, nonverbal person, reading about how “Music” perpetuates harmful
misconceptions was difficult. In particular, I could not believe the film would endorse
physical restraint as a means of handling meltdowns when the practice has been linked to
severe emotional distress and even death (https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/the-very-
real-very-painful-reasons-the-autistic-community-demanded-two-restraint-scenes-be-
removed-from-sias-new-film-music/2021/02/10/5486fb1a-6bca-11eb-9ead-
673168d5b874_story.html). Given that films featuring autism representation are scarce,
films with poor representation have a disproportionate power to affect the public’s perception
of autism — in the case of “Music,” for the worse.
The controversies surrounding “Music” have been written about
(https://time.com/5942094/sia-music-disability-representation/) extensively, and its
portrayal of autism has been critiqued by the voices (https://www.refinery29.com/en-
us/2020/11/10183141/sia-music-trailer-maddie-ziegler-autism-speaks-controversy)  we
should be listening to the most: the voices of autistic people. Accordingly, instead of delving
further into the pitfalls of “Music,” this article will spotlight recent films that better portray
the nuances of life on the autism spectrum. This is not to say that there is one representation
of autism that is the ‘best.’ Autism is a nuanced disorder that can vary greatly from one
person to the next, and portrayals similarly vary.  These films feature better representations
of autism than “Music”  does because  they don’t caricature or dehumanize their subjects, nor
do they reduce their stories to inspiration fodder for neurotypical people.
As “Music”  demonstrates, representation without the inclusion of those being represented is
misleading at best and dangerous at worst. Many of the films listed below were made with
research and input from autism advocacy groups and individuals. The documentaries in
particular give autistic people a platform to tell their own stories. While this list is by no
means exhaustive, I hope it is a useful starting point for anyone interested in films
representing the stories of autistic people.“Autism: The Musical” (2007) & “Autism: The
Sequel” (2020)
“Autism: The Musical”  is a documentary that gives viewers an unadorned look at the lives of
five children on the autism spectrum: Adam, Neal, Wyatt, Lexi, and Henry. Each child  takes
part in a musical put on by Miracle Project founder Elaine Hall, Neal’s mother. Director
Tricia Regan presents the childrens’ backstories through a mix of their parents’ recollections
and home video footage. Once we’re familiar with the cast, we’re given glimpses of their day-
to-day lives in the months leading up to the musical’s opening night. The musical itself takes
a backseat to the slice-of-life drama that unfolds along the way: Adam’s mother, Rosanne
Katon, is a former Playboy model who believes his diagnosis is the primary cause of her
husband’s affair, while Lexi has a crush on a castmate that forces her mother to confront
Lexi’s adolescence.
The film’s editing is precise. Not one scene feels out of place or overlong. Regan leaves out the
quick cuts and excessive voice-over typical of other documentaries, opting instead for sound
bites and footage that the audience can draw a story from. A prime example is the framing of
Wyatt’s narrative. In his introductory scene, he tells his mother that he wants to switch from
special-education to mainstream classes so he won’t be bullied. Hall allows Wyatt to channel
his frustrations by letting him play a bully in an improv exercise. A few lingering shots reveal
Wyatt’s enjoyment at the chance to be the bully rather than the victim. In the musical’s
premiere (which only starts in the last ten minutes of the film), Wyatt sings, “Am I toosensitive?” surrounded by a chorus of bullies. This time, he gets the final line. The musical
has empowered him — as it has empowered many of his castmates — to be confident in who
he is. 
HBO released a follow-up documentary, “Autism: The Sequel,” last year. “Autism: The
Sequel” catches up with the original cast a decade later as they navigate independent, adult
life and everything that comes with it. 
Streaming on: HBO Max, Hulu
“Temple Grandin” (2010)
I first saw “Temple Grandin”  in a ninth-grade psychology class, but I was already familiar
with Temple Grandin’s story. Grandin is a poster child within the autism community: she
holds a Ph.D., wrote one of the first books to detail life with autism from the perspective of
someone on the spectrum, and made revolutionary changes in the livestock industry through
her studies of animal behavior and welfare. It comes as no surprise that her life story was
biopic material. 
In a stellar performance by Claire Danes of “Homeland”  fame, Grandin’s challenges and
triumphs as both an autistic person and as a woman in a male-dominated field are
represented with honesty and grace. One memorable scene early on shows Grandin using herspecial sensory processing to sort spoons based on minute details in their shape and size.
Once she enters the world of livestock, she perceives subtleties in cattle behavior caused by
disorienting slaughterhouse designs that are negatively affecting the animals.
According to a profile (https://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/31/arts/television/31danes.html)
in The New York Times, Grandin kept away from Danes while filming to avoid putting
pressure on her that would hurt her performance. However, Grandin and Danes met for
several hours prior to filming to discuss Grandin’s life and worldview, and Grandin gave
Danes a hug at the end. Hugging is something that the film shows to be difficult for Grandin,
making it a meaningful sign of her approval of Danes portraying her in the film. It should be
noted that Claire Danes, like Maddie Ziegler, is also a neurotypical actress playing an autistic
character. While Ziegler’s performance comes off as mockery, Danes gained critical acclaim
for portraying a real, multi-dimensional person whom she was able to study and receive a
blessing from. Meanwhile, Ziegler played a fictional role without a strong basis in reality, one
that was almost played by an autistic actress (more on that later.)
Streaming on: HBO Max, Hulu“Life, Animated” (2016)
Whereas “Autism: The Musical”  focuses on childhood, “Life, Animated”  concerns itself with
the transition from adolescence to adulthood. The subject: Owen Suskind, an autistic young
man who regained his verbal communication skills through Disney films. Perhaps one-third
of the film’s shots are scenes from the animated classics — “Peter Pan,” “Aladdin,” “Bambi”  —interspersed with footage of Owen watching the movies, quoting them line for line. Whatever
theme is playing out on screen happens to relate to Owen’s life situation, and that’s
intentional. As he says himself at an autism conference towards the end of the film, Disney
films are how he can process and understand the world around him. 
The documentary is based on the memoir “Life, Animated: A Story of Sidekicks, Heroes, and
Autism” by Owen’s father, prominent journalist Ron Suskind. In the film, the elder Suskind
describes his son’s breakthrough with such emotion and enthusiasm that one believes the
event is happening in real-time. Bringing the past to life further are wonderful animated
sequences from Mathieu Bétard, who went on to provide animation for Ariana Grande’s “God
Is A Woman” music video.
While Owen’s love of Disney movies foregrounds many of the film’s emotional moments — I
audibly gasped when Gilbert Gottfried, the voice of the parrot Iago in “Aladdin,” surprised
Owen with a visit — his family’s love for him also shines through. Owen’s brother Walter
struggles to explain the concept of French kissing without a Disney reference. While walking
the streets of France before the aforementioned autism conference, Owen’s mother and father
lead him in a heartwarming rendition of “Be Our Guest.” And, somewhere along the way,
Owen grows up. He gets a job, fittingly, at a movie theater where he can slip into showings of
Disney films. Maybe, the film suggests, becoming an adult isn’t so bad after all.
Streaming on: Tubi, Hulu, Vudu“Loop”  (2020)“Loop” may be the shortest entry on this list, but it delivers a satisfying story on par with its
feature-length peers. Writer and director Erica Milsom places two kids, Marcus and Renee, in
an inherently cooperative setting: the duo has to paddle a canoe across a lake. The story’s
conflict comes in their inability to understand each other. Marcus is only familiar with Renee,
a nonverbal autistic girl, as “the girl who doesn’t talk.” 
The film is a part of Pixar’s SparkShorts program, which gives Pixar employees time and
funding to produce an independent animated short. Behind-the-scenes footage
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dew-zbf9BDE) reveals the thought that went into
creating “Loop.” Milsom consulted with the Autistic Self Advocacy Network for Renee’s
character and her portrayal. She also cast a nonverbal autistic actress, Madison Bandy, to
voice Renee. When the team saw that Bandy was uncomfortable recording in a studio, they
decided to record her lines at her home instead. This is a stark contrast to the making of
“Music.” Sia revealed on Twitter that she initially cast an autistic actress to play the character
of Music, but recast the role when the actress “couldn’t handle” filming. 
The passion put into “Loop”  is reflected not only in its casting and writing, but in its
animation. The visuals of the lake transport the viewer to summertime, no matter what
season it really is. The audience also has a chance to see from Renee’s point of view.
Occasional cuts to her perspective convey how the environment can switch from calm to
overwhelming in seconds. The trip is scary at times, but by the final few seconds of the short,
Marcus and Renee have found a way to understand one another. As long as they’re working
together, they’re ready for whatever comes their way.
Streaming on: Disney+(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Anime Review: “Thus Spoke Rohan Kishibe”
 April 4, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/04/04/anime-review-thus-spoke-rohan-kishibe/) Hector Arrieta
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hector-arrieta/)
“Thus Spoke Rohan Kishibe” is a four-episode anime collection that will entertain “JoJo’s
Bizarre Adventure” fans — but not much else.“Thus Spoke Rohan Kishibe” is a four-episode anime series that deviates from the standard
JoJo formula of action-packed battles through a linear storyline. Instead, the series takes the
route of an anthology, covering the general theme of the costs of desires and success and
devoting episodes to different perspectives on the topic. 
For example, episode two, “Mutsu-Kabe Hill,” tackles the theme of lust though the story
Rohan tells of a woman cheating on her fiancee. One day, the fiance visits the woman while
the other guy is home. In an attempt to make the guy leave, she accidentally kills the man
after pushing him, causing his head to hit a golf club. As a result, the woman must hide and
keep the man’s body forever, routinely having to drain his eternally bleeding injuries. This
episode warns the audience of the cost of lust by demonstrating a constant cycle of suffering
of the woman. As if this wasn’t already strange enough, it is soon revealed that the father of
the woman’s daughter is the dead man, and the ability to never stop bleeding has been passed
onto her. The episode ends with Rohan using his stand, Heaven’s Door, to prevent the
daughter from bleeding out after she trips and falls in front of him, demonstrating that the
cost of lust can be passed down and cause further suffering.
Another positive of the show is that it still feels like a JoJo anime. The animation style
switches between parts four and five, allowing the viewer to see characters of the original
anime in styles outside of their respective part. Additionally, the spin-off shares many of the
same sounds and scores from the original JoJo anime, allowing longtime Jojo fans to feel
right at home. 
My only gripe with the show is that it’s only worth watching once. It’s interesting that the
series went with the route of an anthology considering “JoJo’s Bizarre Adventure” is a
franchise focused more on action. However, even the anthology aspect of the show feels
rather shallow, as the ending of each episode feels more set in stone rather than up to
interpretation. While the series may keep the viewer engaged during the first viewing, there
are no awesome fight scenes that make your draw drop like in “JoJo’s Bizarre Adventure,”
and the straightforward conclusions of the episodes don’t provide much entertainment for
future rewatching.
Overall, while Jojo fans will likely find the series sufficiently entertaining upon a first watch,
there isn’t much in the series to keep viewers coming back for more.
Director : Toshiyuki Kato 
Studio : David Production  
Release Date : Feb. 18, 2021  Grade : C+
Image courtesy of Sunriseread. 