RED (TAYLOR’S 
VERSION) REVIEW
Have you listened to Taylor 
Swift’s re-release of her 
signature album? You should, 
and then read Kaley Chun’s 
review of Red (Taylor’s 
Version), one of the favorites of 
the album. 
POWER DYNAMICS
FILM REVIEWSMusic Industry
“King Richard” & “Red Notice”OPINION, Page 4
A&E, Page 7
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“For me, 2014 Tumblr was the
best and worst of my internet 
life; it was something I 
shouldn’t have been exposed to at such a young age, but 
there was something about 
the era and what was being released that we were able 
to easily consume and create 
a subgenre of things that 
were recycled from previous 
generations before, but we could create an aesthetic 
vision.”
- PRISCILLA ANNE PUNO
LIFESTYLE, PAGE 8A&E, Page 6
A.S.  UPDATES................2
INITIATIVES....... .....3
ENVIRONMENT...........9
CROSSWORD  .............11
SPORTSWASHING.....12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 9   MONDAY , NOVEMBER 22, 2021  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MONDAY  
H 27 L 15
WEDNESDAY 
H 21 L 13
TUESDAY  
H 20 L 13
THURSDAY
H 26 L 15
Underground 
Scholars Initiatives 
Expands to Host 
More Activities 
and Events for 
Incarceration-
Impacted Students
Image courtesy of Master Sgt. David Eichaker / released.The Underground Scholars 
Initiative (USI) is attempting 
to establish a rehabilitation 
route from prison to school through recruitment, retention, 
and advocacy for incarcerated, 
formerly incarcerated, and system-impacted students.
In the spring of 2013, 
the Underground Scholars Initiative was established at UC Berkeley as a student-
led organization, headed by 
previously incarcerated and system-impacted students. As 
a result, similar organizations 
were established across other UC universities. 
The Underground Scholars 
Initiative chapter at UC San Diego was formed in fall 2019, co-founded by Bobby Edwards 
and Jose Lumbreras. 
The first event, “Education, 
not Incarceration,” was held right after the group’s establishment 
in collaboration with Students Against Mass Incarceration (SAMI), and the featured film “From Incarceration to 
Education (FITE).” The showing 
was followed by a discussion panel with formerly incarcerated 
students from UCSD.
On Nov. 16, USI held the final 
meeting of the quarter. This fall, USI started its partnership with 
Tutors for Juvenile Hall Initiative (TJHI). In this partnership 
program, USI plans to visit 
the local juvenile and mentor youths to create meaningful connections to those in higher 
education.
Beyond organizing several 
in-person workshops, USI has held several zoom meetings with 
state and federal representatives to discuss budget allocation. 
USI intends to hold a fresh-
start workshop to address the criminal records of those incarcerated before.
Starting Winter 2022, a 
Cross-Enrollment program will be launched to invite justice-
impacted community college 
students to take courses at UCSD. 
“We are trying to make 
contacts with local community colleges and state colleges 
to encourage them to make 
relationships to help transfer students to get accepted into UCSD and create a kind of 
network there,” said Bobby 
Edwards, a graduate student in the history department.By Jose Chavez  Senior Staff WriterCORONAVIRUS
UCSD Scientists Develop Novel Coronavirus Detection 
SystemINITIATIVES
See INITIATIVES,  page 3Graduate researchers at UC San Diego have developed a new system of  SARS-CoV-2 
detection, which can identify the presence 
of the virus in as soon as an hour after testing. The 
research, which has been published in the ACS Sen -
sors scientific journal, envisions that the new rapid diagnostic tools will be usable both in one’s home and in high-capacity locations such as airports. 
The sensitive enzymatic nucleic acid sequence 
reporter (SENSR) detection system is unique be -
cause it targets the mRNA sequence of SARS-CoV-2 in a two-step process. Researchers begin by 
“photocopying” the molecules collected within a 
patient’s sample using a process called an isother -
mal preamplification reaction. This produces many DNA fragments called amplicons that have many guide-RNA (gRNA) target sites. 
After the amplicons have been produced, they 
are split apart into double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and single-stranded infectious RNA (ssRNA). The ssRNA is then isolated and analyzed via a method 
called fluorescence or lateral flow readouts to look 
for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 genomic sequenc -
es.
“Basically, this technology is a method for us to take a sample from a patient and then try to de -
tect the presence of SARS coronavirus specifically,” 
said paper coauthor Dan Brogan in an interview 
with The UCSD Guardian. “We do this by initially amplifying the amount of SARS-CoV-2 to that seen 
in there and then detecting it by using a CRISPR 
enzyme, and this CRISPR enzyme recognizes the target.”
Clustered regularly interspaced short palin -
dromic repeats (CRISPR) technology is one of the progenitors of the SENSR system and focuses spe -
cifically on timely detection of pathogens by iden -
tifying genetic sequences in their DNA or RNA. Currently, many human pathogens are detected us -
ing a method known as real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). PCR is performed by repeatedly raising and lowering the temperature of a sample 
to help an added DNA replication enzyme copy the target DNA’s sequence.
This method is highly accurate and sensitive, as 
many copies of the target’s genome can be produced within a few hours. But it is time-consuming and 
requires specialized equipment specifically found 
in laboratories and healthcare facilities. Thus, the use of PCR is limited to laboratory or hospital set -
A.S.
A.S. Council Brief  Weeks 7 and 8See CORONAVIRUS,  page 3
Week 7
At their Week 7 meeting on Nov. 10, the As -
sociated Students discussed a variety of Senator projects involving items such as promoting student ridership of the extension of the Blue Line, creat -
ing an outdoor pajama movie night, and a week of wellness surrounding forms of wellness regard -
ing Teen Dating Violence Prevention and Mental Health Awareness.
Senator Thomas Le began the meeting updating 
on his Senator Project for creating greater involve -
ment with students in both the opening Blue Line 
Extension of the UC San Diego Trolley and public 
transportation in general. His project entails using giveaways as a means of incentivizing student in -
terest in two different ways.
The first is catered to UCSD students who sub -
mit photos and would then receive a sticker from the A.S. Graphic Studio as compensation for par -
ticipating. They will also be entered into a raffle with a prize yet to be announced.
Le also wanted to secure a table at the Blue 
Line opening event which needed to make sure to engage with the public attendees of the event. He wants to use the event to promote A.S. and get greater involvement with the public and students.
Arts and Humanities Senator Rhianen Cal -
lahan then discussed her project about creating a healthy event for trauma survivors that she has been working on in collaboration with CARE at 
the Sexual Assault Resource Center.
Callahan reached out to CARE at SARC to cre -
ate events that would promote healthy and safe en -
vironments. Callahan worked with Ashley Cooper, the SARC’s main events coordinator, to brainstorm 
different ideas.
The different logistics of the movie night are 
still being looked into in response to COVID-19 protocols, as well as factors such as weather and topic ideas/suggestions for the movie.
Callahan also promoted a week of wellness in 
February or May. Callahan proposed perhaps giv -
ing CARE, SARC, CAPS, and the Zone the spot -
light where each center could be recognized as a 
resource for students.
Callahan confirmed that all three centers were 
on board, and opened it up for anybody who was willing to collaborate.By Rodrigo Gutierrez  Contributing WriterBy Tianrui Huang
Contributing Writer
See A.S.,  page 2
Image courtesy of Bandwagon.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD  
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing EditorCo-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features EditorA&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
Senator William Wei then re -
ported on his work on the Eighth 
College Academic Workplan 
Group where they are working to figure out the GE and Writ -
ing Requirements for the future Eighth College.
Wei discussed how the theme 
for Eighth College is engagement 
and community, and because of 
that, they want diverse BIPOC perspective involvement in the 
project. Wei opened it up for 
anyone who has involvement in any BIPOC groups or clubs to get 
involved.
Vice President of Campus 
Affairs Isaac Lara then discussed 
HER, the psychological emer -
gency response team.
The executive team and Lara 
are working on forming a new 
committee on HER. Lara has 
delegated with appointing two members of A.S. to that commit -
tee.
Lara also discussed serving 
on the Wellness Symposium Working Group. Lara encour -
aged those programming well -
ness programs to work in con -junction with the Symposium, which is trying to become more 
student-centered with student-
programmed events. 
It is projected for Jan. 18 to 
Jan. 20. Lara mentioned how other groups like CARE and CAPS already have planned to be at this meeting, so involving 
senators’ projects can serve for 
promotion.
Lara also announced that the 
executives are working on mak -
ing a Mentor/Mentee program and what qualifications should 
be looked for.
Lara also focused on mak -
ing changes to Academic Affairs, 
which include transitioning the 
Academic Affairs of the Senate 
to underneath the supervision of the ADP Academic Affairs.
The current elections limit 
the voting of Academic Senators to the division a student’s major 
falls under.
“For example, as a psychol -
ogy major, the only one I could 
vote for was Social Sciences Sen -
ator Candidates. Similarly, for 
Rhiannen, they could only vote for those that had Arts and Hu -
manities majors,” Lara said.
Lara noted that it left data 
science, Scripps, and public 
health unrepresented because of the way the campus categorizes 
these majors. The executives are 
discussing potentially adding three more senators or making 
changes to solve this issue. 
There is also the consider -
ation of converting the Academ -
ic Affairs into a Vice Presidential role seen at sister UC campuses 
such as Berkeley, Los Angeles, and Santa Barbara.
VP Adrianne Blackshire then 
shared a report about a sum -
mit about UCSA Government 
Relations Lobby Corps Summit 
that took place on Nov. 13 at 10 a.m. to learn lobbying strategy and skills. Blackshire noted that 
there was a struggle with regis -
tration and encouraged A.S. to 
promote the event.
A.S. Council meetings take 
place at 6 p.m. every Wednesday and are open to students. Stu -
dents can participate in these 
meetings by joining their Zoom link or tuning in on Facebook 
Live. 
Week 8
At their Week 8 meeting on 
Nov. 17, AS Council discussed a 
variety of issues such as revising 
Academic Divisions and Geisel renovations, in addition to two 
special presentations regard -
ing the Advocacy Agenda Sur -
vey and Standardized External 
Committee Reporting.
Chief Communications Of -
ficer Tommy Jung reported the results from the Advocacy Agen -
da Survey, which was conducted through Instagram from Oct. 26 to Oct. 31.
Jung reported that the survey 
was not representative of the stu -
dent body because of its limited sample size and response bias. 
This survey was meant to be used 
only for the general points.
For rest of article, 
visit UCSDGuardian.org
▶ A.S., from page 1
Art by Ava Bayley for The UCSD Guardian.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
During the COVID-19 pandemic, USI 
tried to build a minor program for Carceral 
Studies. However, this minor-establishing 
process didn’t run successfully because of the limited interests displayed in the 
undergraduate community. 
“But the footwork is still productive. 
We contacted a lot of community groups 
and kind of strengthened our network. 
They’re pushing prison education 
programs in the region and other community partners, nonprofits, etc.,” 
Edwards said.
Last year, USI partnered with the Office 
of Academic Support & Instructional Services (OASIS) to establish the Triton 
Underground Scholars (TUS) program in the late summer, with the purpose of creating a receptive culture and supportive 
system for formerly incarcerated and 
system-impacted students at UCSD. 
Jose Lumbreras, Sara Solorzano, and 
Elizabeth Hall, as a part of the initiative, are the first three student staff members of the TUS program. 
With resources provided by the OASIS 
resource hub, the transfer progress is a great focus of TUS.
The overall application process was 
further introduced by Sara Solorzano, an Eleanor Roosevelt College student majoring in international studies with a 
focus in sociology, and who is also the 
Outreach Coordinator for TUS.
“Liz is kind of connecting us with different professors on campus with admission — we have somebody in 
admissions that helps us and housing,” 
Solorzano said. “We bring in the UC San Diego writing tutors to those I’m doing 
outreach to, which is all community 
college students filling out applications.” 
A decent number of program 
coordinators are formerly incarcerated 
individuals who are succeeding beyond 
the stigma.
“I feel like it’s a relief — to be able to 
have that personal aspect actually been spoken about, and have a program to help you with that. [The USI community] 
doesn’t judge you about your past, or 
disqualify you for some reason, [just] because they don’t know the full story,” Solorzano said. 
Solorzano also shared her personal 
experience from USI. Inspired by her older brother from UC Berkeley, she 
decided to get involved in USI at UCSD:
“I was in community college — I’m a 
transfer student and I never spoke to any counselors or to any other students about 
my past,” Solorzano said. “And [in the USI group] there’s no judgment, and [people 
here] just like what can we do to get out 
there and help others.”
“We were not just in terms of like 
students who are producing knowledge 
and contributing to the educational 
environment,” Edwards added. “Certain worldly knowledge, understandings, and experiences that are a positive contribution to the production of knowledge [and] to 
the university’s community in general.”
“Organizationally, this is an 
undergraduate group, but really it is a community for anyone. This issue has 
infiltrated every aspect of our society, and no family gets removed from this system ... We’re all valuable human beings, and 
we just need to be nurtured in a way 
that will inspire the light to shine out in this group,” said Earl Warren College 
student Colleen Murphy, President of USI at UCSD.
The TUS office has officially 
established its office space at the 
beginning of Fall Quarter. According to Murphy, several group members started 
as full-time staff to work and dedicate 
themselves to TUS. 
The purpose, pointed out by Solorzano, 
is to create this space at the university that 
doesn’t judge but understands, welcomes, 
and empowers others to continue with higher education and follow their dreams.tings.
The research team envisions SENSR 
becoming integrated in locations such as airports so that passengers can quickly determine whether they might be carry -
ing a virus through a briefly obtained and analyzed sample. The UCSD researchers note that further development of alter -
native isothermal amplification methods 
could allow for SENSR to have multiple 
molecular applications in mitigating fu -
ture outbreaks.
UCSD Biological Sciences Professor 
and senior paper author Omar Akbari envisions SENSR becoming important in locations such as airports so that passen -
gers can quickly determine whether they might be carrying SARS-CoV-2.
“We need to keep innovating in the 
detect-and-protect arena to come up with more tools so when there is another pan -
demic, we will have scalable point-of-care diagnostics systems in place for rapid dis -
tribution,” Akbari said.
  The ACS Sensors paper published 
brought together a mix of UCSD graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, project 
scientists, project scientists, and faculty members. This includes but isn’t limited 
to: Daniel Brogan, Duverney Chaverra-Rodriguez, Calvin Lin, Andrea Smidler, 
Ting Yang, Lenissa Alcantara, Junru Liu, 
Robyn Raban, Pedro Belda-Ferre, Rob Knight, Elizabeth Komives, Omar Ak -
bari, and Igor Antoshechkin of CalTech.
More information on co-authors and 
contributors to this paper can be found online via Dr. Akbari’s website “The Ak -
bari Lab.” Undergraduates with previous experience in genetics, biochemistry, mo -
lecular biology, cell biology, or computa -
tional biology are invited to apply for the lab through Port Triton and a minimum commitment of 20 hours per week, span -
ning two semesters and a summer. When 
undergraduate positions are made avail -
able, the link to the UCSD Port Triton 
website will go live on UCSDGuardian.org. 
When undergraduate positions are 
made available, the link to the UCSD Port Triton website will go live; it is not live as 
of the publication of this piece.▶ CORONAVIRUS , from page 1
▶ INITIATIVES , from page 1
Image courtesy of Mila De La Torre for The UCSD Guardian.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
It comes as no surprise that seemingly every media 
outlet has highlighted some smattering of detail 
regarding Taylor Swift’s recent release of “Red (Taylor’s Version),” the iconic remake of her already popular 2012 album “Red.” While these rerecordings certainly hold a significant artistic meaning for Swift, they also stand as a strong symbol of reclaimed power — power that was often denied to Swift as a young woman navigating the highly toxic and overly misogynistic labyrinth of the music industry. One song in particular, “All Too Well (Taylor’s Version) (10 Minute Version),” brings an unexpected awareness to the issue of unbalanced power dynamics that leave young, impressionable artists vulnerable to authority figures who don’t hesitate to capitalize on naivety. Swift’s overall album and presence in the industry from a very young age serves as a reminder of unfortunate instances of grooming and power imbalances that remain an ongoing issue even in an era that prides itself on progressiveness.
 I t is certainly heartwarming and encouraging 
to see so many female artists find success in the music industry; however, it’s important to remember that even though the industry seems to radiate success, these women are still subjected to individuals who control their career, their contracts, their music, etc. More often than not, those in control are men. In 2018, around 97% of producers in the industry were men, meaning that young artists are at risk for falling victim to the significantly unbalanced power dynamic present . This imbalance becomes apparent when we consider how common instances of sexual assault and sexual harrassment are between men and women. Male producers, record executives, and those in positions of power are more often than not the perpetrators of these unfortunate events. According to a study in the United Kingdom, around 60% of women in the music industry have been subject to sexual harassment. This figure is disappointingly high whereas accountability and efforts toward long-lasting change are disappointingly low.Considering the young ages at which some female 
artists enter this dangerously male-dominated industry, 
the situation becomes more alarming. Oftentimes, sexual 
predators in the industry tend to entice young girls with the promise of fame and management only to capitalize 
on these girls’ contracted vulnerability. However, even if 
these young women willingly enter the sphere of fame and 
the world of celebrities, they are still highly vulnerable 
and likely to be taken advantage of. 
Take Swift as an example. She first appeared in the 
music scene at the young age of 14 when she began her 
contract with Sony/ATV and became the youngest artist to sign on with the company. At such a young age, she was already privy to the unbalanced power dynamics present in the industry and has reportedly struggled against being 
controlled and bullied by Scooter Braun, her manager at 
the time, as well as the CEO of Big Machine Records, 
Scott Borchetta. This didn’t mark the end of Swift’s 
difficulties regarding male colleagues. About four years 
later, when Swift reached the legal age of adulthood, one 
of her first relationships featured an age gap of 13 years; the singer John Meyer was 32 at the time compared to 
Swift’s 19. She entered another unbalanced relationship a 
couple years later with actor Jake Gyllenhaal, featuring a 
9-year age gap. 
Unfortunately, Swift’s experiences are not isolated 
instances of grooming. The relationship between singer 
Marilyn Manson and childhood actress Evan Rachel 
Wood is one of the more disturbing examples. The couple 
met in 2005 when Wood was only 19-years-old and Manson was 36. They went public with their relationship two years later before eventually breaking it off in 2010 
after getting engaged. Despite this instance happening 
more than 10 years ago, it seems the industry hasn’t 
adapted to prevent these incidents since young women are still being taken advantage of due to an unshifting hierarchy of male dominance. Even popular artists, like 
Olivia Rodrigo and Billie Eilish, have had their own 
encounters with age gaps. In Rodrigo’s case, she had just 
turned 18 when her relationship with 24-year-old music producer Adam Faze went public. This relationship is more than off-putting when considering that Faze is an older man who holds a position of power in the music 
industry while Rodrigo is a young, impressionable girl 
rising to a newfound fame. Yet, the media’s coverage of 
Faze and Rodrigo’s relationship is disturbingly normal with few outlets taking note of the age gap between 
the singer and producer. Rather than romanticizing 
the relationship and splattering pictures of the couple 
making public displays of affection, the media should 
be criticizing Faze’s actions and working to dismantle 
the idea that grooming is okay. This level of awareness 
is especially vital to change because once young women reach legal adulthood at the age of 18, these types of romantic relationships are technically allowed in the eyes of the law. However, on a moral and ethical level, they are far from acceptable.   
It’s heartening to see women like Swift and Wood find 
the courage to speak out against grooming in the music industry and openly talk about their own experiences 
with it. When Swift recalls the events of her second 
relationship in great detail throughout “Red (Taylor’s 
Version),” she helps others recognize and acknowledge the emotional turmoil and pain that resulted in being 
taken advantage of at such an impressionable age. Stories 
like theirs serve as an important reminder and warning 
to other girls, which can help them avoid falling victim to similar situations. While more action and intervention is needed to balance out the power imbalances between 
men in power and female artists, awareness is a key step 
in beginning this arduous process. Hopefully, change is 
on the horizon. Unbalanced Power Dynamics in the Music Industry
 by Priscilla Anne Puno 
Lifestyle Co-editor
Image courtesy of The NY Daily News and Olivia Gale.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
but also because it is a return to the beloved pop-country sound of Swift’s previous 
albums. The re-recordings offer the perfect opportunity to celebrate these bygone sounds, 
memories, and even specific songs once dearly loved. So, finally, the red cherry on top of the sundae, the bookend of the album: “All Too Well (Taylor’s Version) (10 Minute Ver -
sion).” This rendition is an upgrade to a song already widely regarded as one of Swift’s best. The ten-minute version doubles the intensity and storytelling of a heartbreaking breakup. Every moment is mapped out, from the hope she felt in the beginning: “And I was thinking on the drive down, any time now, he’s gonna say it’s love,” to the horrible, crushing pain of “You call me up again just to break me like a promise.” It is difficult to be so vulnerable in front of anyone, but Swift’s openness to the entire world is what makes this album special: within the excruciating sadness of this album is a girl, and while she may be finding a new beginning, her fans get to share in that journey.
It is unfortunate, the lengths Taylor Swift has had to go to to reclaim ownership of her 
music, but it has offered a unique opportunity for her to “Begin Again.” Swift and her fans now have the chance to revisit the old favorites they remember “All Too Well,” presented in a new light. It is a fun time to be a Taylor Swift fan, and if you are not one, it is never too late to start with the “Sad Beautiful Tragic” re-recording of “Red.”Sad Beautiful Magic: “Red (Taylor’s Version)” Review
In T aylor Swift’s “Red (T aylor’s Version)” , old and new songs alike imbue a nine year old album with a fresh perspective on growing up and breaking down.
Just in time for “autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place,” Taylor Swift has 
released the re-recording of her album “Red” on Nov. 12. The 2012 album was her first fully pop album. Released in the aftermath of a difficult high-profile breakup, “Red” is a story about love, losing it, and finding a new beginning after heartbreak. It is one of the most personal of Taylor Swift’s works, focusing on real moments and the emotions she felt within them. In the re-recording, Swift has revisited this time in her life and come out with a more mature, self-aware, and picturesque version of an album that was already arguably a masterpiece.
Swift’s intention behind re-recording her songs is to regain ownership of the music 
she has already created. So many tracks on “Red (Taylor’s Version)” sound incredibly similar to their predecessors. Songs like “Red,” “I Almost Do,” and “Begin Again” stick to the script with nothing outstandingly new in their vocal performances, instrumental backings, or even tonal inflections. In other re-recordings, Swift’s voice has matured and she sings with a more well-rounded perspective. In songs like “Sad Beautiful Tragic” and “The Moment I Knew,” Swift is given an opportunity to look back on moments in her life with a fuller understanding of the subject matter she wrote nine years ago. It is one thing to sing about heartbreak in the moment, and an entirely different one to sing those songs after experiencing so much more loss, hardship, love, and success.
Sometimes, though, naïvety is needed for authenticity. Certain songs capture the 
youthfulness of Taylor Swift at a particular time in her career. One song inferior to the original is “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together.” It sounds forced and loses the vin -
dictive power it had when it was first released. Some songs are not made for re-recording because they lose their flair over the years. Similarly, the re-recorded “22” is off-putting. Swift is a 31-year-old woman singing about being 22, and the genuine excitement she had at that age does not translate, especially in the chorus. Not every song was designed to transcend the era of the early 2010’s, but the goal of this album is not solely to top charts with new hits. It is a revisiting of the songs people once loved, and a recovery of work that means a lot to Taylor Swift and her fans.
However, there is more to listen to than just the original tracklist of “Red.” On top of 
re-recording her old catalogue, Swift is also releasing “from the vault” tracks that have been stored away since the album was first written and recorded. It is unfathomable how she kept these songs to herself for nearly a decade, but they have been an exciting and sur -
prising addition to the re-recording process. Of the nine songs from the vault, a few have been getting more attention than others. “Message in a Bottle” is a pop-synth dance track that is undeniably a fun song, but is too shallow for an album full of emotional moments. More apt is “Nothing New,” a sad, ruminating piece featuring Phoebe Bridgers. This song includes the lyricism expected from “Red.” The album feels encapsulated in a single line when the two artists sing, “How did I go from growing up to breaking down?” In balance with this powerfully-poignant song, of course, there must also be a diss track — a slot filled by “I Bet You Think About Me.” Featuring Chris Stapleton and a few harmonicas, this song is catchy, snappy, and has already been made into a music video starring Miles Teller. It is a fun track because of its hilarious callouts, but also because it is a return to the beloved pop-country sound of Swift’s previous albums. 
The re-recordings offer the perfect opportunity to celebrate these bygone sounds, 
memories, and even specific songs once dearly loved. So, finally, the red cherry on top of the sundae, the bookend of the album: “All Too Well (Taylor’s Version) (10 Minute Ver -
sion).” This rendition is an upgrade to a song already widely regarded as one of Swift’s best. The ten-minute version doubles the intensity and storytelling of a heartbreaking 
Grade: A-
Artists: Taylor Swift
Release Date: Nov. 12, 2021
Image courtesy of  Bandwagon Asia. Kaley cHUN  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Scan Here to 
Suggest Songs for Future 
Spinning Twelves Reviews!
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
If you ever wondered how world-wide famous tennis players Venus and Serena Wil -
liams came to be the best at their craft, then look no further than Reinaldo Marcus Green’s 
biopic “King Richard.” This film is a look at how Venus and Serena Williams become the 
tennis superstars they are with the guidance and coaching of their father Richard Wil -
liams, portrayed by Will Smith. We begin in Compton where we see Richard trying to 
find a coach for Venus and Serena (for free, which one can imagine is extremely difficult) 
while also coaching them himself along with his wife Brandy (Aunjanue Ellis). Green 
balances drama and comedy by showing the violent gang presence in their neighbor -
hood they grew up in and juxtaposing it with Richard’s use of his natural comedic charm to persuade wealthy tennis coaches in better neighborhoods. Green shows how well he can balance emotions like these throughout the film, especially in a scene where Richard takes note of some promoters who might have made a remark about his race, a testament 
to Green and Smith’s skill to be able to make a scene dealing with race comedy.  
While on the surface this might seem like a film about Venus and Serena Williams’ 
early childhood — and they are a main focus — this is definitely a film about Richard Williams. Although this might throw some audiences off, it makes for a compelling story 
that shines a spotlight on the people that helped the Williams sisters achieve their success. 
We follow Richard more than we follow his children, as we are able to see the commit -
ment and dedication he brought forth in order to ensure his daughters’ success. The script expertly navigates through Richard’s story along with his daughters’. Will Smith gives an incredible performance that will be remembered as one of his best. He embodies the role of Richard Williams with care and respect, and breathes authenticity into the role. Smith shows both the good and bad sides of Richard, but keeps his humanity intact. There are many instances in the film where he is tough on his kids and lets his ego and insecurities get the best of him, one of which happens later in the film when he won’t let Venus play in a tournament despite protests from Venus, coach Rick Macci (Jon Bernthal), and Brandy. Smith is able to show Williams’ flaws through these scenes and show how his tough at -
titude is coming from a place of love. His performance also elevates the others in the film, including Saniyya Sidney’s portrayal of Venus and Demi Singleton’s portrayal of Serena. They bring life and a special sense of charm to the film, making their family dynamic wonderful to watch. We also get to see a magnetic duo in Richard and the Williams sis -
ters’ new Florida coach Rick Macci. Bernthal and Smith are dynamic on screen together as their characters go tit for tat and Macci is forever exasperated by Richard’s demands and his tendency to steal his carts.  
This film excels in creating the ultimate feel-good story. It has the standard biopic 
formula and hits the same beats as others, but keeps it engaging and fun as we experience the highs and lows of the Williams family. The editing of the film creates a great balance between the family drama and relationships, alongside the actual tennis playing. Even if you have no knowledge of the sport, you will find yourself enjoying the matches, as they are exciting and intense. Green does a great job of displaying the matches and letting us feel what the Williams family feels watching Venus and Serena play. The production team paid close attention to detail when designing the look and feel of the film. From recreating the home videos Richard made to reviving the girls’ hairstyles, everything had an im -
mense amount of care put into it. Green saw how the media portrayed Richard and after hearing the family’s perspective, it was clear the love, time, and commitment that Richard and Brandy gave to their family, and Green made sure to translate that onto the screen. 
King Richard is a heartwarming tale that touches the heart. It’s an inspiring film that 
tells a powerful story about persistence, drive, and hard love that will have you leaving the theater in high hopes. Beyoncé’s uplifting song “Be Alive” playing over the credits only bolsters that feeling. King Richard will definitely leave you feeling good to be alive. “Red Notice, ” Netflix’s newest action-comedy from writer/director Rawson Marshall 
Thurber, has three things going for it: Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, Ryan Reynolds, and a $200 million budget. On paper, the film sounds like a surefire success — but then again, so did “Cats. ” Luckily for fans of the leading actors and the action-comedy genre in general, 
“Red Notice” is no “Cats. ” It’s not reaching the astronomical streaming numbers of “Squid 
Game” or creating much of a buzz on social media, but it’s not a horrific mess either. Fans of Johnson and Reynolds will be sure to enjoy “Red Notice, ” if only to get their fix of both 
actors in between installments of their more well-known franchises.
Johnson plays John Hartley, an intelligent FBI profiler who locks up famed art thief 
Nolan Booth (Reynolds) only to end up framed for the same crime and thrown in a prison 
cell with Booth. It turns out both of them have been played by the Bishop (Gal Gadot), a 
femme fatale art thief bent on stealing all three of Cleopatra’s mythic golden eggs to sell on 
the black market. The ensuing cat-and-mouse game leads the characters to exotic locales 
like Bali, Rome, and Argentina, though these backdrops are not explored by the characters 
or even shown much on-screen beyond title cards announcing the location. Like the prem -
ise of rival thieves chasing after a ‘MacGuffin, ’ the international settings featured in the film are just another box checked off of the generic-action-film BINGO card. 
While the plot — reluctant partners teaming up to take down a common enemy — is 
nothing new, the chemistry and charisma of the film’s leading men make the tired setup feel fresh. In a particularly amusing scene, Reynolds loudly outs Johnson as a member of 
law enforcement in the middle of a Russian prison cafeteria, much to Johnson’s chagrin. 
After the two make a daring escape from prison, they’re grateful for a change of clothes — 
until Johnson finds out that all there is for him to wear is a sparkly sweater that says “Gotta Dance. ” These and other moments where the two stars playfully antagonize each other are among the film’s more entertaining moments. Perhaps this should come as no surprise 
given Johnson’s past success playing the ‘straight man’ to an off-the-cuff partner. 
The same cannot be said of the scenes they share with Gadot, who delivers a perfor -
mance almost as wooden as her acting in the ill-received “Wonder Woman: 1984. ” Most 
of Gadot’s time on screen is spent kicking, tripping, and otherwise incapacitating the men of “Red Notice” to get what she wants. Her character is able to outwit Hartley and Booth with minimal effort, whether intercepting a phone call from an INTERPOL Inspector or pretending to be the warden of the gulag they’re locked up in. As fun as it is to watch a fe -
male antagonist go toe-to-toe against two action heroes, overall, her character suffers from a lack of development beyond being able to fight. Booth and Hartley both have backstories about how their fathers led them into their respective career paths. The most we learn of Gadot’s “Bishop” comes from a twist revealed in the final minutes of the film, and even that fails to give any real insight into her motivations. If anything, Gadot’s character is less developed than Inspector Das, a minor character played by “Umbrella Academy” alum Ritu Arya.
Gadot’s performance aside, “Red Notice” is a passable film. Does it have complex char -
acters? No. A compelling, original story? Not quite. Spectacular visuals? There are some decent shots, but nothing audiences haven’t seen before — and that’s fine. No one is watch-ing “Red Notice” for the commentary on the human condition, the incredible plot, or the mind-blowing cinematography. They’re watching “Red Notice” to see their favorite actors 
play action-hero versions of themselves while delivering a few exhale-worthy jokes. Go in 
with that mindset, and you won’t be disappointed.
Grade: A
Director: Reinaldo Marcus Green
Starring: Will Smith, Aunjanue 
Ellis, Jon Bernthal
Release Date: Nov. 19, 2021
Rated: PG-13Tennis superstars and executive producers Venus and Serena Williams share the 
invigorating and uplifting story of their early career with the guidance and sup -
port of their father Richard Williams.King Richard ReviewFilm Review: “Red Notice”
Neither remarkable nor terrible, “Red Notice” is a typical action-comedy buoyed by its 
charismatic talent.
Grade: B-
Director: Rawson Marshall Thurber
Starring: Dwayne Johnson, Ryan 
Reynolds, Gal Gadot
Release Date: November 5, 2021 
(Theatrical)
Rating: PG-13 
Image courtesy of  NBC News. 
 Image courtesy of  Netflix. 
Bailey bujinosek  SENIOR STAFF WRITERKamiah Johnson  CONTRIBUTING WRITER8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
Picture this: there I am, sitting in bed 
surrounded by my One Direction posters 
plastered into every corner of my room, 
barely allowing the candy pink painted walls to seep through. I scroll through Tumblr on my iPod touch listening to “Chocolate” by The 1975. And there it is. The most iconic wardrobe staple to ever hit the clothing racks of teenagers all around the world: the American Apparel Tennis Skirt. Immediately, I ran to my mom and begged her if I could get this skirt. The bothered look on her face already told me everything I needed to know. A stern “no” shut me up as I sulkily walked back to my Niall Horan-infested walls.
Fast forward seven years into the 
future, and there I am again, 20-year-old Priscilla strolling around campus to my 2 p.m. lecture. And then I spotted it: the American Apparel Tennis Skirt. I go still and my mind immediately flashes back to 
“Having these hidden desires 
on an entirely anonymous platform 
became a pinnacle experience 
to our generation — people were 
easily able to share their similar 
interests during their teenage years. For me, 2014 Tumblr was the 
best and worst of my internet life; 
it was something I shouldn’t have 
been exposed to at such a young 
age, but there was something about the era and what was being 
released [music, trends, etc.] that 
we were able to easily consume 
and create a subgenre of things 
that were recycled from previous 
generations before, but we could 
create an aesthetic vision. 2014 
Tumblr has followed us for so 
long. My dad was a teenager in 
the ’70s and a lot of that time still 
followed him to who he is today. 
The internet was growing rapidly 
at this time, and we were able to 
revel in all that was being created 
and shared.”
The Chokehold of  2014 Tumblr: The Original Blueprint
As the saying goes, history repeats it -
self. In the times of Vine culture and new fashion trends, we are in the new age of trends and aesthetics. From the infamous 
e-girl hair to Instagram photo dumps, we 
are defining a new era of trends that will 
be looked back on the same way we look back at 2014 Tumblr. 
Still wrapping my brain around the 
fact I am now 20 years old, the number of responsibilities I have continues to rack up, and I’ve realized that I’m just trying to hold onto one last thing before I let my childhood go. Although I’ll never get the same experience back, it’s an era that my friends and I continue to revel in. It was a crutch that allowed millions of teenag -
ers from around the world to share trends and opened the door to the world of mu -
sic, fashion, and creativity. Cheers to new trends that continue to pave the way for the youth.
Priscilla circa 2014 — a naive eighth-grader 
who had no business begging her mom to 
buy her a $50 American Apparel Tennis 
Skirt that would most likely go out of style 
within a year (might be up for debate, but 
this skirt still has a chokehold on today’s fashion).
Although I never got my grubby little 
hands on that skirt, memories of tennis skirts, flower crowns, blk. water, and Lana Del Rey flooded my brain. I know I’m not alone in this, so here’s my question: Why does the 2014 Tumblr era have a chokehold on my brain? A small part of my brain remembers these memories so vividly, but why? Is it nostalgia? Is it the desire to remain innocent? These questions rack my brain as I constantly revisit my Google Photos, looking at how happy I was during this time. 
In an attempt to understand the 
impact of this time, 20-year-old Maddy Khachadoorian, a junior at UC Santa Cruz, shared her experience during this time and how it has shaped who she is as a person: by Priscilla Anne Puno 
Lifestyle Co-editor
Image courtesy of Sofia Guaico from Unsplash.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
NELSON  ESPINAL 
The Blurred Lines of  Personal Environmental Responsibility and Convenience
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian. By Eunice Kim
Staff Writer
There is a strange dichotomy 
between how many individuals, 
such as Gen Z, care for the envi -
ronment and how enamored soci -
ety is with convenience today. 
People can reuse every glass jar 
in sight and religiously use a metal straw and still Doordash orders 
that will never see the light of day 
once the disposable containers are consumed from. 
At worst, one might be called 
a hypocrite, but these actions aren’t so far from potentially be -
ing one’s best efforts. Regardless of each attempt to do well for the environment, the maintenance of 
a sustainable lifestyle undoubtedly 
collides with the tempting nature of today’s consumerist society. 
This is tricky territory because 
this latter route is oftentimes out of how entrenched society is in convenience which, in turn, is ex -
acerbated by the allure of every -
thing being available and pretty 
on our doorsteps within days or 
minutes.
This is not to say that sustain -
ability can’t be quite attractive on 
the exterior. Stringing along little tote bags to Trader Joe’s or thrift  
stores is as trendy and decorated 
as it is reusable. They no longer stem just out of necessity, either; 
it’s preferable to many. UC San Di -
ego offers green plastic tupperware 
containers in dining halls and sus -
tainable alternatives like the stu -
dent compost garden along with 
as many recyclable containers as 
trash containers. Many ask if these 
green acts along with other indi -
vidual moves are enough to come 
close to collectively offsetting or 
affecting the big, carbon-emitting companies and corporations. And if they aren’t, the question arises of whether people should feel the need to engage in productive, en -
vironmentally-inclined ways. It is 
not surprising that the jadedness 
individuals feel about their per -
sonal contributions for the envi -
ronment isn’t exactly decreasing. 
Though the COVID-19 pan -
demic went on to halt activity for 
factories and flights for more than a year, this, apparently, still has done little to lower global tem -
peratures. Either way, any “fix” wouldn’t have been sustainable in 
the long run when the goal was to 
tackle the pandemic, not to use the pandemic and the harm it wreaked against people to lower the insidi -
ous environmental emissions. 
According to a Pew Research 
Center report back in May, Gen -
eration Z and — a bit less so — 
Millennials see the climate as the 
top priority for future generations. They have engaged with discus -
sions and social media posts on climate change, support phasing out the use of oil, gas, and coal more than previous generations, and have felt more anxiety in re -
gards to climate concerns. 
There are also partisan divides: 
younger Democratic-leaning in -
dividuals ended up more likely than Republicans to support cli -mate change action, although 
younger Republican-leaning in -
dividuals were found less likely 
than their older counterparts to support expanding fossil fuel sources. The report also states that those very strongly con -
cerned about the climate believe that human activity contributes 
a lot to climate change than 
other less concerned groups, 
which might explain their more hands-on, invested approach to climate change.
In a Vox interview back in 
2018 held by reporter Gaby del Valle with Richard Heede, the co-founder and co-director of the Climate Accountability Institute, which is behind the Carbon Majors report. Heede acknowledges that 100 com -
panies are behind almost all 
greenhouse gas emissions. He 
established this report back in 
2013 to showcase how fossil fu -
els have increased since 1988.
“This report looks at in -
dustrial carbon dioxide and 
methane emissions deriving from fossil fuel producers in the past, present, and future,” Heede wrote in the report. “In 1988, human-induced climate change was officially recognized through the establishment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Since this time, the fossil fuel indus -
try has doubled its contribution to global warming by emitting 
as much greenhouse gas in 28 
years as in the 237 years be -
tween 1988 and the birth of the 
industrial revolution.”
It seems that while personal 
action for the environment stirs polarizing conversation about whether it is beneficial or not, those that feel more environ -
mentally conscious are more inclined to do more. In other words, though corporations engage in most of the dirty work when it comes to fossil fuel emissions, our choices in regards to sustainability still reflect what we can’t help but see —or also desire to see in our environment. 
Comedian and commenta -
tor Bill Maher acknowledges the environmental inclination 
of Gen Z, but he might describe 
one engaging in consumer -
ism and convenient purchases 
on top of this environmental consciousness as hypocritical.After all, a couple of weeks ago, as part of his “Real Time with Bill Maher” show that focuses on mostly political conversa -
tion with guests, he asserted in a video, “New Rule: OK, Zoom -
er,” that today’s lavish lifestyle versus the environmentally at -
tuned are two starkly different lifestyles that cannot coincide; it’s one or the other. 
He references young billion -
aire Kylie Jenner as the opposite 
of carbon neutral, but also how 
she has many, many more fol -
lowers on Instagram than the 
also young environmentalist, Greta Thunberg. “We get it. Boomers dropped 
the ball on the environment ...We dropped it like it was hot … But have you picked it up?” Maher said. 
To him, there is an overlap 
of Gen Z and the Baby Boomer generation — an overlap that in -
sists on reaping the benefits one 
can now. But this argument is 
also tricky, not just because it’s displeasing for Gen Z or Baby Boomers to perhaps want to hear.
For instance, Lauren Singer, 
a New York University alumna, is well-known for her efforts in keeping all of her trash for the year in a small mason jar among other things in the zero-waste movement, a lifestyle to conserve waste. And though she never dic -
tates this is the way sustainability must be as much as it is one’s best efforts, the lines may get blurry as to what’s convenient and pos -
sible versus what’s unsustainable and problematic. 
“I would never impose my 
lifestyle on anyone else, whether 
it be coworkers, friends or fam -
ily,” Singer told the Huffington 
Post. “I respect everyone’s per -
sonal decisions and don’t go off  telling people about how I live unless they ask and are inter -
ested. However, if we ever were to have a physical office, I would make it zero-waste.”
This idea is especially true 
when both arenas — the wasteful 
and the more environmentally 
conscious — coexist. 
Can one be a proponent for 
recycling and campus organi -
zations like CALPIRG and still 
passively enjoy Jenner’s Insta -
gram story on her mink fur slides 
amongst other luxury pairs in her opulent abode? Where can the line between choosing the route of sustainability and warding off  many consumerist pursuits even if they are convenient be drawn?
Sustainability requires delib -
eration even if it’s not necessar -
ily more expensive: the kind of packaging to use, transportation method, voting choices, etc. 
As an example of how this is -
sue isn’t so black and white, some say that the conversation against single-plastic items like straws is a trivial distraction for com -
panies to feel good while others 
say it at least triggers the conver -
sation of biodegradable versus non-biodegradable products.
Like Singer implies, such may 
not matter as long as people put 
their best foot forward for the 
environment, but this also means awareness. The COP26 climate 
change summit took place in Glasgow, Scotland from Oct. 31 
to Nov. 12, in which U.S. climate 
envoy John Kerry dubbed the 
26th conference as the “last best 
hope for the world.”
The goal of the summit is to 
cut carbon and aid less-devel -
oped countries in reaching their goals without economic hardship 
— part of getting the Paris Cli -
mate Accord up and going more 
efficiently. In the Atlantic article, 
the author predicts that Demo -
crats in Congress will make an 
even bigger decision, which is 
the decision to pass President Joe 
Biden’s Build Back Better Act. 
Robinson Meyer, the staff writer 
for The Atlantic and author of 
The Weekly Planet, criticizes the 
UN’s lack of changes to domestic policy to combat climate change. 
But Meyer ominously says 
that the failure of Biden’s act would be problematic as people will become jaded with the U.S.’ incompetence in addressing cli -
mate change properly. Heede’s focus on how action can still be in the homefront echoes more of 
what Meyer said about the realm 
of domestic policy. Heede also 
states that neither of two areas —one that says making individ -
ual choices is futile and the other that says one should do every -
thing they can —is enough. 
There is more to do such as 
voting for more renewable ener -
gy and even making individual, symbolic moves for the environ -
ment that are simply right by ourselves and grandkids.
“There needs to be structural 
change on a government level 
that is then implemented system -
atically. I don’t think the onus is 
all on the individual, but I also think it’s a bit hypocritical to en -
tirely blame corporations when these corporations exist mostly because of the consumer want 
for their product. We’re all tied 
together, so that’s why the chang -
es need to be on a broader, more systemic level,” Nicole Manley, a 
junior at John Muir College, said. 
Sending and keeping emails 
requires fossil fuels. Engaging in 
Bitcoin and cryptocurrency re -
quires fossil fuels — a lot of them. 
In fact, the footprint of this 
mining for cryptocurrency is 
more than the carbon footprint 
of the United Arab Emirates 
with the power required for it 
being the reason why it’s con -
nected to the least expensive and least-regulated sources of energy. Younger folks are engaging in this virtual arena more than ever. 
Beloved celebrities, like Rihanna, 
and their promotion of their 
lines and products caters to Gen -
eration Z, but oftentimes it’s also neatly wrapped by the bow of fast 
fashion and dialogue of profit 
over adequate pay to those bear -
ing the burden of production. 
In the same vein, online sites 
like Shein are so ubiquitous and 
cheap with prices that the same 
top selling on the site can end up at a thrift store with no cer -
tainty that it will actually be sold — even if these secondhand shops are widely popular. Stand -
ing by celebrities or products behind major, carbon-emitting 
items can be both seen as a way 
to obtain affordable products or a way for today’s generation to 
be another cog in consumerism’s 
wheels.
Gen Z  is undoubtedly more 
environmentally conscious than 
the generations that came before. 
It is undeniable that the genera -
tion is more likely to see and reap the fruits,or lack thereof,of what they take. But this is also a time where the intoxicating allure of convenience — from clothing to cryptocurrency — reels us in. So while many wish to discern whose problem it is to bear and where to go from there, there is 
another difficulty: how excessive 
production can meet overcon -
sumption, certainly, but more generally, how the lines blur be -
tween people’s best efforts and what’s most convenient. FEATURING THE ART
OF GERALD CLARKE,
FROM THE CAHUILLA
BAND OF INDIANS
MON 11.22
10am
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
TUE, NOV 23 • 6PM •  ZOOMCROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
PRESENTS:
tinyurl.com/GeraldClarkeFALLING ROCK ART RECEPTION
Start the week off right wit h University 
Center s and DeSt ress Mondays!
Come by  PC Plaza for quick cra fts that 
will have y ou relaxing all week.
2pm
IEXPLORE MALAYSIA!
bit.ly/3AkM6yD
Let's explor e the world! Join us as we 
embar k on this new adventur e full of 
adventure, food, sights, and more!!! FRI11.26
TUE11.23
WED 11.24THU 11.25
Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 22 - NOV 282021
POWER ED BY T HE ST UDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND T HE U CSD GUARDIAN
3pm
DIALOGUE: EQUANIMITY: 
MENTAL HEALTH AND SCHOOL/hyphen.caseWORK/hyphen.caseLIFE BALANCE
This interactive workshop will explore 
school-work-life balance and its impact on mental health. Register at ucsandi-ego.mywconline.net
10am
POLARIZED CONVERSATIONS /hyphen.case 
COMMUNICATING FOR UNDER/hyphen.caseSTANDING
This workshop will provide skill develop-
ment in communicating in a polarized conversation. Practice skills that will allow you to understand competing and differing perspectives with the goal of understanding one another. Register at ucsandiego.mywconline.net
4pm
REVELLE COLLEGE WEEKLY 
YOGA CLASSUCSD.ZOOM.US/J/97353721498
Join your fellow Revellians for a weekly 
instructor-led vinyasa yoga class. All experience levels are welcome!
If you need accommodations or have 
questions, please contact Melina Merrie Remesha at melina@ucsd.edu in advance of the event.7:30pm
PMP WELCOME SOCIAL!
MEETING ID: 974 326 2859
Feeling a little lost in school and not sure 
what to do for premed goals? Come hang out and get some advice from our mentors! Or think you could be a mentor and help out your peers in navigating a premed career path? Come by and see if PMP is right for you!LIB.UCSD.EDU/DE/hyphen.caseSTRESS
FCheck back every other Wednesday for healthy tips and new activities that you can do at home. We will be sharing original coloring pages, simple and healthy recipes, and more.
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN’S 
VOLLEYBALL V.CSU BAKERSFIELDRIMAC ARENA
Come and support Tritons WOMEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL as they take on the ROADRUNNERS OF CSU BAKERSFIELD. The game will take place at 7PM at UCSD-RIMAC ARENA. Admission to UC San Diego home matches is free for all students!
Are you a spirited Triton? Do you love 
giveaways and free stuff? Join Triton Tide, the official UC San Diego Student Section! FREE for all UC San Diego students- visit our webpage at www.ucs-dtritons.com/tritontide for more informa-tion about our upcoming events!
SAT11.27
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN’S 
VOLLEYBALL V. CAL POLYRIMAC ARENA
Come and support Tritons WOMEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL as they take on the MUSTANGS OF CAL POLY. The game will take place at 7PM at UCSD-RIMAC ARENA. Admission to UC San Diego home matches is free for all students!4pm
IEEE X ACM PCB DESIGN 
WORKSHOPHENRY BOOKER ROOM
The workshop will present a sample 
circuit construction, from end to finish, and even provide the finished PCB (with no parts) as a giveaway!
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. ____-service
5. Light wood10. Barbecue rod14. Milky stone15. Track shapes16. Cleanse17. Aria singer18. Power outlet20. Dispersed22. Door sign23. Sour in taste24. Color26. Compass dir.27. Fourth month30. MGM’s symbol31. Sound system33. Singer ____ Williams34. JFK’s predecessor37. Roof part38. Door hardware40. Cat call41. Mule’s father42. Noblewoman43. Legally responsible45. Epochs46. Hinder47. Find a sum50. Not pos.51. Regrets53. ____ Gras55. Fake60. Outstanding62. Judge’s garb63. Table extender64. Thick65. Has creditors66. Whirlpool67. More strange68. SpeaksDOWN
1. Lays turf2. Long story3. Liquid rock4. Roadside problem (2 
wds.)
5. Termite, e.g.6. Turn aside7. Delicate fabric8. Winter pastime9. Egyptian cobra10. Long-necked bird11. Treaties12. The British ____13. Not here19. Quite small21. Fable25. Swiss song27. Drifting28. Sch. groups29. Guns the engine30. Highway divisions32. Chicago’s airport34. Money owed35. Distribute36. Water vessel39. Supposed40. Great conductors42. Jeans material44. Inspiration47. Plentiful48. Ventured49. Deep fear51. Wash cycle52. Speak54. Disobey56. Repair57. Minnesota’s neighbor58. Follow orders59. Famous loch61. Groom’s vow (2 wds.)
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeetorganization with Triton Outfitter’s Made TO Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian.orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  1112 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 22, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at Montana Zootown
vs Southern Miss Zootown vs Penn LMU Thanksgivingvs UNC Wilmington Zootownvs CSU BakersfieldUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM BasketballM Basketball
W Basketball
M Basketball
W Volleyball6:30PM
4PM
3:30PM
4PM7PM11/2411/2511/2611/2611/26
For as long as sports have 
been played in front of fans, 
they’ve been big money. 
Gaius Appuleius Diocles, the 
ancient Roman charioteer 
often  — dubiously — referred 
to as the highest-paid athlete 
of all time, reportedly earned 
enough money to supply grain to Rome for a year, or to pay 
the salaries of every ordinary 
soldier in the Roman army for 
a fifth of a year. In more recent 
years, American teams have 
become the realm of sports-fan 
billionaires too rich for mere jets but too poor to launch their 
own space programs.
Setting aside the ethics of 
spending $2.3 billion to own 
the Carolina Panthers, sports 
have increasingly been used to 
launder the reputations of some far more unsavory characters, 
especially undemocratic 
regimes around the world. 
This process is referred to 
as “sportswashing,” a term first used by opponents of 
the European Games being 
hosted in Azerbaijan, whose 
authoritarian government 
under Ilham Aliyev has rigged 
elections, jailed and tortured 
opponents, and stolen millions from government coffers.
Sportswashing, of course, 
isn’t a new phenomenon. The 1936 Summer Olympics 
in Berlin were seen by Adolf 
Hitler and the Nazi propaganda machine as a way to improve 
their international reputation 
and espouse their ideals of 
Aryan supremacy, and famed 
boxing matches like the “Thrilla 
in Manila” and the “Rumble 
in the Jungle” were promoted by dictators to bolster their 
nations’ image.
But as sports have become 
more international than ever, 
and as big public spending 
on events like the World Cup 
and Olympics are increasingly unpopular in democracies, 
sportswashing is seemingly 
involved in a larger proportion 
of events than ever. The last 
World Cup was held in Russia, 
and the next Olympics will be 
in China. This week’s Formula One race and next year’s World 
Cup will both be in Qatar. All of these nations have poor human 
rights records, including censorship and punishment of 
any opposition, and all will shell 
out tens of billions to paper over 
those actions.
So we all know 
sportswashing is happening, 
and everyone apart from the major international bodies that 
run global athletics seem to 
acknowledge it. The difficult 
question that we don’t really 
have the answer to yet is: now 
what? Is there anything the 
average fan can do to strike back against it?The easiest and most often 
suggested answer is a boycott of events held by dictatorial regimes, using the power of the 
dollar to pressure organizations 
like FIFA and the IOC to think 
more carefully about their host 
selections. But that’s easier 
said than done for sports fans, 
who often live for and organize their lives around events like 
the World Cup or Olympics. 
It’s hard to believe that a fan 
boycott large enough to affect 
the bottom line of either event 
is possible, since at the end of 
the day, people’s love for what happens on the field is too great 
to be bothered by what happens 
off it.
Things get more complicated 
when the sportswashing isn’t 
just in the form of a one-off 
event, but rather involves the takeover of your favorite 
team. This is a familiar subject for fans of European soccer, 
where Qatar owns Paris Saint-Germain, the United Arab 
Emirates own Manchester City, 
and, as of last month, Saudi 
Arabia owns Newcastle United.
Being a supporter of a soccer 
team in Europe is baked deep 
into a city’s identity — it’s the sort of thing you inherit 
from your parents and pass on 
to your children, the sort of 
passion that holds a community 
together. The idea that the fans 
of Newcastle should have to 
abandon that because a Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund bought their team is unthinkable. But even if that’s true, it leaves fans in a deeply 
unsatisfying position, where 
every success on the field and 
every ticket or jersey sale goes 
to the pockets of a repressive autocracy. That’s not something fun to root for, as hard as fans 
may try to ignore it.
To some degree, 
sportswashing is just a 
consequence of the money-
oriented parameters of our 
society. Deep down, we all 
know that a sports team is just 
a corporation, a billion-dollar 
enterprise that we support for 
purely regional reasons and wear jerseys for, and yet we 
still root for them nonetheless. 
While most fans can pretend 
their owner doesn’t exist and 
try to focus on the players 
themselves, that pretense is difficult to maintain and is 
actively harmful when that owner is a government that 
regularly harms human rights.
Put another way, perhaps 
sportswashing isn’t anything 
special at all. Maybe it’s just a 
stark reminder that the sports 
we love, like the music that we can remember all the words 
to, the video games that we 
stay up all night playing, and 
the movies we cry watching, 
are corporate products just like 
any other. That’s a tough pill to 
swallow, and how we react to it is obviously a difficult choice.
But since sportswashing 
isn’t going away, there are some 
things we can do in the world 
of sports to combat it. One would be to seek increased fan 
sovereignty over sports teams 
— think of the German “50+1” 
rule that means that, in most 
cases, club supporters own the majority of their favorite teams. But that massive shift in 
ownership structure is a pie-in-
the-sky goal, especially on this 
side of the pond.
So, when we can, athletes 
and fans should speak out for 
human rights, especially in the arenas of the very regimes 
that seek to repress them. 
Sportswashing exists because regimes like Qatar want to 
legitimize their authoritarian 
states on the global level. If 
there’s anything we can do 
to stop that, it’s to make sure that when autocracies host 
sporting events and buy sports 
teams, it doesn’t improve their 
reputations, but rather shines 
a light on their human rights 
abuses. If China has to host 
the Olympics, then let it give us an opportunity to call out 
their persecution of minorities, repression of civil liberties, 
and lack of democracy rather 
than allow its government to 
spend tens of billions of dollars 
on a careful public relations 
campaign to project a more positive image.
We saw two examples of 
that behavior in the past week. First, the Danish football 
association released a strongly 
worded statement that they would use their time in Qatar 
during the World Cup to 
advocate for human rights and 
migrant workers. Second, Lewis 
Hamilton, by far the foremost 
Formula One driver of the last 
decade and the sport’s biggest star, has repeatedly used his 
platform to criticize Qatar’s 
treatment of the LGBTQ 
community. 
These are ultimately just 
statements. Real actions that affect human rights take 
place among governments, not individuals; especially for 
international human rights 
crises the average person might 
not know about, the awareness 
star athletes can bring is vital to 
manufacturing the political will 
for change. 
However,pressure needs to 
be maintained until concrete action occurs. Governments 
will often use sports events to 
project a new, kinder face, but 
they are much more reluctant 
to enact real change. Qatar has made a great deal of promises 
about labor reform due to 
the scrutiny brought on by 
the World Cup, but Amnesty 
International noted this week that enforcement of these laws is 
shoddy at best, and exploitation 
continues. 
“By sending a clear signal 
that labour abuses will not be tolerated, penalizing employers who break laws and protecting 
workers’ rights, Qatar can give 
us a tournament that we can all 
celebrate. But this is yet to be 
achieved,” said Mark Dummett, 
Amnesty International’s Global 
Issues Programme Director.
Fundamentally,  
sportswashing is a bet that fans can be bought off by the allure of glamorous stadiums 
and big-name sports clubs, 
and ignore the human rights 
violations that lie behind that 
façade. While we might not be able to fully take back control 
of sports any time soon, it is 
imperative for athletes and 
their fans to use their power to 
redirect the spotlight towards 
those crimes against humanity, 
and make the bet a losing one 
for undemocratic regimes.Can Fans Do Anything About 
Sportswashing?
By Praveen Nair
Sports Editor
UC San Diego’s women’s 
basketball team was 
disappointed on Saturday 
afternoon after a determined 
performance against a strong 
UC Berkeley side. At home in 
RIMAC with fans for the first 
time in 632 days, the atmosphere was charged. The Tritons 
entered this fixture coming 
off of a decisive home win 
against Westcliff University on 
Wednesday looking to build on 
their 2-game win streak while 
Cal chased a third consecutive victory. 
The game was close, ending 
64–54 in favor of visiting Cal, 
but UCSD fought to the very end after an exciting second half. The scoreline flattered the 
Bears, the 10-point disparity between the sides not entirely 
reflective of the impressive 
performance by the Tritons nor 
of the formidable challenge they 
issued their opponents.
Cal won the tip to begin the 
game, but UCSD started strong. Sophomore forward Aishah 
Brown opened the scoring 
with a smooth 3-pointer. 
She followed this up with a 
layup, and senior guard Julia 
Macabuhay added another 
triple for the Tritons. The Bears added their own 7 points but 
the home side held onto the 
lead until the last 3 minutes of 
the first quarter. The visitors 
went ahead after a 3-pointer by Cal junior guard Cailyn 
Crocker brought them ahead 10–8. The rest of the quarter 
saw back-and-forth scoring, with a layup by UCSD’s redshirt senior center Alex Obouh Fegue 
bringing the score to 15–13 to 
close out the quarter.
The second quarter saw Cal 
dominate, scoring 18 points to just 4 for the Tritons. It was the 
most frustrating quarter of the 
game for the Tritons, leaving 
them one step behind for the 
remainder of the match. The Bears began the quarter strong with 7 points in a row, amidst 
a number of missed shots 
from the home side. Despite some hard-earned points from 
a couple of good free throws 
by sophomore guard Parker 
Montgomery and a layup via a 
fastbreak by junior guard Ula Chamberlin that earned UCSD 
back some points, the Tritons were still down 22–17 with 5:13 left on the clock. The remainder 
of the quarter saw only Cal score, as UCSD conceded 11 
points, 6 of which were free 
throws, and ended the first half 
33–17.
The Tritons came back from 
halftime recharged, putting 
on an impressive performance in the third quarter, helped 
in no small part by a crowd 
that got louder as the game 
went on. Senior guard Sydney 
Brown netted a couple of good 
3-pointers that bookended a 
layup and free throw by Cal forward Jadyn Bush within 
the first couple of minutes, 
narrowing the lead to 13 points.
UCSD kept the pressure on 
the Bears, responding to their next 4 points with 4 of their 
own by way of a jumper by Montgomery and a fastbreak layup by Obouh Fegue. 
Over the course of the final 4 minutes of the period, the 
Tritons chipped away at Cal’s 
lead. Montgomery’s 3-pointer 
and couple of free throws and 
Fegue’s layup added to UCSD’s 
tally to help counter free throws 
by Cal’s freshman guard Jayda Curry and freshman guard Mia 
Mastrov. Sydney Brown closed 
out the quarter with a clean 
3-pointer 5 seconds from the 
buzzer, leaving the score close 
at 46–41.
The fourth quarter began 
with the teams again exchanging points. 
By Emer Nolan
Staff WriterUCSD Women’s Basketball Falls to Cal at Home, 64–54
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UCSD Guardian.
For rest of article, 
visit UCSDGuardian.org