PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SP ACES
SECTION,  P age   _
FORE -
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR 
EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T 
UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE 
CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO 
THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ 
-KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT  ................................... X
OPINION SOMETHING  .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  XSECTION,  P AGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
RETURNING TO 
CAMPUS
Students are facing high 
amounts of uncertainty, 
discomfort, and overall 
taxation on thei mental 
well-being as they return 
to campus. There is less 
comfort in a time of many 
unknowns, along with a 
disconnection from home. 
TWO  P ARTY S Y STEM
CREA TIVITYOPINION,  P age   4
Lifestyle, p age 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“...Since attending 
college, I have felt 
more aligned and 
comfortable with my 
identity and found that 
little pieces of artwork 
on my skin would further 
aid my road to full self-
expression... ”
- PRISCILLA PUNO
TATTOO
LIFESTLYE, PAGE 13Fea tues, p AGES  6-7 
MONDAY
H 83 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 73 L 57
IMAGE COURTESY OF UCSDIMAGE COURTESY OF UCSD
TUESDAY
H 76 L 57
THURSDAY
H 70 L 56
UNCLE ITALIAN.............3
WIFI...............................5
MOVIE RELEASE...........9
CROSSWORD  .............14
VOLLEYBALL..............15VOLUME 55, ISSUE 2  MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Beginning Fall Quarter 2021, UC San 
Diego Transportation Services modified 
its system for parking permits for both 
students and staff. In lieu of the previously-
available monthly, quarterly, and annual parking 
permit options, consecutive days permits will 
instead be the main form of parking permits 
available for students. 
In an email to The UCSD Guardian, Associate 
Director of University Communications Leslie 
Sepuka explained that the new consecutive days 
permit will allow Tritons to have a more flexible 
permit of any length from 30 to 365 days. 
Students have multiple permit options 
available: SR (student resident) permits for 
students living on campus, D (discount) 
permits, and B permits for graduate students. 
First and second-year students will only be 
allowed to make daily payments and purchase 
D parking permits continuing the first and 
second year parking restrictions introduced in 
2020. Students can choose instead to buy daily 
parking permits instead of monthly permits. 
Depending on the parking space, prices can 
vary. Daily parking at P386/Gliderport is $3; $4 
for a daily D permit; $4.50 for a daily S or SR 
permit; and $5 for a B permit. For motorcycles, 
the parking is $1.50, a lower amount from the 
$4 permit that was in place pre-pandemic.
These permits are available on the ParkMobile 
app which UCSD has used as a way to process 
payments for parking. Students without a phone 
can also pay by calling ParkMobile at (877)-727-
5932, utilizing the UCSD parking portal, and by 
using physical parking stations in parking lots 
and structures. 
When asked as to why UCSD decided to use a 
new form of parking permits, Sepuka stated that 
before the pandemic, permits were limited to 
help students have their needed parking spots, 
but it meant often having vacant spots. 
“Quarterly S [commuter student] permits 
were capped to ensure that if students purchased 
S parking, they would be able to find a space, ” 
Sepuka said. “While that achieved the desired 
predictability, it also meant that there were times 
of day and days of the week when significant 
pockets of S parking went unused. ”
Before students returned back to campus, 
Transportation Services spoke with the Student 
Transportation Advisory Committee (STAC) 
and determined that daily parking would better 
serve the greatest possible number of students. 
On UCSD Transportation’s Flexible Parking 
webpage, students can find the full list of 
parking zones that they are eligible to use. If 
the total fee is greater than $6, at most $65, 
that means that the student is trying to access a parking zone they’re not eligible for. 
Student reactions to the new parking policy 
have been mixed. In an interview with The 
Guardian, John Muir College first year transfer 
student Claudia Carmona approved of the 
change and said that daily parking permits 
make commuting more convenient and less 
expensive. 
“Now that some classes are on Zoom...I only 
go to campus twice a week, ” Carmona said. “It 
doesn’t make sense to pay [for] a full month of 
p a r k i n g .” 
Other students argued that the main problem 
with parking remains the lack of accessible 
parking spaces for commuting and resident 
students. Samuel Luo, a Sixth College junior, 
said that the changes disincentivize parking on 
campus.
“I don’t really like the changes as it forces you 
to park on campus less often than you might 
like, and you’ll have to utilize buses and scooters 
to get to classes, ” Luo said. “Commuters might 
even have to prep an hour or more ahead to get 
to class on time. ” 
Thurgood Marshall College junior Byrant 
Cameron echoed Luo’s sentiments about having 
to prep longer to get to class. 
“If I do not arrive at least one hour before my 
8:00 classes, I risk having to park in the Whole 
Foods/Ralph’s parking lot, ” Cameron said. “I 
have had to do this twice already. That is a mile 
from campus. ” 
While student parking spaces fill up quickly, 
students have noticed that B and A parking 
spots reserved for faculty and graduate students 
often go empty.  
“I’ve seen an entire floor of B-spots empty 
while students just circle the structure looking 
for spots like vultures, ” noted Carmona. “It is 
very upsetting. ” 
In a response to a lack of available student 
parking spots, UCSD Transportation Services 
announced in an email on Friday, October 
1 that new parking spots were available for 
commuter students. 
read more about these policies, please refer to 
the UCSD Transportation website. 
“Starting in week two, commuter students 
will find nearly 100 new S parking spots on 
Hopkins Parking Structure Level 2 and another 
70 new S parking spots in parking lot P304, ” the 
statement read.
With these new parking permits, students 
now face both the pros and cons of flexible 
parking.Students 
Advocate 
Redistricting 
UC San 
Diego Away 
from La Jolla
Photo taken by Patrick Lazo for The UCSD GuardianAt the County of San Diego 
Independent Redistricting 
Commission hearing on 
Tuesday, Sept. 28, several UC 
San Diego students called for 
redistricting UCSD out of 
City Council District 1, which 
includes communities such as 
La Jolla, University City, Torrey 
Hills, Torrey Pines, and Carmel 
Valley. The students called for 
the inclusion of the campus in 
a new, majority-AAPI (Asian-
American and Pacific Islander) 
district community with 
Clairemont Mesa, Mira Mesa, 
and Sorrento Valley. 
In their public testimony and 
letters, the activists argued that 
the UCSD community does not 
have much in common with La 
Jolla and other communities 
within District 1. A One-Page 
Guide on SD Redistricting 2021 
compiled by Associated Students 
AVP of Local Affairs Aidan Lin 
states that “La Jolla dominates 
the political sphere of District 
1, cutting out student needs, i.e. 
affordable housing, to prioritize 
their own. ”
Lin said in an interview 
with The UCSD Guardian that 
differences in housing priorities 
are a major issue.
“If you go south of campus, 
there will usually be some 
single-family housing, ” Lin 
said. “[People in La Jolla] have 
different demographics. The 
people who live there usually 
have different priorities over 
students. Not everyone has that 
opinion in mind. But based on my 
experience surveying planning 
groups and city planning groups, 
there is a pretty strong bloc 
opposed to higher [population] 
density, [and] therefore opposed 
to affordable housing. And it’s 
very hard to challenge that. ”
Current Map of San Diego 
City Council Districts, courtesy 
of City of San Diego
On the other hand, many 
students have also chosen to live 
in places like Sorrento Valley 
and Mira Mesa over La Jolla 
because of the relatively cheaper 
housing price. For leisure, many 
students go to Convoy Street, 
the heart of San Diego’s Asian 
community, which is filled with 
popular restaurants, grocery 
stores, dessert shops, karaoke, 
and nightclubs.
The redistricting process, 
which occurs every 10 years, B y  Kaitl yn Lee   Contributing News WriterPARKING
UCSD Implements New Parking Permit PoliciesCAMPUS
See CAMPUS,  page 2B y Tianrui Huang 
Contributing News WriterInterested in joining 
The Guardian?
Visit us at https://ucsdguardian.org/applications Currently seeking:
writers photographers Illustrators & more!2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2021, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
redraws the nine San Diego 
City Council district boundaries 
to ensure fair and equitable 
representation in each district. As 
the Redistricting Commissioner 
Roy MacPhail explained, 
redistricting is necessary to 
reflect movements in population. 
“Our task is to use 2020 
Census data to evaluate the nine 
existing City Council districts 
and to re-draw those boundary 
lines to make sure each district 
contains about one-ninth of our 
city’s population, ” MacPhail said.
According to the California 
Statewide Database 2020 Census 
data, the average population 
number divided by nine districts 
is supposed to be 154,432, while 
there are 166,655 people in the 
current District 1 so far — 12,233 
more than the target number, 
the largest positive population 
deviation in San Diego. On the 
other hand, District 6 contains 
152,358 people, slightly lower 
than the target number.
Another factor that 
activists mentioned in their 
calls to redistrict UCSD was 
demographics and a desire 
to better represent San Diego 
AAPI’s. 
“We have a large percentage of 
students that are AAPI, ” Lin said. 
“This diversity and AAPI focus 
met itself better with District 6, 
which is an AAPI-empowerment District. That’s the kind of 
diversity and shared interests of 
students to really speak up and 
get support. ”
According to Statistical Atlas, 
the majority of citizens in La 
Jolla are older (56.1 percent aged 
40+)  
a n d 
wealthier ($116.9k median 
housing income) relative to 
the San Diego population. A 
majority of the community is 
white (79.3 percent).
Cynthia Suero-Gabler, a board 
member of the Asian Pacific 
American Coalition, said that by 
adding communities like Carmel 
Valley and UCSD to District 
6, the population of AAPI’s in 
District 6 would increase from 35 percent to 42 percent.
Alexandra Fung, a freshman 
political science student at 
UCSD, argued at the meeting 
that increasing the number of 
AAPI’s would also expand 
political representation for the 
community, therefore offering 
them a pipeline to higher office. 
However, a number of voices 
argued that the way District 1 
is currently set up is already 
beneficial. Kathryn Burton, an 
attorney with the San Diego City 
Attorney’s Office said that Torrey 
Hills and District 1 were bound 
for 30 years. 
She argued that the school, 
neighborhood, and recreation facilities in the District were 
already a complete system that 
serves community interests.
“Separating Carmel Valley 
and District 1 is like separating 
twins at birth, ” Burton said in the 
public commission hearing.
Valerie Ramey, a UCSD 
professor and resident of 
South University City, asked 
the commissioners to keep the 
University City under District 
1. She noted that University 
City is named as such due to its 
connection with UCSD.
Lin responded that University 
City was also meant for the 
interests of student groups 
and that these interests aren’t 
acknowledged in District 1.
“It is not only about 
empowering AAPI groups, but 
also making students’ voices 
truly heard, ” Lin commented. 
“Before students’ voices are 
heard, we’ll never find a solution 
implementing within the La Jolla 
area. And that’s one step to our 
larger problem. ”
The redistricting commission 
will continue its weekly meetings 
over the next three months and 
it has a deadline of Dec. 14 to 
approve a final report. If interested 
in providing comments, students 
are encouraged to attend the 
commission’s public hearings or 
to submit a form with the Office 
of the City Clerk. 
Current Map of San Diego City Council Districts, courtesy of City of 
San Diego▶ Campus , from page 1Art by Nicholas Regli for The UCSD GuardianN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Soda and Swine, the beloved restaurant 
and bar just south of Sun God Lawn, plans 
to reintroduce itself as “‘Uncle Italian”’ 
by the end of this year. This decision is 
part of a rebranding effort by Consortium 
Holdings, a company co-founded by UC 
San Diego and 2006 John Muir College 
alumnus Arsalun Tafazoli.
The old Soda and Swine at UCSD is 
nestled between the eucalyptus trees of the 
Old Student Center. The stylish interior and 
outside patio, which previously cultivated 
an atmosphere for students to gather over 
sliders and drinks, is undergoing renovation 
in anticipation of the upcoming rebrand. 
Uncle Italian will welcome both UCSD students and the San Diego community for 
breakfast, lunch, and dinner with an array 
of Italian style food including pizza, pasta, 
and salads. For drinks, those over 21 years 
of age can be seated on the outside patio at 
the long bar table centered around a fire pit.
Much has changed under the Soda and 
Swine brand since the UCSD location 
first opened three years ago. The previous 
UCSD establishment from 1993 to 2015 
was a small bar and music venue known as 
Porter’s Pub. The original Soda and Swine 
in Normal Heights transformed into a lively 
Chinese restaurant known as Fortunate 
Son, while the location at Liberty Station 
altogether shut down. Other San Diego eateries under the 
Consortium Holding name include Little 
Italy’s hot brunch spot, Morning Glory, the 
popular ramen restaurant, Underbelly, and 
the speakeasy bar/lounge Raised by Wolves 
nearby at Westfield UTC. 
Consortium Holdings did not respond 
to The UCSD Guardian’s request for more 
details on the opening of Uncle Italian. In 
a previous interview with The Guardian, 
Arsalun Tafazoli discussed Consortium 
Holding’s goals for Soda and Swine as an 
on-campus establishment. He explained the 
company’s vision to remain a part of UCSD 
for the next decade or two. 
Passing through the Old Student Center, the bold red sign outside the restaurant 
which once read “Soda and Swine” has 
already been replaced by its new name. The 
doors of 104 Eucalyptus Grove Lane are 
expected to open sometime this October. 
RETAIL
Soda and Swine to Rebrand as ‘Uncle Italian’B y Kalohelani Danbara
Contributing Writer
Kalohelani Danbara kdanbara@ucsd.eduPhotos by Haley Hill Photography via Eater San DiegoOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Ra ymond Tran
The father of our country predicted riots, gridlock 
and corruption stemming from loyalty to political 
parties over loyalty to the people or country. 
However, our system does not allow for multiple 
parties regardless of public desires for such options. 
If a third party gets traction, it replaces one of the 
two prevailing factions. We need to abolish our 
political parties. There is a way to unite the human 
tendency to form groups and a no-party system, but 
it is important to first realize the current system’s 
pitfalls.
Though members of Congress passed legislation 
this week to prevent employees from being 
furloughed on Oct. 1, true funding legislation must 
be passed by Oct. 18 to prevent a financial default 
which would lead to mass unemployment. Political 
figures will continue to get paid regardless of a 
shutdown, but many people working in the federal 
transportation department and other sectors would 
be forced to work without pay. Including money to 
fund overseas projects has taken precedence over 
funding infrastructure needed by American citizens 
and migrants. Politicians have essentially raced 
to compromise on their people’s needs such as 
Medicaid. Partisan politics necessitates pitting two 
parties against each other on every issue even if one 
side has very little science backing them.
Our politicians are supposed to work for us: the 
people. But our systems have made it so they work for 
their respective parties and monied donors. They are 
who politicians listen to. The looming government 
shutdown was just another instance where we saw 
that financing the government will never consider 
the needs of the people as long as parties rule 
American politics. Necessary funding was deemed a 
non-priority in times of economic hardship.
Political parties also trivialize more local issues 
such as environmental concerns. In California, for 
example, “not in my back yard” versus “yes in my 
back yard” (NIMBY vs. YIMBY) is a debate that is 
unique to the state and framed poorly for those peering 
into Californian politics. Many moderate liberals in 
California are NIMBY and use environmentalist-
seeming talking points to discourage increased 
development and infrastructure to help the working 
class. Essentially, they do not want working class 
people in their backyards. Their country club 
lifestyle takes precedence. Left-leaning liberals are 
YIMBY as they believe that the rich are to blame for 
most of climate change. They recognize that the rich 
are simply hiding behind NIMBY policies to ensure their seafront properties and luxury communities 
remain exclusive. 
I, being from Texas, never knew that such positions 
could even be made. This is primarily because of 
the national consensus of the conservative party to 
reject the impacts of environmental destruction. In 
conservative states, it is hard to ever imagine that 
the wealthy suburban elite would use environmental 
preservation as an excuse to not support affordable 
housing. In discussing issues such as NIMBY , it is 
important to bring up statistics on the environmental 
impact of the wealthy versus the common man. But 
on the federal level, unless someone hails from a 
state like California, it is hard to understand why 
placing blame correctly on a non-partisan spectrum 
is important in tackling issues such as the climate 
emergency.
In fact, these vices of our two-party system have 
led to the parties drawing considerable criticism 
from the American public. As of February this year, 
62 percent of Americans are dissatisfied with both 
parties, according to a poll conducted by Gallup. The 
de-emphasis on diverse coalition building in favor of 
monolithic party loyalty has led to ignorance of local 
concerns until they are too big to ignore, causing a 
seemingly drastic position change within parties. 
One symptom of this on the right is the rise of figures 
like Donald Trump, who cater to white constituents 
who feel the need to maintain a sense of control over 
what they feel is their country. The extreme shift 
has highlighted the left’s inability to extend their 
coalitions to places like rural Appalachia where there are illegitimate fears of diminishing white power. 
Additionally, because the right does not feel the need 
to include BIPOC supporters thanks to a two-party 
system in a still predominantly white country, albeit 
not for long, Trump rose from the ashes of modern-
day white flight intuitions.
The time has come to reimagine what the American 
political machine should look like. A three-party 
system is a beautiful fantasy but highly impractical 
where single-party majorities decide elections. In 
a system where smaller parties can’t throw their 
support behind a larger party to sway majorities after 
an election, the best scenario is a scenario without 
parties. Instead, endorsements of multiple candidates 
standing on their own can create intersectional 
coalitions on certain topics which need no partisan 
splits. 
If there are five fiscal conservatives and 20 fiscal 
liberals who support LGBTQ+ rights, organizational 
endorsements like those from The Trevor Project can 
help candidates build issue-based coalitions that will 
differ based on their viewpoint of different issues. 
People very naturally group with those they agree 
with. But this form of agreement can allow us to 
push some issues which are seen as very progressive 
or radical but actually widely supported while 
discussing other more contentious topics such as 
foreign involvement without partisan brutishness and 
consolidated positions backed by political machines. 
Every individual represents their constituents before 
all else. Coalitions change with every issue. That is 
how we get a dynamic yet forward-moving political 
atmosphere.
Obstacles like the shutdown have resulted from 
lackluster debates on deceptively complicated topics, 
in this case the topic being government spending. 
It is not just a two-sided issue of a frugal versus 
extravagant plan. The government is there to work 
for the people and be there for us. A government must 
spend to create a livable nation for its people. We, 
the public, never truly understand if politicians are 
amplifying us as they remain embroiled in partisan 
jabs. The party system just “distract[s] the public 
councils and enfeeble[s] the public administration,” 
as predicted by our first president, by presenting us 
with bread and circuses in the form of viral debate 
points.“...these vices of our two-party 
system have led to the parties 
drawing considerable criticism 
from the American people...
The de-emphasis on diverse 
coalition building in favor of 
monolithic party loyalty has led 
to ignorance of local concerns 
until they are too big to ignore...
one symptpm of this on the right 
is the rise of figures like Donald 
Trump...”By: Sparky Metra // Staff WriterTwo P arties, Yet No Food for the    
People
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UCSD GuardianGeorge Washington was rightOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
I think I can speak for a lot of us 
when I say I was ecstatic, yet skeptical, 
to hear the news this past June that UC 
San Diego was returning to a majority of 
in-person classes for Fall Quarter 2021. 
It seemed like the light at the end of the 
very long tunnel of online school during 
the pandemic. However, to announce such 
a plan so prematurely felt too good to be 
true, and it was, as UCSD is slowly but 
surely diverging from its initial goal of 
complete normalcy, notifying students of 
modality changes mere weeks or even days 
before or after their classes started. This is, 
to put it bluntly, ridiculous and illustrates 
the prominent communication problems 
between UCSD, its administration, and its 
students. 
UCSD, as illustrated through its recent 
decisions on modality changes, has 
continuously overlooked student success 
with little communication and resources 
to accommodate their disorganization. 
Generally speaking, UCSD’s decisions 
have been seemingly quickly made and 
unorganized in reaching students. Lightly 
written emails days before classes start 
saying “modality changes” doesn’t cut it. 
Us students deserve more than that. It’s 
time for our money to start paying off with 
an equally decent and in-person education. 
Additionally, if UCSD is going to make 
courses virtual, the internet needs to be 
accessible. Recently, there have been Wi-
Fi outages almost daily in different parts 
of campus, leaving students unable to use 
the internet or join their Zoom calls. It is 
irresponsible to force students into remote 
learning and not ensure that they have the 
resources to do so. 
UCSD and its professors are also 
choosing to do a hybrid format that doesn’t 
make a ton of scientific sense and seems to have little health benefits for the students. 
For instance, Having a Tuesday lecture in 
person and a Thursday lecture online with 
all students going to the Tuesday lecture 
doesn’t make sense. The same amount of 
people are going to be in class on Tuesday 
as they would have been on Thursday.
UCSD’s Return to Learn plan 
announced in June that fall instruction 
would be “primarily in person.” UCSD 
also has a reputation of being a STEM 
school, specifically known for its rigorous 
chemistry classes and chemistry program, 
placing competitively in national rankings. 
Yet, just before instruction began, UCSD 
announced that a good portion of language 
and chemistry classes would be going 
online. As of now, whether or not a course 
is virtual or in person is on a professor by 
professor basis. Letting professors choose 
which modality they prefer isn’t fair for the students and isn’t taking their best interest 
into account — including various CHEM 6 
series classes, a student’s first introduction 
to the realm of college chemistry classes 
and the intensity of UCSD science courses.
It is necessary and crucial to learn 
chemistry in person. It is very much a 
hands-on subject and requires extensive 
attention from students in order to fully 
understand its multifaceted concepts. 
Especially for asynchronous chemistry 
classes, watching the lectures but not 
being able to ask questions in real time is 
extremely frustrating and takes away from 
the learning process.  
Besides the general aspect of attention 
deficits during Zoom classes, language 
courses in general take into account 
more specific aspects of learning that 
are best done in person. For one, hearing 
pronunciation over Zoom is more difficult than in person. When also taking into 
account internet issues and lag, hearing the 
correct way to pronounce certain words and 
phrases  can be more difficult or entirely 
impossible. This makes learning the 
language authentically more of an obstacle. 
For those who do not have the luxury 
of going to class in their rooms, finding a 
quiet, accessible place on campus to engage 
in the language classes is also an issue many 
students are facing. Since language classes 
require participation and attendance, going 
to class in the library or in public, places not 
optimal for speaking during an online class, 
can cause hindrance to their education.  
With UCSD continuing their trend on 
poor communication from administration 
to students, the housing process left many 
living either off campus or in on-campus 
overflow housing. Living off campus in 
La Jolla can be extremely expensive, while 
living on campus in a single room can be 
expensive as well. Some of these students 
living on and off campus stayed at home 
last year due to online classes. 
With many in-person classes changing 
suddenly to online, it begs the question: “Is 
it really financially worth it to be on campus 
if I don’t need to be on campus for class?” 
The answer is up to each individual student, 
but it is unfair for the administration to not 
notify or at least warn students of modality 
changes before they commit to housing. 
The extent of remote classes is large with 
some students having all in-person and 
some having all online. Not only did UCSD 
force students into expensive housing, but 
they also took away a chunk of the perks of 
being on campus. UCSD continues to make 
promises they can’t keep, and it’s time they 
start taking responsibility for them.Revisiting the Promises of Return to Learn
By: Catalina Fogg // Contributing Writer
Art by Andrew Diep for the UCSD Guardian.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Amidsta topsy-turvy pandemic, UC San Diego opened up 
campus to welcome students back to school. 
While the aesthetics are different compared to the way 
campus was pre-Covid, students all over the world are moving 
back into the area. 
Students yet again are passing out flyers on Library Walk and 
sitting outside of Price Center to enjoy food. Geisel Library is 
buzzing with students attempting to get ahead on classwork or 
reconnect with former friends.
Student organizations are running around attempting to 
recruit people with posters all over campus. 
For all of this action around campus to happen, students 
needed to come back. 
While some students still have the ability to take their classes 
in remote fashion, many Tritons have left their homes, whether 
on campus or off campus, to participate in organizations or 
attend their in-person classes. 
“I lived at home for most of last year, ” Trung Hieu, a fourth 
year from Revelle college, told The UCSD Guardian. “I came 
back to be a part of certain organizations and attend some of 
my classes in person this year. It is definitely exciting to see the 
school be almost all the way back and see what has changed since 
I’ve been gone. ”
Whatever their reasons for coming back, students’ mental 
health remains taxed . According to a survey done by Active 
Minds, “a nonprofit organization dedicated to raising mental 
health awareness among college students, ” students as whole 
were impacted by the pandemic in 
various ways, with their overall health 
bearing the brunt of it. 
“High percentages of respondents 
have experienced stress or anxiety 
(87.03 percent), disappointment or 
sadness (78.06 percent), or felt lonely 
or isolated (77.47 percent) during 
the pandemic, ” reported Active  
Minds. “For many respondents,  
stress (84.25 percent), anxiety (82.35 
percent), sadness (73.23 percent), 
and depression (60.7 percent) have 
all increased since the beginning of 
the pandemic. ”
With students already struggling 
from the pandemic, returning to  
school has removed a potential source 
of comfort, being home. 
Students who previously lived on 
or near campus had a sort of routine 
for everyday living, overcoming the initial adjustment period of 
leaving home. Being thrust home during the pandemic restarted 
the clock for some students, needing to readjust all over again. 
“It’s been hard, ” an anonymous student told The Guardian. “It 
sucks not being home. I was so used to logging into Zoom and 
then being around my parents, my dog, and all of my friends back 
home. I miss them a lot more than I did before the pandemic. 
Maybe it is because of everyone lost during the pandemic, but 
I find myself attached to them in a different way from the first 
t i m e .”
The same student said that their overall mental health declined 
because of a constant desire to reach out back home. While they 
enjoy their time on campus, there is part of them that wishes to 
be back home. 
The inner turmoil of this student is not the full extent of the 
connection people feel to their homes.
In the U.S., unemployment rates are high,with many people 
struggling to find a job to meet their financial needs. Business 
was lost in the pandemic along with parents draining their 
savings accounts. There may be feelings of guilt, as a Thurgood 
Marshall College senior explained.
“My situation at home is unstable, to say the least, ” the student 
told The Guardian. “My parents both got sick which meant they could not work for a long period of time. This meant I had to 
work over the summer to help out and it was manageable because 
school was remote. Now that I’m back on campus, things are 
tough. My parents made me come back and not take the year off, 
but I feel bad even being here. ”
Both students present the perspective of the many students 
and the challenges that have arisen from moving back to San 
Diego. 
Apart from organizing their room, making sure they have 
transportation, and finding their way around new areas of 
campus, being away  from their families can take a toll on them. 
When weighing their motivation to continue coming to school, 
the current job market does not help. 
“I don’t even know what I am doing here, ” a Roger Revelle 
College junior told The Guardian. “With so much competition 
for jobs from all of the students who graduated last year, but 
did not get a job, I am scared of not getting a job as soon as 
possible. I still have another year and I do not know if I want to 
keep going. ”
Students are facing high amounts of uncertainty, uncomfortable, 
and overall taxation on their mental well-being as they return to 
campus. There is less comfort in a time of many unknowns along 
with a disconnection from home.
Along with the external factors weighing on students’ minds 
when deciding whether or not to come back to San Diego, many 
students are struggling to even find housing. 
The waitlist for on-campus housing was up to 3,200  
students this past July. On top of 
the high demand for on campus 
housing, landlords in San Diego 
are capitalizing on the demand for 
housing and raising prices. Rent 
increased by 8.4 percent over  
the summer, with many students 
looking to come back to the area. 
Students who moved into  
the area this year have faced an 
unprecedented amount of mental 
and practical hurdles. 
While some are adjusting  
without a hiccup, those who are 
struggling face plenty of doubt, 
concern, and overall unhappiness. 
Left unchecked, there is potential 
for these issues to grow. 
There is, however,  a role that 
the school could play in addressing 
these students’ mental health.  
Riya Gupta, a professor at J.C Bose University of Science 
and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad Haryana in India, recently 
published a study centered around college students’ mental 
health as schools reopen. 
“Universities and colleges should organize interactions for 
students with seniors and peers to ensure positive interaction 
and develop resilience, ” Gupta claims. “Special attention should 
be given to the arrangement of counselors whenever the need 
arises. Psychological symptoms should be addressed on time so 
that they can be prevented from converting into actual disorders 
such as stress, depression, and suicide. Group programs can be 
introduced for students dealing with psychological issues. ”
All of the potential stressors already present at school, in 
combination with the stress about moving back to San Diego, 
makes the year all the more challenging for some returning 
students. Counseling or independent treatment are possible 
ways to address the mental strain that students are currently 
experiencing. 
Ultimately, students are left needing to adjust. Non-first year 
Tritons are reliving their first week away from home from their 
first year all over again. This time, the circumstances could be 
more grim than the first. As the student from Revelle stated, 
there may be no other way to go about the school year, beside   
Coming Back to Campus
 Powered by power willing to come back to school, UC San Diego is open again for all to see. 
The sacrifices some students made to come back spotlight the mental health ramifications of 
coming back. 
B y Nelson Epsinal   Features Editor
“The same student said that their overall mental health declined because of a constant desire to reach out back home. While they enjoy their time on campus, there is part of them that wishes to be back home. ”
Nelson Epsinal nespinal@ucsd.eduFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
powering through. 
“We all just just have to do this, ” the previously 
mentioned junior from Revelle told The Guardian. “I 
know a lot of us are putting a lot on the line. We need to 
support each other and get through the year. I feel like 
once we get the ball rolling and adjust a little bit, things 
will get better. Life isn’t meant to be easy. ”
Students can take the year off and extend their stay at 
home while giving them more time to get their affairs in 
order. Digital platforms like Zoom provide the ability to 
connect with people across the globe.
The largest potential resource for students could end 
up being the Counseling and Psychological Services 
(CAPS) provided to students at UCSD. Remote and 
in-person options provide students flexibility in terms 
of reaching out to the counseling service. For those who feel left with no option, but to 
continue, a potential package of counseling services 
and long distance communication could bridge the gap 
between home and their home away from home. 
The remote option available for most classes could 
give students the ability to stay home as well. Either the 
college experience is postponed or the student must face 
homesickness, both presenting a “Return to Learn” that 
feels like less of a comeback and more of a setback. 
ART BY ANGELA LIANG FOR THE UCSD GUARDIAN.ART BY ANGELA LIANG FOR THE UCSD GUARDIAN.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERT AINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
The year was 2017. I still used Snapchat. I regularly 
tuned into Complex’s content on the “Discover” page 
because I was a bored 16-year-old. One day, the topic 
was about rappers who represent (or “rep”) different 
cities than where they are from, and that’s where I 
saw him: Zack Villere. Villere was (and is) a rapper 
from Louisiana who reps my hometown Los Angeles 
(, at least according to Complex. The recommended 
song was “Cool” — yes, that is the name of the song. 
While I cannot speak to the claim of him repping Los 
Angeles, I was excited to see Los Angeles being posted, 
so I checked out Villere’s music. I listened to his 2017 
debut album “Little World, ” where the song “Cool” was 
featured. To my surprise, Villere wasn’t much of a rapper, 
but more an alternative R&B singer. I spent the entire 
summer of 2017 listening to that album from beginning 
to end, and even four years later, I still can’t help but play 
this album at least several times a year. I personally feel 
that “Little World “flew under the radar and never truly 
received the recognition it deserved. I mean, there had 
to be a reason why I never got bored of this album, and 
here are just a few of them.
Let’s begin on the surface level by discussing the 
sound of the album. The majority of the album features 
instrumentals that are reminiscent of lo-fi and chill 
hip hop, featuring soft, snappy drums and mellow 
synthesizers. Notable tracks of this style include “Bloo” 
and “Cool. ” Although the majority of the songs are 
of the chill hip hop beats variety, the most sonically 
distinct song is the first track, “Exposition. ” The best way to describe the song is through explaining a bit 
about Villere himself. Villere designed the album cover 
of “Little World” and it is a solid representation of his 
art style. I would describe it as fantastical, featuring 
colorful, misshapen characters that look like something 
you would find on “Ren and Stimpy, ” a Nickelodeon 
cartoon from the ‘90s. The sound of “Exposition” is 
similar to his art because both the track/song and the 
art cover make the audience feel like they are entering 
the fantastical world of Villere’s mind. The way the song 
begins by allowing the main instrumental to quickly 
gain speed, is akin to when you enter a space filled with 
light after being in complete darkness. It’s these initial 20 
seconds of “Exposition” that have time and time again 
drawn me back to listen and hypnotized me to stay. Y et, 
the album has so much more to offer than its relaxing 
sounds.
         Digging a bit deeper into the album, one of the 
things that I always enjoyed about it is how relatable 
Villere is on the album. Despite our eight-year age 
difference, I could really see myself in him when I was 
16. Now that I’m closer to 22, the age at which Villere 
released this album, I relate to him more than ever. 
“Little World” tackles his self-esteem issues, the troubles 
of break ups and what comes after, and the uncertainty 
of what the future holds. “Cool” explores Villere’s self-
image issues. The entire song is filled with contradictions 
of what he thinks of himself. On one hand, he seeks the 
validation of others and puts himself down, singing 
“Y eah, can you tell that I’m cool? / I’ve always wanted to 
be cool / But I’m not that cool, that cool. ” On the other 
hand, he reassures himself that he is cool despite what 
he may think of himself at times: “I don’t wanna be me / 
But that’s only half of the time / ‘Cause inside I know I’m 
cool, so cool. ” At 16 — and even now at times — I find 
it relatable to tell yourself that you’re cool but still want reassurance from others on what you think of yourself.
Songs “Bloo, ” “Next, ” and “Look Right Thru” all 
revolve around Villere’s experiences with his crushes 
and past relationships. “Bloo” follows Villere recounting 
a romantic experience with a girl, “ And then we start 
making out / While we’re listening to Cherry Bomb 
/ Order pizza then we take it outside, ” only for the 
scenario to all have been in his imagination, “I wake / 
I open my eyes … I see your face / Y ou’re looking at 
me / Wondering what to do / Y ou’re thinking ‘who are 
you?’ / (It’s Zack remember?, Uh...I don’t think so). ” The 
other two songs relate his experience with a breakup. 
“Next” focuses more on the uncertainty of what to do 
after the end of a relationship, while “Look Right Thru” 
focuses on him still not having come to terms with the 
breakup despite his ex no longer acknowledging him. 
The experiences in these songs add to the journey of 
going through Villere’s mind. The songs give insight 
to what Villerelongs for: love, something that everyone 
hopes to experience.
Lastly, “22” revolves around the uncertainty of the 
future. Villere says he doesn’t want to think about 
either the past or future, yet he cannot help but do 
both. The past is represented by an interlude of a phone 
recording, and the future with his realization that he is 
almost 22-years-old. The listener, especially those who 
are entering their 20s, can possibly relate toVillere. A 
person’s early 20s is similar to Villere’s experience in 
the song, stuck between the recent memories of being 
a teenager and entering adulthood.And now, four years 
later, the lyrical and thematic content of the album sticks 
with me more than ever. I feel the closer I get to 22 (I’m  
20), this album will continue to be a large part of my life, 
possibly even being more important than when I first 
listened to it at 16.A Retrospective: 
“Little World” Four Years 
B y Hector Ariett a
Senior Staff writerIn this retrospective, A&E Staff Writer Hector Arrieta looks back on Zack Villere’ s 2017 de -
but album “Little World” and how it still resonates with listeners of all ages four years later.Image courtesy of GeniusARTS & ENTERT AINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
October 2021 Movie Releases
Friday, Oct. 8th
• “No Time to Die” (2021)
• “Detention” (2021)
• “Knocking” (2021)
• “Lamb” (2021)
• “South of Heaven” (2021)
• “Mass” (2021)
• “Survive the Game” (2021)
• “The Rescue” (2021)
Friday, Oct. 29thFriday, Oct. 15th
Friday, Oct. 22nd
• “Dune” (2021)
• “The French Dispatch” 
(2021)
• “Ron’s Gone Wrong” (2021)
• “Warning” (2021)
• “The Electrical Life of Louis 
Wain” (2021)
• “The Harder They Fall” 
(2021)• “Halloween Kills” (2021)
• “The Last Duel” (2021)
• “Needle in a Timestack” 
(2021)
• “Bergman Island” (2021)
• “Hard Luck Love Song” 
(2021)
• “Luzzu” (2021)
• “Sons of Monarchs” (2021)
• “The Velvet Underground” 
(2021)
• “Last Night in Soho” (2021)
• “A Mouthful of Air” (2021)
• “Antlers” (2021)
• “My Hero Academia: World 
Heroes’ Mission” (2021)
• “13 Minutes” (2021)
• “Army of Thieves” (2021)
• “Paramount Activity: Next of 
Kin” (2021)
• “The Souvenir: Part II” 
(2021)10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERT AINMENT
Interested in 
applying for the 
UCSD Guardian? 
Scan here!LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     
PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
What Does Your Tattoo Mean?
Growing up around the conservative influences of my parents and family, I always felt 
a sense of fear when it came to altering my appearance, even though I find it most 
comforting to express my personality through my physical attributes. Since attending 
college, I have felt more aligned and comfortable with my identity and found that 
little pieces of artwork on my skin would further aid my road to full self-expression. It 
was then that I decided to finally get my first tattoo. The numbers “555” stretch across 
my right shoulder, serving as a reminder that although I am constantly growing and 
changing, these experiences are always in my best interest. Realizing how ecstatic I 
felt about my first tattoo, I decided to get a second tattoo. One impulsive decision and 
two weeks later, beautiful butterfly wings reside on my upper back. There is no deeper 
meaning to this decision. I simply got this tattoo because I wanted an incredible piece 
of art on my body forever. 
From these experiences, I view tattoos as a little stamp on my body, symbolizing and 
marking certain periods of my life. 
Since returning to campus, I find that my eyes always travel towards people’s tattoos 
and spark the question — What does it mean?  After dipping my toes into the world of 
tattoos, I realized there doesn’t always have to be a meaning or reason for getting one. 
It can simply be art that you love. I asked this question to my peers and these were their 
responses:
“My tattoo is of my two younger siblings and me. The scribbles are shown in a way where you can’t tell if they’re wearing shorts or skirts because my little brother is trans and nonbinary — I also came out recently as trans and nonbinary. It was a nice experience to get this tattoo right after he came out because he still wanted me to remember him as feminine even though he wanted to present as more masculine now, so we talk -ed about it and agreed on this. Lastly, I have a smaller one for my little sister and I like it because they’re holding hands and con -nected through one line, so it just shows a lot of unity. ” 
- Autumn Zaragoza
PHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIAN
“I’ve always liked wildflowers and felt connected to nature through that kind of persistent beauty, and also have a love of bees that doesn’t go quite as deep—I just really like them! I would say this tattoo has three different meanings or representa -tions to me, which I kind of wanted espe -cially because it’s my first. Firstly, I love Winnie the Pooh and have always bonded with my closest cousin over the show since we were younger, which mainly inspired the hive part of the design. The hive and bees also connect me to my partner, whose nickname for me is always ‘Honey’ (really cheesy, but super cute —he doesn’t call me anything else). He’s a big part of my life and has been my number one supporter and best friend for the last 8 years we’ve been together. Lastly, I love Miss Honey from the movie ‘Matilda’ and I feel like the whole tattoo just gives off the vibe of her house and her warmth. She was part of my ‘gay awakening’ and also has inspired me to pursue teaching as a career after I graduate. She means a lot to me when it comes to caring for my inner child and pushing to nurture others who need caring energy!”     
- Joselyn Carbonellby Priscilla Puno, Lifestyle Co-editor
Photo by Lucas Lenzi on Unsplash
PHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY PRISCILLA PUNO FOR THE UCSD GUARDIAN“I’ve been listening to BTS for a little over 5 years now, and there was one album that had the biggest impact on me at a certain point in my life. All the songs perfectly captured the feelings and thoughts I had during those difficult times. The tattoo translates to “the most beautiful moment in life, ” which is ironic because most of the songs in the album are quite sad. However, I think that’s the most interesting part about it. Even though things may be really bad at the moment and it seems like everything is go -ing against me, it’s still a beautiful and important experience because I’m learning and growing as I go through these moments. I got the tattoo as a reminder to myself that everything I have gone through in life has been for a reason. I may not have enjoyed the experiences, but eventually, it would all be worth it. Growing and reaching my fullest potential will always be beautiful moments in my life. ” 
- Isabella Cayanan12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
By Bradley Beggs, Lifestyle Co-EditorThree Easy Ways to Get in T ouch With 
Y our Creative Side
Creativity isn’t always easy. But, in these stressful times, it is a perfect tool to calm your mind. So for those of 
you looking for a new creative outlet, here are three ways to get in touch with your inner artist:
Overall, creativity is something everyone should explore at some point or another. And now you have some 
ideas to get started. Happy creating!
Photo by Alice Dietrich on Unsplash
If painting isn’t really your style, why not try writing? Haikus are a simple structured form of poetry 
perfect for anyone who is interested in taking up poetry. All you need is a pen and paper and you can start 
writing your five-syllable, seven-syllable, five-syllable poems. Haikus originate in Japan and traditionally 
focus on the natural world. Things like trees, seasons, lakes and ponds, animals, and people are all 
important subjects in the field of Haiku. They are also used in a religious context, so please try your best 
not to be blasphemous in your writing. Need inspiration? Go for a walk! Write something simple about 
what you see, hear, smell, taste, or touch. Haikus are an easy way to create some beautiful writing about 
the world around us.2.   Haiku3.   Still-life
If painting isn’t really your 
style, why not try writing? Haikus 
are a simple structured form of 
poetry perfect for anyone who 
is interested in taking up poetry. 
All you need is a pen and paper 
and you can start writing your 
five-syllable, seven-syllable, five-
syllable poems. Haikus originate 
in Japan and traditionally focus 
on the natural world. Things 
like trees, seasons, lakes and 
ponds, animals, and people are 
all important subjects in the 
field of Haiku. They are also 
used in a religious context, so 
please try your best not to be 
blasphemous in your writing. 
Need inspiration? Go for a walk! 
Write something simple about 
what you see, hear, smell, taste, 
or touch. Haikus are an easy way 
to create some beautiful writing 
about the world around us.I know, this totally brings you 
all back to elementary school 
arts and crafts, but trust me, 
watercolor is a super simple 
way to express yourself. All you 
need are some watercolor paints, 
water, a brush, and any kind of 
watercolor-compatible paper or 
canvas. The reason I bring up 
watercolor is its ability to look 
really cool with what seems like 
very simple work. I am by no 
means discrediting the work of 
professional watercolorists, but 
the colors, textures, and shapes 
amateurs can make are, in my 
eyes, just beautiful and fun. Try 
your hand at mixing colors on 
your canvas that you don’t usually 
pair together. Paint your entire 
background and add some pen 
or pencil lines on top to create 
some dimension. Watercolor 
is a great way to let loose and 
simply create something easy 
and beautiful that you can be 
proud of afterwards. 1.   Watercolor
Scan to submit  questions for 
our upcoming advice columnCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ALL WEEK LONG /bullet.case/uni00A0ASSOCIATED STUDENTS RECRUITMENT WEEK
Register at tinyurl.com/GameOfScones
MON10.4
6pm
LATIN HEALTH CONNECTIONS 
AT UCSD GBM /hyphen.case MET 215
Recognizing the unmet need of free 
clinics needing Spanish translators and 
the abundance of Spanish-speaking 
undergraduate population at UCSD, 
Latin Health Connection pairs medical 
students with undergraduate students to 
exchange language and cultural 
competency for mentorship. The GBM will 
serve as an introduction of the club to 
the pre-med students and show how the 
club can help the pre-med students get 
mentorship to guide them through the 
process.
7pm
THETA TAU INFO NIGHT 
DISCORD: 
DISCORD.GG/DP4UYR7ZJJ
The brothers of Theta Tau, Epsilon Delta 
Chapter, cordially invite you to our Fall 
Rush 2021: To New Beginnings! Don't 
miss out on the chance to meet our 
community of artists, designers, 
engineers, and much more. Come out to 
rush and see what makes us the #2 
nationally ranked chapter of Theta Tau! 
Theta Tau is the nation's first and 
foremost CO-ED professional engineering 
fraternity. From its start by four mining 
engineering students 114 years ago, 
Theta Tau has become the oldest and 
largest Fraternity for Engineers, with 
chapters across the country, and 
members around the world. Our mission 
is to develop Engineering Leaders for 
Philanthropy, Professionalism, and 
Brotherhood.FRI10.8
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE 
/hyphen.case ZOOM
Join us during your lunch break for 
another iCafe - Your Passport to Culture! 
This week we're exploring South Korea! 
iCafe is free of charge and open to 
everyone. Additionally, attending iCafe 
can count towards your Globally Engaged 
Tritons Co-Curricular Record hours for the 
2021-2022 academic year! If you want to 
participate by being a Cultural 
Ambassador or Chef in the Cook Club, 
email Debi at dgianni@ucsd.edu. For 
more information, visit icafe.ucsd.edu. 
See you on Friday!
7pm
REVELLE COLLEGE WEEKS OF 
WELCOME // UNDER THE 
STARS WITH CRUELLA /hyphen.case 
REVELLE PLAZA SOUTH LAWN
Miss that feeling of going to the movie 
theater with your friends and feeling like 
a changed person when you leave? Not 
only will you have that fulfilling feeling at 
our movie night after watching "Cruella" 
but also, every time you look up, you will 
have a view of the stars. No need for star 
projectors, it's all natural!WED10.6
12pm
OCEANSIDE CHAT: A NEW 
L.I.T.E. /endash.case FEATURING EUGENIE 
RIVES 
HTTPS://UCSD.ZOOM.US/J/931
19932840
Oceanside Chat was created to start a 
discussion between students beginning 
their journey into the business world and 
seasoned veterans in the industry. This 
event features Eugenie Rives, Director at 
Google X, and host, Helen Wang. Eugenie 
will share stories about her journey to TUE10.5
9am
BUILDING INCLUSIVE TEAMS 
AND TRUST
VIA ZOOM /hyphen.case REGISTER ON 
THE UC LEARNING CENTER
Intended for: all managers and 
supervisors. This class will focus on 
understanding and developing the 
relationships between trust, inclusion 
and engagement within teams. We will 
explore how to foster work environments 
in which employees can bring their 
whole selves, and the benefits this 
brings not only to staff but also to your 
team and to UC San Diego. The session THU10.7
12pm
STARTR ASK ME ANYTHING
RSVP HERE: 
HTTPS://DOCS.GOOGLE.COM
/FORMS/D/E/1FAIPQLSCCXN
AJHD7OSGV/hyphen.caseXAJYTHBEVPGI
31CWOIC371AKUSB_HGJLRQ
/VIEWFORM
Interested in building a startup but 
don't know where to start? Consider 
applying to StartR! StartR is an 
accelerator program with tracks for 
Rady School of Management students 
and alumni, as well as students, faculty 
and staff from across UC San Diego, 
designed to provide entrepreneurs the 
tools needed to start and grow their 
businesses.
4pm
REVELLE COLLEGE WEEKS OF 
WELCOME // WEEKLY YOGA 
CLASS
UCSD.ZOOM.US/J/97353721
498
Join your fellow Revellians for a weekly 
instructor-led vinyasa yoga class. All 
experience levels are welcome!Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
OCT 4 - OCT 102021
POWER ED B Y THE ST UDENT  EVENTS INSIDE R AND  THE UCSD GUARDIA N
will include discussion about 
establishing and enhancing connection 
with both current and new staff in 
on-site, hybrid and remote environments, 
creating psychological safety to support 
agility and innovation, and how trust 
fuels high performing teams.
5pm
TRANSFER CHALLENGE: 
CAREER & CO/hyphen.caseCURRICULAR 
CONNECTIONS
ZOOM ID: 923 3368 1480
New to UC San Diego and want to jump 
right into a job or internship? Or a 
continuing transfer student ready for one 
in their second or third year? Join us for 
Tips for Transfers on how to shine in a job 
or internship search.
7pm
THETA TAU INFO NIGHT
DISCORD: 
DISCORD.GG/DP4UYR7ZJJ
The brothers of Theta Tau, Epsilon Delta 
Chapter, cordially invite you to our Fall 
Rush 2021: To New Beginnings! Don't 
miss out on the chance to meet our 
community of artists, designers, 
engineers, and much more. Come out to 
rush and see what makes us the #2 
nationally ranked chapter of Theta Tau! 
Theta Tau is the nation's first and 
foremost CO-ED professional engineering 
fraternity. From its start by four mining 
engineering students 114 years ago, 
Theta Tau has become the oldest and 
largest Fraternity for Engineers, with 
chapters across the country, and 
members around the world. Our mission 
is to develop Engineering Leaders for 
Philanthropy, Professionalism, and 
Brotherhood. becoming an entrepreneur and share 
tidbits of her career wisdom.  We hope that 
this will inspire student’s ingenuity and 
motivate them on their journey to success.
6pm
UC SAN DIEGO MEN'S WATER 
POLO V. LONG BEACH STATE /hyphen.case 
CANYONVIEW AQUATIC 
CENTER
Come and support Tritons Men's Water Polo 
as they take on Cal State Long Beach. The 
game will take place at 6:00 PM at 
Canyonview Aquatic center. Admission to 
UC San Diego home matches is free for all 
students!
7pm
REVELLE COLLEGE WEEKS OF 
WELCOME // REVELLE'S GOT 
TALENT
HTTPS://UCSD.ZOOM.US/J/979
33742292
Hop on and share your talents with 
Revellians whether that be singing, playing 
an instrument, telling jokes, doing magic 
tricks, and so so much more! No red 
buzzers or Simon Cowells, just some 
friendly folks to share an evening with.
7pm
TNT GBM /hyphen.case WARREN MALL 
OUTDOOR CLASSROOM /hyphen.case 
HTTP://MUSIC.UCSD.EDU/LIVE 
Saxophonist and UC San Diego Professor of 
Music David Borgo to perform his new 
album "The Suite of Uncommon Sorrows" 
on Wednesday, October 6 at 7PM. The 
concert will be livestreamed from the 
Conrad Prebys Music Center Experimental 
Theater.
The Suite of Uncommon Sorrows is an 
eleven-part suite of original music 
composed in response to the tumultuous 
events of 2020, including the devastating 
COVID-19 pandemic, the growing Black 
Lives Matter movement, and the 
debilitating polarization of U.S. politics 
that made it impossible to address either 
of these adequately.
Each movement explores a different 
“uncommon sorrow,” such as kuebiko (a 
state of moral exhaustion inspired by acts 
of horror in the news, which forces you to 
revise your image of what can happen in 
this world), kenopsia (the eerie, forlorn 
atmosphere of a place that’s usually 
bustling with people but is now abandoned 
and quiet), chrysalism (an amniotic-like 
tranquility while a storm rages outside), 
zenosyne (the sense that time keeps going 
faster), and pâro (the feeling that no 
matter what you do it will always be 
inadequate).
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME!SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Initial
6. End of an Ali quote
10. Duel prelude
14. Take ___ (lose big)
15. Dizzy on the mound
16. Freight train hopper
17. Way to the altar
18. The “m” in F = ma
19. Encumbrance
20. Athletic know-it-all at 
the docks?
23. Ball chaser?
24. Bean spiller
25. Symbol of cuteness
29. Touched down
31. Luxury locale?
34. Fire proof
35. 1980s Disney film
36. Big rig
37. Peter jammin’ to Fats 
Waller?
40. Windshield shading
41. Soothing plant
42. Bridge bid, briefly
43. Palindromist’s 
preposition
44. Warning sign
45. Encourage
46. Extension
47. Asian Mr.
48. Professional bowler?
56. Excellent
57. Pained expression
58. Part of a floral carpel
60. Basin blocker
61. Greek vowel
62. “Honest!”
63. Early film King
64. Without ___ (daringly)
65. Won every gameWRITER 
WANTED
I would like to write the story 
of my life, but I am not com -
puter literate. I am looking for 
someone that can type and 
edit my book. Experience in 
writing is required. Hours are 
flexible. I would like to work in 
person, so living in San Diego 
is a must. Please send in your 
resume and your desired 
hourly rate to be considered.  
Send to italy1927@gmail.com
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeet
organization with Triton 
Outfitter’s Made TO 
Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageDOWN
1. J.F.K. watchdog
2. Sacred bird, to some
3. Carpentry tool
4. Normandy battle site
5. It’s ruled (two words)
6. Specialist in spots
7. Gal’s sweetheart
8. It may be Far or Near
9. Put in the Hall of Fame
10. Lacking a quorum
11. An ex of Burt
12. Touch on
13. Bride’s throwaway
21. Cargo measure, perhaps
22. Horse’s tidbit
25. Tend to the turkey
26. Old Pan Am rival
27. “ ... ___ is the kingdom”
28. It may be pitched
29. Hot crime
30. Brain part
31. Mississippi restraint
32. Kind of acid
33. Attach, as a brooch
35. Bit of mosaic
36. Spilled the beans
38. Musical based on ABBA 
songs
39. Sunrise and sunset locales
44. Crystal ball, e.g.
45. Mentalist Geller
46. Lay ___ (flop)
47. It may pour from pores
48. Potato holder
49. Game with mallets
50. A party to
51. Epitome of craziness
52. Mandolin cousin
53. Assert
54. Breathing sound
55. Plumbing problem
59. So far
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgA-MAZE-ING!
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 9am-1pm
Tuesday: 9am-1pm
Wednesday: CLOSED
Thursday: 3pm-5pm
Friday: CLOSEDFALL 2021
Women’s Volleyball Defeat Riverside in Homecoming
B y Donov an perez Schipper
Senior Staff Writer
Donov an Perez Schipper Sports Writer
IMAGE COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN / UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSIMAGE COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN / UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSIn the first home game for UC 
San Diego women’s volleyball 
in 692 days, the team came out 
with a purpose. The Tritons won 
3 sets to 1 against UC Riverside, 
25–10, 25–15, 23–25, 25–16, 
and looked in complete control 
for the entire match. With the 
win, the team improved to 5–9, 
(2–1 Big West) and kept the mo -
mentum in league competition.
In the first set, the Tritons 
jumped out to a 5–0 lead, which 
then ballooned to a 12–5 lead, 
forcing a UC Riverside time -
out. Out of the timeout, UCSD 
scored 3 more consecutive 
points,  highlighted by a kill 
from sophomore outside hitter 
Ava McInnes, and decisively 
took control of the match. UCSD 
would score the final 6 points to 
take the first set by an impres -
sive tally of 25–10. 
UC Riverside needed to find 
momentum somewhere after a 
difficult first set. After UCSD 
took the first 3 points with 2 
consecutive kills from McInnes, 
UC Riverside responded with 
3 scores of their own. Impres -
sive digs from junior libero 
Naya Dong continually gave 
the Tritons a chance, and a kill 
from freshman middle blocker 
Emily McDaniel put the Tritons 
up 9–5, forcing another UC 
Riverside timeout. Though the 
momentum seemed on the side 
of UCSD with the backing of the crowd, UC Riverside was hang -
ing tough. However, a stuff from 
McDaniel soon after capped off 
4 straight UCSD points, putting 
the Tritons in a familiar position 
up 18–9. Two beautiful sets from 
senior setter Isabela Dobra gave 
the Tritons a 25–15 victory in 
the second set. Dobra’s chemis -
try with her outside hitters was 
beginning to shine through, as 
the Tritons looked to take com -
plete control of this match. 
UCSD came out strongly once 
again in the third set, opening 
scoring with a service ace from 
Dobra, then rushing to a 6–3 
lead after a combined block 
from McDaniel and senior op -
posite Trinity Castañeda. Again, 
though, UC Riverside provided 
some resistance, actually tak -
ing the lead at 13–12 for the 
first time in the entire match. 
An excited UC Riverside team 
and a quieted crowd looked to 
build on this momentum, when 
freshman outside hitter Sabire 
Kavacova’s assist to McInnes 
knotted the set back up at 13. A 
back-and-forth affair continued 
until another McInnes kill, this 
time a bump set from Dong, put 
the Tritons up 23–20, threatening 
to send UC Riverside home with 
the crowd beginning to chant 
“Sweep.” The Tritons may have 
looked ahead a little too soon, 
however, because a few unforced 
errors and a service ace by UC Riverside gave the Highlanders 
the comeback win by a score of 
25–23, and forced a fourth set. 
With UC Riverside now 
holding the momentum and 
beginning to look competitive, 
UCSD had a new challenge in 
trying to put this scrappy team 
away. Again, UCSD went on 
some runs and opened the game 
out by 7–3, but UC Riverside 
had found their confidence and 
would not let UCSD pull away, 
tying the set at 10. Three kills 
out of four consecutive points for 
the Tritons all went to Casta -
ñeda, and once again UCSD had 
control at 14–10. Dobra seemed 
completely connected with her 
hitters, dishing out assists to 
McDaniel and three to McInnes in a short stretch, a part of her 
extraordinary 51-assist effort 
on the night. The third of the 
assists to McInnes was set up by 
an outstanding dig from Dong, 
and the Tritons were in good 
shape up 19–12. A service error 
followed by a block gave UCSD 
an impressive victory against an 
inspired UC Riverside team by a 
score of 25–16, and the Tritons 
took the match 3 sets to 1. 
In what was an excitd sta -
dium in a momentous return to 
home for this team, the perfor -
mance lived up to the hype of 
the stadium. UCSD coach Ricci 
Luyties has to be impressed with 
the overall steady performance 
of the team, with very few lapses 
against Riverside. Specifically, the way these athletes came out 
of timeouts and started sets with 
energy displayed the squad’s 
preparation and genuine enjoy -
ment, which was obvious with 
this team regardless of whether 
they were on the court or stand -
ing with their teammates. 
After Friday’s defeat of 
Riverside and Saturday’s similar 
four-set defeat of UC Davis to 
bring the win streak to three, 
the Tritons’ next game will be at 
home at RIMAC arena on Tues -
day, Oct. 5 at 7 p.m., where the 
Tritons will look to build their 
confidence against a talented UC 
Irvine team.16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 4, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRA VEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     
vs UC Irvine 
vs Long Beach State 
vs Hawaii
at CSUNUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
M  Waterpolo
W Volleyball
M Soccer7PM
6PM
7PM
7PM10/5
10/6
10/8
10/9
Playing in their first-ever Big West game at home on Sept. 
30th, UC San Diego’s women’s soccer team couldn’t get a 
win in front of the Triton Soccer Stadium crowd, tying the 
California State University, Bakersfield Roadrunners 1–1 in a 
contest that went to 2 overtimes. The Tritons had high quality 
chances all night, outshooting CSUB 23–9, but they couldn’t 
add a goal to break the tie after equalizing in the 33rd minute.
Coming into the match, the Tritons had notched their 
first conference victory of the season on the road against 
UC Irvine, and were looking to do the same at home against 
a Roadrunner squad that had scored just 4 times through 
10 matches. Both teams were cautious to start the game, 
and while there were a few chances on each side, neither 
goalkeeper had to work too hard in the opening minutes.
In the 18th minute, however, the Roadrunners would 
finally break through. A free kick from Regielly Halldorsdottir 
banged off the crossbar and with the bounce too high to clear, 
Bakersfield’s Chelsee Duran arced a header over UCSD 
sophomore goalkeeper Keara Fitzgerald to put the visitors up 
one. The Tritons picked up the pace after the goal, but despite 
a few opportunities in the next fifteen minutes, they couldn’t 
get a shot on target.
That changed in the 32nd minute, when UCSD sophomore 
forward Kennedy Carter, leading the team with 5 goals on 
the season, was fouled while muscling her way down the left 
flank into the box, giving the Tritons a free kick in excellent 
crossing position. Junior forward Ava D’ Arcangelo placed the 
set piece perfectly in front of goal, and although 2 Tritons 
were unmarked in front of goal, the ball simply bounced 
untouched into the net to equalize for UCSD; Roadrunner 
keeper Flavia Burrell was expecting a tap-in to her right, but 
none materialized, and by the time she moved left to stop the 
ball, the damage was already done as D’ Arcangelo scored her 
first career goal.
CSUB almost took the lead again in the 37th minute, as 
forward Jamie Ingrassia’s shot from outside the box took a 
dangerous dip and needed to be poked over the crossbar by 
a leaping Fitzgerald. Two minutes later, it was Burrell who 
needed to pull off the goalkeeping heroics. A corner from 
UCSD junior midfielder Mika Celeste flew into a gaggle 
of players in the six-yard box, and Burrell barely slapped a would-be goal out of the net to keep the match on level terms. 
Burrell would be tested again 3 minutes later, as Triton junior 
midfielder Kate Hottinger made a nice run to get the ball to 
senior midfielder Lucy Tang, whose shot forced a diving save 
to the left from Burrell. That save sent the match into halftime 
knotted at one, with UCSD holding a slight 57-percent–41-
percent lead in possession and an 8–6 lead in shots.
The second half, like the first, didn’t begin with many 
chances for either team, though the Tritons continued to get 
in position. In the 65th minute, graduate midfielder Maddy 
Samilo crossed the ball from the right flank into the box for 
senior midfielder Caitlin McCarthy, who redirected the cross 
towards goal but hit the crossbar. That would be the Tritons’ 
best chance all half, as despite holding the upper hand in the 
run of play, UCSD just couldn’t get a score and the match 
went into two, ten-minute overtimes.
The Tritons had their foot on the gas in overtime, as a goal 
would end the game and give them a second straight Big West 
victory. After a couple of missed opportunities to start the 
period, UCSD found themselves with a dangerous free kick 
from behind the right corner of the box with under a minute 
to go in the first overtime. Graduate midfielder Michelle Baddour’s kick bounced to Burrell in goal, who weakly 
punched it into a crowd towards D’ Arcangelo, whose shot was 
likewise saved. The ball then bounced left to Carter, looking 
for her fourth game-winning goal this season, but Carter’s 
wide-open shot was blocked on the line by a Roadrunner 
defender, and the threat was soon cleared, sending the game 
into another sudden-death period.
The UCSD squad, having come inches from a walkoff 
goal, were even hungrier for a game-winner in the second 
overtime. Their first chance came with 7 minutes remaining, 
as D’ Arcangelo sent a cross to the right post for a wide-open 
Samilo just feet in front of the open net. But the ball bounced 
too high for Samilo to get a foot on it, and nothing came 
of the chance. The remainder of the overtime period was a 
series of decent chances from UCSD, but they either failed to 
generate shooting opportunities or were collected with little 
effort from Burrell.
The final whistle blew minutes later, with the Tritons and 
the home crowd frustrated about leaving with a tie when they 
had dominated most of the latter stages of the game; UCSD 
outshot CSUB 11–1 in overtime, and the Tritons seemed 
constantly on the edge of victory through both periods.
“I don’t think anybody — me, staff, players included — are 
really excited about that performance. More so than the result 
today, we’re trying to find where the inconsistency is in the 
performance and come back with our heads up on Sunday, ” 
said Jones.
When asked what her team had learned so far in the Big 
West and Division I, Jones said, “We get punished more for 
mistakes, and things aren’t handed to us as easily as they 
were in Division II. We’re capable of being better and more 
clinical… I think the girls are prepared to make the jump, and 
we’ve been competitive. We just need to figure out how to put 
some results on the board. ”
The Tritons will instead look for their first Big West home 
win on Sunday, Oct. 3 against California State University, 
Northridge, and will then take their longest break of the 
season before hosting UC Santa Barbara on Oct. 14.A top notch performance against an equally impressive rival
Pra veen nair  pmair@ucsd.edu
Missed Chances as Tritons Can’t Break Tie with 
BakersfieldWOMEN’S SOCCER
“...We just 
need to figure 
out how to put 
some results on 
the board.”  B y Pra veen nair
Sports Editor
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis / UC San Diego Athletics