(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Modern Love in 13 Words: Pandemic Edition
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/modern-love-in-13-words-pandemic-edition/) Colleen
Conradi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/colleenconradi/)
A few years ago, I asked a group of college students to define their love life in 13 words
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2018/02/15/modern-love-13-words/). I received stories of
heartbreak, love, lust, and more. Now, we have come back to some of those students, in
addition to some new contributors, to define their pandemic love lives in 13 words. Here’s
what we got:
“Outdoor sex at a botanical garden, shroom trips, and driving down Highway 1.” — Morgan,
Santa Rosa Junior College
“Unfortunately, he’s fictional or twice my age and doesn’t know I exist.” — Natalie, UC San
Diego 
“Searching for the one on Zoom but no one turns their camera on.” — Jack, UC San Diego
“Love first, Love true, Love burst, Love lost, Lessons learned, And soul tempered.” —
Anonymous, UC San Diego
“I guess love is two people perpetually passing up opportunities due to anxiety.” — Hanaa, UC
San Diego
“My still butterflies flutter because of you & now I can’t stop smiling.” — Air, UC San Diego
“I resisted asking him to be my boyfriend … until I couldn’t resist.” — Jia-hui, UC San Diego
“I don’t know how long I can keep swiping on Tinder. Send help.” — Bradley, UC San Diego
“Facebook messenger and a postponed date that might never happen with the rona.” —
Anonymous, UC San Diego
“Used him for free meals and free rides. He was cool I guess.” — Priscilla, UC San Diego
“Our distance grew because of the pandemic, but our love drew us closer.” — Morgan, UC
Irvine
“He left me his red hoodie for the nights I can’t see him” — Declan, Maryland Institute
College of ArtArtwork courtesy of Andrew Diep for The UCSD Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
UCSD Health Nurses Demand Safe Patient Care
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/ucsd-health-nurses-demand-safe-patient-care/) 
Lindsey Choo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/tlchoo/)
UC San Diego nurses demanded changes in staffing for safe patient care throughout the
University of California system during a press conference (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=y4rs3nn3hMo&feature=youtu.be&ab_channel=CBS8SanDiego) on Jan. 27 at the UCSD
Medical Center in Hillcrest. This demand came amidst growing concerns about the state of
intensive care unit capacities after the regional stay-at-home order for Southern California
was lifted on Jan. 25. 
As cases are expected to rise once again with COVID-19 restrictions loosening, nurses are
concerned about how this will affect nurse to staffing ratios in hospital units. With the
passage of A.B. 394 (https://www.cga.ct.gov/2004/rpt/2004-r-0212.htm) in 1999, California
is the only state in the nation that has specific registered nurse to patient ratios by law. The
law requires California’s Department of Public Health to establish specific numerical ratios
for specific hospital units. 
However, these safe staffing standards were rolled back in December of last year when many
hospitals across the country were increasingly overwhelmed with COVID-19 cases. Hospitals 
were offered the option of applying for a temporary expedited waiver
(https://abc7.com/california-icu-patient-load-nurse-to-ratios-covid-19/8830809/)  from the
California Department of Public Health to waive the staffing ratio, forcing nurses to care for
more patients than was previously permitted by law. 
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Shannon Cotton, a registered nurse in the COVID-
19 ICU unit at the UCSD Medical Center in Hillcrest said that nurse to patient staffing ratios
help to keep patients safe as they ensure that patients are properly cared for. The granting of
the expedited waivers poses a dangerous risk for both nurses and patients.
“Nurses fought, in California, for a long time, for our landmark law creating nurse to patient
ratios, which means in different units, there is a maximum number of patients you can take
care of,” Cotton said. “For example, in the [intensive care unit] where I work, I can only take
care of two patients during a shift because those patients need my complete attention, they
have extreme amounts of drips, they can turn a corner for the worse any second. I can always
take care of less, I can be what we call a one to one or a one to two, where two nurses have to
take care of the patient, but I can never take care of three, four, five patients at a time.”
On Feb. 1, the law was put back in place when the CDPH announced that they would no
longer be accepting any new expedited staffing waivers, and the existing approved waivers
are set to expire on Feb. 8 (https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/LCP/Pages/AFL-20-26.aspx). Furthermore, hospitals must maintain efforts to meet required staffing levels at all
times and will be subject to investigation by the CDPH if they are suspected not to.
According to a press release by the California Nurses Association
(https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/press/california-nurses-declare-victory-safe-
staffing-standards), this decision came only after several protests and direct action by
nurses.
 
“Nurses have staged hundreds of direct actions inside and outside their hospitals in defense
of safe staffing standards, including a mass mobilization most recently on Jan. 27; held
statewide as well as hospital chain-wide press conferences for media; and sent almost 6,000
emails in protest to CDPH,” the press release said.
When asked about her thoughts on how the stopping of expedited staffing waivers will impact
ICU capacities in the midst of the ongoing pandemic, Cotton emphasized personal
responsibility and community support.
“It’s kind of a double-edged sword, you don’t want your ratios to be broken for safety, but also
you care about your community, the economy. Our communities are suffering in other ways
right now because of the lockdown. As a nurse, I do believe that we have to take all of the
precautions when we’re going outside, when we’re going to meet others who aren’t in our
families, wearing masks, socially distancing and staying home when you can. We can’t rebuild
our economy if the people in our communities are sick, dying or dead. I think we need to
continue the lockdown until we actually see COVID numbers decreasing and our mortality
and morbidity rates decreasing.”
Cotton also highlighted the urgent need for widespread vaccination of underprivileged and
underserved communities who historically do not have access or trust in the healthcare
system, and that more people need to be vaccinated before the state can safely reopen.
As of Feb. 6, San Diego County remains at the purple tier
(https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/CDPH%20Document%20Library/COVID-
19/Dimmer-Framework-September_2020.pdf), the most restrictive tier in California’s color-
coded tier system. While this means that many non-essential indoor business operations are
still closed, many operations, like restaurants with outdoor seating areas and personal care
services are opening back up. Retail, shopping centers, and places of worship can still only
operate at 25 percent capacity, and many gyms, movie theaters, and entertainment centers
are restricted to outdoor activities only. In a statement provided to The Guardian, UCSD Health maintains that patient care has been
and remains their top priority. It also states that they have not and currently do not plan to
apply for a staffing ratio waiver. 
“UC San Diego Health has maintained appropriate and safe staffing ratios throughout the
pandemic. We recognize that extreme situations elsewhere have prompted other health care
facilities to seek additional tools to continue safe, effective care of their patients,” the
statement read. “However, UC San Diego Health has not applied for a staffing ratio waiver,
and with the partnership of our community to remain masked and maintain social distancing
practices, we hope to get through the pandemic without applying for this option.”
UCSD Health also emphasized on the reliance of vaccines to keep healthcare workers and the
community safe.
“At UC San Diego Health, we have invited 100 percent of our health care workers to be
vaccinated. More than 10,000 employees have received their first dose and more than 6,000
have received their second dose,” the statement said. “Moreover, in partnership with the
County of San Diego and others, we have vaccinated to date more than 57,000 community
members at the Petco Vaccination Super Station.”
From Jan. 8 to Feb. 6, there was a 20 percent decrease in the number of COVID-19 confirmed
ICU patients in San Diego County hospital. As of Feb. 7, ICU capacity is at 18 percent while
general hospital capacity is at 78 percent.
Artwork courtesy of Nicholas Regli for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Animal Parks Reopen to the Public
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/animal-parks-reopen-to-the-public/) Caledonia Davey
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/calli1davney/)
The San Diego Zoo, San Diego Safari Park, and Sea World are opening their doors once again after the state-
mandated closure on Dec. 7. The zoo and safari park opened on Saturday, Jan. 30, while Sea World will not be
exiting the closure until Saturday, Feb. 6. 
In a statement (https://zoo.sandiegozoo.org/reopen) from the San Diego Zoo and Safari Park, the parks require
that all visitors, ages three and up, have a ticket or membership, and a reservation to visit. Shows, shopping,
dining, and transportation experiences will be limited. “The safety and well-being of our guests, team members, and wildlife is our top priority. Both the Zoo and the
Safari Park have implemented measures designed to ensure a safe and healthy guest experience,” the parks
wrote in their statement.
Additionally, experiences such as The Guided Bus Tour and Kangaroo Bus of the zoo, and the Africa Tram and
Cheetah Run of the safari park, will not be operating during the “initial reopening phase.” The Skyfari Aerial
Tram will be operating, but with hours limited to 11 a.m. till closing, Thursday through Sunday. All merchandise
locations and most dining facilities continue to stay open with limited capacities, menus, seating, and hours.
Due to temporary daily on-grounds attendance capacity limits, the parks will only allow 5,000 guests in the zoo
and 3,000 in the safari park. Same day re-entry will be prohibited.
“Some pathways may be closed, and some plant and wildlife habitats may not be available. Signs on grounds
will announce any closures,” the parks stated. 
Along with the protection of their guests, the San Diego Zoo and Safari Park has also made a point of protecting
its residents, especially after members of the Gorilla Troop living at the zoo tested positive for the virus on Jan.
11. 
“In an excess of caution, San Diego Zoo Global has added extra biosecurity measures in working with all
mammals. These heightened biosecurity measures include: maintaining social distancing (six feet) between
people and susceptible species wherever possible, the wearing of cloth facial coverings whenever wildlife care
specialists are working in and around their enclosures, and the wearing of facial coverings during any medical
procedures,” the parks wrote.
Sea World will be opening its doors on Feb. 6 in accordance with state safety guidelines for zoos. The park is
unsure if it will reopen as an amusement park, or just a zoo, noting that they are continuing to monitor the
COVID-19 situation and will make changes as needed.
“We look forward to welcoming our guests back to our park for fun, safe and memorable experiences,” a
statement on the SeaWorld website (https://seaworld.com/san-diego/park-update/) read.
In order to protect the health of their guests, the park plans to implement health and safety measures that
include the increase in cleaning and sanitizing, physical distancing, face covering requirements, and
temperature screenings. They will also continue to severely limit capacity.
These openings will all be taking place due to the recent ending of the Californian regional stay-at-home order.
Officials scrapped the order Monday, Jan. 25, 2021, as intensive care unit availability increased by 15 percent
statewide. With the ending of the order, counties will return to the restrictions of their tiers. 
“I feel like the parks should not be reopening quite at this time… The openings would benefit our community in
financial regards, opening more jobs for people. However, in the long term these openings could lead to more
lives lost and prolonged closings of more businesses as infections rise,” Andrew Ballas, a sophomore from
Thurgood Marshall College commented. San Diego County is still in the most severe purple tier. With this comes several restrictions, including the
limited allowance of museum, zoo, and aquarium openings as long as they are purely outdoor. Purple tier
restrictions also include the continued closure of amusement parks, keeping Sea World from opening up its
famous ocean-themed rides. Despite restrictions, the parks are still dedicated to giving their visitors a
memorable experience.
“Although your next visit might feel a bit different from your past treks through the Zoo and Safari Park, you’ll
discover there is still plenty to see and do,” the Zoo and Safari Park website reads. 
Reservations and tickets for the San Diego Zoo (https://zoo.sandiegozoo.org/reopen?gclid=Cj0KCQiA0-
6ABhDMARIsAFVdQv8r809Bi17GN5pyaleqEt1i7dF3sEQignlBtcJT5pl2Fbrk3islnAgaAmuCEALw_wcB), San
Diego Safari Park (https://zoo.sandiegozoo.org/reopen?gclid=Cj0KCQiA0-
6ABhDMARIsAFVdQv8r809Bi17GN5pyaleqEt1i7dF3sEQignlBtcJT5pl2Fbrk3islnAgaAmuCEALw_wcB), and
SeaWorld (https://seaworld.com/san-diego/events/sesame-street-parade-of-lights/?&mkwid=s-
dc_pcrid_490969793037_pkw_san%20diego%20sea%20world_pmt_e_slid_&pgrid=68855329839&ptaid=kwd-
33455840&gclid=Cj0KCQiA0-6ABhDMARIsAFVdQv-GBf9vcDipH8BjwUbnCgBk1sVGMpcAplbZD2-
ho1xtdnNHRsOYv-saAt8MEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds) can be found on their websites.
Photo courtesy of San Diego Zoo.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Queer Stories Should be Told by Queer Actors
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/queer-stories-should-be-told-by-queer-actors/) 
Raymond Tran (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/raymondt/)
In recent years, LGBTQ+ representation in the media has been on the rise. Of the 118 movies
GLAAD (https://www.glaad.org/sri/2020/overview) examined from the major studios in
2019, 22 (18.6 percent) included LGBTQ+ characters, a slight increase of .4 percent from the
year before. Movies such as “Call Me By Your Name,” “Brokeback Mountain,” and most
recently, “Love, Simon” tell stories of men discovering their sexuality. Although these films
were monumental in creating a safe space to tell LGBTQ+ stories, they all share an
underlying issue: gay characters were played by straight actors. 
From Timothy Chalamet in “Call Me By Your Name” to Darren Criss in “Glee,” straight actors
have been cast in queer roles that are renowned by viewers for their performances. These
films and shows have not only won multiple awards but also worked to normalize these
stories (https://studybreaks.com/tvfilm/love-simon-lgbtq-representation/) in the media.
They also showed other companies that watching queer representation wouldn’t drive away
business (https://deadline.com/2017/11/call-me-by-your-name-best-average-darkest-hour-
robust-start-specialty-box-office-1202214595/). 
This has paved the way (https://dailytrojan.com/2011/03/21/glee-paves-way-for-serious-
representation-of-gay-characters/) for newer films and shows to have stronger LGBTQ+
representation that wasn’t possible just a couple of decades ago. With that being said, it is
crucial that queer roles are played by queer actors because of the emotional depth and
experiential nuances that come with being part of the LGBTQ+ community.
Authentic representation should be the objective of telling any queer stories in the media.
While it is tempting to cast well-known straight actors to play queer roles for their “star
quality,” creating a well-developed and genuine character to represent a minority group in a
show or film should be the utmost priority.
Given these new opportunities for queer characters to have a place in entertainment, it is
crucial that their stories are portrayed by someone with a similar background, as growing into
one’s sexuality or gender identity (https://www.psychiatrictimes.com/view/closet-
psychological-issues-being-and-coming-out) is an experience that a straight cisgender actor
could not replicate to its full extent. 
Being in the closet, coming out, and accepting oneself, all while battling internalized
homophobia, is a unique experience that the LGBTQ+ community deals with on an intimate
level. While the art of acting is about telling a story, which doesn’t necessarily have to be oneyou have experienced firsthand, a cishet actor is simply unable to fully empathize with and
recreate the distinct experiences and emotional complexity of the queer community, let alone
portray them in a realistic and genuine manner. 
The issue occurs when straight actors take on gay roles and rely on stereotypes
(https://www.oprahmag.com/entertainment/tv-movies/a25994912/should-straight-actors-
play-lbgtq-characters/) to bring these characters to life. For example, James Corden has
recently faced criticism for his performance in the Netflix film “Prom.” His portrayal of Barry
Glickman, a gay Broadway actor, has been described as “aggressively flamboyant,”
“homophobic,” “stereotypical,” and “grossly inappropriate.”
(https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/movies/story/2020-12-14/james-corden-the-
prom-criticism-twitter) 
In terms of trans casting in particular, in order to maintain this authenticity, trans actors
should be the only actors cast to play these roles. 
In 2018, Scarlet Johansson received backlash (https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/nbc-
out/scarlett-johansson-says-she-mishandled-transgender-casting-controversy-n1092131)  for
agreeing to play a transgender man in the movie “Rug and Tug.” Johansson quit the film after
critics said her casting took opportunities from members of marginalized communities,
namely transgender actors. 
“While I would have loved the opportunity to bring [his] story and transition to life, I
understand why many feel he should be portrayed by a transgender person,” Johansson told
Out Magazine (https://www.out.com/out-exclusives/2018/7/13/exclusive-scarlett-
johansson-withdraws-rub-tug) in July 2018. “I am thankful that this casting debate, albeit
controversial, has sparked a larger conversation about diversity and representation in film.”
While sexuality does not have a heavy influence on appearance, being trans often does. 
In an interview with the Chicago Tribune
(https://www.chicagotribune.com/entertainment/movies/ct-mov-trans-actors-for-trans-
roles-0713-story.html), transgender actress and TV writer Jen Richards highlighted the
misrepresentation of trans people that occurs when cisgender actors play their roles. 
“They think of a man in a wig and makeup. Or a woman in a suit and mustache. Because
that’s all they’ve seen. And then they meet actual trans people and we look too much like a
regular woman or a regular man and so it doesn’t square with them — and they want theiraudience to have this very obvious visual of: This is a trans person.” Richards said. “They
don’t want their audience to be made uncomfortable. They want to foreground that this is a
‘performance.’”
Not only is the creation of a character important, but also is their portrayal. While
transgender actors are able to draw from their experiences and create a three-dimensional
character, cisgender actors simply cannot, and in turn they run the risk of misrepresenting an
already underrepresented community.
In the second special episode of the HBO series “Euphoria,” Hunter Schafer, who plays Jules,
got the opportunity to co-write, co-produce, and storyboard this episode. As a trans actress
playing a trans character, Schafer said in an interview with Collider
(https://collider.com/euphoria-special-episode-2-interview-hunter-schafer/) , “I feel it’s
reflective of my experience … but I’m thinking about a lot of other things, aside from being
trans, most of the time, and that feels really accurate …   As a queer trans person, I’m really
excited to be exploring queerness as a trans person with Jules, as well.” 
Shows such as “Pose” and “Orange Is the New Black” have been praised for their diverse cast,
allowing queers actors of color to portray queer characters of color. While not all their
LGBTQ+ characters are played by queer actors, the shows offer an authentic representation
of marginalized groups. 
As a gay man, I have been heavily influenced by queer representation in the media, and when
done correctly, it can inspire, educate, and comfort so many people. During the struggle to
accept my sexuality, I looked to the media for stories similar to my own. With the fast-
growing collection of inclusive films and shows, it is essential to have realistic and authentic
representation.
Media psychologist Dr. Dill-Shackleford (https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/fictional-
character-bonding-fandom-psychology) says that characters are often avatars for us, and we
let ourselves feel feelings through them even if we can’t relate to everything they’re going
through. Seeing queer stories normalized in the media, portrayed by actors who have a deep
connection to the character and story, goes a long way in educating, accepting, and
understanding this resilient, strong, and amazing community.
Here’s the bottom line: Queer actors exist. And they should be able to tell queer stories.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Musings from the Museum: Our Guiding Lights Are
Flickering Out
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/musings-from-the-museum-our-guiding-lights-are-
flickering-out/) Sparky Mitra (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sparkymitra/)
Another week of ours, another week in history.
This past week, we marveled at the resolve
(https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/27/politics/marjorie-taylor-greene-david-hogg-
video/index.html) of school-shooting survivor David Hogg as he was harassed by Rep.
Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.). We students have collectively dared to fight for issues
concerning our future, whether that be civil rights or climate change. Hogg himself
(https://marchforourlives.com/leadership/) founded March For Our Lives to advocate for
gun reform at all levels of government. Our fervor has ignited countless movements targeting
a plethora of challenges. A torch has been passed to us, the students. 
But it is our teachers who have and continue to mentor us as we learn to wield this torch.
They help us make some of our generation’s most consequential
(https://www.forbes.com/sites/emanuelabarbiroglio/2019/12/09/generation-z-fears-
climate-change-more-than-anything-else/?sh=bf46cd8501ba) decisions. They help us decide:
do we use the torch’s flame to desecrate our people and our world, or do we use it to
illuminate a new way forward? 
This week, we were in awe of the power of students. Yet, behind us students, countless
underpaid and underappreciated teachers have poured every ounce of their passion into our
success. But teacher appreciation often stops at charity — it is time to change that.
While we have often struggled to fully support our teachers, NASA’s Teacher in Space Project
(https://www.nasa.gov/feature/honoring-a-teacher-christa-mcauliffe-s-lost-lessons)  (TISP),
now defunct, provides an example of what true emphasis and investment into teachers’
success can look like. 
This program was created with the goal of helping teachers like Christa McAuliffe
(https://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/atoms/files/mcauliffe.pdf)  create syllabi and
lesson plans based on real-world applications. But sadly, this willingness to bolster our
instructors’ resources and income has been piecemeal in the years since. For every McAuliffe,
thousands (https://www.businessinsider.com/10-alarming-facts-about-teacher-pay-in-the-
united-states-2019-10) of teachers have since been left scraping by. While McAuliffe’s death
in the Challenger (https://www.npr.org/2006/01/28/5175151/challenger-reporting-a-
disasters-cold-hard-facts) Space Shuttle explosion was an unforgettable loss, her sacrifice
should not be in vain. She flew so her successors could soar.This past week, on the 35th anniversary of the Challenger disaster, I found myself on a
journey of gratitude — on a mission to recognize the spirit of McAuliffe. Bernie Sanders’s
efforts (https://apnews.com/article/bernie-sanders-mittens-memes-charity-
3f8afd8e8a5a0b8b9709dd6d4d30ec13) to give back to educators via his mittens meme
inspired me to give back to the most important educators in my life. 
From advisors to mentors, I spontaneously sent little gifts and sprinkled in some heartfelt
notes, hoping to see a little joyous twinkle in their eyes. But one of the thank-you responses
made me pause. It contained more than happiness. There, I saw some pain. 
He said that my little random act had momentarily helped distract him from the rampant
“corruption among my so-called colleagues.” For many of his co-teachers, this job had merely
become a way to pay the bills. The money preceded passion, and half-hearted lesson plans
were the unfortunate result. 
This circumstance however, isn’t the fault of the individual, but rather a system. A system
(https://time.com/longform/teaching-in-america/) that takes the job of teaching for granted,
undervaluing educators to a point of apathy towards their students. I felt defeated. I was just
another person who equated charity to change. Bernie’s mittens
(https://www.teenvogue.com/story/bernie-sanders-viral-mittens-teacher-interview)  meme-
funded charity meals, and my small efforts to hit them in the feels can only go so far.
Our teachers deserve more than just an occasional token of appreciation. They deserve a
system with innate respect for those training not only our generation, but also the many more
that will follow us. Instead of counting on charity, let us focus on changing resource and
income distribution so that teachers can maintain their empathy and be free from relying on
others’ sympathy.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
TV Review: “Fate: The Winx Saga”
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/tv-review-fate-the-winx-saga/) Deyshna Pai
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/deyshnapai/)
“Fate: The Winx Saga,” the anticipated, aged-up adaptation of a beloved children’s cartoon,
half-heartedly executes what at first seemed like a promising idea. It’s intriguing to see the G and PG-rated characters you knew as a child evolve into versions
appropriate for TV-14 and TV-MA audiences. The characters become familiar enough to hook
your attention while remaining mysterious enough to keep it — perhaps this explains the
growing trend of adapting children’s shows for mature audiences. It is this idea that serves as
the bedrock of the highly-controversial show “Riverdale” and the much-loved series “Chilling
Adventures of Sabrina,” both of which are often talked about albeit for largely different
reasons: one is infamous for its gross sensationalism while the other is famous for its
addictive weirdness, wit, and dark, fantastical world-building. Accordingly, it was evident
from its trailer that “Fate: The Winx Saga,” a mature Netflix adaptation of a children’s
cartoon featuring elementally and racially diverse fairies, had the potential for the same
greatness and obsession, whether that be through adopting some of the ridiculous shock
value that keeps “Riverdale” relevant, or mirroring “CAOS” with a delicious diegesis of its
own. Disappointingly, it does neither very well. And while the show does have its share of
enjoyable scenes, the overall quality of the series fluctuates so much — even within episodes
— to the point where its shortcomings become too obvious to excuse. 
For one, the show has an overall feeling of “unfinishedness” that could have been alleviated
by the show’s creators spending more time to achieve a binge-worthy final product. There’s a
mix of some great and not-so-great scenes within the series that interrupt the viewer’s ability
to feel truly invested in an episode. For example, the opening scenes of the first episode
features music that abruptly fades out within seconds for a somewhat clunky flirtation
between Bloom (Abigail Cowen), the new fire-fairy at magical boarding school Alfea, and Sky
(Danny Griffin), a specialist (a non-magical knight of sorts) and Bloom’s obvious love
interest. In addition to the music’s jarring editing, the dialogue feels blandly narrative — a
classic example of telling instead of showing as Bloom’s unsolicited spilling of her guts to a
stranger feels more like it was for the audience’s benefit rather than to establish rapport with
Sky. It is these first few scenes of the show that sets the tone for the series. Although the scene
quality and dialogue seem to improve at certain points, it tends to be temporary, further
highlighting the unrealized potential of the more disappointing aspects of the show. 
For the most part, the show’s special effects create an addictive portrayal of magic. The show
does well with its horror-esque elements as seen by its depiction of the “Burned Ones,”
invincible, humanoid zombies that portray the season’s villains. The scenes involving these
creatures create chilling moments of suspense that feel more like the quality viewers
anticipated upon release of the show’s trailer. Moreover, the special effects showing Terra
(Eliot Salt) the earth fairy animating vines to strangle bullies or coaxing flowers to blossom,Aisha (Precious Mustapha) water-bending torrential currents, and Bloom setting herself and
a forest on fire, evoke the same feelings of awe and wonder that the magic of both “CAOS”
and “Harry Potter” did for its fans. 
Unfortunately, even the quality of these special effects are inconsistent — Bloom’s
“transformation scene” against a glittery, midnight blue, green screen effect in the season
finale feels out of place compared to the other more commonplace depictions of magic in the
series. Furthermore, the show misses an opportunity to capitalize on the fun of learning
magic in a school devoted to teaching it by failing to properly integrate Bloom’s improvement
as a fairy into the plot. To explain, she professes to have trouble accessing her magic in the
beginning of the series, envious of Aisha’s masterful control, which seems to set up a
promising character arc for viewers. However, the show fails to take advantage of this set-up,
opting instead for a storyline in which Bloom spontaneously displays an uncharacteristic
control and mastery of her powers while Aisha is unable to control a single drop of water.
This is one of the most confusing aspects of the show as Aisha was previously shown to
impressively extinguish Bloom’s uncontrolled forest fire with a flood. As this isn’t the only
plot point that feels hastily brushed over, the show often feels poorly paced. 
It should also be noted that “Fate: The Winx Saga” has been highly criticized for white-
washing its cast — the original cartoon was ahead of its time for featuring white fairies
alongside fairies of color, including a Latina fairy, East Asian fairy, and Black fairy. However,
nearly all the characters on “Fate: The Winx Saga” are white or white-passing. If considered
as a stand-alone show, this might be a bit more excusable, but the show exists within a
greater context, having derived itself from a popular cartoon, which makes this facet all the
more difficult to overlook. 
Overall, as a series of magic, friendship, and romance, “Fate: The Winx Saga” is appealing for
its novel reinvention of once-familiar characters, and is weakened by its pacing and stilted
character development. It’s difficult to get a sense of how this show will evolve or improve as
it feels so incomplete, but perhaps the possible renewal for a second season, an increased
budget, and more time will improve upon the first season and give viewers more of what they
were looking for. After all, the elements of what could be a fascinating story do exist, albeit in
tiny seeds of potential. Perhaps they just need some time to bloom. 
Grade: C+  
Created by: Brian Young  
Starring: Abigail Cowen, Precious Mustapha, Elisha Applebaum, Eliot Salt, Hannah van derWesthuysen, Danny Griffin, Freddie Thorp, Jacob Dudman, Theo Graham, Sadie Soverall 
Release date: January 22, 2021  
Rated: TV-MA
Image courtesy of Netflix.com. (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The Modern Civil War Over History
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/the-modern-civil-war-over-history/) Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
Before leaving office, President Trump established a commission to make American history reverse its trend of being “anti-American.”
The subsequent report has led to a battle between historians and politicians about how the nation’s history will be told. 
In the commotion of President Trump’s final days in office, people may not have noticed the release of a report by a presidential
commission tasked with developing principles for American history education. The 1776 Commission Report
(https://f.hubspotusercontent10.net/hubfs/397762/The%20President%E2%80%99s%20Advisory%201776%20Commission%20-
%20Final%20Report.pdf) received criticism from historians for inaccuracies, clear political motivations, and its lack of citations. The
report’s controversial contents and the circumstances of its release shine a light on the growing divide over historical interpretation in a
politically polarized age.
The 1776 Commission was announced at a conference on American history last September at the National Archives, headlined by a 17-
minute address
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:President_Trump_Delivers_Remarks_at_the_White_House_Conference_on_American_History.webm)
from former President Trump. The president decried what he described as “anti-American” sentiment from the left-wing and Black Lives
Matter protests.
More specifically, President Trump targeted the New York Times’ “1619 Project
(https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/1619-america-slavery.html) ,” which aimed to recontextualize American
history as centered around slavery and systemic racism. While historians have debated some of the claims
(https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/20/magazine/we-respond-to-the-historians-who-critiqued-the-1619-project.html) of the 1619 Project,Trump’s quarrel was not with its historical accuracy or interpretive value, but rather its ideology. The education of children about systemic
racism and other ills of American founding was “a web of lies,” said Trump, and critical race theory was “child abuse in the truest sense of
those words.”
Historians have been near-universally critical of the report that the 1776 Commission produced, with the American Historical Association
and 45 other historical organizations issuing a condemnation of the report (https://www.historians.org/news-and-advocacy/aha-
advocacy/aha-statement-condemning-report-of-advisory-1776-commission-(january-2021)).
“I don’t feel like historians should even engage with it extensively, because I don’t feel like this is a serious work,” said Professor Rebecca Jo
Plant, an American history professor at UC San Diego, in an interview with The UCSD Guardian. “The importance of it is really going to be
as a primary document, as a historical document, for people in the future looking back at this moment and understanding how polarized
the policy is right now.”
The 45-page report is full of controversial historical statements, most clearly in the report’s section on “Challenges to America’s Principles,”
beginning with slavery. This section is not about the evils of slavery, but instead defends slaveholding founding fathers like Thomas
Jefferson from accusations of hypocrisy. 
“This charge is untrue, and has done enormous damage,” says the report, making the case that Jefferson was anti-slavery due to his original
draft of the Declaration, which must surely come as a relief to the 600 slaves he owned during his lifetime
(https://www.monticello.org/slavery/slavery-faqs/property/).
The report further focuses its history of slavery around the founding fathers, as the section on slavery fails to mention the actual human toll
of slavery itself, mourning only the troops lost in the Civil War. The only time any African Americans are mentioned in the section is to
trumpet Frederick Douglass’ approval of the Declaration.
This framing choice continues in the report’s section on racism, titled “Racism and Identity Politics.” The report praises Martin Luther
King, Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” and its message of equality, but the latter half of the section criticizes the Civil Rights Movement, arguing
without evidence that it had perverted King’s ideals for preferential treatment for African-Americans. 
“It didn’t engage with historical work that’s been done on the subjects that the report ostensibly deals with,” said Professor Rachel Klein,
also a UCSD professor of American history, in an interview with The Guardian. “Some of it is kind of clever, but clever in a manipulative
way, and some of it is just absolutely ridiculous and really nothing more than absurd propaganda.”
The report’s following section, on history education itself, decries political motivations and partisanship before moving on to a well-worn
critique of universities.
“To restore our society, academics must return to their vocation of relentlessly pursuing the truth and engaging in honest scholarship that
seeks to understand the world and America’s place in it,” says the report, despite the incredibly politicized historical judgments that
precede this statement.
These parts sum up to a report which more often than not skips over the complexities of American history. The sections about racism and
slavery do not discuss these issues within American history, but instead, use them to attack modern-day liberals. Even historical figures like
King and Douglass, who were radical in their day, are quoted selectively in the report to support conservative ideas.
“Our kids are smarter than we give them credit for, in terms of their ability to cope with complexity. The earlier they start to learn about the
complexity of U.S. history, the more they’re going to be prepared to be knowledgeable citizens who can work to address outstanding social
issues,” Plant said.
These issues are far from surprising, as the 1776 Commission Report was not created by conservative historians (no American historians
were on the commission), but rather by ideologues, from Hillsdale College president Larry Arnn to conservative activist Charlie Kirk. But
the 1776 Commission is just part of a battle over the way we teach American history, which has become one of the more contested academic
subjects in broader culture wars over the identity of this nation.The most common charge levied against universities in America is that they are hotbeds of liberal indoctrination, and there’s an entire
right-wing sphere of organizations from PragerU to Campus Reform to Charlie Kirk’s Turning Point USA that seek to emphasize that
notion. 
The data does suggest that professors are significantly more liberal than the population as a whole  – UCLA’s Higher Education Research
Institute (https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/03/opinion/sunday/there-are-conservative-professors-just-not-in-these-states.html) puts
the liberal-to-conservative ratio at 6:1 – but what is more contested is the reason for that difference, and the impact this has on students.
For example, a recent study on the matter (https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/ps-political-science-and-politics/article/abs/why-
college-students-drift-left-the-stability-of-political-identity-and-relative-malleability-of-issue-positions-among-college-
students/9569B67D693BBE6A2CDC42292A3237B7#.X5EoUIbQOGc.twitter) found that while students do drift leftwards during college,
this tends to be due to peer groups rather than professor indoctrination.
“History done well has to abide by standards of evidence, and it grows out of a process of conversation, with historians looking at
documents and respecting facts,” Klein said. “A good history class acknowledges that there are differences of opinion… If universities and
history classes were just indoctrinating students with left-wing politics, we wouldn’t have had the last 20 years of right-wing politics. If
that’s all we’re doing, we’re doing a horrible job of it.”
Still, given that there might be a disconnect between the political opinions of professors and students, the more pressing challenge for
educators is teaching the often-controversial subjects in history in a way that transcends political bounds. This process only occurs when an
open dialogue about historical interpretation and events can occur in the classroom.
“In my classroom, there’s been tensions that have bubbled to the surface… I had a student who I thought raised questions that were
uncomfortable for the other students, and if I had to have guessed, I would have placed her pretty far on the right,” Plant said. “Then at the
end of the class, she sent me a note really thanking me for [the class]. It appears that being able to ask those questions where even asking
the question offended some people – like being able to ask it and have me take it seriously and answer it – it made her change her mind
about things… I don’t think that it would have happened if I had just shut her down.”
A part of bridging those gaps that both Klein and Plant described was the practice of historical empathy: students should be able to
understand the mindsets of historical figures, even when they do not agree with them. When students ask her about the Confederacy, says
Plant, “I have said yes, they were supporting that heinous system, but what you need to think about is that if you were born into that
system, there is a minuscule chance that you would have opposed it.”
As the authors of the 1776 Report made clear, one’s vision of history is very much tied to their sense of identity, both personal and political,
and it is for this reason that history will always be at the center of cultural debate. 
“The battles taking place over [American history], it’s about who we are as a nation, and who gets to define that,” Plant said. “People like to
say history will judge, but history doesn’t judge – historians judge, and historians are people with perspectives.”
But those very same reasons that make history such a controversial subject are why it is so important for young people to study it. In a year
that has seen a devastating pandemic, massive protests over police violence and systemic racism, and widespread attacks on democratic
institutions, it is important to have an understanding of the historical causes and previous instances of these events.
For Plant, the same unique circumstances of America’s founding that are so lauded by the 1776 Commission Report make this a nation in
which learning history and having a stake in that history are so important.
“As a nation, the United States is groping towards a society that is so diverse, that incorporates people from so many different backgrounds
that when you say ‘American,’ you don’t have a typical image… I think we’re the first country where you can really say that,” Plant said. “The
commitment is to the ideals, not to a certain racial heritage… [The question is] whether or not we can hold together a country based on a
certain set of principles, and that claim in the past which not all of us, in a genetic or genealogical sense, have a stake.”
Meanwhile, Klein stressed the importance of historical memory and understanding. 
“What would a person who had no memory? That sort of takes the humanity from the person … I think that’s true of a society as well,” Klein
said. “A society without memory can’t be a fully functioning, healthy society… We’re never going to have a 100% accurate historical
memory, but we need to have an ongoing dialogue about memory and ongoing efforts to recover the past.”While our collective dialogue about memory often pits conservatives against liberals, a more important distinction exists between
interpretations of history that are based in fact and those based in dogma. Historians mostly see the 1776 Commission Report as an
example of the latter. But as a new administration enters office, it is as important as ever that the history that we draw on for clarity and
understanding stay faithful to the complex realities of the past.
Ultimately, the past is not a thing we can separate from the present, and historical interpretation will always be subject to contemporary
political whims. The 1776 Commission Report unintentionally proves this better than nearly any other primary source of the last four years.
But even when history can be controversial, the open, honest discussions that should happen in a proficient college classroom, especially
those between students and professors of differing views, is the one way that we can remain truthful in our understanding of the past and
be prepared for an uncertain future.
Art by  Kalo Grimsby for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Remembering SOPHIE: The Transformational Pioneer of
Hyperpop
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/remembering-sophie-the-transformational-pioneer-of-
hyperpop/) Jocelyn Brossia (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/jbrossia/)
In the single “LEMONADE,” SOPHIE bent synthesized loops, rhythm, and melodies to create
the illusion of bubbles popping. In “L.O.V.E.,” SOPHIE’s employment of droning white noise
is the phonetic imitation of the pink-and-purple plastic bug on the single’s cover. In “VYZEE,”
any sense of production through musical synthesis is gone, replaced by the sound of physical
materials (e.g. balloons rubbing, bubbles popping, metal clanging, etc.) in motion. 
SOPHIE told stories through vibrant and absurd musical textures, which were always equally,
if not more, important than the spoken word.  For SOPHIE, the text was not intended to be
closely examined for deeper meaning.  
Following SOPHIE’s passing, musician Vince Staples took to Twitter
(https://twitter.com/vincestaples/status/1355640093164228608) to reflect on his
experience with SOPHIE’s carefree, effervescent nature in the studio.
“And don’t let the verse be deep or heartfelt cause she stopping the computer and walking
outside until you get bacc on some gangsta shit,” Staples wrote. 
Having been infatuated with music from a young age, pop producer SOPHIE began
producing music, crafting singles, and collaborating with PC Music (https://pcmusic.info/)
founder A.G. Cook in the early 2010s. Ranging from slow synthesized sonics to harsh and
surreal hyperkinetic beats, SOPHIE’s music operates within modern pop to both pay homage
to it and critique it, while simultaneously transcending the genre barriers altogether.  To do
so, SOPHIE superimposed the producer’s signature material noises in place of pop’s text
repetition and the “‘millennial whoop.”’ 
SOPHIE’s ascension beyond genre was incredibly impactful on hyperpop, and the musician’s
impact on the expansion of music collectively is perpetuated through collaborations with a
wide variety of modern musicians. Before passing in January 2021, SOPHIE collaborated
with artists such as Charli XCX (https://ucsdguardian.org/2018/01/15/album-review-pop-2-
by-charli-xcx/), Lady Gaga, Madonna, Nicki Minaj, and Vince Staples
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2019/04/08/asce-releases-2019-sun-god-lineup-rapper-vince-
staples-headline/). SOPHIE’s hyperpop influence is more apparent on some of these tracks
than others, yet the influence is apparent to anyone who recognizes key elements of
SOPHIE’s music.SOPHIE WAS DIFFERENT YOU AIN’T NEVER SEEN SOMEBODY IN THE
STUDIO SMOKING A CIGARETTE IN A LEATHER BUBBLE JACKET JUST
MAKING BEATS NOT SAYING ONE WORD.
— VINCE STAPLES (@VINCESTAPLES) JANUARY 30, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/VINCESTAPLES/STATUS/1355639584856674307?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
Hyperpop would not sound the way it does today without the groundbreaking innovations of
SOPHIE and PC Music founder Cook. Although seemingly nonsensical upon first listen, the
genre is anything but. The sound is ever-changing; its maximalist approach to pop music
makes it fascinatingly avant-garde.
VICE journalist Eli Enis described hyperpop’s identity
(https://www.vice.com/en/article/bvx85v/this-is-hyperpop-a-genre-tag-for-genre-less-
music) as “less rooted in musical genetics than it is a shared ethos of transcending genre
altogether, while still operating within the context of pop.”
“I think all pop music should be about who can make the loudest, brightest thing,” SOPHIE
said in a 2015 interview with Rolling Stone (https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-
news/pc-music-are-for-real-a-g-cook-and-sophie-talk-twisted-pop-58119/)  and Cook. “‘That,
to me, is an interesting challenge, musically and artistically. And I think it’s a very valid
challenge — just as valid as who can be the most raw emotionally.”
SOPHIE’s ability to warp and bend generated noises to sound like real materials is SOPHIE’s
rejection of the pressure to employ obsolete, outdated sounds and instruments from music
from the latter half of the twentieth century. To do so, SOPHIE favored the Elektron
Monomachine, a music synthesizer and sequencer first produced in 2004. With the
Monomachine, it became second nature for SOPHIE to render the sounds of balloons,
bubbles, latex, and more.
In an archived interview with Elektron Music Magazine
(https://web.archive.org/web/20141107185217/http://www.elektronauts.com/talk/view/62) ,
SOPHIE spoke on the advantages brought about by the machine. “I’m rather fixated on this idea of a monophonic, elastic, full frequency range morphing
composition,” SOPHIE said. “I really like the Monomachine for two things. Sketches and
sound design. […]  It’s the machine I feel most fluent working on if I have an idea for a sound.
I can experiment with it most quickly there.”
On Jan. 30, SOPHIE’s label, Transgressive (http://www.transgressiverecords.com/),
announced the musician’s passing in Athens, Greece on social media.
“True to her spirituality she had climbed up to watch the full moon and accidentally slipped
and fell,” the post read. “She will always be here with us.” 
PIC.TWITTER.COM/8HZMKTZJ2T (HTTPS://T.CO/8HZMKTZJ2T)
— TRANSGRESSIVE (@TRANSGRESSIVEHQ) JANUARY 30, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/TRANSGRESSIVEHQ/STATUS/1355485915892703240?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
SOPHIE’s debut studio album, Oil of Every Pearl’s Un-Insides
(https://open.spotify.com/album/4z3YbEkKWwiIMSJTWUQbTH?
si=ChlgZd0jRm64dHwSNlKuJw), was released in June of 2018. The album’s manipulation of
sound simultaneously challenges the limitations of the gender binary, which is an inseparable
element of SOPHIE’s music. SOPHIE’s approach to making music mirrors who SOPHIE was
as an individual. 
The album begins with an embrace of mutual vulnerability in  “It’s Okay to Cry.”
Accompanied by a self-produced music video (https://youtu.be/m_S0qCeA-pc), the single
also marked the first instance in which SOPHIE’s face was used in any promotional material
— the artist had existed mostly in the dark before that. Depicted topless in front of a backdrop
of clouds, some listeners interpret this as SOPHIE’s announcement of being a transgender
woman. SOPHIE preferred to not be referred to with the use of pronouns. 
“For me, transness is taking control to bring your body more in line with your soul and spirit
so the two aren’t fighting against each other and struggling to survive,” SOPHIE said in an
interview with Paper Magazine (https://www.papermag.com/sophie-pride-2579165152.html?rebelltitem=51#rebelltitem51) in 2018. 
The thematic and sonic elements of the album arguably place it as the largest opportunity
provided to listeners to take a glimpse into the mind and soul of SOPHIE — imperfections
and all. For both listeners and those who worked closely with SOPHIE, such a display of
vulnerability was rare. 
With SOPHIE’s extensive history of collaboration and production with various musicians, it
is likely that even those who have never heard the name SOPHIE have heard music touched
by the producer’s contribution to modern music. SOPHIE will be remembered for
unabashedly challenging the limitations of genre and gender. As long as there is a musician
intent on imagining and creating, SOPHIE’s musical precedents will continue to shape and
sway the manipulation of sound.
This Is SOPHIEThis Is SOPHIE
Spoti   Spoti 
0:00
 
BIPP
SOPHIE
    
 
It's Okay To Cry
SOPHIE
    
 
Immaterial
SOPHIE
    
 
Faceshopping
SOPHIE
    
 
Vroom Vroom
Charli XCX
    
 
Ponyboy
SOPHIE
    
 
VYZEE
SOPHIE
    
 
Is It Cold In The Water?
SOPHIE
    
 
Queen Of This Shit
Quay Dash
    
  
Infatuation
SOPHIE
    
  
Not Okay
SOPHIE
    Image courtesy of The FADER.
SOPHIE
  1,2,3 dayz up (feat. SOPHIE)
Kim Petras, SOPHIE
    
  
Trophy
Charli XCX
    
  
JUST LIKE WE NEVER SAID GOODBYE
SOPHIE
    
  
When I Rule the World
LIZ
    
  
Yeah Right
Vince Staples
    
  
Bitch I'm Madonna
Madonna, Nicki Minaj
    
  
ELLE
SOPHIE
    
  
Faceshopping
SOPHIE
    
  
Paradise (feat. Hannah Diamond)
Charli XCX, Hannah Diamond
    
  
MSMSMSM
SOPHIE
    
  
Hot Pink
Let's Eat Grandma
    
  
Pretending
SOPHIE
    
  
Voices
    (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Tritons Bested by UC Riverside in Jan. 31 Contest
 February 7, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/07/tritons-bested-by-uc-riverside-in-jan-31-contest/) 
Donovan Perez-Schipper (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/donovan-perez-schipper/)
On Jan. 31, UC San Diego (3–5, 1–4 Big West) scheduled a game against UC Riverside (8–4,
4–2 Big West) to make up for canceled games against California State University, Long Beach
on Friday and Saturday. Since it was scheduled outside of the Big West season, the
rescheduled game will be considered a non–conference affair and will not count on either
school’s conference record. UCSD’s inaugural Division I men’s basketball team tried to keep
the momentum going after grabbing their first-ever victory in conference play, but fell short
in a 71–59 loss to UCR.
UC San Diego slumped out of the gate, finding themselves down 27–12 at the 9:08 mark in
the first half. An inspired run by Hugh Baxter, a senior forward, would help UCSD claw back
into this one before it got out of hand. Three out of four three-point jumpers would fall for
Baxter, and an assist to freshman guard Jace Rocquemore’s layup would bring the Tritons to
only a 6-point deficit with five minutes left in the first period of play.
UC Riverside would quickly recover, however, with an 8–0 run immediately following the 11
points in which Hugh Baxter scored or assisted. After a few more minutes of attempting to
close the gap before the end of the half, UCSD would find themselves down 45–32 before
halftime. The Tritons went into the half looking for a better defensive showing in the second
period after giving up 45 in the first.
Neither team would score in the opening three minutes of the second half, a hopeful sign for
the Tritons, who struggled on the offensive end to start the game. A UC Riverside 3-pointer
forced a timeout from the UCSD coaching staff after the lead ballooned to 20 with 15:14
remaining. UCSD would miss its first five attempts from 3-point range before junior forward
Toni Rocak hit a triple five minutes into the half after the timeout was called.
Two UCSD layups cut the deficit to 15 with 10 minutes to go, but the offense was not
humming enough to make a real run at making this game competitive. After suffering from
the largest deficit of the game at 71–49 with four minutes of play left, UCSD would score ten
points in a row to end the game, resulting in a 12-point loss, but possibly some positive
momentum going into the next game for the Tritons.
There were a few bright spots for the Tritons though, with Hugh Baxter and Toni Rocak
scoring 17 and 15, respectively. After multiple games with around 20 turnovers, the Tritons
cut that mark to 14 against Riverside, only one more than UCR for the game. Still, paltry
shooting from the rest of the team along with poor stretches of defense in the first half made
this matchup fairly one-sided.UCSD’s 36 percent shooting from the field and 50 percent shooting from the free-throw line
will likely be among Coach Olen’s intended improvements for this team, as it looks to
continue growing as the middle of the conference season approaches; the Tritons will also
look to play the sort of team defense they played in spurts of the second half for the full 40
minutes.
While this game was obviously a tough one to stomach for Coach Olen, he did tell UCSD
Athletics that he was proud of the way his players fought back after a rough start. The team
will look to hold on to that grit as they look towards their next two-game matchup at
California State University, Bakersfield on Feb. 12 and Feb. 13.
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics