(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
The UC and CSU campuses to require students be
vaccinated for Fall 2021
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/the-uc-and-csu-campuses-to-require-students-be-vaccinated-for-
fall-2021/) Nikita Cardozo (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/ncardozo/)
For Fall Quarter 2021, the University of California and California State University announced
that students, faculty, and staff who access campus facilities will be required to receive the
COVID-19 vaccine in an effort to limit the spread of the virus. This requirement is contingent
upon the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s full approval of one or more vaccines and
reliable supply access. 
The two university systems, which enroll more than 764,000 students, announced their plan
(https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-encourages-covid-19-vaccinations-
university-communities-while-reviewing-policy) on Thursday, April 22 as the number of
students who have received the vaccine has increased. UC San Diego Health administered
almost 400,000 doses
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/education/story/2021-04-22/all-uc-and-
csu-campuses-will-require-students-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19)  of the vaccine to
people aged 18 to 65 years old, with around 162,000 people now being fully vaccinated. 
UC San Diego said that it will return to almost full capacity this fall, with 90 percent
(https://www.lajollalight.com/news/story/2021-04-08/uc-san-diego-will-resume-operating-
at-nearly-full-capacity-in-september) of students taking classes on campus. They also plan to
accommodate at least 17,000 students in on-campus housing with no more than two students
(http://adminrecords.ucsd.edu/Notices/2021/2021-4-5-3.html?
_ga=2.238887492.516533734.1618168241-1440209242.1603909842) per room. 
“The University of California believes that receiving a vaccine for COVID-19 is a key step our
community members can take to protect themselves, their friends and family, and help end
the pandemic,” said Ryan King, Associate Director of Media Relations for The University of
California, to The UCSD Guardian.
During the start of the pandemic, the university adapted quickly by establishing the Return to
Learn program that has set up fast and convenient ways for students to get tested weekly.
This includes measures such as self-testing kits that started out at designated facilities on
campus, but are also  made available at widespread automatic vending machines.
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/01/17/a-new-way-of-testing/)
This weekly testing combined with quick results significantly helped slow the spread of the
virus. The infection rate for students living on campus has been at 0.1 percent
(https://returntolearn.ucsd.edu/dashboard/index.html)since January.In the next few months, the state courts will decide whether public agencies are allowed to
mandate vaccines. Currently, the vaccine is under emergency use authorization which is a
method to facilitate the availability and use of any medical measures, including vaccines. 
Under the language of the emergency use authorization, people have the right to refuse or
accept the vaccine because of any medical or religious reasons. Therefore, public agencies will
have to wait for formal approval from the state courts before the policy is finalized. 
BREAKING: THE @CALSTATE (HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/CALSTATE?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) AND @UOFCALIFORNIA
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/UOFCALIFORNIA?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW) WILL REQUIRE FACULTY, STAFF AND
STUDENTS WHO ARE ACCESSING CAMPUS FACILITIES TO BE
IMMUNIZED AGAINST SARS-COV-2, THE VIRUS THAT CAUSES
COVID-19, PENDING FULL APPROVAL OF ONE OR MORE VACCINES
BY THE @US_FDA (HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/US_FDA?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW). HTTPS://T.CO/0RKCOJEBXU
(HTTPS://T.CO/0RKCOJEBXU)
— THE CSU (@CALSTATE) APRIL 22, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/CALSTATE/STATUS/1385323126079180800?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
Shrina Patel, a freshman biology student at Roger Revelle College, told The Guardian that she
proposed this new policy from UC.
“I believe this is a great thing because the efficacy rate of the vaccination is really high and the
vaccines have been proven to protect against COVID-19…” Patel said. “[I] hope that things
will go back to normal soon based on this requirement and look forward to being able to see
people on campus.” Under the proposed policy, students who choose not to be immunized and are not exempt
based on medical or religious grounds will still be allowed to receive university services.
However, they will be limited in course registration, will not be allowed to access campus ––
including student housing –– and will not be permitted to attend in-person classes or events.
After receiving the vaccine, students will need to update their immunization records to gain
access to the UC campuses.
For students who are unable to receive their doses before the school year, student health
centers will try to find possible places in their area where students can get vaccinated.
However, special accommodations will likely be required
(https://universityofcalifornia.edu/sites/default/files/student-faqs-for-university-of-
california-proposed-covid-19-vaccination-policy-4-22-21.pdf)for these students. 
As a result of the pandemic, UCSD had to shut down many labs and slow the progress of their
research. Many people lost their jobs and the isolation has been devastating for students and
teachers. Many professors found it difficult to teach classes and engage students when
everything was online. It is estimated that the lockdown could cost UCSD more than $300
million (https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/education/story/2021-04-22/all-uc-
and-csu-campuses-will-require-students-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19) . 
With the hopes of returning onto campus Fall Quarter 2021, continued vaccination will be an
integral part of the process to return to in-person learning. Masks, physical distancing, and
frequent hand-washing will also continue to be a campus requirement.  
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Adventure Awaiting: The Water Trail
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/adventure-awaiting-the-water-trail/) Katherine Getchell
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/katherine-getchell/)
The pandemic is winding down and normal life is resuming. Staff Writer Katherine Getchell
highlights potential activities to look forward, starting with swimming.  Have you been reaching for the books you read when you were 14 to reread? Watching your
most comforting sitcom over and over again even though you’re sick of it? Taking a nap most
days? 
Those are some of the healthiest forms of escapism available to us right now. Psychology
today defines escapism (https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/escapism) as
“a way of avoiding (https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/avoid) an
unpleasant (https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/unpleasant) or boring
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/boring) life
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/life), especially
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/especially)  by thinking
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/thinking), reading
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/reading), etc. about more exciting
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/excite) but impossible
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/impossible) activities
(https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/activity).” 
There are unhealthy forms of escapism, for example, ones that can trend towards a
dependence on drugs and alcohol. But many people
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7775316/) have turned to more generally
harmless ways of diverting their minds for a brief reprieve from reality. If there were ever a
time to lean into escapism a little bit more than usual this would be it, right? 
We have all lived very different quarantines — that goes without saying. But we have all
shared this experience of loss, however big or small; everyone had something taken from
them by this pandemic. 
So many people have lost loved ones, and others have lost out on opportunities and
experiences. None of these losses cancel each other out. Whatever you are grieving, you are
not alone in that grief. 
The COVID-19 pandemic is far from over, but with 95.9 million people fully vaccinated
(https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/covid-19-vaccine-doses.html)  as of May
2nd, the United States is entering a new phase of the pandemic, whatever that looks like. 
When it looked like rigid social distancing would last indefinitely and vaccines might not be
available here for years, trying to picture the future felt like staring into an abyss. But now
some of us may see a cautious optimism hovering at the edge of our peripheral vision. Maybe we can start to daydream again about what’s next, what adventures we want to go on,
the new experiences we’ll have, and the new people we’ll meet. While some sit in half-
vaccinated limbo, stuck planning or waiting to plan the next adventure they’ll take, escapism
may just be the thing that holds us over in the meantime. 
For those of us still in the San Diego area, we might take for granted all the adventures the
ocean holds. Luke Nowakowski-Krijer, who graduated from UC San Diego with a degree in
computer engineering in Fall 2020, is an avid surfer. 
Everyone has different criteria for what constitutes an adventure. Nowakowski-Krijer
explained that from his perspective for something to be an adventure there has to be
something uncertain about it, and you have to make peace with the fact that some part of the
experience is completely out of your control. 
“I mean, there has to be some exploration of the unknown,” Nowakowski-Krijer said. “And
then like with that, I think everything that comes from that like the feeling of danger or fear
or whatever, you know, you accept that … risk.”
The adventure I got to hear about from Nowakowski-Krijer was a day he went surfing at a
new spot, at Sunset Cliffs with his friend Alexi last name?. The best spot to surf at Sunset
Cliffs is tricky to get to because it doesn’t have any easy beach access; they couldn’t just walk
down to the water and hop in. First, they had to climb down a cliff.  
“Like you either have to like jump off some f****** rocks or like climb down some trail to get
down and there’s literally a line that you have to like, wrap your hand around in this rope and
we all have our surfboards so it’s kinda sketchy,” Nowakowski-Krijer said.
The bucket brigade-type solution devised by Luke to move both surfers and surfboards down
the cliff revolved around taking turns handing their expensive boards down to each other off
the cliff. This seemed complicated and riddled with risk. Not to mention the integrity of this
rope they pointed to as a safety measure sounded questionable at best. 
Luke argued that“It’s kind of not as epic as it sounds” but also admitted that a small slip
would mean, “you go straight down. Yeah, no, then you’re f*****.” 
At the bottom of those cliffs, a set of rotting stairs leads down to a dry reef which serves as a
kind of a platform for surfers to enter the water and paddle out past the break. Nowakowski-Krijer categorized this particular day was a pretty average surf day, “four feet,
five feet, it was probably shoulder to overhead.”  
It’s worth clarifying that the average height of these waves, according to Nowakowski-Krijer,
were shoulder to overhead. That is not from the vantage point of floating on top of the water,
but measured from when he’s standing on his board actually surfing the wave. So the top of
the wave behind Nowakowski-Krijer, who is six feet tall, is at his shoulder to above his head
in height. 
Those waves have incredible force to them. From the vantage point of someone just bobbing
along the surface, the peaks would seem to be towering over them, blocking out the horizon
as they rapidly approach. 
Nowakowski-Krijer also described this surfing spot as fickle because with the position of the
reef, the changes in the tide could trap an absentminded surfer between the rocks at the base
of the cliffs and a breaking set of waves. 
Being crushed by the occasional wave is just a part of surfing, the moment Nowakowski-
Krijer realizes he’s caught in a bad spot his internal monologue reads along the lines of:
“So you just say ‘Oh, f***,’ and you just let your just get more loose like you try to just like, let
it roll you around,” Nowakowski-Krijer said. “Or you grab your board and you hang on to it
for dear life! Because, like, it’s your flotation device.”
Here, Nowakowski-Krijer’s definition of an adventure fits perfectly, because when he gets
thrown by these waves he doesn’t pack up and go home, he keeps surfing. Even as he was
describing all the different ways different waves can attack a person and admits that it can be
scary, he didn’t even pose heading back to shore as an option. 
“I mean, but it happens so much you get kind of used to it,” Nowakowski-Krijer said. “You get
super used to just getting absolutely destroyed. And it’s just the way of it. It’s like yeah, it
literally, it stops, it actually stops being like a traumatic experience. And it’s just an
experience and then it’s just fine.”
He’s echoing his own definition so clearly — how on an adventure you have to accept
unknowns, and surrender to those risks. “Well, like the first, the first times you’re getting tossed around you’re like you’re clamoring
for air,” Nowakowski-Krijer said. “You’re like pushing all your muscles like every part of you
is straining, you’re choking. you don’t even know which way is up like you have no idea. But
like the other times it’s just like you let it toss you and the philosophy is just like the path of
least resistance just kind of let it do its work and chill.”
Staying calm while you are being actively shown how much more powerful the ocean is than
you and how insignificant you are to nature is a skill in itself. Pro surfers put themselves in
situations orders of magnitude riskier than the one Luke described. 
“No, it’s like you like fucking the big wave surfers who like they, they go to like, you know,
places like Nazarene, Portugal, and like, those are like the big waves that will like, not only
kill you on impact, but like, put you through the wringer for like, a minute,” Nowakowski-
Krijer said.
Big wave surfers surf waves that are at least 20-feet tall. When Luke talks about being put
through the wringer, he is describing the force of the wave that pins these surfers down,
meters from the surface, regardless of how hard they swim upwards and despite the flotation
vests they wear.  
“Yeah, they have training where they … enter a meditative state to, like, slow down their body
and like, calm down. So they learn how to do that,” Luke said. 
Learning to do that to some degree, to stay calm and relaxed even in the chaos of a wave is a
skill Nowakowski-Krijer cultivates every time he surfs. He has to because the coin he flips
every time he goes for a wave has two sides: the joy of catching it or the disaster of being
caught in it. 
Nowakowski-Krijer has run the numbers and has decided this risk is worth the reward. He
spoke of the elation of simply riding each wave, the triumph that is correcting your balance
just in time to save yourself from being tossed off and chewed up by the whitewater. 
The adrenaline of paddling as fast as you can, as hard as you can, arms just churning through
the water to try and match the momentum of a swell and surprising yourself when you
actually catch it. The satisfaction of perfecting a smooth pop-up, when you go from laying on
your board to suddenly standing right at the cusp of the wave, a feat of balance and
coordination that may become easier with practice but is never easy. Along with the sheer joy of surfing, Nowakowski-Krijer explained how much he values
challenging himself, and seeing improvement and always finding new ways to leave his
comfort zone. He talked enthusiastically about learning to surf with different boards, in
different conditions, and learning how each of those boards cuts through the water in a
unique way. 
Despite being sidetracked by his genuine passion for surfing as a whole, Nowakowski-Krijer
returned to the original storyline he began about this particular day at sunset cliffs. 
The real trouble began when Nowakowski-Krijer paddled back into the reef where they had
entered the water. They had not realized how much the tide had risen; the platform of rock
which was previously a safe landing zone was no longer sheltered by elevation from the
crashing waves. 
“So the waves are now breaking right where we are,” which person? said. “So we get the direct
brunt of it. So we get up, we like to get our bearings slightly and we’re like, oh, shit. Like
there’s like a wave.”
Nowakowski-Krijer described that moment of looking at Alexi and Alexi looking back and
then both of them looking at the massive wave barreling towards them. That moment of
stillness they shared, the first second of paralyzing realization and subsequent terror, for
Nowakowski-Krijer, was broken by one thought that forced him into action:
“I thought I’m just gonna I’m gonna book it as fast as I can to those stairs so I can make it as
high as I can.” 
Knowing that Nowakowski-Krijer survived this ordeal, it is a little funny to imagine him
trying to run at breakneck speed, running for his life essentially, barefoot across a slippery
and sharp reef with his surfboard either tucked under one arm or held with both arms above
his head. 
Also, note that Luke also has a bit of an ‘every man for himself’ mindset here; he wasn’t
looking back to see if Alexi made it. There wasn’t time for that. 
“So then the water like comes and just f****** like wipes us off our feet like we’re f****** you
know, like bowling or something,” Nowakowski-Krijer said. “I got pushed into the wall. We
kind of just dropped and then I’m we’re just like, we have to regain our balance and f******go because there’s more coming because it was like a set of waves.”
When they managed to reach the safety of the stairs and start climbing back up the cliff, they
didn’t even address how close of a call that just was, “we don’t even really acknowledge how
sketchy that was. We’re in shock we don’t acknowledge what just happened. ” 
As Nowakowski-Krijer appeared over the edge of the cliffs, Nowakowski-Krijer’s leg bleeding
from where he was raked across the reef, a crowd of onlookers there to watch the sunset
appraised them visibly impressed. They misinterpreted Nowakowski-Krijer’s shock as
nonchalance and collectively gave a nod of respect. 
“Like, they thought we were cool, but we were just terrified at that moment,” Nowakowski-
Krijer said.
There’s so much to gain from having adventures. We gain the understanding that people can
perceive the same event completely differently. We start to grasp how much we still have to
learn about the things we think we know all about. Adventures can be an opportunity to
challenge ourselves and measure ourselves.   
When things return to “normal” it won’t mean that all the problems we faced before COVID-
19 will cease to exist. But we will have the chance to build new realities for ourselves that we
don’t need as much escape from. Until then, we can immerse ourselves in stories that
hopefully inspire the adventures we embark on in the future. 
Art by Andrew Diep for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
San Diego Cabbie Plans to Collaborate with UCSD Students
After Expanding Services to Southern Californian AAPI
Community
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/san-diego-cabbie-plans-to-collaborate-with-ucsd-students-a  er-
expanding-services-to-southern-californian-aapi-community/) Jocelyn Brossia
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/jbrossia/)Ride-hailing compensation service San Diego Cabbie (https://linktr.ee/sandiegocabbie) has
expanded their services to all members of the Asian American and Pacific Islander
community across Southern California after running for approximately three weeks. The
donation-based initiative was created to aid AAPI community members who may feel unsafe
walking alone or taking public transportation in light of the rise of Anti-Asian hate crimes
and xenophobia (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/07/aligning-public-policy-with-
fighting-anti-asian-xenophobia/). Because of the traction that the service has gained, they are
also now able to compensate up to $40 in Uber and Lyft transaction fees per ride.
The initiative was founded by Sydney Trieu and Paul Lim, who are both second-year college
students attending UC Riverside and Emory University, respectively. The two close friends
both grew up in San Diego, and on April 12, Lim reached out to Trieu after learning about
Cafe Maddy Cab (https://linktr.ee/cafemaddycab) in New York City with the desire to bring
this service back home. 
“[Lim] wanted to start the same initiative in San Diego, just because he’s seen his own family
and friends scared in the Asian community here. He really wanted to help spread it,” Trieu
said. “I thought it was a really great idea, so within two hours of him telling me about it, … I
just asked Cafe Maddy (https://www.instagram.com/cafemaddy/) for her permission, and
we started it in San Diego.” “The Asian community is really important [to me] just because my entire identity revolves
around it and because so many of my friends and family [have] been affected by this
pandemic in so many ways, and with the xenophobic attacks,” Trieu said. “It’s been really
important to give people a safe platform and just hope for the future.”
(HTTPS://WWW
.INSTAGRAM.COM/P/COS_P3XN7Q8/?
UTM_SOURCE=IG_EMBED&UTM_CAMPAIGN=LOADING)
A POST SHARED BY BASED IN SOCAL (@SANDIEGOCABBIE) (HTTPS://W …
San Diego Cabbie does not want the price of a ride-hailing service to discourage someone in
need from taking a ride; thus, members of the AAPI community are encouraged to take the
ride first, and then fill out their Request Ride Form after. The form includes general
questions regarding the purpose and location of the ride, a ride receipt for confirmation, andan optional selfie for verification purposes. The initiative states that only essential rides will
be reimbursed and that the cost of the ride must be the only factor that would prevent one
from calling a ride otherwise.   
“This initiative is really important to me, just because I feel like I’m making a bigger
difference in my community and giving back,” Trieu said. “We’ve gotten so much support
from the community — it’s actually been really heartwarming to see it. Not even just San
Diego county, it’s been from all over the world … Our feature on NextShark
(https://nextshark.com/san-diego-students-ride-service-asian-women-elderly/) really
brought us a lot of support. We got so many donations from NextShark — I think we got
around $5000 from just them posting us.” 
Although Lim is operating out of Atlanta, Ga., where his university is located, the distance
does not take away from the initiative’s impact on him and his community. 
“The encouragement and immense support from the community towards San Diego Cabbie
reminded me that there is still good left in the world, especially at a time when negativity
seems to be overbearing,” Lim said. “I’ve learned that making a difference in the world takes
patience, and that what we are doing here is essentially a stepping stone towards building up
a catalyst for a change in our society.”
In the future, San Diego Cabbie plans to place an emphasis on helping people get rides to
receive COVID-19 immunizations, especially at RIMAC’s vaccination center
(https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/02/14/uc-san-diego-health-opens-vaccination-site-at-
rimac/). 
“I know that that’s a really big supercenter for vaccinations, and we know that a lot of low-
income or elderly — they aren’t able to afford to get to vaccination centers, so we want to
help, not even, like, spread awareness for our initiative, but like help get people rides to
vaccines so they can be safer in the community,” Trieu said.  
Tony Choi, a 2019 UC Berkeley graduate, recently joined the San Diego Cabbie team to assist
in terms of marketing and outreach. In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Choi said that
the plans for the vaccination project are not yet concrete, especially when it comes to the
regional expansion.“We’re still thinking about different methods of how we can reach our audience, but we,
eventually, we want people to be safe and to feel safe,” Choi said. “That’s why we’re trying to
partner up with some UCSD students and we’ll probably create some fliers and spread the
awareness and message and allow people, with the donations we currently have, to have free
rides to and back from their vaccination sites.” 
Choi, who grew up in San Diego, is honored to see tangible results born from this initiative in
his community, especially because he feels that volunteer opportunities to support the Asian
American community are limited. 
“You can feel the community and the support,” Choi said. “I feel like Asian representation is
something that has been lacking in this country as a whole and in any field, especially in
community service. This organization — I realized that there are a lot of people out there who
are willing to help; it was just mainly a lack of opportunity and a lack of representation.
There’s realizing that we do have great support, we do have smart, motivated, great people
and it’s just exciting to be part of a team that brings this all together and to fruition to help
other people.”
As Choi mentioned, the initiative is also working to collaborate with UC San Diego’s Kappa
Zeta Phi (https://sdkappas.wixsite.com/kzphi) and Alpha Kappa Psi
(https://www.akpsiucsd.com/) chapters to fundraise and raise awareness.  
Kappa Zeta Phi’s Service Chair, Leona Vo, explained that the chapter currently plans to host
virtual fundraisers to donate to San Diego Cabbie. In her time as Service Chair during the
pandemic, Vo has seen the effectiveness of interactive bingo fundraisers on Instagram stories,
wherein each donation amount across the board corresponds to a certain challenge the sister
completes in return. She plans to utilize this method in Kappa Zeta Phi’s San Diego Cabbie
fundraiser as well.
The Asian-American interest sorority found out about San Diego cabbie through posts
circulating on social media and wanted to get involved, especially due to the recent rise of
anti-Asian hate crimes. 
“Supporting the AAPI community really means a lot, because I feel like I’m very in touch with
my culture,” Vo said. “Also, seeing a lot of the Asian hate crimes that have been happening
more recently have been really heartbreaking.  Seeing [the] community and how scared they
felt for their own safety was really heartbreaking for me, and I feel like that pushes me even
further to advocate for AAPI justice.”“I really wanted to collaborate with San Diego Cabbie just because it’s a project that’s so close
to home and I feel like I can really make an impact on the community that I am in,” Vo said.
San Diego Cabbie’s plans to work together with UCSD students are still in the works.
Donation options (e.g. Stimulus, Venmo, PayPal), Ride Request Forms, and contact
information for San Diego Cabbie can be found here (https://linktr.ee/sandiegocabbie).
Photo courtesy of Ava Bayley for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Drought Returning to California
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/drought-returning-to-california/) Niloufar Shahbandi
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/n1shahba/)
With  California experiencing a  second dry year in a row, Governor Gavin Newsom officially
declared a drought emergency in Sonoma and Mendocino counties on Wednesday, April 21.
The rest of California, which has received lower than average rainfall during the past two
years, may  face drought conditions. 
The drought emergency declaration encompasses the Russian River
(https://calmatters.org/environment/2021/04/governor-drought-emergency-in-
northwestern-counties/) watershed which due to lack of rainfall in the region, has been
experiencing very dry conditions. Governor Newsom attributed these conditions to the effects
of climate change (https://www.lakeconews.com/news/68852-governor-declares-regional-
state-of-emergency-for-russian-river-watershed-due-to-drought-conditions) . 
“What is different now is the extremes. What’s different now is the climate-induced impacts
of these droughts,” Newsom said. “We’ve barely been out of those drought conditions and
here we are, entering back into these drought conditions. Climate change is intensifying both
the frequency and the severity of dry periods. This ‘new normal’ gives urgency to building
drought resilience in regions across the state and preparing for what may be a prolonged
drought at our doorstep.”
While the declaration only covers these two counties, the U.S Drought Monitor
(https://droughtmonitor.unl.edu/CurrentMap/StateDroughtMonitor.aspx?CA)  found that
90 percent of the state is currently experiencing drought conditions. Despite such conditions,
state water officials believe that it’s too early
(https://timesofsandiego.com/politics/2021/04/22/gov-newsom-declares-drought-
emergency-in-2-california-counties/) for a statewide emergency declaration since other
regions of California have not been heavily impacted yet. 
A statewide drought declaration could result in widespread cutbacks in urban water use, such
as restrictions on watering lawns. It is speculated (https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-
government/capitol-alert/article250680579.html) that Newsom is hesitant to declare a state
drought due to increasing criticism and a possible recall election later this year. Others have
raised concerns that an early declaration of an emergency could make it difficult to convince
Californians to conserve water if the drought lasts several years.IN MENDOCINO AND SONOMA COUNTIES [DROUGHT CONDITIONS]
ARE VERY ACUTE. IF YOU ARE IN ANOTHER PART OF THE STATE YOU
PROBABLY NEED TO KNOW THAT THIS WILL ONE DAY HAPPEN TO
YOU. WE ARE ALL CALIFORNIANS HERE AND WE ALL NEED TO BE
DOING OUR PART. – KARLA NEMETH, DWR DIRECTOR #CAWATER
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/HASHTAG/CAWATER?
SRC=HASH&REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
PIC.TWITTER.COM/1RFFBA4L9U (HTTPS://T.CO/1RFFBA4L9U)
— CA – DWR (@CA_DWR) APRIL 29, 2021
(HTTPS://TWITTER.COM/CA_DWR/STATUS/1387839852645732354?
REF_SRC=TWSRC%5ETFW)
Other parts of the state are expected (https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/california-
droughts-continue-to-worsen-as-fire-season-approaches/ar-BB1g4GTt)  to declare drought
emergencies later this week, including counties covered by the East Bay Municipal Utility
District. The MUD expected to declare a stage 1 drought this week, resulting in a 10 percent
voluntary reduction of water use districtwide.
Additionally, such dry conditions are likely to predict a more severe fire season this year.
While wildfires depend on other factors such as dryness of vegetation — which serves as fuel
for fire, temperature, and wind events — mapping dry areas can tell experts where fuel is
located in preparation for the fire season. 
“We should get ready for a very tough fire season,” Adam Kochanski, who leads the Wildfire
Interdisciplinary Research Center’s fire modeling group at San Jose State University.
While UC San Diego has not been exposed to wildfires, the campus has implemented ways to
cope with California’s dry conditions. UCSD uses recycled water for more than 25 percent
(https://sustainability.ucsd.edu/_files/ucsd-water-action-plan.pdf)  of campus irrigation and
has followed UC Sustainable Practices Policy in reducing campus drinkable water use by 36
percent by the year 2025. UCSD has also developed a Water Action Plan that outlines how
they will implement such reductions. When asked about any preparations the campus may be making for a possible statewide
drought declaration, Leslie Sepuka, the Associate Communications Director for UCSD’s
Resource Management & Planning responded with the following: 
“In 2020, the campus reduced total water consumption by 17 percent, as compared to the
previous year.” Sepuka said. “Through efforts like the Water Action Plan, the campus
continuously strives to use water in the most efficient way possible, and would be ready to
adjust in response to California and San Diego mandated water restrictions.”
California has been in a megadrought since 1999
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/california/story/2021-03-31/on-tap-in-
california-another-drought-four-years-after-last), which has only been interrupted
periodically with above-average precipitation. Much of California’s water supply relies on the
Sierra Nevada mountains, which gather snow and water during the winter months. However,
a March 2021 survey showed only 60 percent
(https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/california/story/2021-03-31/on-tap-in-
california-another-drought-four-years-after-last) of the snowpack is present. 
In California, there has been a 50 percent (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/03/28/when-
does-a-fire-stop-burning/) increase in wildfires during the past few years, with a total of
8,122 fires happening in 2020 alone. San Diego is no exception to these wildfires. One of the
largest fires in the county occurred in 2016 with the Border Fire
(https://www.10news.com/news/largest-fires-in-san-diego-county-history)  which burned
7,609 acres and killed two people. 
A report (https://www.sandiego.gov/sites/default/files/legacy/environmental-
services/pdf/sustainable/2050climate.pdf) by the California Climate Change Center
concluded that the warming of the San Diego region due to climate change will increase the
intensity and frequency of wildfires in the future. The report also stated that according to
recent trends, an additional 42 percent of California coastal shrub acreage will burn in the
decade around 2050. 
While the governor has yet to declare a statewide drought emergency, water conservation
efforts may start as early as the summer. Information on how to prepare for drought can be
found here (https://www.ci.adelanto.ca.us/251/Preparation-for-Drought). 
Photo courtesy of Pixabay.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
How Falcon and the Winter Soldier is Ushering in Political
Media
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/how-falcon-and-the-winter-soldier-is-ushering-in-political-
media/) Medha Upadhyay (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/medhau/)
Last Friday’s epic finale to “The Falcon and the Winter Soldier” finally made it official:
Anthony Mackie’s Sam Wilson is the new “Captain America.” Unsurprisingly, the decision —
and the show in general — has sparked a wave of criticism. While some of the uproar
surrounding the show was blatantly racist
(https://twitter.com/LittleHooty/status/1385736175911161856), a lot of people took the
chance to air out their grievances with the media becoming “too woke.”
(https://bleedingfool.com/blogs/the-falcon-winter-soldier-just-swerved-directly-into-
wokeness/) This frustration is not unique to “The Falcon and the Winter Soldier”; over the
past few years, an increasing number of people are uncomfortable with what they deem an
unnecessary insertion of politics
(https://twitter.com/Timcast/status/1380896172873818112) into their entertainment and
are bemoaning the death of escapist cinema. This complaint, however, is insanely strange.
The thing is, movies are always political if the audience chooses to watch them with a political
gaze. Movies have always been firmly rooted in reality — the political messaging was just
somewhat hidden in order to avoid alienating audiences, and people have gotten complacent
in playing along and completely missing the point of these movies. Movies have not suddenly
become more political, writers have just stopped hiding their themes behind smoke and
mirrors in the hopes that they can reach out and shake even a few of their viewers out of a
state of willful ignorance.     
Those who claim that the movies they watch are “apolitical,” “escapist,” or “disconnected
from reality” are simply not thinking critically about the media they are consuming. If
someone were to look at a film with a political lens, they would be hard-pressed to find many
movies that are truly apolitical. The trick is that the political messaging of films was often
disguised for an unwitting or unreceptive audience. For example, “Zootopia” made powerful
arguments about racial stereotyping, policing, and the repercussions of bigoted government
officials while still being a whimsical movie for children. This analysis is not a “hot take” — it
is literally the point of the movie
(https://academic.oup.com/screen/article/60/4/567/5673450). Still, when police officer
Judy impulsively grabs a weapon simply because Nick supposedly has violence in his biology,
it wasn’t labeled as a political scene. But when Sam is confronted by a cop in “The Falcon and
the Winter Soldier,” it is “too woke.” (https://boundingintocomics.com/2021/04/07/new-
rumor-claims-the-falcon-and-the-winter-soldier-viewers-turned-off-the-show-after-blm-
messaging/) What could possibly be the difference, other than the viewers’ inability to
understand the simple metaphor presented in “Zootopia?” The truth is that most people
consider movies to be frivolous entertainment because they only engage with media at the
shallowest level possible. And honestly, there is usually nothing wrong with that. There isabsolutely no requirement to analyze every movie with critical thought. So, “The Falcon and
the Winter Soldier” made it easy for the audience. They did away with a lot of the metaphors
and made it easier to understand the story they were trying to tell.
Technically, the viewer can still choose to keep their head in the sand. If someone can’t
understand that “Avatar” is a searing critique of colonialism and capitalism, then there is no
reason for them to take away anything political from Sam Wilson telling world leaders to
provide aid to refugees in “The Falcon and the Winter Soldier.” Everything that happened in
the show is fiction . It is only political if the audience takes the fictional story and draws
parallels to what is going on around them. And that is the viewer’s personal decision. 
As far as the new “Captain America” being Black, simply including people of color in movies
is not political. Why is the very existence of non-white people considered a “heavy” topic that
takes away from entertainment? “Captain America” is still a superhero franchise with witty
jokes, silly banter, and fast-paced fight scenes. Nothing has inherently changed. “The Falcon
and the Winter Soldier” is no more and no less political than every other “Captain America”
movie (https://ew.com/article/2014/04/06/captain-america-the-winter-soldier-hydra-
shield-paranoia/). People that glossed over the clear messaging in the original trilogy have no
business complaining about this new phase. No one said that the audience has to feel a
certain way after watching anything, but viewers who look at a Black man speaking candidly
and decide that it’s all a plot to further some sort of an agenda are ruining it for themselves.
Rather than feeling inspired or moved, they’re twisting a glorious moment into something it’s
not. 
People who want their entertainment to remain apolitical simply have to continue letting the
themes fly over their heads. Aside from the point that it is a privilege to “take a break” from
politics, fiction is only “escapist” as long as the viewer chooses not to connect the story with
real life. Movies that are labeled “too woke” are slapped with that label because the writers
chose not to engage with complicated metaphors and dialogue that can be interpreted in
multiple ways — they chose to make the themes obvious so that it might smack a few of the
people who insisted on ignoring anything that was even slightly veiled. 
Recently, it’s become increasingly difficult for people to miss the parallels between the stories
they consume and the world outside their door. In the past, these parallels were buried; now
they’re being showcased more openly. From “The Invasion of the Body Snatchers”
(https://www.latimes.com/entertainment/movies/la-xpm-2012-jul-20-la-et-mn-second-
look-20120722-story.html) to “Hunger Games” (https://the-artifice.com/the-hunger-games-
political-message/) to “Transformers,” (https://www.courier-journal.com/story/opinion/contributors/2016/11/24/comment-transformers-offer-political-
lessons/94071830/) political motifs have been a staple in fiction for ages. They’re just getting
harder to ignore in today’s day and day.       
Films* have always tackled the real-world problems that society is facing, but it has always
been up to the audience to make the connections. Just because “The Falcon and the Winter
Soldier” wrote it out in bold doesn’t change the fact that the message has always been there;
some people just chose not to see it. 
*The word movie was thrown around a lot in this article, but the audience should be acutely
aware that Sam Wilson did not, in fact, wield the shield on the big screen. All of this
“wokeness” happened in the confines of Disney+. Disney made a leap by giving the mantle of
Captain America to a Black Man, but there is plenty of room for them to backtrack and
fumble the progress they’ve made so far.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Femininity Presents Double Standard Used to Silence
Women
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/femininity-presents-double-standard-used-to-silence-women/)
Savannah Gamboa (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/sgamboa/)
Feminity is a double-edged sword. Societal standards have people believe that embracing the
mundane, yet overly influential “lady-like” behaviors and norms will reinforce their identity
as a woman. The con? Amongst a variety of things, now you’re reduced to being two-
dimensional, almost as if you’re underqualified to engage in daily tasks. Even caring
conversation becomes a space where others assume you lack proficiency in subject matter
and have you remain someone who listens and rarely needs to speak. The obvious, yet often
characterized as “inappropriate” panacea is simple — speak anyways. But speaking, especially
after it’s been established you are not in the place to, is rude, and being rude is not ladylike;
so the mere act of speaking takes you from someone who advocates on their own behalf to a
brash, ill-mannered woman. If you do not want your femininity stripped, not speaking is an
option, and then you get to be a closer fit to society’s ideal woman, and all it costs is your
voice. You’ve won the battle, yet lost the war. For those who desire to speak and still be
respected as a woman, the real remedy is not something directly in their realm of action. The
true cure-all is actually simple: society needs to learn to stop speaking over women and
prioritize listening to them. 
Femininity, historically, has long been about gentleness, cooperativeness, and passivity. In
the 1830s, via the Moral Encyclopedia, women were reminded that there was a precedent that
constituted their womanhood, and failing to meet such expectations leads to deviation from
an acceptable woman. The Moral Encyclopedia, previously an attempt at extending
“instructional” advice, is now a text that allows us to identify how dated the criteria for
womanhood is. 
While many of the overreaching suggestions are denounacable and unfortunately can be
found in modern times, one that has truly triumphed is the notion that  if women want to
speak, they should make sure it is about things they understand
(https://www.npr.org/sections/npr-history-dept/2015/11/20/456224571/18-rules-of-
behavior-for-young-ladies-in-1831). As there have often been reservations about the
intellectual ability of women, they find themselves on the receiving end of getting interrupted
in conversation quite often. 
Interrupting women has played into social dynamics that have fortified the notion of women
as less powerful than their male counterparts. Mansplaining, the common occurrence of men
condescendingly speaking to women about something they have incomplete knowledge of,
reestablishes the man as the superseding figure in the social dynamic. The act involves
interrupting women and questioning the validity of their knowledge,  ultimately perpetuating
both gender stereotypes and inequality. The issue of women being cut off and silenced in
conversation is so prominent that in a study in 2015, it was found that women are more likelyto be interrupted in conversation. That seemingly trivial occurrence is enough to push
rhetoric that labels women as “unintelligent” and “underqualified.” Instances when women
speak up, get undermined, too, as they are now antagonizing other team members. 
A woman who tries to speak up poses risk for being labeled an angry woman, and historically,
society has not been too keen on women who are anything but tender and kind.
(https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/nurturing-self-compassion/202002/the-
power-and-shame-women-s-anger) Women are not taught to be angry, they’re taught to be
nurturing, they’re taught to be poised. Research can point to women being less “likable
(https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/nurturing-self-compassion/202002/the-
power-and-shame-women-s-anger)” to the public when they advocate on their own behalf,
when they’re assertive, or when they begin to deviate from the image of soft. This stance can
often be used to invalidate women’s input or label them as hysterical or overly emotional.
This is especially a concern for women of color who already face being diminished to a
stereotypical trope. 
While society dislikes angry women, they especially dislike angry women of color. Speak with
too much conviction and you’re the “angry black woman” or “emotional latina”. In 2018,
tennis star Serena Williams was chastised for coming off too aggressively after receiving a
code violation, and in the years since the incident, women of color as a whole still have
reservations about speaking on their own behalf. 28–44 percent of women of color minimize
their ethnic and cultural identity when in the workplace, often not wanting to have either be a
reason they are not taken seriously within their work environment. 
Some may comment “well, if women want to be taken seriously and treated with respect, they
should recognize how to speak to others.” Sure, no one deserves to be on the receiving end of
anyone who is very evidently angry at the workplace. Each case is subjective, and not every
woman who does not smile and nod is overly assertive, maybe they are just tired of biting
their tongue when being mislabeled and spoken over. 
At a school such as UC San Diego with many non-female identifying, especially male,
students who will inevitably work alongside female students, please be aware of how you
speak to women. Your tone, word choices, and failure to listen contributes to women being
pushed under the rug in academic and vocational spaces. The women in your classes, nor in
society, need to be overly kind and soft spoken to be an excellent classmate or partner. And if
you find yourself on the receiving end of what you find to be a “mad” woman in the
classroom, do ask yourself: are they emotional or are they speaking in a manner that you
would have found acceptable for those who are not held to the standard of femininity? (https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
TV Review: “Luis Miguel: The Series” (S2, Episodes 1-3)
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/tv-review-luis-miguel-the-series/) Elias Roman
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/eliasroman/)
After three long years, El sol de Mexico returns to the small screen.The following review contains spoilers for “Luis Miguel: The Series.”
On April 18, Netflix debuted the first two episodes of season two of “Luis Miguel: The Series,”
a hit show chronicling the behind-the-scenes life of Mexican pop icon Luis Miguel, with
episode three premiering a week later on April 25. In the first of a three-part series of articles,
we’ll be recapping the first three episodes of the series while also diving into what worked and
what didn’t. 
This season’s approach brings back the dual timeline format of the first season, showing us
Luis Miguel in the early 1990s as well as an older Luis Miguel in the 2000s. It sees Luis
Miguel’s struggles to reconcile his musical career with his quickly disintegrating family life,
both in the early ‘90s and the 2000s. The majority of the story’s focus seems to be on the
1990s timeline, something that works to its benefit, since the 2000s timeline often feels like it
lacks the same emotional and dramatic punch that the ‘90s timeline has. The characters feel
more defined — given that viewers were already introduced to them in the previous season —
and the relationships more dynamic. There’s more push back from friends and family on Luis
Miguel in regards to his decisions, stirring up conflict that amps up the dramatic appeal of the
show. The emotional stakes are also much higher, as much of Luis Miguel and his brother’s
peace of mind rests on finding their missing mother and protecting their younger brother
Sergio from their father’s family.
The first episode picks up at Luisito Rey’s (Luis Miguel’s father) funeral. The episode hits the
ground running, revealing that Luis Miguel’s mom is still missing despite the season one
finale suggesting otherwise. The series carries over the emotional weight that this search
implicates for Luis Miguel and his brother seamlessly from the end of season one to the
beginning of this season. As we see in episode two, Luis Miguel’s desperation reaches another
level as leads on his mother’s whereabouts begin to thin out. The implication of his uncle Tito
playing a role in the murder of his mother further complicates an already strained
relationship. After Tito tells Luis Miguel that his father is responsible for her death, he
disappears from the show completely, with no real consequence for the bombshell he drops
on Luis Miguel during their confrontation. His exit from the show after episode two brings
this conflict to an abrupt and somewhat dissatisfying resolution. The disorientation this
moment creates is highlighted even more when Luis Miguel decides to stop looking for his
mother at the end of the second episode after his manager convinces him that he will never be
satisfied with any answers he finds. To see Luis Miguel give up the search so easily after
seeing him go through the effort of hiring the Mossad and chasing down leads feels
underdeveloped. Luis Miguel decides to dedicate his upcoming album to his mother as he
begins to record the first song, “Hasta que me olvides.” The song carries through to the finalscene of the episode, where Luis Miguel meets his estranged daughter Michelle for the first
time, giving viewers a sense of closure and emotional progression that offsets the awkwardly
haphazard ending of the search for his mother.
In the middle of searching for his mother, Luis Miguel and his brother Alex fight for custody
of their little brother Sergio. The pair are trying to save Sergio from having to endure the
same trauma and hardships that Luis Miguel had to endure as a child star. This conflict
quickly evolves from being the two brothers against their paternal family into one between
the pair. Luis Miguel’s obsession with maintaining his career begins to fracture his
relationship with Alex, as he struggles to dedicate any time to taking care of Sergio, leaving
Alex to bear the brunt of raising him alone.  Much of this has to do with the mounting
pressure on Luis Miguel to stay relevant in the face of Cris Valdes’s recent chart success (who
seems to strike a suspiciously close resemblance to the real-life Cristian Castro of the ’90s,
though this is probably just a coincidence… right?). The compounding of his career
preoccupations as well as his strained family relationships is what makes this episode the
most exciting of the three to watch, along with Luis Miguel’s tendency to choose pleasure over
responsibility, a trait that carries over from season one. Throughout the first two episodes,
viewers are shown hints of Luis Miguel’s entry into prima-donna territory, but the third
episode is where we’re fully introduced to this side of the pop singer — along with an equally
grandiose collection of Versace silk shirts. Seeing Luis Miguel treat his brother like he treats
his employees — which is to say, not the best — adds even more gasoline to the fire that’s
quickly consuming his life. 
Luis Miguel’s loneliness becomes obvious in the 2005 timeline during episodes two and
three, following an accident which caused Luis Miguel to lose part of his right ear. The
timeline has a promising beginning, as we follow one of Luis Miguel’s employees, Jose,
engaging in some shady dealings while trying to secure a new concert venue for the singer.
This is what eventually leads to Luis Miguel’s blown out ear, setting the stage for some
potentially explosive drama, though this is never really taken advantage of by the series.
Following his accident, Luis Miguel retreats into his home, leaving viewers to wonder what
happened to Jose. In this time period, Luis Miguel wanders about his mansion in the dark
with a drink in hand, unable to sing or perform as his injury heals. While the goal of these
shots is clearly to emphasize Luis Miguel’s loneliness, the storyline is hindered by the
overabundance of them. I often found myself wondering when the series would move on from
Luis Miguel’s wallowing to a more engaging emotional beat. It’s a welcome sight then when
Michelle — now 18 years old — enters his life again. Her attempts to get close to her father
reveal just how walled off and emotionally isolated Luis Miguel has become after so many
years in a much more effective way than the many shots of the lone millionaire singer in hisempty mansion. Throughout the series, Luis Miguel’s character is defined by his interactions
and relationships with the people that surround him, in both timelines. We’re able to get a
clearer understanding of his emotional state and character arc from his engagement with his
brother or management, making his solo scenes fall flat at times.
The second season of the semi-biographical show of Luis Miguel’s life is off to a strong start
in its first three episodes, though it struggles to maintain a balance between the two timelines
as it reaches the third. The 2000s timeline can at times feel like fluffy filler, meant to fill the
space between two scenes from the ‘90s timeline. There are signs that this might change
though, with the introduction of a now grown-up Michelle, and the subtle hinting towards a
romance with Luis Miguel’s manager. We’re left to wonder how Luis Miguel will deal with his
already small social circle dwindling down to even fewer people, and how he will deal with
raising Sergio now that Alex has exited the picture. 
Release Date : April 18, 2021  
Starring : Diego Boneta, Luis Miguel, Anna Favella, Óscar Jaenada  
Created by : Pablo Cruz  
Network: Telemundo Telenovelas
Image courtesy of NBC News.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
TV Review: “The Circle”
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/tv-review-the-circle/) Bailey Bujnosek
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/bailey-bujnosek/)
The social-media-themed reality show’s second season has a bumpy start, but ultimately
shines thanks to spot-on casting.The following review contains spoilers for the first four episodes of season two of “The
Circle.”
Fans of the first season of “The Circle” had high expectations ahead of the premiere of the
show’s new season. The Netflix series follows a rotating cast of strangers who seek to dupe,
flatter, and #finesse their way to $100,000. What made the first season a success was the
chemistry and charisma of the cast, as well as the unique social-media-based gameplay.
Replicating that success with a new cast and an old formula posed a challenge for the show’s
creators. Fortunately for the show’s fans, the team behind “The Circle” rose to the occasion.
The second season of “The Circle ” strikes reality TV gold once more, delivering a promising
mix of comedy, drama, and heartwarming moments.
Just like any other reality show, strong casting is a deciding factor in the watchability of “The
Circle.” Unlike “Survivor” or “The Challenge,” physical fitness is not necessary to play and win
“The Circle” — it’s a social game that’s all about strategy. The way to win “The Circle” is to
make connections through chats and challenges and become popular enough to be one of the
two highest-ranked players each week. Those two players are the influencers, who have the
power to ‘block’ one of the non-influencers. Thus, the cast isn’t exclusively made up of
twenty-something “gym-bros” — although one or two make it onto the show. Instead, the
season two cast includes 58-year-old Lee, a novelist from Texas pretending to play as a
younger man; 22-year-old Chloe, an alum of the steamy Netflix series “Too Hot To Handle”;
and former NSYNC member Lance Bass who, as you can probably guess, isn’t played by
Lance Bass. While there isn’t an immediate substitute for the bromance that dominated the
first season, there are some relationships that are equally fun to watch, particularly between
the catfishing players who think they have each other all figured out. 
The first week the players spend on “The Circle” is not drama-free. A misunderstanding over
one of the influencers saving a specific player from elimination puts a riff between much of
the cast. This is the first real ‘drama’ of the season, and it’s drawn out across several episodes.
Normally, this would make sense — petty drama is part of what makes reality TV
entertaining. However, the dispute occurs so early in the season that it’s hard to feel
connected to the cast, and thus sympathetic to either side. I found myself more interested in
the comedic moments when a catfish almost revealed their identity than any of the he-said,
she-said bickering.
Allowing players to ‘catfish’ is a scenario that could only happen in the world of “The Circle,”
a world that provides unique fodder for reflection on our often-fraught relationship with
social media. Audience members see how easy it is to misinterpret a comment or misjudgesomeone’s personality based on their profile picture. For example, hardly any player suspects
that young, crazy-haired River is actually being played by a middle-aged man named Lee.
Each time a player comments that they think River is honest and genuine, the show cuts to
Lee to remind us how they’re falling for a trick; the same goes for any other catfish the cast
believes is real. 
With only two American seasons, “The Circle”  is still in its infancy. The end of the fourth
episode promises a new ‘inner circle’ twist to shake up the game, but otherwise the show’s
format sticks close to that of the first season. That’s not necessarily a bad thing, as when
pioneering a new show, it’s best to continue with what’s worked. For “The Circle,” that means
giving the cast’s personalities time to shine — whether it means showing B-roll footage of a
player failing to cook basic meals, or a private message exchange where two players bond
over being raised by single parents. “The Circle ” may be a show about becoming popular on
social media through perfectly-curated photos and messages but, as in real life, the most
compelling moments are the ones that are unplanned and authentic.
Grade: B+ 
Created By: Tim Harcourt of Studio Lambert 
Release Date: April 14, 2021  
Rated: TV-MA
Image courtesy of The Daily Beast.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Commemorating AAPI Art and Literature
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/commemorating-aapi-art-and-literature/) Marina Lee
(https://ucsdguardian.org/author/marina-lee/)
Arts and entertainment writers Marina Lee & Sarah Delima celebrate Asian American and
Pacific Islander Heritage Month with their favorite works from the AAPI community.“Soft Science” by Franny Choi
In an everyday landscape of sexual violence towards and fragmentation of gender identities
actively oppressed by the patriarchy, Franny Choi queers the cyborg in her biting poetry
collection on technology and bodies. Primarily modelled in scientific tools such as the Turing
Test and matrices of definitions, Choi never hesitates in her condemnations of the reduction
of those with marginalized gender identities to sexual beings, and sexual deviants, confined to
the services of the cisheterosexual men in power, continually used and abused to maintain
this power.
Her explicitly sexual language is far from euphemistic, using her linguistic prowess to
highlight the gendered lack of voice and its consequential lack of power. She scathingly asks
us what it means to exist when your articulators are stolen from you, when your personhoodis violated, when you are minimized, objectified, exploited, and overtaken. What can it mean
to seek sexual liberation after such processes? What can it look like? Is there such a thing as
sexual justice in an increasingly technological world with a basis in all harmful “-isms”? None
of these questions are particularly simple in their constructions or in their answers, and Choi
ensures that we sit with those characteristics.
What I find additionally compelling about Choi’s poetry, is that it is not a collection of healing
poems, as I feel many femmes are expected to create in the field of poetics. This is not to say,
that there is anything particularly wrong with that kind of poetry — there most certainly isn’t.
The problem lies in the expectation that women must heal, and it is preferred that they heal
cleanly. Choi’s poems are the antithesis of this in their bold and messy depictions of harm
and its consequences. Choi also explores the fetishization of Asian femmes through
repeatedly referencing Kyoko from the acclaimed film “Ex-Machina,” honing in on the
relationships between artificial intelligence and sexualization in the context of these
intersecting identities. This sexual oppression is multifaceted, and Choi’s retelling of Kyoko’s
story highlights a sort of revisionist history in the recovery of language. I highly recommend
this collection if you’re ready for rage, revelation, and revolution.
— Marina Lee, Senior Staff Writer“On Earth We’re Brie  y Gorgeous” by Ocean VuongI have had the pleasure of attending two live Zoom readings by writer Ocean Vuong this
school year, and neither one failed to disappoint. His tales and poetics on the life of a
Vietnamese refugee, and a life of queerness hit with an emotional intensity that hurts, pines,
and recollects. Vuong recalls violence of both the international and interpersonal, and
reading the cross-examination of these two planes of existence is a truly unique and haunting
experience, where you’re brought to the moments of beauty and breath amongst such
circumstances. 
Something that I appreciate about Ocean Vuong and his readings is that he doesn’t hesitate to
point out his own positionality as a creative and discuss the roles of poetics and politics. In
light of recent violence against Asian Americans, Vuong has pointed out that what often ends
up happening is the encouragement to turn towards books to learn more about folks who
have had harm committed against them and how their specific identities played a role in their
victimization. However, Vuong points out in his own work, that what he writes may likely not
ever be read by the people who hold the identities that he writes about, and that this literacy,
this access to these books, and this language are all a byproduct of immense privilege. With
that, there is also an agency he describes in articulation of the self and in the intended
audience, even though there is no ultimate control over the audience who ends up receiving
it. Vuong also voices the strangeness of expecting poets to fix policy instead of politicians, and
why people turn against art when it doesn’t save the world. Vuong discusses structural
inequity and how art shouldn’t have to fulfill this role, and I find myself wondering in his
words, why we never expect accountants, insurance brokers, pyramid schemers, mechanics,
realtors, and CEOs to fix all of society the way we expect artists to, and why art is continually
devalued when it fails this impossible goal. From Vuong’s work, I get the sense of art as
selfhood, art as exploration, and art as communication and assurance of existence among
other human beings.
— Marina Lee, Senior Staff Writer“Minor Feelings” by Cathy Park HongCathy Park Hong’s book “Minor Feelings” was an incredible read in exploring Asian
American positionality among race relations in the United States, and what collective
diasporic trauma has been brewing while hidden. An important aspect addressed is anti-
Blackness in Asian American communities, the need to dispel it, and the need for solidarity in
order to work towards liberation for all. Hong highlights these relationships and the existence
of simultaneous truths in that a group of people can be oppressed, but also actively oppress
another group in upholding white supremacy. Hong discusses the Model Minority Myth and
how this too, is especially in service of white supremacy.
Additionally, she points out how our consumption of media is influenced by our
positionalities. As an Asian American and a long-time fan of film director Wes Anderson, I
found myself particularly drawn to a section on the film “Moonrise Kingdom,” where Hongdiscusses the time period that it’s set in and the historical context missing. The film is set in
the 1960s, during an extremely heightened time of Civil Rights Movements, protests, and
legislation. What I was especially interested in was Hong’s discussion about how the film is a
sweet and nostalgic brand of whiteness that contributes to the longing towards the ‘good ol’
days’ where the world was supposedly less complicated.
This historical erasure is a privilege in media representation where white individuals can
simply exist in stories that don’t center oppression. I felt that this contributed to her
discussions on how Asian American activism and oppression are often subdued in historical
tellings of activism in the United States, where Asian American experiences are desaturated
and weaponized against other People of Color. Hong doesn’t leave any white supremacy
stones unturned as she explains, “pure unadulterated white racism…was splattered all over
the media as the violence against the civil rights workers escalated. White people were
looking at themselves and what their history has wrought, like a domestic animal having its
face shoved into its own urine” (Hong 72).
— Marina Lee, Senior Staff Writer“The Souls of Yellow Folk” by Westley YangWesley Yang’s collection of essays, “The Souls of Yellow Folk,” dissects the Asian American
experience through works that reflect on both heart-wrenching and humorous experiences.
Throughout the collection, Yang acts as provocateur to readers unfamiliar with his blunt
humor. Some essays feature Yang grappling with his identity as an Asian American — a term
Yang substitutes in favor of the more evocative phrase “honorable white person,” especially as
it relates to his career as an aspiring writer. He laments the so-called “liminal space” that
Asian Americans occupy in the racial stratification of America, a space that simultaneously
boosts Asian Americans’ status in the eyes of white society while perpetuating the invisibility
of Asian creatives in an already competitive journalism industry. 
 Other works from the collection are in-depth profiles of cultural figures that Yang believes
speak to the lived experiences of fellow Asian Americans. Among these figures is renowned
chef and media maverick Eddie Huang. Yang’s witty and incisive writing style pairs well with
Huang’s brash and domineering personality. The eclectic duo deliver an interview in whichHuang relates his experience as the inspiration behind ABC’s sitcom “Fresh Off the Boat.”
Huang litters his personal retelling with humorous anecdotes of his immigrant family’s
experiences in America and how his fascination with hip hop culture clashed against his
parents’ by-the-book mentality. Such instances of Asian American assimilation form the
backbone of Yang’s collection and help create a more nuanced picture of Asian identity.
— Sarah Delima, Staff Writer
Images courtesy of Amazon.com and Rakuten Kobo.  
Artwork courtesy of Nicholas Regli for The UCSD Guardian.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
NFL Draft First Reactions: The Trey Area, Quarterback
Reunions, and Shrinking Receivers
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/nfl-dra  -first-reactions-the-trey-area-quarterback-reunions-and-
shrinking-receivers/) Wesley Xiao (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/wesley-xiao/)
The 2021 NFL Draft has arrived. For teams, it’s an opportunity to rebuild and reload with
rookie talent; for prospects, it’s the culmination of years of hard work and the fulfillment of
childhood dreams. Returning to an in-person format, the regular pomp and circumstance of
the draft was on full display: fancy suits, hugs with Roger Goodell, and the timeless draft pick
jingle. With the draft in the books, here are some first reactions to the results and how they
will affect the 2021 season.
Welcome to the Trey Area
Trey Lance! After months of speculation, you could feel the sense of relief wash over the Bay
Area after the 49ers selected the North Dakota State University quarterback — and not Mac
Jones — third overall. The 49ers took a chance moving up to three and bet on the player with
the most upside. Lance has all the tools to become a superstar in the league: big arm, high
football IQ, and athleticism. Not only is he physically talented, but he’s also one of the
smartest QBs in the draft. The big questions still surrounding Lance are his inexperience and
his rawness. Lance hasn’t played a whole lot of high-level football, only having started 17
college games, and he’s played in run-heavy offenses that haven’t asked him to make very
many pass attempts. Lance has all the athletic tools but is still a little unrefined. Another
highly drafted, toolsy, and inexperienced quarterback was Mitch Trubisky, and we all know
how that went.
But Lance isn’t Trubisky 2.0. The 49ers aren’t in a position where they need to rush Lance
onto the field. Jimmy Garoppolo is still under contract and Lance has the chance to sit behind
him and develop. And even if Lance has to start, he’s backed up by a strong supporting cast: a
defense that was top-5 in yards last season, playmakers on offense, and Kyle Shanahan, the
ultimate trump card.
The move for Lance puts the 49ers firmly in position for another Super Bowl run. For the first
time under Kyle Shanahan, the 49ers have a QB who doesn’t need to be carried by the scheme
and a QB who can run. With Lance, Shanahan doesn’t have to limit himself and can expand
his playbook.
Friends Stick Together
When you’re moving to a new city and starting a new job, it’s nice to have someone you know
close by. A number of draft picks will have exactly that, after being drafted to play with
college teammates. Tua Tagovailoa and Jaylen Waddle were reunited in Miami after playingtogether at the University of Alabama. Louisiana State University alums Ja’Marr Chase and
Joe Burrow will reconnect in Cincinnati and ex-Clemson University teammates Trevor
Lawrence and Travis Etienne will stay together in Jacksonville.
Is this a coincidence or an actual draft strategy by teams? Probably just a coincidence. But it
is interesting to see whether college connections can extend into the NFL. The argument for
drafting college teammates would be that they would have chemistry and a level of comfort
with each other that would help at the professional level. On the other side, the NFL and
college are entirely different environments, with a higher level of competition and different
coaching staffs and schemes. College connections would not be able to withstand that.
The truth probably lies somewhere in the middle. Each of those players is talented in their
own right. Whether they landed with their college teammate or not, they would have
produced at a high level. But the additional level of familiarity and comfort will likely provide
these prospects with an extra boost.
Good Things Come in Small Packages
Wide receivers are a lot like candy bars. They seem to get smaller every year. Of the eleven
wide receivers drafted in the first two rounds, only one was taller than six feet and only two
weighed more than 200 pounds. Before the draft, a lot was made about the weight of
DeVonta Smith, who is listed as 6’0” and 170 pounds, but that wasn’t enough to stop the
Philadelphia Eagles from drafting him 10  overall. Of a group of smaller wide receivers, Tutu
Atwell, the second-round pick out of the University of Louisville by the Los Angeles Rams,
has to be the smallest of the bunch. He’s listed at 5’9”, 155 pounds, but his true size may be
smaller; at the Indianapolis medical combine, he measured 5’8” and 149 pounds. Some see
Atwell’s smaller build as a negative, but it’s made him one of my favorite players in the draft,
in no small part because my height, weight, and wingspan are almost the same as his.
The argument against smaller receivers revolves around injuries. Smaller wideouts get
injured more because they have less mass to absorb big hits. But do lighter players suffer
more injuries than heavier players? I suspect the difference isn’t significant. On the flip side,
you could also say that heavier receivers are more injury-prone because their higher weight
puts more strain on their joints. There aren’t any hard numbers on either side of this
argument, but it’s beginning to feel like receiver weight is an overhyped stat, like QB hand
size. Now, I’m not saying that teams should draft 5’7”, 135-pound wideouts. But if a player is
shown to be talented and capable, their weight should not be a red flag and held against
them.thThe trend towards smaller wide receivers reflects an evolution in the NFL’s passing game.
Bodying up a defender isn’t the only way to get open. Understanding how to use space, having
speed, and being able to operate in the middle of the field are key to play in a modern offense.
To have the skills, a wideout needs to be smart and athletic; they don’t need to be big.
Photos courtesy of Tammy Anthony Baker(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Women’s Water Polo Drops Big West Semi  nal to UC Irvine
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/womens-water-polo-drops-big-west-semifinal-to-uc-irvine/) 
Praveen Nair (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/prnair/)
In the semifinals of their inaugural Big West tournament, UC San Diego’s second-seeded
women’s water polo team (9–8, 3–2 Big West) lost a nailbiter to third-seeded UC Irvine (11–
7, 2–2 Big West) at Canyonview Aquatic Center on May 1, 12–11. Despite four goals from
senior center Ciara Franke and three from senior attacker Tera Richardson, the Tritons fell in
a hole midway through the contest and couldn’t complete the comeback.
Saturday’s match was the third straight these teams played against each other, as UC Irvine
had defeated UCSD in both of their meetings the weekend before, 12–9 and 10–9. Still, the
Tritons had the better conference record and entered the semifinal as the higher seed.
The Anteaters got on the board first 1:11 into the game, but just 27 seconds later, Franke
evened the match up with a goal of her own. After a foul against senior utility player Sydney
Boland soon after, Irvine took the lead back on the resulting powerplay. Later in the period,
senior attacker Grace Pevehouse fed the ball to Richardson after a steal for the equalizing
goal. Once again, Irvine took a 3–2 lead on a powerplay goal resulting from an exclusion
against freshman utility player Annika Arroyo.
But just over half a minute later, Arroyo scored a powerplay goal of her own off the assist
from Boland to even the game at three; soon after, a turnover on an offensive foul by UCI
gave UCSD another opportunity, and sophomore defender Karis Couch found the net to give
the Tritons their first lead of the match after one quarter, 4–3.
The second period, however, would not go UCSD’s way. Early in the quarter, Irvine’s Danielle
Ayala scored a powerplay goal after a foul on Richardson, followed by two goals in a span of
40 seconds from UCI’s Calysa Toledo to put the Anteaters up 6–4 with 4:51 remaining in the
period. Richardson would respond with a powerplay goal with 3:00 remaining to bring the
deficit to one, but Irvine scored three goals in the final 2:22 of the period (including one with
just a second to go), and they led at the half, 9–5.
In the third period, the Anteaters would extend that lead to 5, after a foul on Franke yielded a
powerplay score. Franke did her part to bring the Tritons back into the game, though, with 2
goals within a minute, off of assists from Boland and Richardson, to put the score at 10–7.
After another Anteater goal, Franke scored her fourth of the game and third of the period to
make it 11–8, but Irvine once again extended their lead to 12–8 with 1:49 left in the third.
Richardson scored almost immediately off a Boland assist to close the lead to a somewhat
manageable 12–9 going into the fourth.The match got a little chippy down the stretch in the fourth, as the Tritons drew three
penalties through the first five minutes, but UCSD couldn’t find the back of the net with time
running off the clock. The Tritons finally found a goal at the 3:02 mark, with Arroyo getting a
powerplay score to cut the lead to two. With just 1:25 to go, Boland scored a vital goal to put
the Tritons just a score away from completing the comeback and tying the match.
But that score wouldn’t materialize for UCSD, as a shot from senior utility player Jessee
Ransone was stopped by Irvine, and a penalty against Richardson as well as a card against
Triton coach Brad Kreutzkamp helped the Anteaters hold on for a 12–11 win.
The Tritons were led by four goals from Franke, a La Jolla High product, and a hat trick from
Richardson on just three shots. Richardson and Franke also led UCSD with three steals
apiece, and Boland led the squad with three assists. On offense, the Tritons were outshot by
Irvine .480 to .379, and on defense, senior goalie Bennett Bugelli had 9 saves on 21 shots on
goal.
UCSD’s loss to Irvine, the Tritons’ first-ever Big West tournament game, will end their season
unless they are one of the eight teams selected for the NCAA tournament on May 14 to 16,
with the bracket selection on May 3. Before the match, UCSD sat in ninth place in the
Collegiate Water Polo Association rankings, with Irvine in a tie for seventh.
Photo courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Diving-Board Destinations Worth Traveling To
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/diving-board-destinations-worth-traveling-to/) Hannah
Rosenberg (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/hannahrosenberg/)
Call me dramatic, but I would travel the world if it meant getting to dive off a diving board
located where adrenaline junkie thrills meets natural beauty. With COVID-19 severely
limiting the people we can be with and the activities we can partake in, I began daydreaming
about outdoor adventures and how the great outdoors could become even more of a
playground. Through Pinterest and the internet at large, I discovered some golden nuggets.
Hidden in some unexpected spots exist springboard and platform-diving boards that will take
your outdoor adventures to the next level. Pack your bags and add these places to your
summer itinerary!
Ithaca Falls
In 2016, I watched YouTuber Monica Church’s video (https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=5VNCsmg_glw) chronicling her trip to Ithaca Falls, a waterfall in Ithaca, New York, that
has a springboard diving board right next to the waterfall. The falls are located where Fall
Creek meets the glacial channel of Cayuga Lake and is one of many waterfalls in Ithaca. In
order to reach the diving board, you will embark on a short hike to the waterfall and
swimming area. Before making the trek, make sure the diving board is open, as it’s known for
having specific lifeguard-monitored hours. Lucky for Cornell students, this one is practically
in their backyard.Elli Beach, Rhodes, Greece
This diving board is a recent discovery and I’m dangerously close to buying a flight ticket to
Greece as I type this. No matter how many springboards you’ve jumped from, platform diving
is an entirely different beast. Standing at a monster 7-8 meters (about 23-26 feet) high, this
one is comparable to the height of the second-tallest Olympic diving platform, which, spoiler
alert, is a lengthy, fast ride down. While you mentally prepare yourself for the big jump, the
tower also includes what appears to be around 2-meter and 4-meter options. On Trip Advisor
the beach was overwhelmingly rated as an “excellent” or “very good” experience.Zadar, Croatian Coast
On the gorgeous Croation Coast stands this diving tower with three different platform
heights: 10 meters, 5 meters, and 2.5 meters. This seemingly lesser-known diving spot
provides all the sun-soaking and splashing you crave. While most diving towers are
connected to pools, jumping or diving into the big wide ocean must be exhilarating. An article
by Barbara Ray on the writing platform Medium described her Croatia travel experience,
which included this diving board destination, as “the best time” of her life.
Howth, Ireland
Among burnt orange-striped rocks stands a summer-long temporary diving board that is held
down by weighted bags and replaced yearly. The spot is slightly north of Dublin City in
Howth, Ireland where there is deep and clear water. As seen in the picture, this pin on the
globe is a popular place for young daredevils.
County Waterford, Ireland
Located in County Waterford, the people of this town fought to keep their diving boards
despite the local council’s attempt at removing them. Not only is this a fun area in Ireland to
explore, the Newtown and Guillamene Swimming Club uses its boards as a way to encourage
diving safety through classes and an annual diving competition. The 3-meter springboard
pictured is home to many jumps, dives, and cannonballs.(https://ucsdguardian.org/)
Main Menu 
Things My 6th Graders Say That Just Make Sense, Part 2
 May 2, 2021 (https://ucsdguardian.org/2021/05/02/things-my-6th-graders-say-that-just-make-sense-part-2/) 
Colleen Conradi (https://ucsdguardian.org/author/colleenconradi/)
As we are full-swing into spring, I am once again reflecting on the silly, serious, and
sometimes absurd things my students tell me in the after-school program I work for. As an
update: we are still meeting over Zoom, I still barely ever see a camera on (middle school
insecurity that none of us miss having!), and the students are still unafraid to speak their
minds! So, back for my loyal followers, more things my middle school students say that just
make sense:
Me: Remember, no class next Wednesday because it’s Veteran’s Day!
Student: Uh Ms. Colleen, do veterans get that day off or do they have to work because
it’s their day?
“Oh my gosh Ms. Colleen, I’m so excited because my mom says since I’m growing,
she’s going to buy me new pajamas from the ~women’s~ section!” 
“I like to challenge myself so I’m giving myself three weeks to write an entire book.” 
*Two weeks later*
“I barely wrote one sentence. Writing a book is HARD!”
Me: You know I used to work at Starbucks?
Student: You look like a person who would work there. 
“Ms. Colleen, can I sell you my little brother? He’s on sale for free.” 
Student: I wish I had been born in another state, like, what if I had been born in Ohio
and moved to California?
Me: Why would you want to be from Ohio??
Student: I don’t know, it sounds exciting. 
“Ms. Colleen when you get married, you better call us” – (I am hopelessly single)
“Sometimes you ask for help and Ms. Colleen doesn’t know math either.”
*One student to another*
“Ms. Colleen is a pretty good therapist.”
*Student to me*
“It’s hard being a semi-teacher, isn’t?”