TOP HITS
OF 2022
We were very well loved this 
February with new releases 
from different artists! Toon 
into A & E’s article to see what 
made the 2022 list so far- and if 
you agree with it.
WHAT ABOUT STUDENTS?
WHERE’S YOUTUBE?PROTECT STUDENTS, NOT GUNS
IS YOUTUBE STILL RELEVANTOPINION,  Page 4
LIFESTYLE, PAGE 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDEYou look at our world specifically. 
I think that it can’t just be a one-
night thing, it can’t be a month 
thing. It has to be something that, 
every day there’s education, there 
is change. [It is important] that 
people are really coming together 
and understanding how important 
humanity is — not race, not any 
of the -isms, especially racism 
— and specifically Black Lives 
Matter.”
- HEIDI VANDERVEER
SPORTS, PAGE 10A & E,   PAGE  7
MONDAY 
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY 
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF ID MAGAZINE.IMAGE COURTESY OF ID MAGAZINE.
TUESDAY 
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
COVID-19......................3
STUDENTS & GUNS.....4SAOKO..........................5VALENTINE’S................7WWB VS. CSULB..........8VOLUME 55, ISSUE 19   MONDAY , FEBRUARY 28, 2022  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Sees Rise in Campus TheftsCRIME
By Niloufar Shahbandi  NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Since the beginning of 2022, UC San Diego and 
the La Jolla region have been experiencing a rise in crimes, particularly theft incidents. UCSD 
students and staff have been victims of bike and cata -
lytic converter thefts on campus, while more serious c
rimes have been taking place in La Jolla, reflecting a 
general trend of increasing crime around the country.
During the months of January and February, 
there have been a total of six UC San Diego Police De -
partment Timely Warnings compared to only three f
rom the same period last year. The alerts are part of a 
campus-wide email and text messaging alert system. According to the UCPD crime logs, 2021 only saw 10 timely warnings in total. 
All of the 2022 warnings have been in relation to 
burglary, theft, and one regarding arson. Only two suspects involved in the warnings have been appre -
hended. During this same period, there were also 102 p
olice reports of bike thefts.
One of these thefts was intercepted by a student 
as seen in a viral Reddit post from Feb. 17. The video, with 78,000 views and 1,900 upvotes as of Feb. 25, depicts a student punching a man for attempting to steal a bike in front of Warren Lecture Hall. Andy Sazima, a first-year graduate student and owner of the bike from the video, said that he parked his bike outside the lecture hall to go to class at 3 p.m. When his class ended at 6:30 p.m., he went outside to see that his bike was missing. 
“After it was stolen, I walked to the trolley to get 
home, and then had a realization that I should go back and check for more evidence,” Sazima said. “That’s when I ran into the guy who took the video. He showed it to me, we exchanged info, and he told me it was at the police station, so 10 minutes later I had my bike back.”
Sazima expressed what changes he believes could 
help reduce bike thefts.
“More surveillance would definitely not go over 
super well with the community,” Sazima continued. “These events seem to happen disproportionately at night, so maybe more patrols around or some camer -
as around the larger bike parking areas. Maybe more s
urveillance around the trolley? I’ve heard that since the trolley opened, more people come by to steal stuff, then can just hop on the trolley and get away quickly. I think the university should have a more open conversation about what the community wants. It’s mostly our stuff getting stolen, and it seems like it’s gotten more severe lately. I’ve only been here for a couple quarters, so I’m not one to reference for long-term trends, but that’s just what I’ve heard from oth -
ers who attend.”
T
o learn more about these incidents, the UCSD 
Guardian asked Scott Gustafson, Lieutenant of UC San Diego Police Department and Leslie Sepuka, the Associate Director of University Communica -
tions, regarding the potential increase in on-campus c
rimes. 
“The UC San Diego Police Department has seen 
an increase in property crimes over the past two months,” Sepuka said. “Much of the theft has been of bicycles, electric bicycles, and electric scooters.” 
Sepuka and Gustafson explained that the rise in 
thefts can be attributed to more staff and students visiting campus. They also reported that UCPD is re -
sponding through staffing adjustments and increas -
ing targeted patrols around campus. 
“
The [UC] police department also works closely 
with other departments on campus to prevent crime through high visibility of bike racks, bike lockers and bike garages,” read their email.
The increase follows local and national patterns, 
with more serious crimes taking place in La Jolla and California. In the past month there has been a stab -
bing of a UTC employee, a robbery at Chase bank lo -
cated on Villa La Jolla Dr, and numerous reports of s
tolen catalytic converters.
In many cases of theft, perpetrators are looking 
for catalytic converters, a key component of a vehi -
cle’s exhaust system, which includes various precious m
etals such as platinum, palladium and rhodium, 
which are worth up to $1,200 each. According to Carlsbad police Captain Christie Calderwood, the price of these metals has increased especially during the pandemic incentivizing thieves to steal them and extract the metals. 
Calderwood stated that there were 2,230 reports 
COVID-19
California Drops Statewide Mask Mandate
By ABBY LEE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
California’s indoor masking mandate expired 
for fully vaccinated individuals on Feb. 16. Accord -
ing to new state guidelines, all individuals are still r
equired to wear masks in certain locations, includ -
ing public transport, K-12 schools and childcare set -
tings, healthcare settings, homeless shelters, nursing h
omes, as well as correctional facilities and detention 
centers. In addition, unvaccinated individuals are still required to wear masks in indoor public set -
tings, such as restaurants and theaters. 
T
he relaxing of the mask mandate coincides 
with declining COVID-19 cases and hospitaliza -
tions across California. In early January, the 7-day p
ositivity rate was 22.6 percent. It has since de -
creased significantly to 3.7 percent, according t
o the California Department of Public Health 
(CDPH)’s latest data from Feb. 21.
In comments to The Los Angeles Times, Dr. See CRIME,  page 3
See COVID-19,  page 3ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
A.S. Council Brief 
Weeks 7 and 8: UC 
Student Policy 
Summit and the New 
Housing Policy
By KAITLIN LEE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Week 7
 I
n their Week 7 meeting, 
A.S. senators discussed projects such as a  campus referral service and gave updates on current projects. Vice President Adrianne Blackshire an -
nounced an all-student summit in p
rotest of the quarterly meeting with 
the University of California Office of the President (UCOP) and the coun -
cil went over how to change the active d
irectory (AD) passwords. 
First, Sydney Harrison, a speaker 
for CALPIRG, a student organiza -
tion centered on the reduction of cli -
mate change, gave an update on the g
roup’s mission to eliminate single-
use plastics from California to curb plastic pollution. 
Additionally, CALPIRG has been 
working with Assemblymember Laura Friedman in support of AB-26, a new bill that would ban single-use plastics in delivery packages. Addi -
tionally, CALPIRG is raising support f
or AB-2146, a bill for bees, butter -
flies, and other pollinators by reduc -
ing the usage of Neonics, a form of h
erbicide. 
Then, Campuswide Senator 
Daniel Soria introduced his project, the campus referral service. The ser -
vice will help organizations submit r
equests and hearings to the A.S. 
Council and help connect organiza -
tions to it more easily. Soria stated t
hat more updates will be provided in 
the upcoming weeks. 
Senator Anna Zick discussed 
her correspondence with the Triton Transfer Hub and mentioned plans for a student-led transfer council to help transfer students. However, this is still under development. 
Next, Vice President of External 
Affairs Adrianna Blackshire spoke about her recent University Affairs (UA) quarterly meeting with Univer -
sity of California President Michael D
rake and the rest of the UCOP. 
Blackshire explained that, despite expressed requests of UA students to not be merged with other organiza -
tions, UCOP plans to go against these r
equests. 
“Due to the circumstance that 
UCOP has decided to pretty much go against our desire to not be merged with other organizations such as UC -
GCP and the Council of Presidents, w
e have decided as members of UA 
to boycott the quarterly meeting.” Blackshire elaborated. 
Instead of attending, student rep -
resentatives will attend a UC student p
olicy summit on Feb. 28.  Following 
this, the council moved on to reports of standing committees. The Finance 
See ASSOCIATED STUDENTS,  page 2
Image courtesy of Shirley Tan for UCSD Guardian. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD
 students and for the UCSD
 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing EditorCo-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures EditorA&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 ▶ ASSOCIATED STUDENTS , from 
page 1
Committee approved the following 
items:
•
 F
2: Allocation of $404.80 from 
programming funds to Alpha Epsilon Delta for UCSD Alpha Epsilon Delta 
•
 F
3: Allocation of $3,298.34 from 
Programming Funds to Muslim Student Association for Tarbiyya Seminar
However, they tabled the following for two weeks. 
•
 F
1: Allocation of $60k from Un -
allocated to the Booster Bucks I
nitiative
•
 F
4: Allocation of $15,000 from 
Student Organization Program -
ming Funds to General Unallo -
cated funds
A
dditionally, the Legislative 
Committee appointed Maria Charles as A.S. Election Manager. 
Then, the council went over the 
reports of external committees. First-Year Senator Xavier Lopez presented on behalf of the cyberspace and gover -
nance committee in an update on the J
an. 10 campus notice, where it stated 
that students have to change their Ac -
tive Directory (AD) password during W
inter Quarter as part of a cyberse -
curity initiative. According to the Jan. 1
0 notice, the deadlines for password 
changes will be staggered over several weeks in order to not overload on the systems and Service Desk. The Active Directory Account, better known as the Triton Link account, is where stu -
dents can access information such as c
lass registration and financial aid. 
Lopez provided a tutorial on how 
to change your password, which is also available at this link here. Addi -
tionally, Lopez provided a website to fi
nd whether your password has been 
compromised, which can be found here. 
Senator Allyson Muir for the 
Library Student Advocacy Council spoke about the tunnel in the first level of the Geisel Library. Because the tunnel is too dark for studying, the council hopes to find a way to repur -
pose the space. 
S
enator Eng and the rest of the 
Executive Director of Campus Perfor -
mances and Events office search are  c
urrently working with a search 
firm, Isaacson Miller, to hire an execu -
tive director for the new Epstein Fam -
ily Amphitheater. At the moment, Eng s
aid that they are looking for students’ 
input on how students and student or -
ganizations can use this space as well. 
S
enator Johnson spoke about the 
Mentoring for All Committee and their meeting on February 15. The Committee hopes to reach better out -
reach and wants to mostly reach out to f
irst and second-year students. 
Finally, in the end, Senator Ra -
mos discussed her plans for a Student-W
orker Parking project, a carpooling 
service for students to get to campus. However, when VP Lara asked about how COVID regulations will be taken into consideration, Ramos admitted that aspect will need more thought. 
Week 8
In their Week 8 meeting, Housing 
Dining Hospitality, Basic Needs, and Student Legal Services were discussed by the A.S. Council. Additionally, project managers went over housing policies, off-campus resources, and new building projects being done in response to the housing crisis. 
To start this meeting, there were 
special presentations led by HDH As -
sociate Vice Chancellor Dr. Hemlata J
haveri. 
Associate Director of Housing 
Stacy Travis, Director of Residential Experience Megan Fox, and Associ -
ate Director of Housing Administra -
tive  Services Chris Dice went over the n
ew housing policy for the 2022–2023 
school year. 
Housing applicants will be divided 
into 5 priority groups: 
•
 S
cholars in UC San Diego pro -
grams that provide four years of h
ousing guarantee or mandate 
living on campus as a condition of their offer
•
 N
ew incoming first-year and 
transfer students 
•
 R
eturning second-year students, 
including second-year trans -
fer students who resided in on-c
ampus housing for at least two 
of three quarters in the 2021-22 academic year
•
 R
emaining second-year students, 
including 2nd year transfers
•
 R
emaining 3rd and 4th yearsHDH said that it expects that 
groups 1, 2, and some of 3 will be housed. Group 3 will be selected by a lottery system and groups 4 and 5 will have a chance to apply for housing by joining the waitlist. 
Travis also provided important 
dates for room selection. 
•
 N
ow–March 1: Continuing stu -
dent housing application
•
 M
arch 8–14: Housing contract 
issued
•
 M
arch 9–20: Living-Learning 
Community, I-House and opt-in for Gender Inclusive Housing 
•
 A
pril 14 and 22: Lottery date and 
time, and available space online
•
 A
pril 29–28: Room selection 
sign-up by community 
•
 M
ay 3: Notification of delayed 
assignment 
Students will have to apply for 
housing by May 1 and accept an of -
fer by May 9. Continuing students w
ho submitted a Continuing Student 
Housing application by the stated deadline, but were not able to receive a housing contract, will be moved to the waitlist. They’ll have to update their record to stay on the waitlist. 
Meanwhile, students in priority 
group 4 and 5 will apply once when the waitlist is open. Students on the waitlist will be offered spaces as they become available and will be able to choose any open undergraduate space. For more information, you can refer to the HDH website. 
Next, the Hub Basic Needs Hous -
ing and Education Coordinator Ka -
meo Quenga and Assistant Marissa I
slas went over resources that can help 
students with the housing crisis. Stu -
dents can refer to the off-campus h
ousing office for resources to help 
them with off-campus living. The Off-Campus Housing website also has property listings, roommate searches, and emergency resources. 
Following them, Student Legal 
Services Director Jon Carlos dis -
cussed the resources available to stu -
dents. This includes free confidential c
ounseling, education, and referrals 
for all students. reviews, and repairs/insurance. Students looking for their website can find it here. 
UCSD Capital Program Manager 
Dennis Brown then went over the reviews, and repairs/insurance. 
Students looking for their website can 
find it here. 
UCSD Capital Program Manager 
Dennis Brown then went over the plans for the Theatre District Living and Learning Neighborhood. The new undergraduate residence will be located next to Revelle College and the La Jolla Playhouse. 
It will be 900,000 sq. ft. and will 
house 2000 undergraduates. Along with rooms, there will also be recre -
ation and wellness areas throughout. M
ore information can be found here. 
Project Manager Bryan Macias 
then covered the new ideas for Pep -
per Canyon West Housing. It will be b
uilt on the grounds Pepper Canyon 
Lounge, known colloquially as Camp Snoopy, is currently on. 
Pepper Canyon Lounge will be 
demolished in the Summer of 2022 and the new Pepper Canyon West will be completed by Fall 2024. It will be made of two towers, of 22 and 23 stories respectively. It will house 1300 residents and the ground floor will be used for retail. It will have new public features also, including a canyon trail that goes into a courtyard of buildings and a large park along Gilman Drive. This will be used mostly for third and fourth years. For more information can be found here. 
Project Leader Matthew Smith 
covered the Marshall District Living and Learning Neighborhood plans. It will be a new learning and living neighborhood at Marshall College, with 2000 beds and construction will begin in 2023. 
Smith also stated that the new 
Triton Transfer Hub will be located in the Triton Center Project, also known as the Triton Pavillion. It will also in -
clude the Center for Global Education a
nd the new node for the teaching and 
learning commons. 
This will be built in the central 
campus, near the Gilman Super Loop and Price Center. This project will go into construction in 2022 and will be done around 2025.
Jhaveri also established that 704 
spaces have been identified for triples. Jhaveri said the decision was made to alleviate the housing crisis in San Di -
ego. 
F
ollowing these presentations, 
Food and Housing Resources Assis -
tant Vice President Natalie Chiang g
ave her special presentation on the 
budget of the Professional Closet 
Program. This is a project the of -
fice hosts every year to address d
ifficulties students may have 
accessing professional clothing. This program seeks to support students by providing them $50 gift cards to purchase appropriate interview outfits from stores like Target or Amazon. Chiang gave the budget proposal of $200,000 from Associated Students to sup -
port 400 students to find profes -
sional wear. 
S
enator Serena Zheng an -
nounced her revival week project c
alled Renewal Winter. This proj -
ect will give out 200 care pack -
ages to students studying nurs -ing. This event will take place on M
arch 7 out on Muir Quad where 
care packages with goodies like ramen and face masks will be giv -
en out to nursing students only.
S
enators Callahan, Kimiko 
Walker, and Griffith gave updates on their projects. Senator Rosario told the council of two new proj -
ects: one is a scholarship com -
mittee, and the other is a new art i
nstallation at Sixth College. VP 
Lara introduced a mentor-mentee program for the A.S. council and s
aid mentor-mentee pairs will be 
announced by Week 10. 
President Manu Agni went 
over plans for Spring Break. Agni noted that like last year, he hopes that more people opt to stay in San Di -
ego than go out of the city to reduce the 
t
ransmission of COVID-19  as a result 
of traveling in and out of San Diego. Additionally, Agni reminded people to self-test after returning to campus after the break. 
Agni addressed issues with the 
Pronto App that students use for the trolley and buses, where the barcode that students scan to pay their fare would not work. He said that he dis -
cussed it with those behind the app and a
n update will be coming soon in the 
upcoming weeks. 
Finally, Agni explained that he was 
working to get more funding for the li -
brary to get outdoor seating. 
 S
enator Lopez reiterated that 
the Chief Information Security Officer announced that starting March 1, stu -
dents need the UCSD VPN to access co
mputers and networks. 
Read more at ucsdguardian.org!
Art courtesy of Ava Bayley for UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
of catalytic converter thefts in San 
Diego in 2021, an increase of over 1,800 since 2020. Stolen catalytic con -
verters have been reported both on a
nd off campus. There have been five 
reports of stolen catalytic converters on campus in the month of February, mostly near graduate housing.
The most frequent target for 
thieves are Toyota Priuses, followed by Honda Elements and Accords. Leonardo Gonzalez, an Earl Warren College junior, whose catalytic con -
verter was stolen last week described wh
at happened. 
“I left my car parked outside by 
Costa Verde Boulevard for one night and got my catalytic converter sto -
len,” Gonzalez said. “When I turned m
y car on the next day it made a loud 
screeching sound and I knew some -
thing was wrong. To top it all off, my c
ar is a 2007 Honda Accord that I 
never thought anyone would have their eyes on.”
Such occurrences mark a general 
rise in crime in California since the beginning of the pandemic. While the Black Lives Movement in 2020 encouraged many to advocate de -
creased funding for police depart -
ments, rising reports of criminal a
ctivity and homicide rates have led 
various city leaders to reverse their judgements. However, it’s important to note that collection of crime data in California and nationwide has been inconsistent.
To learn more about safety tips or 
reporting any crimes or suspicious activities on campus, visit the UCPD website.  ▶ CRIME , from page 1
▶ COVID-19 , from page 1
Tomás J. Aragón, California’s Di -
rector of Public Health, said he is highly 
o
ptimistic that the state is recovering  from the recent Omicron wave.
“Omicron has loosened its 
hold on California,” Aragón said. 
“With things moving in the right direction, we are making respon -
sible modifications to COVID-19 p
revention measures, while also 
continuing to develop a longer-term action plan for the state.”
However, The LA Times also 
reported that a number of doctors maintain that lifting the indoor mask mandate for vaccinated in -
dividuals is premature, given that t
he pandemic is still ongoing. 
Associate Professor of Infectious Diseases at UC San Francisco, Dr. Sarah Doernberg, expressed her concerns about the uncertain fu -
ture of the pandemic.
“
March seems soon to me to 
take away masks. I think we need to see more time to understand what’s going to happen,” Doern -
berg said to The LA Times. “It f
eels a little premature to take that 
away.”
UC San Diego also appears to 
be maintaining a cautious stance towards the COVID-19 pan -
demic. In a schoolwide email sent o
ut on Feb. 17, UCSD’s Return 
to Learn Program reiterated that UCSD would continue to man -
date indoor masking for all indi -
viduals, regardless of vaccination s
tatus. 
“Although California’s public 
indoor masking requirement for vaccinated people ended yester -
day, UCSD will continue to re -
quire all individuals, regardless o
f vaccination status, to mask in -
doors at the university,” the email r
ead. “Our more cautious campus 
safety protocols are in line with 
other school systems and univer -
sities across the country. They are g
uided by an array of national, 
state, local and campus data that are analyzed by UCSD’s ex -
perts in epidemiology, medicine, p
redictive modeling and public 
health.”
Speaking to the UCSD Guard -
ian previously, Dr Robert School -
ey emphasized that UCSD would n
ot tighten or relax current mea -
sures based on thresholds alone. I
nstead, they observe trends in 
key parameters to make decisions proactively before such thresh -
olds are reached. 
“
We monitor multiple data 
streams every day to ascertain whether there are any concerning signals of an increasing incidence of SARS CoV-2 infection among our faculty, staff or students,” Schooley wrote. 
These data streams include: the 
case rate in faculty, staff and student populations, evidence of locations or events that are responsible for infec -
tion clusters, the number and distri -
bution of positive wastewater signals, a
s well as student behavior and police 
reports. In addition to analyzing data within the UCSD population, the Re -
turn to Learn program also observes t
he local incidence and hospitaliza -
tion rate in San Diego to determine if t
he demographics of those infections 
overlap with UCSD’s population.
Together, these data drive the 
Return to Learn program’s informed decision-making process.
“In addition to monitoring 
absolute rates of all of these pa -
rameters, we look for trends and t
rajectories and — after taking 
all of this into account — make decisions daily about whether we should recommend tweaking of precautions in either direction,” Schooley explained.
UCSD’s efforts to control the 
spread of COVID-19 appear to be working, as the 
  1
4-day roll -
ing percentage of positive cases at U
CSD has consistently remained 
much lower than that of San Di -
ego county. around 5.4% on Jan. 
Read more at
 ucsdguardian.org
Image courtesy of Althea Tien for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
It was a productive start to 
a long weekend. While I was 
visiting friends at UC Berkeley, we decided to  study at Doe library, the only worry on our minds being our looming final exams. The soft afternoon wind pushing through the high windows was the only sound that filled the quiet hall — until it wasn’t. 
Loud popping noises abruptly 
pierced the silence, followed by terrified screams. Heads started slowly lifting from laptops and notebooks, pulled out of their studying trances. They lingered, scanning the room and searching the faces around them for clues as a cloud of agitation set in. 
When the screams 
intensified, every student in the crowded library jumped out of their seats like clockwork. Some ran out of the room and smashed a window, opting for the 15 foot jump over the confines of the library. Others began to barricade themselves into the room, shutting off the lights and huddling in the corners. There was no hesitation. No one said a word, but the silence spoke volumes.  
We later found out that the 
noises were actually caused by a campus club playing a balloon popping game outside, not an active shooter. But that didn’t make the experience feel any less real. Perhaps the most upsetting aspect of this bizarre incident to me was that everyone’s mind automatically assumed it was a school shooting. There was no pause to peer out the window and check for the source of the sound. We were in America, a country that makes up nearly a third of the world’s mass shootings despite only housing about 4% of the world’s population. Of course it would be a shooting. As one of my friends put it, unsolicited loud noises have become “the modern equivalent of yelling fire in a crowded room”
While many liberal politicians 
are starting to back stricter gun control legislation, there lacks a direct focus on the protection of students which has resulted in over 292,000 students witnessing this sort of gun-driven terror at school before even reaching college-age. Lawmakers need to narrow their immediate focus toward banning guns from school grounds, K-12 and college campuses alike, especially as 2021 saw the largest number of school shootings in the past two decades. 
As of today, there are no 
federal laws that explicitly restrict guns on college campuses, leaving the decision to the discretion of each state. Only 16 states have enacted a ban on concealed weapons on campuses. K-12 campuses, on the other hand, have slight federal protection through the Gun-Free School Zones Act that aims to regulate gun possession in and near these schools. However, the act has a major loophole that exempts those who are licensed by a state to carry a handgun. Given that this law was enacted back in 1990, and there have been over 300 K-12 school shootings since then, something clearly isn’t working. 
It would be tragically naive to 
imply that simply banning guns from these campuses would completely prevent gun violence from occurring. However, minimizing the accessibility of these weapons and replacing them with non-lethal alternatives if needed, is a start. 
Currently, 33 K-12 schools 
lack definitive laws against faculty carrying guns and, as of 2012, around 75% of university police departments carried guns. Despite this freedom, some states are fighting for even looser gun restrictions on school grounds, and others are making it easier than ever to obtain a gun in the first place. 
What initiatives like these fail 
to acknowledge is that adding more guns to the equation won’t decrease gun violence rates and may actually do the opposite. Many of the states that are fighting for these looser restrictions, and that are already allowing faculty to carry guns, are also the states with some of the higher rates of gun-induced deaths.  
Take, for example, the 
California public school teacher who accidentally shot a student during a safety demonstration, or the Alabama public school teacher who unintentionally fired a gun in a classroom, injuring a first grader. Teachers are trained to educate, not operate lethal weapons. 
The risk that comes with 
having these weapons in close vicinity to students in the first place is palpable. Over the past five years alone, there have been numerous instances of guns being left accessible to students due to negligence of the faculty in possession of these weapons. Given that the number of children that have accidentally fired guns, whether that be at home or in public, has only increased during the pandemic, it’s better to be safe than sorry. 
On college campuses, the 
necessity of armed university police departments has been a topic of debate in recent years, with many students explaining that the presence of these armed university police makes them feel unsafe and agitated. It’s not hard to see why. In Georgia, 21 year old student Scout Schultz was shot and killed by university police when he was experiencing a mental health crisis. In Cincinnati, an unarmed civilian was shot and killed by university police during a minor traffic stop. There is already immense distrust in policing systems, with public confidence in police dropping to 48% in recent years. Given that a majority of campus crimes are property related, it seems excessive to have university police so heavily armed. 
In today’s day and age, the 
desire of those working at K-12 or college campuses to be equipped for disaster is unfortunately understandable. Addressing the general lack of gun control in America that causes much of this fear is a much bigger beast to tackle, one that is slowly being chipped away at by democratic lawmakers across the country. While gun laws continue to spark controversy, students deserve for schools to be undisputed safe spaces, and securing K-12 and college campuses by replacing guns with non-lethal alternatives would prevent putting students at any further risk. 
I haven’t been able to get the 
incident at Doe library out of my head since it happened and neither have the friends that I was with. The blur of moments keeps replaying in my head. The way my stomach dropped to the floor as yells and clusters of pops filled the air. The desperate dash to the back of the room, sliding under the table so frantically that someone’s laptop charger got tangled around my neck. The shaking mass of bodies coiled together, frantically texting loved ones but not knowing what to say. 
This sense of fear, this 
collective trauma, has been instilled into American youth from a young age. Growing up and watching one massacre after the other on the news, one can’t help but wonder if it’ll happen to them. This wasn’t my first active shooting lockdown experience at an educational institution, and it wasn’t for my friends either. Until lawmakers are able to implement strict federal laws that make it more difficult to obtain and carry a gun in public, these weapons must at least be cleared from the classroom. After all, the goal should be to protect students, not guns. 
By Zara Irshad 
Editor in ChiefProtect Students, Not Guns
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
ELIAS ROMAN
S+E MEDIA CLUB 003: 
TOP HITS OF 2022 (SO FAR)
2022’s just begun, but there’s already been droves of new tracks from some of our favorite artists released, check out A&E Senior Staff Writer Sarah and A&E Editor Elias’ highlights below!
SAOKO - ROSALÍA
Rosalía arrived on the scene with the debut of her sophomore album “El Mal Querer,” 
a record that blended traditional flamenco instrumentation and vocalization with con -
temporary pop in a way no one had ever thought possible before. It’s been four years since 
“
El Mal Querer’s” release, and just as speculation of a new project was gaining momentum 
online, Rosalía has announced her new project “Motomami” with the release of the single “SAOKO” (named after the song of the same name by reggaeton legends Daddy Yankee and Wisin). The track is a shot of adrenaline, the pounding reggaeton-inspired instru -
mentation boasting industrial tinges reminiscent of Rosalías close friend and collabora -
tor, Arca. The Spanish singer even name drops one of pop music’s biggest recluses (and a r
umored guest star on the upcoming project), Frank Ocean, singing “Frank me dice que 
abra el mundo como una nue’.” The track’s lyrical motif is change, transformation, some -
thing which Rosalía seems to have taken to heart on this new project as she embraces new s
ounds and takes new risks. “Motomami” releases on March 22, and “SAOKO” indicates 
that it’ll be an album worth looking out for.
-EFREAKY (RGB) - YEEK
Yeek gets downright sultry in his new single “Freaky (RGB).” Seductive, groovy, and 
soulful, “Freaky” is a testament to Yeek’s energetic sensibilities. Born Sebastian Caran -
dang, Yeek is bedroom pop’s most promising breakout star. He epitomizes the D.I.Y. work 
m
entality of Soundcloud rappers: he produced, wrote, and created an accompanying short 
film for his most recent album “Valencia.” His newest single “Freaky (RGB)” opens with an homage to the Y2K experience with lyrics such as “Meditation music on the PS2 is on/RGB remote control, I know what you want.” Indeed, “Freaky” is an exercise in nostalgia; from funk-reminiscent synths to timeless R&B romance lyrics, Yeek covers all his bases with high-energy and tenderness. If “Valencia” cemented Yeek’s status as an innovative R&B lyricist, then “Freaky” showcases his expertise in rhythm and groove.
-SIt’s crazy to think February is coming to a close — time feels like it's slowed to a crawl while 
simultaneously flying by. Even so, there’s already been a ton of new music released (as well as announced), and we’ve compiled a list of our favorite picks for you to check out below.
PORN ACTING* - JEAN DAWSON
Jean Dawson is back with the second single from his upcoming project, “Chaos Now. ” 
The angsty guitar-laden track “Porn Acting*” comes just a few months after his first single, “Menthol. ” Both tracks seem to indicate that Dawson is leaning further into the grungier aspects of his music on his upcoming project, with wailing guitars and the San Diego-born artist’s trademark distorted vocals. “Porn Acting*” sees Dawson assure the world that he is not to be messed with, singing “Boy don’t play me, put you on a t-shirt/Put you where your knees hurt, put you in the grave. ” The braggadocious nature of Dawson’s lyrics are balanced out by a refreshingly self-aware cry: “I’m full of sh-t just like you. ” Both “Menthol” and “Porn Acting*” are a departure from the artist’s glitched out breakout record “Pixel Bath, ” but fans shouldn’t worry, as Dawson is perfectly at home amidst the chaos of these two new tracks. With a strummy ear-worm hook and a whole lot of attitude, “Porn Acting*” is sure to stick with you for a while.
-E
Image courtesy of Jamznet. 
Image courtesy of Y eek on Y outube. 
Image courtesy of Stereogum. 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
CHOCOLATE HILLS - KHRUANGBIN & LEON BRIDGES
Like Y eek’s “Freaky (RBG), ” “Chocolate Hills” is nostalgia music, but of an entirely different 
sort. Leon Bridges channels Al Green’s smooth and sexy vocal energy, while Khruangbin imbues the track with their characteristic 1960s soulfulness. What at first seems like an odd pairing — the Houston based musical trio is best known for their forays into psychedelic pop, while Leon Bridges is a well established soul singer — Khruangbin and Leon Bridges’ collaboration just makes sense.  The two styles complement each other well: where Bridges is retro and melodic, Khruangbin is experimental and subversive. In a music industry satu -
rated with overproduced pop songs and algorithmically inclined one-liners, Khruangbin a
nd Bridges' music stands in stark defiance. “Chocolate Hills” is both innovative and de -
rived, familiar, yet entirely new. 
-S
GINGER PUBES - BAKAR
Bakar’s anger is resounding in “Ginger Pubes”: “I keep fuckin’ it up” he repeatedly sing-yells 
in the first verse of the song. The track, with its hard-hitting drums and phlegmy hollered re -
frains, is a classic punk tune. While Bakar carries strong punk influences in his newest album “
Nobody’s Home, ” his music is anything but derivative. Bakar seems to have eclipsed genre 
in his perfect melding of pop and alternative rock, testing the boundaries of any one musical style. Born in north London, Bakar’s music is a reflection of his experiences as an immigrant and avid fan of British music — Amy Winehouse is among the many artists from which Ba -
kar gains inspiration. Through innovation and a keen sense for genre-mashing, Bakar carves u
p a slice of the music scene all for himself. 
-S
BBYCAKES - MURA MASA (FT. SHYGIRL, LIL UZI VERT, 
PINK PANTHERESS)
The mastermind beat-maker behind the A$AP Rocky-led “Love$ick” is back with an -
other banger off his upcoming album “Soundtrack to a Death, Part 2.” The chipper track f
eatures sped up chipmunk-like vocals from both Shygirl and Pink Pantheress, two of the 
year’s biggest hyperpop acts, as well as a verse from rapper Lil Uzi Vert. The bouncy beat of the tune is juxtaposed with Uzi and Pink Pantheress’ confessions of infidelity, an ap -
proach that makes the tune as sad as it is fun. The matter-of-fact nature with which Pink P
antheress delivers her devastating truths (“I know I messed up when I was seeing your 
best friend,” “So I called you here to tell you I’m with someone you know/And if I said that I loved you, I lied”) reflects the cheerful apathy of the songs’ protagonists; and even know -
ing how awful what they’re saying is, you won’t be able to stop yourself from bobbing your h
ead, bouncing your knee, or tapping your hand to the beat of this tune.
-E
Image courtesy of Leon Bridges on Y outube. 
Image courtesy of Complex. 
Image courtesy of Genius. LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Is Youtube 
 Still Relevant?
There I was in my cozy 
loft back in my childhood 
home; I received my first iPod touch for the first time in fifth grade (too young, I know). I thought I had the world at my fingertips, and when you’re at that age, you have no idea about the content that roamed around the internet at that time. 
My first youtube video was 
Ryan Higa’s “How to be Ninja”. With the maturity level of a carrot, this was peak comedy. And from there I was introduced to the world of Youtubers and what it meant to have a social presence. I believe that Youtube was an essential part of my life growing up, from how to apply winged eyeliner to Jenn Im vlogs, I was hooked. At this time my only form of entertainment was playing “Bloxorz” on coolmathgames.com so it was exciting to enter this new world of content. 
With how fast social media 
has evolved, I began to wonder. Is Youtube even relevant anymore? Sure I’ll pull up Lofi girl if I need to study or watch a couple of Mina Le videos here and there, but I find that I never have the urge to jump onto Youtube and watch individuals overshare on the internet anymore. If you were anything like me, it was simply a little escape to indulge in other people’s interests and hobbies, but I don’t remember the last time I had a Youtube hyper fixation.
In 2019, I arguably made the 
best or worst decision of my life by downloading Tiktok. During peak pandemic attempting to learn the infamous “Renegade” dance just like everybody else, I found my newest hyper fixation.
Eventually, over time it gave 
me brain rot and I tried (emphasis on tried), to stay off that app as much as possible. But sometimes after working for 3 hours straight, you just want a way to wind down the day for a couple of minutes… or a couple of hours.
With the rise of new-age 
influencer lifestyles, I started to realize, this is the new Youtube. Tiktok is a platform that people of all ages have on their phones By Priscilla Anna puno
Lifestyle Co-Editorand has easily digestible content. It’s easy to just mindlessly scroll on your For You Page and come across what the newest trends are. Similar to Youtube, there is a plethora of niche content for essentially anyone to watch, but more compactly and quickly to get your quick fix of entertainment for the day. 
Now I’m not talking about how 
it serves as a platform for music videos, how-to videos, or daily Jubilee videos, I’m interested in how it has affected the lives of people who dedicated years to posting weekly videos. With large Youtube names such as Tyler Oakley and Jenna Marbles, their rise to fame was quick, but their downfall was quicker. Of course, YouTubers have gotten older and have realized this was essentially just a phase in their life, but sometimes I still see old school Youtubers trying to stay relevant on Tiktok and I think their time has simply passed. YouTubers have gathered large fan bases surrounding them and with the infamous Vidcon, they don’t hold as much weight or excitement as they used to. I believe that many people are still nostalgic of this era, but don’t pay any mind to the current content that is being released or having the means of over exaggerating the creator’s digital footprint.
With my love-hate 
relationship with that damn clock app, I hate to admit that Youtube doesn’t provide the same fulfillment that Tiktok does. Youtube is still a very useful app if I want to learn how to make roasted garlic, but why would I do that when I can simply look up “roasted garlic” in the search bar and see someone made a 10-second video on it.
The sad reality is that 
Youtube just does not have the same effect that these new-age platforms have. These Youtubers will, of course, always stay near and dear to my heart, but it’s somewhat refreshing to see new forms of entertainment being brought to our fingertips. 
If you’ve gotten to this point 
of the article, I suggest you go ahead and turn on Miss Lofi girl and continue studying for that Business final you have in two weeks. Thanks for reading!
Photo by Azamat E on Unsplash.14 February 2022, 9:34 AM PST
The Cave
It’s morning. The sky is gray 
and overcast, seeping doom into the small college town of UC San Diego. Despite the cold, the air is nice: fresh, and salty from the nearby ocean. Students walk around campus going to class, work, or meeting a friend at the library. Simple things, hidden from the true horrors of humanity. These children are unsuspecting subjects; ordinary people with ordinary lives that I watch from my hovel above.
I’m sitting in my room, lights 
off as I hold a paper cup filled with cheap, bitter dark coffee. My father always took it that way so I drink it out of habit. I take a sip and let the unpleasant sourness dissolve onto my tongue. The window I am looking out of is foggy, though I am unsure if it is from the cold or the cloudiness in my eyes. I hadn’t slept at all last night, too distracted by the haunting memories of my past. Either that or I forgot to put my contacts in again. 
It turns out to be a mere 
trick of the weather, the blurriness disappearing when I take an old towel to wipe off the condensation. Once it’s clear I take some time to observe. I do this every morning before I start my work; it helps keep my detective skills up to par. 
At this time the campus is 
usually slow, with just a few lonely students walking to their early classes but otherwise empty. I expect to see the same on this unassuming morning but instead, I find crowds of people, ten times more than I usually see, at least. They scurry around quickly like mice in a maze looking for the cheese in the trap. But that isn’t what worries me, no. What I found to be the most peculiar was that these civilians were traveling in pairs, fingers laced together beside their hips. 
What was this mystifying 
phenomenon? Why were the previously lonely students at UC San Diego grasping onto their peers like tangled spools of thread? And who was behind it? As I took another sip of my By Priscilla Anna puno
Lifestyle Co-Editornow cold coffee I vowed that I would get to the bottom of this, no matter what the sacrifice. 
14 February 2022, 01:17 PM PST
Bus Stop
The first thing you learn as 
a detective is that in order to get good intel, you must first observe. That is why I spend my mornings looking out my frosty window, watching people live their ordinary little lives. But for this case, that isn’t good enough. I need to see these people up close, warts and all, in order to accurately deduce what dubious plot is afoot. 
I decide on going to the bus 
stop. I’m worried that people may be contracting some sort of bizarre illness that causes them to seek out romantic physical touch. If this is natural or manmade I can’t be sure. They could be getting it off campus and bringing it back and infecting other students; hence, the bus stop. So I sit on the cold wooden bench and watch people come and go, observing their movements, facial expressions, even their way of speaking. Whenever I do this I always feel a bit disconnected, as if the darkness in my heart is preventing me from understanding what these people feel every day. But today I decide to push these thoughts aside, my mind only on solving this mystery. I sit for hours sipping my second cup of coffee, black and bitter, hoping, praying, for a clue that will help me save the campus from destruction. 
Unfortunately, this 
investigation left me even more confused than I was before. Those who were infected acted just like normal people aside from the symptoms they displayed (not that I truly understood what normal was anymore). I had mentioned the hand-holding before and that still rang true. However, I also found that students were giving each other flowers. Was this some sort of biological warfare? Were the flowers getting students sick? 
I made a list of symptoms 
that I detected during my investigation. They are as follows:
Holding handsExchanging of flowers (flowers spread disease?)
Abnormal amounts 
of eye contact
Sustained physical touchExcess smilingAffinity towards  
the colors red and pink
Heart-shaped branding But despite these astute 
observations I still didn’t know why this was happening, and I was worried that the longer I took to figure it out the less likely these people would be to recover. And even though I am old and jaded by now, I still cannot stand the thought of another person dying by my hand. I decided to conduct some outside research to find out what was going on and how to stop it. 
14 February 2022, 04:22 PST
Sun God
After returning to The Cave 
to get my laptop, I sit on the lawn at Sun God and try to find out more information. But the deeper I search the more horrified I become. I assumed that this phenomenon was only occurring on UC San Diego’s campus but I was wrong. It’s happening all over the country and nobody is doing anything about it. They call it “Valentine’s Day”, a romantic holiday that many claim exists to celebrate their loved ones. It happens every year. Perhaps I hadn’t heard of it before because I no longer have loved ones to celebrate. 
But it goes deeper. As I 
research I find that people plan for Valentine’s day weeks, even months ahead. They spend hundreds of dollars on extravagant gifts, and for what reason? This foul disease is taking over the lives of civilians and nobody is there to stop it. Am I the only one who sees how sinister this plot is? How can they not see the danger that they are in?
This case is bigger than I 
thought it would be. I assumed that it would be local and contained and that I would only need to “talk” to a few people to make the whole situation go away. 
A Bittersweet Valentine’s Day
Photo via Jules on Unsplash. For rest of article, 
visit UCSDGuardian.org***8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , FEBRUARY 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs Hawaii
Villanovavs CSU Bakersfield vs Yalevs CSUNUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
M Tennis
W Basketball
Softball
W Water Polo7PM
9AM
7PM
12:30PM
12PM3/23/33/33/43/5
This week’s shocking 
and unprovoked invasion 
of Ukraine by Russian and Belarusian forces has plunged the nation of over 43 million into conflict, and in such times, sports should naturally take a back seat to more pressing developments. But as we are so often reminded, sports are not so easily separated from geopolitical issues, and the recent push to sanction and isolate Russia has presented complicated questions about the role of international sport in a turbulent world, questions that have decades of precedent.
The most famous examples 
of the interference of geopolitics with international sport are the Olympic boycotts of 1980 and 1984, in which the United States and its allies boycotted the Moscow games, followed by an Eastern Bloc boycott of the Los Angeles games. These boycotts are generally thought of poorly in hindsight, certainly from the athletic community, as they hurt the athletes who missed out on once-in-a-lifetime chances more than they could possibly have hurt the opposing superpower. Both the CEO of the US Olympic Committee and then-Vice President Walter Mondale offered partial apologies to affected athletes, but only 40 years later.
But in a broader sense, the 
boycotts violated one of the main principles of the Olympics and international sports, the same principle that Baron Pierre de Coubertin created the modern Olympics to honor: that international competition at the highest level could, if even for a fortnight, inspire and break down barriers between the countries of the world in the name of sport. Sports are supposed to transcend political lines, not be beholden to them, right?
But, of course, things are 
not that simple. First of all, what constitutes a “political disagreement” as opposed to legitimate humanitarian interest is entirely subjective. We might agree that the Russian invasion of a sovereign Ukraine is worthy of severe repercussions, but how about human rights violations in China, Qatar, or Saudi Arabia, all of which regularly host massive sporting events? At the same time, to what degree should we allow the sins of a government to punish perfectly innocent athletes?
These questions are being 
answered in real time this week. Take, for example, Formula One, which might be the most international sports league in the world, with teams based in 7 countries, drivers from 14 countries, and races held in 20 countries around the world. One of those races was scheduled to take place in Sochi, the Russian city that hosted the 2014 Winter Olympics; after widespread pressure from fans, media, and drivers — including four-time world champion Sebastian Vettel saying he would not race in Russia even if the race was held there — the race has been suspended.
But the more interesting 
entanglement with Russia is in the garage of Haas F1 Team, as preseason car testing gets underway. Intriguingly, Haas is the only American team on the F1 grid, but since last season, they have been sponsored by Russian fertilizer producer Uralkali, leading to their car livery being based largely on the Russian flag. What’s more, one of Haas’ drivers is Nikita Mazepin, the son of Dmitry Mazepin, a billionaire Russian oligarch who is a major Uralkali shareholder and among the oligarchs that met with Vladimir Putin on Thursday to discuss sanctions.
Haas have removed Uralkali 
branding and Russian colors from the team car, but the question of what to do with Nikita Mazepin is more complex. Mazepin was the consensus worst driver in Formula One last season, and Formula One seats are a rare commodity that few drivers get a shot at; without the backing of Russian capital, Mazepin’s seat would very likely belong to a better driver. But Mazepin is far from the only driver to come from big money — wealthy parents are more the norm than the exception in F1 — and if, as seems all but certain, Uralkali is out as the main sponsor of Haas, he stands to lose his Formula One seat through little fault of his own. It’s a sticky situation, but one that exemplifies the inherent complications when sports, finance, and international politics — two out of three things you should never talk about at a dinner table — intersect.
There is also the question 
of whether Russian athletes can, should, or should be expected to speak out against their government’s actions. It might be easy for Americans, who have relative freedom of speech and can criticize their government all they want, to decry influential Russians who don’t exercise those rights. But especially for athletes who just want to keep their heads down and play their sport, doing so could jeopardize their careers and livelihoods, especially in a nation where thousands have already been arrested for protesting the invasion of Ukraine. To ask an athlete to put so much at stake for little material benefit to anyone is unfair.
But this only makes the stands 
taken by the Russian athletes who have spoken against the war, even if not directly against Putin, all the more impressive. Alexander Ovechkin, a 3-time NHL MVP and probably the foremost Russian athlete in the United States, made a broad appeal against the war on Friday. Ovechkin’s statement was indirect, but given that he is a longtime supporter of Putin who helped campaign for the Russian president in 2017 — even Ovechkin’s Instagram profile photo is an image of him with Putin — even this message is a break from expectations.
Another appeal for peace 
came from tennis player Daniil Medvedev, who in the next rankings will be crowned the top player in the world, the first since 2004 not named Djokovic, Federer, Nadal, or Murray to do so. But the announcement of this achievement was made the day of the Russian invasion, and Medvedev is likely to lose that ranking after being soundly defeated by Rafael Nadal at the Mexican Open.
But Medvedev admitted 
that tennis wasn’t always at the front of his mind. “In this moment, you understand that tennis sometimes is not that important… It was definitely not easy to play,” said Medvedev. “By being a tennis player I want to promote peace all over the world… We play in so many different countries. I’ve been in so many different countries as a junior and as a pro. It’s just not easy to hear all this news. I’m all for peace.”
Perhaps the most poignant 
statement from a Russian athlete was from Andrey Rublev, ranked seventh in the world, who wrote “No war please” on the television camera after his semifinal win at the Dubai Championships, clearly emotional about the geopolitical events. 
“In these moments, you 
realize that my match is not important. It’s not about my match, how it affects me,” Rublev said after the match. “What’s happening is much more terrible. You realize how important [it] is to have peace in the world and to respect each other no matter what, to be united.” Rublev, it should be noted, is doubles partners with his longtime friend, the Ukrainian Denys Molchanov.
“No War Please”: 
International Sport 
Converges with 
Geopolitics
Fresh off of an away win 
against the University of Hawaii a week prior, the UC San Diego women’s basketball team’s hopes to build on that result were dashed at the last second by California State University, Long Beach this past Thursday evening in a limited-attendance RIMAC arena. In a very tight, high-energy game that truly went down to the wire, the visitors stole the victory with a dramatic 3-pointer on 12 seconds to eke out a 60–59 final result, delivering disappointment to the Tritons in their first home game since Feb. 5.shared!
The Beach opened up the 
scoring with a 3-pointer and layup in under three minutes to put the home side at a disadvantage from the jump. UCSD responded with a 3-pointer of their own, courtesy of senior guard Sydney Brown. The teams traded points for the rest of the quarter, with senior guard Emily Cangelosi and sophomore guard Parker Montgomery each getting on the scoresheet with 4 points each. However, despite these efforts the Tritons were trailing throughout the entirety of the first quarter, unable to catch up after falling behind so early in the game; the period ended 18–11 to the Beach.
Cangelosi started the second 
quarter for the Tritons early, putting up a 3-pointer in the first 11 seconds. UCSD continued to narrow the lead with a layup from freshman center Bridget Mullings and a jumper from senior guard Julia Macabuhay, though the Beach continued to heap on the pressure and return the favor. It wasn’t until about halfway through the period when a 3-pointer from senior guard Madison Baxter finally broke the visitors’ lead, putting the Tritons ahead for the first time in the game. It was not to last, though, as the Beach scored 8 points in the last 3 minutes of the period to retake the advantage, despite sophomore forward Aishah Brown and Parker Montgomery contributing a layup and a 3-pointer, respectively, for the hosts; the Tritons were down 33–29 at halftime.
The second half saw a 
turnaround for UCSD, who came out of the locker room with a steely determination, following their frustrating first half with a sharper performance in the second. Although CSULB was first to score, a trio of layups by Sydney Brown, Emily Cangelosi and Aishah Brown combined with another pair of 3-pointers from Madison Baxter to pull the Tritons back into the lead just over 3 minutes into the quarter. The hosts held onto this edge until the clock ran down, withstanding a 4-minute period in which neither team managed to score before Baxter’s fourth 3-pointer of the night and a layup from Aishah Brown pinned down UCSD’s advantage going into the final quarter, 46–43. 
The fourth period continued 
to be a very tight game, with the Tritons holding onto their lead until the very last few seconds. By this time, the home crowd had gotten more energetic and was electrifying the atmosphere in the gym. Aishah Brown netted a pair of free throws for UCSD to begin a back-and-forth rally between the teams, in which she, Sydney Brown and Julia Macabuhay all contributed to the Tritons’ 13 points in the period. The Beach themselves scored 17 in the last quarter, steadily chipping away at UCSD’s lead, but it seemed that the home side would be able to hold on until the clock ran down. However, a dagger 3-pointer from CSULB’s Kian Hamilton-Fisher snatched the lead away from under the Tritons’ noses with 12 seconds left on the clock. After calling a timeout, UCSD frantically attacked the opposition net, attempting but missing 3 consecutive layups before the final buzzer sealed their heartbreak, 60–59 to CSULB.
It was undoubtedly a 
frustrating result for UCSD. After a first half that saw a number of missed opportunities, the third period brought another level of determination that looked to be enough to take back the lead, and then the game. Despite the disappointing final score, a number of Tritons logged quality individual performances: Aishah Brown put together a double-double of 12 points and 13 rebounds, her third this season; Madison Baxter, Aishah Brown and Sydney Brown led the scoring together on the night with 12 points each; senior guard Brianna Claros and Parker Montgomery notched 5 assists and 3 steals, respectively.
Speaking after the game, 
Triton head coach Heidi VanDerveer expressed disappointment at the evening’s missed opportunities and commended her team’s effort and tenacity: “I think our team really showed a tremendous amount of character and competitiveness, especially in the second half. 
By Emer Nolan
Staff WriterLast-Second Heartbreak for Women’s Basketball vs. Long BeachBy Praveen Nair 
Sports Editor
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego. 
Image courtesy of TSN.
For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org