A & E,  Page  7
SPRING QUARTER
I’M COMING FOR YOU
As the flowers are in bloom,
so is Spring Quarter. Head over
 to Lifestyle’s section
to read more about how
 you can mentally and physically
prep for this 
upcoming school season.
LIFESTYLE,   PAGE  8
PHOTO COURTEST OF UNSPLASH.PHOTO COURTEST OF UNSPLASH.VOLUME 55, ISSUE IDK ANYMORE     MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WHAT WERE WE TALK -
ING ABOUT AGAIN?
CRASH COURSE: 
CHARLI XCX DisreGuardian:   The Problem With Declining Attention Spans
“CRASH” ReviewOPINION,  Page   4
FORECAST
“Nature is healing, writers are going extinct” - WE ACTUALLY HAVE 
NO IDEA WHO WROTE THISMONDAY  
 
WEDNESDAY  
 
TUESDAY  
 
THURSDAY
 
oooo journalism...............2
we have opinions ............4
hypebeasts......................9
gamessss.......................11
sporty people ............... 12Editor’s Note: The following is a satirical article for The DisreGuardian, which are a series of articles published annually for The Guardian’s 
April Fool’s issue. 
DISREGUARDIAN :
BTS Announced as the Headliner for 2022 Sun God Festival
In a surprse statement released on March 32, 2022, UC San Diego’s Associated Students Office of Concerts and Events announced that 
Korean pop group BTS will be headlining the upcoming Sun God Festival. The announcement that the seven heartthrobs will be attend -
ing has been well received by all members of the UCSD community as “finally a good use of student fees.”In an interview with The UCSD 
Guardian, ASCE venue planner Susan Reagan said that BTS’s performance would take place on the eighth floor of Geisel Library instead 
of the usual Recreation Intramural and Athletic Complex arena field.“This is the first time that we’ve gotten the chance to host this event 
in two years,” Reagan said. “Why do we have to stick so closely to traditions telling us that we can only use one particular venue or have 
only certain groups come? The acoustics for this Sun God will be seriously fantastic. I say, let’s change things up!”
BTS confirmed in a video released on their Twitter account that they would be attending the event and noted that getting to perform at 
Geisel Library was a “dream come true.”
“Yes, we could go to Los Angeles and have a nice and normal concert there instead,” group  leader and main rapper RM said. “But when 
we saw pictures of the beautiful, sleek design of Geisel Library? We definitely had to go and see it for ourselves.”
Not long after the announcement was made, UCSD Chancellor LaKhos released a giddy, campus-wide email praising the lineup.
“For a long time, I have been a proud member of the ARMY,” the email read, referring to the name of BTS’s fanbase. “I just finished 
learning the choreography for ‘Blood, Sweat, and Tears’ last night. Nobody asked, but for the record, I would like to disclose that I am 
Jimin-biased.”
The email went on to explain that campus officials were making preparations to host BTS at several on-campus activities in the lead up 
to the concert. Student organizations such as ARMYs at UCSD have announced plans to hold several flash mobs in Price Center and on 
Library Walk.
RM and main vocalist Jeon Jungkook expressed an interest in working out with UCSD athletes at the RIMAC center and the Alex Spanos 
Training Facility.
“RM told me that UCSD is a school for nerds, but I have heard so many good things about RIMAC and the Spanos Facility,” Jungkook 
said. “This is the number one place in the world for upper body workouts so we can not wait to get absolutely shredded at the gym there!”
Vocalists Park Jimin, V, and Kim Seokjin told The UCSD Guardian that they were interested in taking a tour of the various dining halls 
throughout campus.
“There is so much food there that we want to try,” V said. “I heard people are especially crazy for the Loco Mocos at Pines.” 
Jimin and Jin went on to debate about the pizza sauce flavors that they wanted to try at OVT. After a long while, the two settled on trying 
the pesto first.
Finally, rappers Suga and J-Hope said that they planned to befriend the raccoons during their stay on campus. 
“We’re planning to start weekly dance classes with the raccoons to teach them the fundamentals,” J-Hope said. “By the end of the class, 
they’ll be able to pop and lock with ease!”
“For myself, I want to run rap workshops with the raccoons,” Suga added. “Who knows, maybe I’ll be able to feature one of these guys in 
my next mixtape! If anyone is interested in either of these events, come find us in Warren Lecture Hall!”
In order to learn more, students are encouraged to listen to BTS on all available streaming platforms. The UCSD Guardian will provide 
further updates as they come.
INSIDE VERBATIM
Image courtesy of HYBE.
FACE IT, YOU CAN’T PREPARE FOR THE 
WEATHER. YOU’RE GOING TO COMPLAIN 
REGARDLESS.?????2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
@ucsdguardian FOLLOW  US!Interested in applying for
SCAN HERE
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     Raymond TranOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
The United States has been 
the pinnacle of liberty, strength 
and justice for centuries. But, 
communist ideologies threaten 
to pull us away from these 
ideals by making the poor and 
the coloured hate the wealthy 
and the White. These ideologies 
threaten to erase our culture 
of opportunities afforded to 
everyone. We have the most 
BIPOC and ‘new money’ 
billionaires and politicians in 
American history. Of course, 
rich White people invented this 
notion of success, so the poor, 
non-White must be patient. 
Good things will come to all 
of us if we follow the paths and 
rules laid out by the elite. True 
patriots should be proud that the 
U.S. allows the success of those 
starting out low! Our country 
is the living embodiment of 
equality. But liberals are hellbent 
on making the system different 
to strip the fair system of today. 
White people have been here the 
longest and are most aware of 
when atrocities happen. Others 
must endeavor to maintain the 
equality that has been achieved. 
We must unite to protect our 
democracy against minority 
supremacy, fraudulent elections 
and communist efforts to strip 
wealth. To live is to struggle and 
easy voting access and easy aid 
access takes this learning curve 
away from them. Election reform 
and restrictions are one of many 
solutions to curbing entitlement.
Jan. 6 was just a snippet 
of Americans’ anger with this 
democracy. It was retaliation against tyranny imposed by 
those opening polls and voting 
registration to people who 
know nothing about voting. Of 
course there are the few that are 
educated, like those who have 
been citizens of this country 
for hundreds of years. But if 
they aren’t, how do they know 
to vote? These black and brown 
people are simply cattle for 
Democratic votes, and they just 
sign their name off and hand 
in ballots with candidates they 
know nothing about. This is a 
responsibility which American 
parents homeschool their 
kids on. But how do migrants 
participate to a point where 
they can take away the voices 
of the silenced majority? They 
can’t. It’s time to stop allowing 
these leftists to control elections 
federally by passing bills 
protecting practically null votes 
acquired by vote harvesters from 
the uneducated. It is time to turn 
to the leadership of incredible 
patriots like Robert E. Lee as 
we advocate for states’ rights 
to follow their own research 
and beliefs to conduct reliable 
elections independent of what 
the propaganda machines of the 
left are advocating for. While 
our military defends democracy 
abroad, we must allow our 
patriotic citizens to monitor 
voters to ensure the lack of fraud 
and to prevent proliferation of 
tyrannical officials illegitimately 
elected.
Towards this, we also have 
to ensure that the Citizens 
United precedent applies beyond American donors in 
our country’s elections. Putting 
one’s money behind a certain 
cause is a display of Democratic 
will and free speech that is open 
to all including those living 
outside of the United States. 
We are the protectors of many 
hard-working individuals across 
the world. If they can afford 
to lend us financial support to 
elect the proper officials that 
they believe in, that is also a 
part of every set of democratic 
values that conservatives want 
to protect. This includes helping 
representatives like those like 
Jeff Fortenberry and Duncan 
Hunter, the latter of whom was 
rightfully pardoned by President 
Donald Trump. In fact, we must 
also help non-elected public 
servants like police officers and 
Justice Clarence Thomas whose 
wife’s free speech is now being 
targeted.  
It is time to realize the 
importance of fair governance in 
these United States of America 
by defending values that patriots 
have exemplified through the 
centuries via the Grandfather 
Clause earlier and voting laws 
now as a result of the times. 
The American elite has worked 
honestly and hard for so long. 
But now, some who are under 
them want fraudulent elections 
for laziness supremacy. We are 
equal and legally recognized as 
such. Stop the fake news and 
eliminate free lunch!By Sparky Mitra 
Staff WriterDisreGuardian:
The Road to Free 
and Fair
Image courtesy of Ozy. With the rise of technology, 
it’s no surprise that negative 
consequences have rained down 
on younger generations. At this 
point in time, we all seem to know 
that social media contributes an 
unhealthy amount to depression, 
anxiety, and a multitude of other 
mental health issues in young 
adults. However, a different issue 
that often isn’t acknowledged 
as frequently is how apps like 
TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter 
that provide endless scrolling 
and short, clipped content are 
rewiring Generation Z’s brains 
and dramatically shortening 
attention spans.
Speaking of wires, did I leave 
the iron on? Wait, do I even 
own an iron? Maybe I should 
consider buying one. I mean 
my clothes are pretty wrinkly 
and it would be nice to step out 
of the house without looking 
like a cloth raisin. That reminds 
me, I really need to do laundry 
too, because that bag of clothes 
has been sitting there for a 
concerning amount of time. I 
remember when I said I was 
going to do it when finals were 
over and I wasn’t so stressed, but 
those ended like a week ago and 
that bag is still there. What if I 
just leave it there forever? That’s 
actually not the worst idea I’ve 
ever had. I could always just buy 
new clothes. I’m a genius. I’ll 
open a bunch of tabs to different 
shopping websites and switch 
between them for maybe like 
thirty minutes before I come 
back to working on this article. 
I have four hours to finish this 
before I have to go do something 
else, and it’s eight in the morning 
on the day that it’s due … Yeah, 
I have plenty of time. I can waste 
a few minutes on amassing an 
entire digital cart full of cute 
clothes only to remember I’m 
on a budget and bully myself 
into not making any purchases. 
Perfect.  Alright, I’m back. Let’s see, 
where did I leave off? Okay so, an 
article released by Forbes reports 
that marketing strategies from 
these social media companies 
have even altered their 
approaches because it’s become 
increasingly difficult to capture 
the attention of this younger 
generation. Since they’ve 
become more accustomed to a 
faster paced digital world with 
limitless borders and endless 
content, these young consumers 
are less likely to pay attention to 
the average advertisement since 
attention spans are now about 
eight seconds. 
Man, those BDG jeans from 
Urban Outfitters are calling my 
name right now, but they’re so 
problematic, environmentally 
unethical, poorly sourced, and 
unnecessarily expensive. Like, a 
tiny tote bag for $30? You’ve got 
to be kidding me. I’ll just close 
the tab and get back to this. 
I have to focus now; although, 
maybe my dog is awake and 
in desperate need of all of my 
attention for around like eight 
seconds. That seems like a fair 
and totally random amount of 
time. I’ll just write a conclusion 
before I go. My film professor 
said I have to end with a flourish. 
Ummm… Let me think about 
it while I check Twitter really 
quickly. I don’t know if you 
guys have heard, but there’s 
that whole thing about Doja Cat 
that’s trending right now. I just 
have to stay up to date on this 
new meaningless drama that 
will inevitably fade away in the 
next couple of days and never be 
mentioned again. Nevermind, I 
remembered how much I dislike 
Tw itter. 
So, yeah, social media sucks 
and we can’t pay attention to 
things or something like that. 
Sorry, I lost my train of thought 
in the past eight seconds. By Marcella Barneclo
Staff WriterDisreGuardian:   
The Problem 
With Declining 
Attention 
Spans
Image courtesy of Wyzowl. Election tips from the nation’s greatest 
model minority4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
5
RIDES ON DEMANDA.S. Safe Rides X Lyft
A.S. Safe Rides is back for Winter Quarter*
with $12 oﬀ 2 rides.
*visit as.ucsd.edu/saferides for redemption details and restrictions.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
www.SiebelScholars.comThe Siebel Scholars program was founded in 2000 to recognize the most talented 
graduate students in business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science. 
Each year, over 90 outstanding graduate students are selected as Siebel Scholars based 
on academic excellence and leadership and join an active, lifelong community among an 
ever-growing group of leaders. We are pleased to recognize this year’s Siebel Scholars. 
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Elana Ben-Akiva
Ariel Isser
Alexandra N. Rindone
Julie Shade
Alycen Wiacek
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Rebecca Black
Connor Dobson
Emi Lutz
Divya Ramamoorthy
Sydney SolomonSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Louai Labanieh
Sarah Lensch
Bauer LeSavage 
Misha Raffiee
Camilo Ruiz
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Kristen L. Cotner
K.L. Barry Fung 
Kazuomori Lewis 
Alden Moss
Soo Hyun ShinUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,  
SAN DIEGO 
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Daril Brown
Andrea Castro
Pamela Duran
Lauren Severance
Jiarong ZhouSiebel Scholars Class of 2022
COMPUTER SCIENCEBUSINESSBIOENGINEERING
MIT 
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Alex Berry
Emily Cetlin
Vanessa Labrador
Qing Qing Miao
Lauren SakerkaSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Marcia Austin
Andrew Hanna
Evan Mendez
Caroline Sohr
Christopher Stromeyer
 UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
BOOTH SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Brian Carlson
Ryan Hoerger
Kira Tebbe
Hardik Parikh
Srividvatha Sridhar
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Karan Ahuja 
Priya Donti
Yasmine Kotturi
Ryan Shi
Kayo Yin
HARVARD JOHN A. PAULSON SCHOOL 
OF ENGINEERING & APPLIED SCIENCES
Mitali Bafna
Yamini Bansal
Xueyuan Han
Lillian Pentecost
Chara Podimata
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Shyan Akmal 
Surya Mathialagan
Christopher Scarvelis
Olivia Seow
Shangdi YuPRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING  
AND APPLIED SCIENCE
Xiaoqi Chen
Huihan Li
Nikunj Saunshi
Jiaqi Su
Kaiyu Yang
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Ruth-Ann Armstrong 
Moo Jin Kim
Siyun Li
Henry Mellsop
Vinh Ton
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION SCIENCE  
AND TECHNOLOGY
Chaoyu Guan
Jiabin Liu
Tianyu Liu
Wende Tan
Runji Wang UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Sagnik Bhattacharya
Jay Shenoy
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Natalie Ayers
Jonathan Baker
Caton Brewster
Weijia He
Chengcheng Wan
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Garvita Allabadi
Shengyu Feng
Revanth Gangi Reddy
Eleanor Wedell
Yiqing XieARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
Elden Ring Review: An Open World Masterpiece, If  Y ou’re 
Up For It
Elden Ring proves that the hardest destinations to reach always have the prettiest views.
Isaiah Irizarry  GUEST WRITER
I prodded through the mist on foot, a magic katana in one hand and a silver shield 
in the other. The craggy path through the Forbidden Lands was shrouded by dead trees, 
snowdrifts, and an ominous fog; its navigation made even more difficult by the danger -
ous and acrobatic enemies. At the end of the path, I was greeted by the welcoming sight 
of a massive demonic gargoyle wielding a colossal double-bladed sword. The ominous red 
health bar at the bottom of my screen introduced him as Black Blade Kindred, accompa -
nied by a booming orchestral score. With an arsenal of spells and magic weapons, I had 
never felt more prepared for a boss battle. This was, of course, until I noticed that he also 
had an axe producing 10-foot shockwaves. Needless to say, I died within seconds, then I 
died 11 more times before finally quenching my thirst for victory. After 95 hours and 111 
levels, “Elden Ring” was still challenging me like no game had before, one of the many 
qualities that make it such an incredible game. 
  “Elden Ring,” the latest title from Japanese developer FromSoftware, is an open-
world, action role-playing game set in the dark fantasy world of the Lands Between. Play -
ers control a customizable character who is tasked with reforging the titular Elden Ring, a 
magic artifact shattered into six pieces that each grant immense powers. The six demigods 
who rule the Lands Between each use a piece of the Ring to cement their powers. In order 
to reforge the Ring, the player must defeat the demigods one-by-one. 
It's a somewhat simplistic premise, but the story is made much more complex by the 
extensive lore and backstory behind the world. Much like previous FromSoftware games 
such as “Dark Souls,” the story is somewhat vague and ambiguous in the beginning. Your 
character is launched into the world with little explanation as to their origins and little 
direction other than a golden arrow on the map. The next story cutscene, which begins to 
introduce the premise and the player’s mission, requires the player to explore the forest 
surrounding the starting area. Additionally, the vagueness and depth of the world and 
story requires close attention to side quests and item descriptions. It's a unique approach 
to storytelling, akin to putting together pieces of a puzzle, which I found made the world 
and story feel cohesive. However, this is made slightly frustrating at times due to the lack 
of a quest journal, which makes it hard to keep track of key characters and events. Regard -
less, the plot and lore are compelling, and it inspires the player to explore the world for 
answers, an essential part of the experience.
 The Lands Between is immense and rich with detail; never boring or repetitive. The 
world is split into five regions, each with their own unique character and atmosphere. 
These ranged from the mysterious, fog-shrouded lake of Liurnia to the hellish, festering 
red swamps of Caelid; its landscape marred by the blight known as Scarlet Rot. On an 
Xbox Series S, the graphics were not quite cutting-edge but certainly vivid and detailed 
enough to capture the incredible vistas and stunning landscapes. The hardware limita -
tions of the console meant I could not appreciate “Elden Ring”’s full graphical potential. 
However, the games’ graphics shine regardless in part due to fantastic art style and direc -
tion.  
Each region was littered with endless ruins, castles, and dungeons with unique en -
emies and loot. I was impressed with how my curiosity was often rewarded. In one in -
stance early in my playthrough, I stumbled upon a small, mysterious dome structure in 
a forest. Inside, I found a lift leading to an underground crevasse with some crumbling 
stone ruins. As I slowly ventured inside, I stumbled upon a massive cavern containing a 
ruined underground city. Great stone pillars loomed beneath gemstones in the ceiling that 
twinkled like stars. These discoveries left me enthralled by the game’s sheer scope, and left 
me wanting to explore more. The world is as friendly as it is empty, or in other terms, almost everything wants to kill 
you. The Lands Between is teeming with dangerous and powerful enemies in every corner. 
I have fought — or run away from — everything from lightning-casting knights to razor-
taloned falcons to giant lobsters and grotesque dinosaur-dog hybrids. Make no mistake: 
“Elden Ring” is unforgiving, and punishes you for mistakes. Y ou will die. A lot. But you will 
learn to embrace each death as another step towards finally conquering your enemy. 
On their journey, players will find it necessary to master the fluid combat system, an 
intricate “dance of death. ” Players can dodge and roll away from enemies' attacks, but must 
be careful not to accidentally roll into a projectile or delayed attack. Parrying, blocking, and 
counter-attacking is a must. Alongside physical combat, the use of magic is essential; sum -
mons can be used to distract or overwhelm powerful bosses. Various sorceries can be ac -
quired to deal damage from a distance, and weapon enchantments give melee weapons new 
abilities. Consumable items can buff your character, or apply status effects to enemies. Each 
bossfight or dungeon requires a unique approach as you learn which attacks and strategies 
work and which ones don’t.  
For example, dual-wielding can hack apart larger, clunkier enemies such as golems and 
trolls, provided you can dodge their attacks. Against more mobile enemies, such as knights 
and foot soldiers, this will become a lot less effective than blocking with a shield and pa -
tiently waiting to counter. Character construction is very important as well; each attribute 
scales with different weapons and players must hone their attributes to fit their playstyle, 
with limited attribute points available. A strength-based character can take more damage, 
wear heavy armor, and swing massive greatswords, but will have less capabilities to deal 
damage from afar compared to an Intelligence-based character, which can use sorceries. 
Intelligence-based characters have access to a wide range of magic, but not the incantations 
requiring the Faith attribute. This character system not only allows for balance but allows 
for replayability: different character builds will have different experiences.
 When most enemies pose a formidable challenge, each encounter becomes a high-
stakes, thrilling affair. The difficulty balances perfectly with the combat, as you are given 
plenty of tools and options to poke at your enemies’ weaknesses. The result is a gameplay 
loop that is equal parts intoxicating, maddening, and rewarding. After finally slaying a pow -
erful boss, the joy of revenge is like no other. “Elden Ring” is one of the few games that 
makes you truly feel like a conqueror, and makes your accomplishments feel all the more 
meaningful and fulfilling. 
Looking back, I entered the world of “Elden Ring” on a whim, buying it after a recom -
mendation from a friend. Not knowing what to expect, I found myself blown away. “Elden 
Ring” combines intense, exciting gameplay with an incredible and beautiful open-world of 
gigantic proportions. The difficulty is certainly not for everyone, but I’ve found few games 
to be as rewarding or addicting. If you’re up for the challenge, the journey is more than 
worth it. 
Letter grade: A+
Elden Ring
February 25, 2022
FromSoftware
Rating: M 
Image courtesy of NPR.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
“CRASH” is Charli XCX’s fifth studio record and the self-proclaimed “poptastic” fol -
low-up to her quarantine project “How I’m Feeling Now.” Her previous album was praised 
for its unique production and one of two projects responsible for pushing Charli to the 
foreground of hyper pop, a genre unique for its maximalist pop sound and exaggerated 
sonic themes. Since her last record, Charli XCX’s name has been more popular than ever, 
constantly being cited as one of the most prolific and creative minds to hit the pop scene. 
Her meteoric rise has further been underscored by her aesthetic choices and unique per -
sonality, . Cconstantly opting for whatever seems the most “pop.”
“CRASH” was initially announced back in November 2021. Subsequently, listeners 
were taunted with a March 2022 release date and an overstated rollout that would only 
seem to drag as the fateful day edged its way closer. A rollout that would give away five 
out of the twelve tracks available on a record that lasts around the same time as an average 
episode of a sitcom; a rollout filled with constant teasing but very little to reasonably show 
for it; a rollout that seemed to only spoil what could have been a heap of enjoyable surprises 
on the record.
“CRASH” is all hype and in an ironic twist, very little drive. It’s the traditional pop re -
cord most have come to expect and that fans have trained themselves to enjoy every time it 
gets re-released. The inspiration-filled Charli XCX has turned to make a project that, while 
incredibly cohesive, lacks any sort of unique sonic touch or creative oomph. While pop in 
general is often very formulaic, XCX has proved several times in the past that she possesses 
the creative mindset to take the genre in new and exciting directions. There is certainly a 
valiant attempt at making what could be considered “ultimate pop” but what that entails 
may not make for an enjoyable full length project. None of this pretense is to say that the 
project is entirely bad. However, it does fall short of becoming anything great.
“Good Ones'' feels exactly like the direction XCX wanted to go in when she first began 
teasing the project. It has an infectious 80’s vibe, set to a fast tempo and boasts a powerful 
chorus that sticks in your head like glue. There are still some elements of her trademark 
hyperpop style but with a new traditionalized edge. On the surface, it's a perfectly harm -
less track, yet it can't help but scream ”ultimate pop.” There's a good reason why it was 
the leading single off “CRASH” and it’s certainly the peak of the record. While that may 
seem like a good omen the tracks that immediately follow quickly extinguish any hopeful 
thoughts. Much of the record can't help but feel underwhelming, almost as if it's perpetu -
ally trying to catch up with itself but can never build enough momentum.
Formulaic isn’t even enough to describe the heap of production cliches and vocal per -
formances on “CRASH. ” It feels like there was a finite amount of creative risks XCX was 
allowed to take while making the record, and they were haphazardly dispersed from track 
to track. A great example of this is the song “Lightning, ” which interpolates a few acoustic 
guitar licks to add some much needed sonic texture to the overall piece. It’s a fun and very 
unique artistic choice that fleshes out the sonic palette of the track, but that’s really the only 
thing of note. Nothing else jumps at you or gets you excited about listening, they all just 
idly follow each other, slowly marching one-by-one like mechanical soldiers. “CRASH” just 
plays out like it’s running out gas, trying to inch itself forward, hanging onto every second. 
Sometimes you’ll find something interesting, but those moments are often fleeting and few 
and far inbetween. “CRASH” Review
Charli XCX’s new studio record “CRASH” attempts to go all gas, but ends up pumping the brakes.
A lot of this seems ironic given that “CRASH” gets a lot of the hard parts right when it 
comes to making a magnum opus. In terms of visual elements, not only is XCX incredibly 
consistent, she’s also clearly inspired. The album cover and subsequent promotional mate -
rial follow a concise visual language that feels emotive and novel. Additionally, there’s a 
healthy list of features on the record ranging from contemporary pop icons like Caroline 
Polacheck and Rina Sawayama to hallmark producers like A.G. Cook. A lot of effort was 
also clearly put into promoting the record as well, with well-produced music videos and live 
appearances following in the wake of its original announcement. 
In many aspects, “CRASH” is immensely well-crafted and boasts a sum of distinct traits 
and shiny bells and whistles. However, these facets are often underutilized and ultimately 
do nothing but undermine the album itself. None of the tracks really match the clear visual 
language XCX has been trying to establish apart from some of the visuals set in her music 
videos. The features, namely Caroline Polacheck, feel tacked on and don’t really get a chance 
to shine on their respective tracks. Charli’s romance persona, while eccentric, really adds 
nothing she hasn't already produced before. 
None of this is to say that XCX should seek out to create something inherently strange 
or dare we say, avant garde, although recent statements certainly make it seem like that's the 
direction she would like to go in. However, it’s clear there is a disconnect between the music 
she’s creating and the creative fervor she so proudly proclaims on social media. We already 
know what it looks like when she is making something genre-bending and creatively sat -
isfying. Her 2016 EP “Vroom Vroom, ”'' , while unappreciated at the time, set the bar for 
hyperpop during that era and ushered in a new ecshelon of eclectic pop tracks. On the other 
hand, we have “CRASH, ” which is nothing like that. It’s completely content with basking in 
the status quo, taking small steps forward then another big step back. 
It's widely known by now that most consumers do not listen to albums in full, and for 
those people, what they will find here are the perfect number of songs to fit on their newest 
“Good Vibes Only” playlist. As for the rest of the listening base, what exists in its current 
state is a frustratingly average experience. It is most certainly not the worst the genre has to 
offer in its vast sea of lookalikes and uninspired copycats. However, that very fact is what 
makes the experience truly frustrating. It can be so much more than it is, but chooses not 
to be. It’s pulled all of its punches. 
If there is one thing that is commendable, it's XCX’s unrelenting belief in herself and her 
musical prowess. There’s something beautiful about an artist confident in their own work 
and at the very least it's reassuring to know she wont stop creating until something sticks 
despite the words of others. 
Before “CRASH” even hit stores, XCX had already teased another project. While we 
wait, fans can rest easy knowing the prolific artist is likely hard at work and feeling very 
inspired. Let's hope that bleeds through on this next project and we can see what more this 
current era of Charli XCX will lead to. 
Grade: C-
Image courtesy of Rolling Stones.fabian garcia SENIOR STAFF WRITERLIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
Let’s be honest, Winter 
Quarter was a bit rough for 
everyone. The air was cold, the 
skies were dark, and so many of 
our classes were online. A truly 
awful experience for everyone 
involved. But now the rain has 
passed and spring is here! It’s 
time to leave the past behind us 
and move into Spring Quarter. 
Here are some of my tips for a 
successful quarter filled with 
productivity, fun, and self-care. 
First, you must start 
developing your skincare 
routine. Having a process that I 
repeat every day really improves 
my mental health. The best way 
to do this is by purchasing the 
Natural Pacific Oil Goat Butter 
Organic Moisturizer. Let me 
tell you, this product completely 
changed my life! Not only is 
it goat butter-based but it also 
contains sunflower essence, bok 
choy infusions, and mineral dirt 
shipped all the way from the 
Himalayas. I went from using 
regular, drugstore moisturizer to 
this and now I can never go back! 
Though my skin is still covered 
with acne, I can feel it becoming 
more rejuvenated and bright. The product also has anti-aging 
effects, which I will finally see 
the results of 15 years from now. 
I highly recommend this 
product for everyone; using it 
in the morning is enough to get 
some pep in my step for the rest of 
the day, which is something we all 
need going into Spring Quarter. 
To get it, just head to your local 
witch doctor with the blood of a 
virgin (for sacrificial purposes, 
of course) and pick some up 
for the low price of $48.99. 
The next thing that I 
recommend is finding a way 
to get organized. For me, 
planning out my day and all 
of the tasks that I need to 
get done relieves my anxiety 
about school and work. This 
takes different forms for 
different people. You might 
use a planner, a calendar, 
or even an app. I personally 
like using the app Achieve. 
This app completely changed 
my life. Achieve is an app that 
helps you organize your day. On 
the app, you can add events to 
your calendar and it will send 
you a reminder when it is time 
for it to start. So helpful! You 
can also create tasks and check 
them off as you complete them. 
Just download Achieve on iOS By Samantha Phan
Contributing Lifestyle WriterDisreguardian: My Tips for a Successful 
Spring Quarter 
or Android for $20.00 a month.
Now, you may be thinking 
that this sounds exactly like 
every other calendar app. 
However, Achieve is far more 
advanced than any other 
scheduling application you have 
seen. This app lets you choose 
from over 10,000 colors for your 
reminders. You also have the 
special ability to print out your 
schedule if you would like to 
reduce your screen time. This 
vast number of original abilities 
separates Achieve from any other 
app you might like to use. Who 
needs Google Calendar for the 
same user experience when you 
could be using  Achieve? If you 
want to have a successful Spring 
Quarter, Achieve is the way to go. 
The final tip that I have for 
you all is to focus on your mental 
health. I know that many of us 
experienced a pitfall in our will 
to live last quarter due to it being 
online, so it is more important 
now than ever to make sure we 
are taking care of ourselves. 
Try picking up a new hobby or 
scheduling breaks for yourself. If you feel the need to, talk to a 
professional about how you feel. 
If all of those things seem a 
bit hard, do not worry. You can 
also try the Spirit Aligning Aura 
Cleansing Mood Ring. I bought 
one of these last quarter (on sale 
for $1,300) and it completely 
changed my life. I am more 
aware of my emotions than ever 
before. For example, a few weeks 
ago my dog died. I was extremely 
distraught and in a relatively 
bad place. I thought this could 
be because I was sad but, from 
one look at my mood ring, I 
realized my mistake. The green 
on the jewelry told me that I was 
actually jealous! This gave me a 
whole new perspective on my 
grief for my dog, and I was able 
to move on from my jealousy to 
after eight days when the ring 
finally changed from green to WARNING: 
This article 
may contain 
paid 
advertisements
red for anger. In fact, it is still 
on anger now, and I write this 
as I seethe with rage. This ring 
helped me move forward in a 
healthy way, something that you 
too can experience. Just order it 
on Amazon and you will be set. 
I hope that you all enjoyed 
these tips for a great Spring 
Quarter. Together, we can work 
hard and develop great habits 
that will make our next quarter 
a success. Make sure you all take 
care of yourselves! I believe in you!
Photo by Maddi Bazzocco from Unsplash. LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
The return of hypebeast 
culture has become a 
widespread phenomena  
sweeping the nation among 
young adults. You’ve probably 
mindlessly scrolled through 
your Instagram feed viewing 
the plethora of oversized 
sweatshirts to baggy jeans 
and have found a liking 
towards this new and refined 
style. The look of a clean and 
crisp beige hoodie paired 
with a fresh pair of Jordans 
has probably caught your 
attention, and now you’re 
hooked. So, forget about 
the Balenciaga sneakers and 
Off-White crossbody bag, 
because I’m here to tell you 
three reasons why you should 
dive into the world of the 
modern hypebeast.
1. It’s affordable and 
accessible to all
Now, you’re probably 
wondering, “How much 
will all of this cost?” But, 
don’t worry, the center 
of your look will usually 
be based on one article, 
and one article only: your 
shoes. With the rise of the 
sneakerhead cult, you’re 
sure to find yourself the 
most inexpensive and 
absolute most “drippy” 
sneakers to top off your 
look. From Air Jordan 1 ‘Dark Mochas’  to Nike 
Dunk Lows in ‘Black 
White’  you’ll find yourself 
spending a reasonable 
$300-$600 on StockX.com 
on a pair of sneakers. As 
college students, these are 
the most affordable types of 
shoes you can buy that will 
make everyone turn their 
heads in your direction. 
Depending on the 
colorway, these sneakers 
will match with almost 
everything you wear, so 
you should most definitely 
add them to your cart if 
you plan on dressing like 
your favorite Instagram 
influencer. While you’re 
at it, don’t forget to add 
the one and only North 
Face Puffer Jacket at the 
low cost of $280! We live 
in Southern California; 
the weather drops to 
a freezing 60 degrees 
fahrenheit  at night!.
2. It’s unique
If you’re anything like me and 
have a raging individuality 
complex, the modern 
hypebeast look will have 
you feeling different from 
everyone else. With a lack 
of color and dull silhouette, 
you’re sure to break necks.
So let’s build a foundation 
for your ideal outfit: This 
Fear of God Essentials 
hoodie  ($90), some nice 
khaki pants that you 
may be able to purchase at your local thrift store, 
and paired with one of the 
sneakers mentioned above 
will surely make a fantastic 
outfit. If you would like 
to accessorize and you’re 
not much of a hat person, 
try and switch it up with 
a nice “Fitted” cap  that 
will only cost you $65! 
This boxy silhouette will 
make you feel like none 
other as you walk down 
the steps of Peterson hall. 
3. You don’t have to purchase 
colorful clothing
Lastly, to achieve this modern 
hypebeast look, you have 
to get rid of every article 
of clothing in your closet 
that is part of the rainbow. 
I will say that the only 
exception to implementing 
any bright color to your 
wardrobe can only be 
through your sneakers. The 
key to success in building 
the optimal outfit is simply 
sticking to neutral tones, 
specifically earth tones. 
Think eggshell, sandy 
beige, and a simple black 
shade to build your outfit. 
If you’re thinking about 
adding a pop of color to 
foundation pieces such as 
your shirt or pants, you’re 
only allowed a nice forest, 
pastel green. Adding any 
other color that is even close 
to hex #9B59B6 will taint 
your outfit and simply does 
not align with hypebeast 
Disreguardian: The Modern Hypebeast: 3 Reasons You Should 
culture. The point is to 
stick out in the crowd, 
and if everyone is wearing 
ocean blues and fuschia, 
your outfit will definitely 
catch someone’s eye.
In conclusion, if you want 
to stand out this Spring 
quarter, consider spending 
your entire paycheck on 
new and trendy clothes Join New-Age Streetwear
By PRISCILLA ANNE PUNO
Lifestyle Co-Editorthat will definitely not 
go out of style. Add all 
those items to your cart 
and be ready to strut your 
stuff along Library Walk!
Photo by Luca Merz on Unsplash.MON3.28
10am
ISPO COFFEE HOUR /hyphen.case 
STUDENT CENTER B5pm
CLIMATE JUSTICE FILM 
SCREENING AND PANEL 
DISCUSSION /hyphen.case COMING 
CLEAN: A DEMAND FOR A 
FOSSIL/hyphen.caseFREE UC /hyphen.case PRICE 
CENTER THEATER
Join us for a screening of the 
documentary film Coming Clean: A 
Demand for a Fossil-Free UC, followed by 
a panel discussion with San Diego 
climate activists.
Coming Clean is a film directed by 
Carolina Montejo and Andre Salehian, 
members of the grassroots movement, 
Green New Deal at UCSD. By including 
perspectives from diverse movements, 
Coming Clean shows the overlap of the 
environmental movement with that of 
social justice, labor, and climate action, 
as well as the importance of local 
mobilization and people demanding 
change where they have a voice.9am-4pm
SEND SILENCE PACKING /hyphen.case 
SUN GOD STATUE
For over a decade, Active Minds has 
traveled across the country with their 
Send Silence Packing tour, an 
exhibition that inspires action against 
suicide prevention through education 
and advocacy. The all-day exhibit 
includes personal stories from 
individuals who have lost a loved one 
to suicide and is designed to raise 
awareness about the impact of 
suicide, connect individuals to mental 
health resources, and inspire action 
for suicide prevention. Passersby are 
invited to walk among the Send 
Silence Packing backpacks to see the 
photographs and read the stories 
attached to them. Many of the 
backpacks were donated by families 
who lost a loved one to suicide. FRI4.1
4-7pm
BEAR GARDEN 3 /hyphen.case MARSHALL 
FIELD
Cause I- I - I’m
going to Bear Garden tonight!
Bring your funk and soul and light it up 
with us at our first event of the quarter! 
This time ASCE Bear is bringing along 7 
new friends with them to amp up the fun! 
Bear Garden 3: Our Universe has been 
rescheduled and will be taking place at a 
NEW LOCATION & TIME TUE3.29
OASIS 2EXCEL APPLICATION /hyphen.case 
Are You An Incoming 2nd Year? Apply to 
2EXCEL, one of the programs under the 
2nd Year Experience (2YE). The 2nd Year 
Experience is a retention program 
serving second-year students to get 
guidance from mentors and staff both 
academically and personally.
- Program Benefits & Requirements 
Priority enrollment to OASIS workshops 
Access to weekly newsletters
- Access to Podcast exploring Second 
Year Topics
- Research Methodology Training 
Laboratory (RMTL) Fellowship 
Partnership -- ----- Workshops covering 
psychosocial topics and career 
development
- Professional development opportunities
- Peer Mentorship
- Holistic support through personal and 
academic developmenTHU3.31
10am
MEN’S TENNIS: UC SAN 
DIEGO VS. BYU /hyphen.case NORTHVIEW 
TENNIS COURTS
The UC San Diego men’s tennis team 
hosts BYU at 10 a.m. on Thursday, 
March 31 at Northview Tennis Courts. 
Admission is FREE. Please review the 
UC San Diego Campus Attendance 
Policy for Athletics Events HERE. 
Registration is not required for this 
event.SAT4.2
VOLUNTEER AT TRITON DAYS 
2022! /hyphen.case TOWN SQUARE
Triton Days offer an opportunity for the 
campus community to welcome newly 
admitted first-year and transfer students 
to the Triton family and showcase UC San 
Diego. For many admitted students and 
their families, Triton Days will be their first 
chance to experience UC San Diego’s 
dynamic campus community, expansive 
research, and collaborative opportunities.
Triton Days 2022 will be in a hybrid format, 
with multiple days of virtual activities 
culminating with in-person, celebratory 
experiences on Saturday, April 2, 2022 and 
Saturday, May 14, 2022. Help us welcome 
newly admitted students by joining 
Volunteer50 for these half-day events!
Volunteer duties include wayfinding, event 
setup/breakdown, information booth 
support, supply running, and general 
assistance. All volunteers will receive a 
Volunteer50 shirt, pair of sunglasses, and 
complimentary breakfast/lunch ticket. If 
you are interested, please complete this 
form to sign up for one or more shifts. For 
more information, visit the Volunteer50 
webpage.Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAR 28 - APR 32021
POWER ED B Y THE ST UDENT  EVENTS INSIDE R AND  THE UCSD GUARDIA N
WED3.30
4pm
ACM SPRING KICKOFF /hyphen.case PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
ACM at UCSD is UC San Diego's largest 
computer science organization, with over 
1,500 members and over 200 technical, 
professional, and social events 
year-round. We’re not just computer 
science, though — we bring together 
anyone and everyone who shares our love 
of technology, design, and 
innovation!JJoin us to find out how you 
can engage in our online community for 
the Winter Quarter through game nights, 
live coding workshops, tech talks, and 
much more. We welcome people of all 
backgrounds and skill levels, whether 
you’re an entry-level UI designer or a 
machine learning expert. Come be a part 
of our rapidly growing community of 
friends at the last kickoff of the year! 
There will be free food and boba so make 
sure to come by!!!!
as.ucsd.eduNEXT WEEK: AS ELECTION 202210 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 8, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. End of an Aesopian fable
6. Agt. ’s cuts
10. Chess closer
14. Crop up
15. Old Milano money
16. Huge screen format
17. Part Mama but all John
19. Tracking power
20. Jumbo deer
21. Famous Uncle
22. Newsroom array
23. List of options
24. Fashionable Christian
26. Indigo plant
29. Part Yo-Yo but all John
34. Saint-___, Switzerland
37. Fit to be faxed
38. So that’s it!
39. Antarctica coastal waters
41. Ger. neighbor
42. Until now
44. “--- Waldo?”
46. Part Gertrude but all John
48. To be, in old Rome
49. Glance over
50. Dean in “Giant”
53. “Star Trek II: The --- of 
Khan”
56. Pilotless plane
58. Truck compartment
61. Symbol of goodness
62. Part Jackie but all John
64. A door that’s not a door?
65. Doctor’s interruption
66. Supreme singer
67. “Love is a ___-Splendored 
Thing”
68. Old apple spray
69. Southernmost part of 
ArabiaDOWN
1.Protection in a purse
2. Spoon-administered
3. Capitalist’s gamble
4. Hinny’s mother
5. Time on shore
6. Full assembly
7. Slicker home?
8. Old Singer parts
9. Airline to Sweden
10. Counterpart of the Greek Athena
11. Pop singer Tori
12. Chore at hand
13. Formers
18. Moving vehicle
22. “Zip A Dee ---”
23. Mid-11th century date
25. “--- You When” (Dolly Parton 
tune)
26. New Delhi nannies
27. Hold a team to a .000 batting 
average
28. Seething
30. Org.
31. Building beams
32. Mystery elements
33. “Steppenwolf” author Hermann
35. You can dig it
36. Anthony Quinn persona
40. “The Red and the Black” author
43. High school course
45. Mouse’s reception
47. Unit of currency in Denmark
51. Corp. indicator
52. Lacking
53. “Kapow!”
54. Punjab potentate
55. Ladd or Thicke
57. Sitarist’s piece
58. Quahog, for one
59. Top-of-the-line
60. Some cereal
62. Tax pro
63. Palter
FOLL OW US
@ucsdguar dian
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian
.
orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 12
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at SDSU
vs USD 
vs UC Irvine
vs CSUN
at Mars UUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Softball
M Tennis
M Volleyball
Blernsball6PM
4:30PM
3PM
7PM
3000 AD3/29
3/30
3/30
3/31
4/1
Editor’s Note: The following 
is a satirical article for The 
DisreGuardian, a series of 
articles published annually for 
The Guardian’s April Fool’s 
issue. Sports will resume 
publishing normal content next 
week.
I stand looking across Muir 
Field on a Thursday morning, 
the sun warming my face. 
Behind me, a very tall man, 
perhaps 6’10”, approaches. My 
subject, Franz Wagner, steps up 
next to me to survey the grass. 
After a few moments watching, 
in tense silence on my part, 
relaxed on his, I ask if I can 
record our conversation today. 
“You won’t need to record to 
remember my words,” he 
replied, his attitude reminiscent 
of a certain Swedish footballer. I 
suppose in those early moments, 
I was skeptical. “I like your 
shoe,” he continues, and walks 
away, expecting me to follow.
Wagner leads us past the 
Sun God statue, looming in the 
distance. He begins to tell me 
about his introduction to the 
sport, unprompted.
“My grandfather came to this 
school in 1968 on a footballing 
scholarship, except he didn’t 
know that. 
“They wanted my 6’11” ópa 
to become the wunderkind star 
of the new American football 
team. As the story goes, the way he played prompted the 
extravagant demise of that 
record-setting UCSD football 
team, the first and only of its 
kind. In that year he cemented 
himself as an athletics hero, a 
sporting Agamemnon.”
Wagner’s expression is lost 
in blissfully ignorant memory, 
his tone one of wonder.
 “I’ve had one lucky potato 
since I was seven years old. I’ve 
never lost a game with it. It 
was a gift from my grandfather, 
a leftover from his Tuesday 
dinner.” He pulls out a wrinkled 
gray lump. It sort of smells. 
Wagner is a fifth year Critical 
Gender Studies international 
student from Germany at Sixth 
College. He weighs 220 pounds 
and has an older brother named 
Mo. He is the only member 
of UC San Diego’s hot potato 
team. He is the holder of the 
UCSD win record by a margin 
of 254 victories, with 255 wins 
to his name. 
“This field…,” he says 
without solicitation as we pass 
Marshall College, gesturing to 
his left, “it is not conducive 
to prime potato passage.” I 
am slightly confused, and 
silently urge him to continue. 
He doesn’t. This would not 
be the first time during our 
conversation in which I felt 
my subject was leading the 
interview rather than myself.
I ask where instead he 
prefers to play: “Petco Park, or 
Gilman Transit Center. Some 
of my most vociferous groupies 
frequent the 41.” We continue in silence.
The topic turns to his 
inspiration, what pushes him to 
achieve athletic excellence: “The 
only person who has ever scored 
a point on me, the wretched 
Jeezus [CalTech star Jesús De 
Paz], is but a distraction upon 
the field of play.” He sneers. 
“My only obstacles to greatness 
are my own limitations, of 
which there are none. I am my 
own greatest influence, my own 
cantankerous inspiration — 
myself and, of course, Nathan 
Chen.” 
I, too, admire the 2022 
Beijing US Men’s Figure Skating 
Olympic Gold Medalist for his 
grace, finesse and rejection of 
flat shoes. I feel the stirrings 
of a bond forming between 
Wagner and I.
As I stroll along Ridge Walk, 
he circles around me on his 
tricked out electric scooter. I 
did not see where he brought it 
out from. The topic turns to his 
training. How does one create 
athletic excellence?
He responds, “To enhance 
my superior talent, I wake up 
and squeeze expeditious rocks 
for four hours to strengthen my 
grip. Then I do 1000 pushups, 
1000 crunches, 1000 situps, 
and I run for ten kilometers. 
This is to rigorously crush my 
far-inferior opponent, Jeezus. 
When I was a child—”
He stops abruptly. A nearby 
group of elderly ladies, likely 
visiting their grandchildren, 
shrieks as one of their gaggle 
falls to the floor. With a speed and grace unlike any I’ve ever 
witnessed in person, Wagner 
catches her with his non-potato 
hand. “We must always attempt 
to lift as we climb,” quoting 
feminist icon Angela Davis. I 
have witnessed the CGS degree 
in full force.
Seven-and-a-half minutes 
later, we arrive at RIMAC Gym, 
Wagner’s self-described home-
away-from-home-away-from-
home. As we walk through the 
doors, I ask him what he most 
likes about being a student 
athlete. He ignores me, instead 
beginning to descend the stairs 
in silence.
As we venture down a 
fluorescent hallway towards a 
closed door, he finally turns 
to me. Maintaining direct 
eye contact, he mutters, 
“Contemporaneously.” I am confused, but I have learned 
that this is his way.
He turns to open the door 
and we enter a dark room deep 
in the heart of RIMAC, stopping 
in front of two folding chairs 
and a small table with a laptop. 
A mix of his highlights waits to 
be played. Even though he has 
only played eight competitive 
matches, the mix is just over 
thirteen hours long. We sit in 
complete silence. As the tape 
plays, muted, I realize I am 
starting to doze off. 
When I awake, the laptop 
is frozen on the final frame. 
In this room, it is unclear how 
much time has passed. The 
other chair is empty, the door 
open, my shoe missing, my foot 
bare. Wagner is gone, the old 
potato on the table the only 
evidence he was ever here. Disreguardian: FranzDisreguardian: Franz Wagner: The Man Behind the PotatoWagner: The Man Behind the Potato
By Donovan Perez-Schipper & Emer Nolan
Senior Staff Writer & Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: The following 
is a satirical article for The 
DisreGuardian, a series of 
articles published annually for 
The Guardian’s April Fool’s 
issue. Sports will resume 
publishing normal content next 
week.
As Formula One explodes in 
popularity in the United States, 
the international racing series is 
looking to expand the number 
of races it holds stateside. With 
the U.S. Grand Prix already 
being held in Austin, F1 seeks 
to expand to some of the United 
States’ premier stadium parking 
lots, such as in Miami or Las 
Vegas.
However, in a shocking move, Formula One CEO 
Stefano Domenicali announced 
that the next Formula One 
Grand Prix to take place in the 
United States will actually be 
the Triton Grand Prix, which 
will encircle the campus of the 
University of California, San 
Diego in scenic La Jolla.
“We’ve been trying to 
squeeze as much money out of 
those American bast— I mean, 
expand into the North American 
market for a while now, and I’ve 
always thought San Diego was 
a great place to do that,” said 
Domenicali, although sources 
close to the racing executive 
told The UCSD Guardian that 
Domenicali actually had the 
idea in a dream after falling 
asleep while eating cheese and 
watching “Anchorman” on TV.
“I am proud to welcome 
Formula One to the UC San 
Diego campus, and I think it’s really cool that they made 
the races from that Netflix 
show into a real thing,” said 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
after the announcement. “I am 
hoping the Grand Prix will be 
our campus’ newest tradition, 
along with the watermelon 
drop, the underwear run, and 
avoiding eye contact with 
church groups on Library 
Walk.”
The Triton Grand Prix 
course will have its main 
straight along North Torrey 
Pines Road, driving past the 
famously noise-tolerant, 
wealthy neighborhood of La 
Jolla Farms, before turning east 
onto campus for a Monaco-
esque hairpin turn in front of the 
Rady School of Management. 
Then, it will proceed down 
Hopkins Drive past the Triton 
Soccer Stadium and RIMAC 
Arena, before turning left onto 
Voigt Drive and going down a 
steep grade behind the iconic 
Geisel Library.
Asked whether the sharp 
drop will be unsafe for the 
delicate underbodies of Formula 
One cars, Chancellor Khosla 
laughed the idea off. “Pff, I’ve 
seen two dudes on one Bird 
scooter go down that thing at 35 
miles an hour without helmets 
and holding Goody’s burritos. 
I think Max Verstappen will be 
just fine.”
After going down Voigt 
Drive, the racers will go 
south, then west on Gilman 
Drive, past Library Walk. 
The track then takes a sharp 
right turn into a tricky section 
of kinks and chicanes past 
Revelle College. The Formula 
One stewards, however, have 
expressed concern that a crash 
could send cars into the massive construction pit that will 
eventually be Eighth College. 
Finally, the track will return to 
the straight on North Torrey 
Pines Road.
The 7.24-kilometer track 
in its current configuration 
exceeds the maximum length 
standards for F1 tracks, but 
Chancellor Khosla told The 
Guardian that if it came to be 
an issue, “We’d probably just 
eliminate another parking lot 
and go straight over that to save 
distance.”
The location of the Grand 
Prix at UCSD also means that 
a hospital is available in case 
drivers are injured during the 
race; in fact, sophomore pre-
med students are already being 
hired as medical staff for the 
race, for which they will receive 
four elective credits.
The announcement was 
met with mixed reactions on 
the UCSD campus. When The 
Guardian polled students on 
Library Walk on what they 
thought of the decision, 0.8% 
said they approved of the race, 
0.6% were against it, 8.3% told 
our reporter that they didn’t 
want to join whatever church 
group he was in, and 90.3% 
said, “I’m sorry, I don’t follow 
sports. Where do you think we 
are, San Diego State?”
Some students were also 
concerned about the noise the 
race could generate, especially 
as it was announced that the race 
weekend would take place right 
before finals week. In response,  
Chancellor Khosla said, “We 
were planning on giving every 
UCSD student the same noise-
canceling headphones we gave 
to Revelle students because 
of construction, but when we 
realized how much that’d cost, we just decided to leave out 
bowls of foam earplugs like we 
do in Geisel.”
Another student concern 
was how to get off campus 
during race weekend, as 
attempts by the university 
to either retain the four-way 
stop on Gilman Drive during 
the race, or have the Route 41 
bus run during the race with 
drivers weaving through traffic 
like they’re playing Shroom 
Ridge on “Mario Kart DS,” 
were rejected by the Fédération 
Internationale de l’Automobile.
For their part, Formula One 
drivers seemed excited to have 
a race weekend in San Diego. 
“You know, I feel right at home 
in La Jolla,” said Ferrari driver 
Charles Leclerc. “It’s just like 
Monaco, but with more seals.”
“After having all these races 
in places like Russia, Qatar, 
China, and Saudi Arabia, it’ll 
be nice to race somewhere a 
bit more tolerant, although 
I don’t love that there’s an 
‘Antisemitism’ subsection on 
the Wikipedia page for La 
Jolla,” said Mercedes’ Lewis 
Hamilton.
Hopefully, the inaugural 
Triton Grand Prix will proceed 
without a hitch, as it will 
present a great opportunity for 
UCSD to promote its global 
brand. “We think that with the 
world’s most popular racing 
series coming to UC San 
Diego, we have a tremendous 
opportunity,” said Chancellor 
Khosla. “Plus, we want to get 
students prepared for when we 
tell them that Ninth College 
is just going to be a fleet of 
double-decker buses that circle 
the campus 24/7.”  Disreguardian: Formula One Announces Triton Grand Prix at UCSDDisreguardian: Formula One Announces Triton Grand Prix at UCSD
By Praveen Nair
Sports Editor
Image courtesy of Richard North.
Image courtesy of Praveen Nair.