ONE LIFE,
ONE DIRECTION
One Direction may have 
disbanded six years ago, but 
the love for this British boyband 
still resonates with many. Lucky 
for us, San Diego offers “One 
Direction Nights”. Hop on over 
to Lifestyle to read more.
UCSD NEGLECTS PATIENT CARE
CREATIVE FREEDOMNegligence is Not the Answer You’re 
Looking For
The Revelations of Creative WritingOPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Sometimes you don’t 
want to write satire. 
Sometimes you just 
want to be able to 
publish just a random 
poem you wrote on 
a whim one night or 
when you were deep 
in your feelings. ”
- REESE WELCH
FEATURES, PAGE 8LIFESTYLE,   PAGE  8
MONDAY  
H 24 L 12
WEDNESDAY  
H 18 L 12
IMAGE COURTESY OF ANTOINE JONUNIMAGE COURTESY OF ANTOINE JONUN
TUESDAY  
H 20 L 12
THURSDAY
H 16 L 12
A.S. NEWS.....................2
PUBLIC TRANSPORT ....4
TOKYO VICE..................7
PHOTO ESSAY .............10
V-BALL  LOSS...............12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 25   MONDA Y , APRIL 25, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PROTEST ADMISSIONS
Tritons Gather in Earth Day Rally Against UC Fossil Fuel Use
By Niloufar Shahbandi  /gid00015/gid00006/gid00024/gid00020/gid00001/gid00006/gid00005/gid00010/gid00021/gid00016/gid00019/gid00010/gid00002/gid00013/gid00001/gid00002/gid00020/gid00020/gid00010/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00015/gid00021
On April 22, as part of the UC-wide Earth 
Day rally, dozens of students and staﬀ gath -
ered in front of Geisel library to demand the 
closure of the UC San Diego Central Utilities Plant 
and the termination of fossil fuel use by University of 
California campuses as a whole. 
Nine out of 10 University of California campuses 
participated in the rally, protesting against the 1 mil -
lion tonnes of carbon emitted annually by University 
of California campuses. /T_he rally was organized by 
the UC Green New Deal Coalition and Green New 
Deal UCSD; it included various speakers discussing 
climate-related topics and urging campus oﬃcials to 
make a promise to decarbonize.
/T_he rally began with PhD student Adam Cooper 
sharing his fears and frustration against the duplicity 
of the campus’s climate change initiatives. 
 “I’m here today because I’m scared. /T_he more 
I study the climate crisis the more it terri/f_ies me,” 
Cooper said. “ When I walk around UCSD— an in -
stitution that prides itself on climate scholarship, yet 
continues to burn methane gas on campus and put 
$10 million a year into the hands of the fossil fuel in -
dustry, I start to get a little angry.”
Cooper went on to explain that UCSD burns 
fracked methane gas worth millions of dollars on 
its campus at the Central Utilities located by York 
Hall. With the county’s new opt-in sustainable com -
munity power program, fossil fuel use could drop in 
many households even while UCSD continues to use 
high amounts of fracked methane. With this change 
in power usage, UCSD could soon also become the 
largest polluter in San Diego county, according to 
Cooper.
“For us, as students, staﬀ, and faculty at UC San Diego, we must /f_ight like hell to change our institution 
and end the complicity of burning gas on campus,” 
Cooper concluded.  
Another speaker, PhD student Andrea Rodriguez-
Marin Freudmann, spoke about the university’s hy -
pocrisy in regards to divesting away from fossil fuels.  
“Finance and fossil fuels are completely entangled. 
Right now banks pour trillions of dollars into invest -
ments and they use our money to do it. Despite UCSD 
talking a whole lot about divesting, it still uses these 
banks,” she explained.
“For example, Chase and Bank of America, along 
with the rest of the world’s 60 largest banks, have put 
over $4.6 trillion into the fossil fuel industry over just 
the past 6 years,” Rodriguez-Marin Freudmann con -
tinued. “/T_he money that we and UCSD invest into 
these banks literally funds climate change… UCSD 
chooses to work with banks that they know are fund -
ing the climate crisis, all while talking about divest -
ments.” 
She went on to explain that while it’s ultimately 
large corporations and institutions such as UCSD 
who will leave the largest impact by divesting from 
banks investing in fossil fuels, individuals stopping 
their support of these banks will still have an impact 
in reducing funds funneling into the burning of fossil 
fuels. Rodriguez-Marin Freudmann urged the crowd 
to take action by transferring their money out of said 
banks in favor of smaller, more ethical ones.  
Rodriguez-Marin Freudmann’s comments come 
a/f_ter a group of scientists, including world-renowned 
NASA scientist Peter Kalmus, were arrested earlier 
this month a/f_ter chaining themselves to a JP Morgan 
Chase building in downtown Los Angeles. /T_hey were 
California Proposal for 
New A-G Ethnic 
Studies Requirement 
Underway
By abby lee 
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
In November 2021, the Univer -
sity of California Board of Admis -
sions and Relations with Schools 
(UC BOARS) presented a proposal 
to include Ethnic Studies as part 
of the admissibility requirements 
for UC applicants. /T_he proposal 
seeks to amend Academic Senate 
Regulation 424.A.3, more com -
monly known as California high 
school subject A-G requirements, 
to include a course that emphasiz -
es ethnic studies. Speci/f_ically, the 
proposed amendment includes the 
addition of an Area “H” to the ex -
isting A-G requirements. 
Currently, the A-G require -
ments must be ful/f_illed with 
courses in history, English, mathe -
matics, science, a second language, 
as well as the visual and perform -
ing arts. Area H would build on 
the existing A-G courses, and 
would require that at least one of 
the A-G courses also satisfy Ethnic 
Studies seven course criteria and 
guidelines, such as “examin[ing] 
racialization as a historical and 
ongoing structural/systemic pro -
cess” and “center[ing] anti-racism 
and anti-racist solidarity through -
out the course.” For instance, a lit -
erature course that also examines 
the legacy of racism in literature 
could potentially ful/f_ill Area H 
under the new requirements.
/T_he BOARS’ Proposal for A-G 
Ethnic Studies follows its unani -
mous vote the year prior to include 
an Ethnic Studies requirement 
for freshman admission. Follow -
ing the vote, a UC faculty work -
ing group of experts was called 
to convene by the UC Oﬃce of 
the President (UCOP) to provide 
recommendations to BOARS on 
course criteria and guidelines. 
/T_hese course criteria outlined the 
foundational values of the /f_ield of 
ethnic studies: the approved A-G 
courses should embody guiding 
principles to shape course con -
tent, as well as the skills students 
will develop for critical analysis of 
and engagement with the world. 
/T_he proposal was presented to the 
Academic Council and circulated 
for UC systemwide faculty review.
Associate Director of Media 
Relations at UCOP, Ryan King, 
wrote in an email to /T_he UCSD 
Guardian that it would be prema -
ture to comment on the potential 
A-G Ethnic Studies curriculum 
requirement as revisions are still 
ongoing. However, according to 
King, the Academic Council will 
review the proposal later this aca -
demic year. San Diego Mayor Proposes New Spending Increases in the Budget to Go 
Towards Homelessness, the Arts, and Local ParksSAN DIEGO
By Nikita Cardozo
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
On April 15, San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria pro -
posed to spend additional funding for current pro -
grams, the arts, homelessness, parks, and boosting 
San Diego residents’ quality of life. /T_his proposed 
budget would start July 1, 2022 and would increase 
city spending in areas that include large infrastructure 
projects. 
With the approval of the proposal, the annual op -
erating budget of the city would rise from $1.74 bil -lion to $1.89 billion. Funding for the mayor’s budget in -
creases will come from increased tax revenue and $180 
million from le/f_tover federal pandemic aid. San Diego’s 
annual pension payment is also decreasing by $31 mil -
lion because of strong stock market returns in 2020. 
/T_he budget would make small increases to many 
programs and initiatives already in place, including 
cleaning up sidewalks, increasing security in librar -
ies, and policing vacation rentals. It will also increase 
aid for small businesses, expand free internet access in 
low-income areas, and add new parking enforcement 
teams.See PROTEST , page 2
See ADMISSIONS , page 3 See SAN DIEGO , page 3
Image courtesy of Jose Orellana for UCSD Guardian. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
/uni25B6 PROTEST , from page 1
protesting Chase’s investments in 
the fossil fuel industry. 
A/f_ter listening to more speak -
ers, including local politician Ky -
lie Taitano, PhD student Hayden 
Schill, and junior So/f_ia De La Cruz, 
the crowd began to march down 
Library Walk and Gilman Drive 
toward the Central Utilities Plant. 
During the march, the crowd 
could be heard chanting “No more 
gas, no more oil. Keep your carbon 
in the soil.” and “We are unstop -
pable, another world is possible.” 
Others called for University of Cal -
ifornia president Michael Drake to 
“be brave.” Supporters were also 
seen holding signs that read “Get 
oﬀ the gas” and “Stop burning fos -
sil fuels like our tuition.”
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
freshman Mara Button shared her 
thoughts on the importance of 
moving beyond performative ac -
tivism in /f_ighting against climate 
change. 
“If you’re not /f_ighting for our 
world, if you’re not taking actions 
in small ways, even if it’s not a rally, 
posting pictures on Instagram on 
Earth Day is beautiful, but it needs 
to be accompanied by action,” But -
ton said. 
Graduate student Taylor McKie 
expressed her support for the rally. 
“We’re here to encourage our ad -
ministration to be brave and switch 
our cogen plant to something that 
is completely fossil free, to decar -
bonize, or build a new plant and 
electrify our grid on campus.”
/T_he rally follows the publica -
tion of the United Nations Inter -
governmental Panel on Climate 
Change report on April 4, which 
revealed that emissions have been 
increasing each year, reaching 59 gi -
gatonnes in 2019, a 12% jump from 
global 2010 emissions. /T_he report 
also states that only drastic collec -
tive climate action will keep global 
temperatures from rising 1.5 degrees 
Celsius. A/f_ter its publication, hun -
dreds of climate scientists protested 
worldwide — some even superglu -
ing themselves to glass windows—to 
bring awareness to the issue and in -
duce collective governmental action. A.S. Council Brief Weeks 3 & 4:  
Student Community-Representative Connection and Commencement UpdateASSOCIATED STUDENTS
By TIANRUI HUANG
/gid00015/gid00032/gid00050/gid00046/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Week 3
In the Week 3 council meeting, 
senators updated their projects 
and discussed the disconnection 
between student body and student 
representatives. /T_hey talked about 
potential solutions to make the 
election process for associate vice 
president more transparent. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
Senator Isabella Ramos discussed 
her upcoming projects on trans -
portation. Given the relatively 
high price for gas, she believes 
it could be necessary to bring in 
some incentives to make trans -
portation services more conve -
nient, such as $75 gas cards issued 
by UC San Diego campuses. 
/T_hen, Engineering Senator 
Samir Nomani brought up a pro -
posal to bring in more vending 
machines in Price Center and 
other areas, in cooperation with 
other vendors. /T_his move comes 
as a means to help students access 
snacks, even when restaurants are 
closed.
Jiyeon Song, the Oﬃce of 
Campus Aﬀairs data oﬃcer, re -
leased the Winter A.S. Advocacy 
Agenda Survey Data Analysis. 
According to the analysis, 60% 
of student participants expected 
A.S. Council to prioritize Food & 
Housing Resources (basic needs 
and /f_inancial assistance) and 56% 
for Health & Well-Being (physi -
cal/mental health resource acces -
sibility). In addition, the analy -
sis displayed a universal lack of 
knowledge about student advo -
cates (college councils, AS senates, 
etc.).  Students in general have 
limited understanding of who 
their student representatives are, 
hence the  disconnection between 
the student body and the student 
representatives.
In correspondence with the 
disconnection problem, senators 
came up with several potential so -
lutions to make the A.S. Council 
more accessible to students and 
student organizations. Vice President Isaac Lara pro -
posed to have public interviews to 
make the associate vice president 
(AVP) hiring process more trans -
parent. Senator Isabella Ramos 
added that some AVP candidates 
complained about non-respon -
siveness from the A.S. Council af -
ter submitting their applications. 
Ramos believes that having pub -
lic interviews could also be a great 
advertising opportunity for Asso -
ciated Students. Senator Ashley 
Jones suggested that the inter -
views be conducted in a hybrid 
format so that more people can sit 
in and voice their opinions. 
Besides, according to the Re -
ports of the Standing Committee, 
the Finance Committee amended 
and approved the allocation of 
$15,000 from General Unallo -
cated to Student Organization 
Programming Funds for Spring 
Quarter. /T_he funds support reg -
istered student organizations to 
hold their activities and events, 
a/f_ter meeting basic funding eligi -
bility and going through related 
request processes. 
A.S. Council also reiterated 
that student-organized events 
can still require masking if de -
sired even though the university 
no longer requires it.
Week 4
/T_his week’s A.S. Senate meet -
ing focuses on student organiza -
tion activities and a Graduation 
Commencement update.
Campus-Wide Senator Daniel 
Soria introduced his Campus Re -
ferral Service project, an online 
form created especially for the 
UCSD student organizations to 
collaborate with A.S. /T_hrough the 
platform, campus organizations 
can send information regard -
ing their initiatives to the senate, 
and in turn, the senate can uti -
lize available resources to suit the 
community's needs. An easy-to-
use interface and a more mature 
oﬃcial website may be adapted to 
make the project more accessible.
According to Arts and Hu -
manities Senator Rhianen Cal -lahan, recently many professors 
were trying to move their classes 
to be twice a week on Tuesday and 
/T_hursday rather than on Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday. However, 
class schedules for a two-day week 
were already over-saturated. /T_his 
has led to ongoing campus-wide 
faculty negotiation to determine 
which courses should be two days 
a week and which should be three 
days a week.
President Manu Agni then 
shared the Commencement Up -
date on the behalf of CCP and A.S. 
As of April 19, 2,150 graduates 
registered for college commence -
ment in total, while the com -
mencement is planned for having 
3,000 graduates. Among those 
registered students, only 60% said 
they would attend all-campus 
commencement, amounting to 
approximately 1,290 people. Be -
fore the pandemic, on average 
each student brought eight guests 
to the commencement; however, 
the number could be lower this 
year, but no limit would be set 
on the number of guests students 
with them. Even with their invited 
guests, only 10,320 seats would be 
taken, less than the 14,000 seats 
in total prepared for the event, 
especially as most graduates tend 
to stand for a better view. /T_he ca -
pacity limit has never been hit, so 
additional seats on the /f_ield may 
be used by anyone. In addition, 
following health guidelines, the 
commencement will be entirely 
outdoors and live streamed. Vac -
cination and testing are recom -
mended, and masking is encour -
aged.
As for commencement trans -
portation, parking will be free. 
For the all-campus commence -
ment, the guest parking will be at 
Gliderport, which is a 15-minute 
walk from the venue. /T_here will 
also be shuttle services between 
Gliderport and other parking 
structures for college commence -
ments. In addition, Hopkins 
Drive will be closed to all traﬃc 
from 5 a.m. to 8 p.m. on both Sat -
urday and Sunday to give a better 
commencement experience.
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Image courtesy of Ava Bayley for UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Moreover, the budget allo -
cates almost $300,000 to create 
a new management center where 
city oﬃcials would survey inter -
sections and immediately change 
stoplights depending on the num -
ber of cars to reduce the amount 
of traﬃc in SD. It will also spend 
$550,000 to create a new team 
who will replace outdated signal 
loops. 
John Muir College junior 
Zahrah Mahmood told /T_he 
UCSD Guardian that she believes 
this new method would be bene/f_i -
cial for anyone that is driving in 
La Jolla by decreasing the amount 
of time people spend on the road.
“Traﬃc in La Jolla is o/f_ten 
very bad and [I am] hopeful that 
the new budget will make traﬃc 
congestion a lot better,” Mah -
mood said.
In terms of the arts, funding 
would increase from $9.6 mil -
lion to $12.7 million. /T_he city 
plans to spend $4.3 million to re -
cruit more employees with better 
training in local parks. /T_hey also 
hope to convert many of the part-
time workers to full-time.
San Diego’s spending on re -
ducing homelessness would in -
crease from $49 million to $63 
million. /T_he funding will be 
placed towards new shelter beds 
and stronger street outreach ef -
forts. About $20 million would 
come from the city, $3 million 
from the federal government, 
and $40 million from the state — 
an increase from their previous 
$24.5 million.
/T_he city’s general fund reserve 
will still be $205 million under 
Gloria’s proposal, which could 
become crucial in the case of an 
economic recession.
Furthermore, $13.3 million 
will be allocated to cover the an -
ticipated pay raises for police of -
/f_icers, /f_ire/f_ighters, and lifeguards. 
/T_he city also plans to increase the 
income of the workers that make 
less than their counterparts in 
other cities.
Currently, there are almost 
1,800 vacant city jobs out of the /uni25B6 SAN DIEGO , from page 1  total 11,940 budgeted positions. 
City oﬃcials claim that this is be -
cause of uncompetitive salaries. 
/T_he city plans to devote $28.4 
million to infrastructure under 
Proposition H, which would cov -
er the $16 million for upgrades to 
parks, $7 million for sidewalks, 
and $2 million for /f_ire stations. 
Another $29.7 million will cover 
/f_lood prevention and eﬀorts to re -
duce pollution in stormwater. 
San Diego plans to use $120 
million of the federal pandemic 
aid during the ongoing budget 
year, which still leaves $180 mil -
lion. Gloria plans to spend $124 
million in the next budget year 
and the remaining $56 million in 
2024.
/uni25B6 ADMISSIONS , from page 1
“Currently, a/f_ter extensive 
discussion of comments received 
from faculty at the Senate divi -
sions and committees, the Aca -
demic Council agreed to send 
the proposal back to [BOARS] 
for further consideration, ” King 
wrote. “/T_he Council expects to 
take up the matter again later this 
academic year. ”
However, the UC system is 
not the /f_irst institution to begin to 
emphasize ethnic studies courses. 
Currently, AB1460 requires  the 
California State University (CSU) 
to provide ethnic studies at all 
campuses, starting from the 2021-
22 academic year. Starting with 
the graduating class of 2024-25, 
ethnic studies will also be a gradu -
ation requirement for CSU stu -
dents. Currently, all UC campuses 
require students to take courses 
that center ethnicity and race to 
graduate. For instance, UC Berke -
ley’s American Cultures require -
ment necessitates that students 
must take at least one course that “also take[s] substantial account of 
groups drawn from at least three 
of the following: African Ameri -
cans, Indigenous peoples of the 
United States, Asian Americans, 
Chicanos, Latin Americans, and 
European Americans. ”
Reception to the new proposal 
has been mixed. In an interview 
with /T_he UCSD Guardian, Rog -
er Revelle College junior Rushil 
Pithia expressed their thoughts 
on the new requirement and what 
it would mean for future high 
school students. 
“[I]t would be good in terms 
of teaching people to be more ra -
cially sensitive and perceptive[,] 
but I wonder if there should be 
more speci/f_ication on when a 
student would be allowed to take 
the course, ” they said. “Because in 
terms of maturity level younger 
students might not be able to un -
derstand these concepts as well or  get the most out of the course.”
On the other hand, some in -
dividuals have been strongly op -
posed to the new requirements. 
A petition signed by “nearly 
2000 UC Stakeholders and Sup -
porters” urged UC Academic 
Council members to reject the 
proposal for A-G Ethnic Stud -
ies. In the petition, signatories 
asserted that the proposal is 
“politically motivated, academi -
cally vacuous, and extremely 
harmful”.  
If accepted, this amendment 
would align the UC A-G re -
quirements with Assembly Bill 
101 (AB101), which Governor 
Gavin Newsom signed last year. 
AB101 makes California the 
first state to require California 
high school students graduating 
in 2029-30 to complete a one-
semester ethnic studies course 
in order to graduate. 
Image courtesy of Michelle Deng for UCSD Guardian. 
Image courtesy of Allen Chen for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
It is generally agreed upon 
that public transportation is 
more energy efficient, which 
is an asset in decreasing global 
emissions. However, most 
Americans do not use public 
transportation for various 
reasons. Perhaps it is because 
public transportation in America 
is seen as an unbalanced tradeoff: 
merely decreasing emissions at 
the cost of convenience, personal 
privacy, and safety. In reality, 
public transportation offers 
increased convenience, safety, 
and reduced costs. Because these 
benefits increase with ridership, 
if more Americans realize the 
benefits of public transportation, 
many new doors will open.
Many Americans prefer 
cars over public transportation 
because of the convenience of 
being able to drive right to your 
destination. However, America’s 
reliance on cars is a self-
reinforcing, vicious cycle that is 
ultimately unsustainable. Even 
now, we are experiencing the 
effects in the form of traffic jams 
and high housing costs. 
Cars require parking space, 
which takes up limited land that 
could be repurposed for housing 
or green space. According 
to Vox, “It’s estimated that in 
America, there are eight parking 
spots for every car, covering 30% 
of our cities, and collectively 
taking up about as much space 
as the state of West Virginia.” 
What’s worse is that most of 
this parking space is unused. 
Think of the parking lots around 
retail outlets or big box stores. 
These spaces are only used at 
full capacity during peak times. 
Most of the time they are nearly 
empty. Ironically, there are many 
homeless people struggling to 
find a place to sleep at night. But 
jacking up housing prices and 
contributing to homelessness is 
not the only negative impact of 
car reliance.
The dead space taken up by 
parking lots also extends the 
distance between locations. 
The added distance means 
increased reliance on cars and 
subsequently more parking lots. 
To demonstrate car reliance 
created by parking lots, I know 
people who go to shopping 
outlets and drive their cars to 
the closest parking spots to 
each store they visit instead 
of parking once and walking. 
Thus, the dead space in a single 
parking lot already makes some 
reliant on cars. Added distance 
also means burning more gas 
and added travel time.
A more obvious issue with 
cars are traffic jams. Increased 
usage of public transportation  
will mitigate this problem. 
However, one may argue that 
technologies can mitigate traffic 
jams while still allowing for 
continued reliance on cars as 
private transportation. For 
example, self-driving cars 
may travel more efficiently in 
groups, or Elon Musk’s proposed 
underground highways may 
allow transportation to take 
place in three dimensions. 
However, no matter how efficient private car transportation gets, 
it will never be as efficient as 
public transportation. Private 
cars will always have the issue 
of parking dead space, and if we 
do develop large-scale tunneling 
technologies, that means public 
transportation can also go 3D, 
thus retaining its efficiency 
advantage over private cars.
A city built around public 
transportation is more 
convenient. Distances are 
shorter from reduced dead space, 
and there is no need to worry 
about not finding a parking spot. 
However, one may point out that 
many American cities are not 
built with public transportation 
in mind, and that it is not easy 
to tear the whole city down and 
start from scratch. In addition, 
public transportation such as 
rail transport requires more 
intensive infrastructure and 
higher initial costs. Despite the 
benefits of public transportation, 
these are significant barriers 
to implementing more reliable 
forms of public transportation. 
Another major concern of 
public transportation is safety. 
You are stuck in a cabin with 
strangers. There might be 
someone with a contagious 
disease. These concerns are 
potentially mitigable and a 
proposed solution will be 
addressed later in the article. 
However, even now, Asian 
countries have a good track record 
of safely and reliably transporting 
millions, demonstrating that 
public transportation can be 
consistently safe. According to 
Nippon.com, based on 2017 data 
from the Central Japan Railway 
Company annual report, the 
Tōkaidō Shinkansen “has not 
experienced any passenger 
fatalities from accidents like 
collisions, derailing, or fire” 
since its debut in 1964, and 
remains one of the heaviest used 
high speed rail lines in the world.
On the other hand, cars are 
not as safe as you may  think. 
According to the CDC, “Road 
traffic crashes are a leading cause 
of death in the United States 
for people aged 1–54, and they 
are the leading cause of non-
natural death for U.S. citizens 
residing or traveling abroad.” In 
short, locking yourself in your 
own private car does not protect 
you from bad drivers, or from 
yourself if you’re one of them. 
People  need to be attentive 
while driving, which again 
shows how inconvenient cars 
are: in cars, you can’t multitask 
like on public transportation 
without risking lives. While one 
may argue that self-driving cars 
eliminate this issue, since cars 
are not constrained by tracks, 
there is still a greater chance of 
unpredictable things happening, 
such as sudden animal crossings 
or black ice on the road that make 
it hard for current automation, 
or human ability, to deal with.
Another issue with cars is 
that they are expensive and 
American reliance on cars 
puts low-income individuals 
at a disadvantage, presenting 
a barrier to social mobility. 
According to the Bureau of 
Transportation Statistics, 
“households with an annual 
income of less than $25,000 are almost nine times as likely to be 
a zero-vehicle household than 
households with incomes greater 
than $25,000.” I suspect this is 
due to a dilemma for low-income 
individuals: to get a car and gain 
access to better jobs, one has to 
cope with expenses such as the 
initial cost, gas, maintenance, 
and insurance. Data from the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics seem 
to support this hypothesis: 
Americans in 2020 had an 
average expenditure of $9826 
on transportation, with only 
$263 accounted for by public 
transportation, leaving the rest 
presumably to cars. According 
to the same document, housing 
takes up the most expenditure, 
followed by transportation. 
Seeing how cars jack up housing 
prices through dead space and 
car transportation itself is 
expensive, this means that cars 
increase the two most significant 
expenditure categories.
Reliance on cars restricts 
mobility and independence of 
many individuals. The young 
and old need to be chaperoned, 
making them dependent on 
people who may also be busy, 
presenting a lose-lose scenario. 
Take the example of a kid needing 
a parent to drive them to an 
hour-long event 15 minutes away. 
The parent will probably end up 
waiting for the kid since running 
two 30-minute roundtrips for an 
hour-long event does not make 
sense. While one may argue 
that having self-driving cars 
solves this problem, this means 
that there needs to be at least 
one car per family member to 
provide the same individual 
flexibility during rush hour. 
According to the Bureau of 
Transportation Statistics, “while 
the mean number of vehicles 
in households is 1.9 personal 
vehicles, households in the 
United States on average have 
1.8 drivers who are 15 years or 
older.” The US already has more 
cars than drivers on average, and 
the thought of giving everyone 
their personal car would not 
only be prohibitively expensive for most families, but add even 
more dead space, making travel 
even less convenient.
To address the initial cost 
of public transportation, 
making it more efficient can 
help it break even. To this end, 
humans and material cargo 
may be transported together. 
Currently, buses and trains often 
run empty. Anything that is not 
running at full capacity is not 
running optimally. Notice that 
both buses and delivery trucks 
run regular routes with regular 
stops. The only difference is 
whether it’s people or things 
being picked up and dropped off. 
Think of the proposed solution 
as carpooling with cargo in 
addition to people. If the two 
can be combined, transportation 
of both people and material can 
be more efficient, which saves 
money, which helps break even 
with the more expensive initial 
costs of infrastructure. Take the 
trolley for example. It costs a 
fortune and is often empty. Even 
if we got to the point where 
people use it as their primary 
means of travel, the trolley will 
still not be at full capacity when 
it is not rush hour. Now consider 
if packages are delivered to 
lockers situated at trolley stations 
during non-rush hours. This will 
make things more convenient for 
people because they will receive 
their internet orders faster and 
revenue can be generated by this 
delivery service, helping to break 
even.
To address the privacy 
and safety concerns, human 
and material dual transport 
goes along with my vision of 
containerization of public 
transport. People who are 
concerned about privacy and 
safety want to be partitioned 
from strangers in their own 
little space. Currently, a big 
appeal of cars is the ability to 
customize. A car can be thought 
of as a small private lounge on 
wheels. One can install speakers, 
heated seats, TVs, etc, all the 
while being separate from the 
peeling eyes of strangers and being able to see the scenery 
outside. To offer the same 
benefits while being compatible 
with public transportation, 
private customizable boxes 
with multi-modal transport 
capabilities may be used. 
While currently unsupported, 
potential technology for the 
future may allow these boxes 
to be transported on trains and 
cars, with a system to transfer 
between the two modes.This 
creates a compromise between 
private and public transport. 
Of course, the box system can 
still work in parallel with mass 
public transport. For example, 
each train can modularly carry 
different boxes including cargo 
boxes, small private people 
boxes, and large public people 
boxes. In addition, a box is 
much more affordable than a 
car and should last longer due 
its simplicity, allowing people 
to invest in highly customizing 
their transportation experience.
The current issue is not 
justifying the benefits of public 
transportation, which are 
already well documented, but 
justifying the additional expense 
of switching from a system 
primarily geared towards private 
to public transportation. A 
proposed solution is to increase 
efficiency by carrying both people 
and materials to ensure vehicles 
are running at full capacity, 
thus maximum efficiency, at 
all times. Containerization 
can facilitate this dual people-
material purpose as well as allow 
individuals to preserve their 
privacy and safety and affordably 
customize their travel experience. 
While public transportation 
requires high infrastructure 
costs, Americans need to 
realize their reliance on cars is 
a suboptimal and unsustainable 
solution that is perhaps already 
costing more than what public 
transportation would. Therefore, 
more effort should be placed on 
novel solutions to make public 
transportation more economical, 
thus realizable.By Benjamin Liou 
Staff WriterCombating Obsessive Car Culture with 
Increased Public Transportation Usage
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian.RAYMOND TRAN5
RIDES ON DEMANDA.S. Safe Rides X Lyft
A.S. Safe Rides is back for Spring Quarter*
with $12 oﬀ 2 rides.
*visit as.ucsd.edu/saferides for redemption details and restrictions.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
The importance of education 
and of career-building has been 
reiterated innumerable times 
to students embarking on their 
collegiate experience. But, the 
colleges that these students 
attend often fail to realize the 
necessities that must be met for a 
chance at academic success. 
An instance of this was on 
flagrant display during the first 
week of Spring Quarter 2022 at 
UC San Diego. During class, a 
student fainted and experienced 
a seizure for around five seconds 
before regaining consciousness. 
This instance was followed by 
swift action by the professor 
and multiple students who 
volunteered to get them the 
care they needed. Among them, 
one went to Student Health 
Services in hopes of bringing 
back help. But upon presenting 
this request, this volunteer was 
met with a heartless remark by 
a staff member about SHS not 
having enough time to bring the 
student who was in distress to the SHS center from a class that 
was a five-minute walk from 
the center. This was harshly 
criticized later by Dr. Phillips* 
in class. Dr. Phillips has since 
sought out more information and 
justification for the situation that 
ensured that day and later stated 
that “the university encourages 
instructors to immediately call 
9-1-1 in the event of any health 
crises students face.”
Representatives at the center 
followed this protocol and 
gave insensitive suggestions 
that an ambulance be called, 
showing continued disregard 
for the student’s health and 
financial status, with San Diego 
ambulances costing between 
$2,022 and $2,671. How can 
UCSD boast its premier medical 
research and practices when 
it refuses to even follow CDC 
recommendations of how to 
handle seizures which explicitly 
state that emergency services 
should not be called in such 
cases?  
Following this exchange, 
the student volunteer reported 
back to the classroom to help 
walk the student to the SHS By Sparky Mitra
Staff Writercenter themselves without any 
professional, wheelchair or any 
other assistance. This should 
have never happened, especially 
at an institution which mandates 
that students have UC SHIP or 
proof of outside coverage. The 
SHS, from a student perspective, 
is there to address cases just 
like this along with providing 
reliable routine primary care. 
But when facilities like these 
cannot even pretend to want to 
help, there must be a better way to 
operate student services catering 
to student health, housing, 
enrollment, financial standing, 
and more. This requires a holistic 
approach which focuses on both 
streamlining existing facilities to 
help students get their needs met 
and creating new institutions 
of student support that possess 
qualities that facilities cannot 
offer at all currently. Dr. Phillips 
recommended another approach 
starting with addressing 
“ignorance of medical protocol 
surrounding seizures,” where 
systemic health reform centers 
students and their stories. This 
methodology could even be 
extended beyond the professor’s recommendation on seizure-
centric data collection and 
creating on action agendas 
to guide reform in university 
health services catered towards 
such episodes. With increased 
vigilance on the pitfalls of the 
current system when faced with 
certain groups of health crises, 
solutions can be drawn up that 
are respectful of the complexity 
of each situation that can be 
solved with tact and specificity 
that the current 9-1-1 guidance 
fails to offer.
This starts with having 
student-serving facilities at all 
to address student health. In 
the State of California, campus 
health centers are considered 
non-categorical programs that 
are not required on college 
campuses. Wrongly so. When 
the UC system is already 
spending 39% of its budget on 
medical centers and in-patient 
care, surely the system can 
extend this courtesy and sense of 
priority beyond highly profitable 
and efficient medical centers to 
the SHS that each UC school 
must strive to provide. It would 
be a great shame to see UCSD 
spend like the United States does 
federally, with little success to 
show for the high spending, 
compared to other countries with 
socialized medicare provided at 
lower costs. The U.S. population’s 
decrease in life expectancy for 
the second year in a row is one of 
many statistics that illustrate our 
systemic failure.
Universities across the United 
States have also faced significant 
backlash for not having 
accredited healthcare available 
to students. Such non-accredited 
programs include the prestigious 
Georgetown University’s student 
health facilities. Only 220 college 
health services are currently 
accredited nationally. This is 
highly troubling considering the 5,000+ colleges and universities 
that call the U.S. their home. 
Mandating accreditation should 
be a bare minimum that all 
colleges should meet before 
continuing to turn a profit 
on students’ tuition. But even 
UCSD’s accredited health care 
services failed a student in their 
time of need. With student 
health maintaining importance 
and 40% of university students 
“experiencing a significant 
mental health problem,” 
increased spending on resources 
and staff must be considered 
as well. Additionally, 60% of 
students have limited access to 
medical facilities, and short-
staffing further exacerbates this. 
If medical staff claim that 
they are too busy to address a 
medical emergency, either they 
were negligent towards a student, 
or they were short-staffed. Both 
instances require a thorough 
objective investigation. Though 
precedent was set in 2021 to 
survey university health centers 
on their views of successes 
and failures in the approach to 
student health, there remains an 
extreme need for independent 
reporting of shortcomings in the 
lack of universities’ prioritization 
of student health and wellbeing. 
These studies must be followed 
with proactive changes to ensure 
students are cared for during 
their collegiate experience. 
Health precedes every 
financial, academic, and social 
success. This is the mentality 
UCSD, Georgetown, and other 
universities must adopt. The 
evidence pointing towards the 
need for critical restructuring of 
student health services is ever-
growing and must be considered. 
*The professor’s name has 
been changed to protect their 
identityNegligence is Not the Answer You’re Looking For
Image courtesy of the UCSD Guardian.A message to universities on their campus health facilities6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ELIAS ROMAN
Book Review: “Maybe Y ou Should 
Talk to Someone”
Lori Gottlieb's memoir is an ode to human connection painted humorously with stories from her and her patients' lives. 
Its rather optimistic lens is contagious and stands as a pillar of hope, even if it stimulates minor issues of comparison. 
Aided by prolonged isolation, there has been a tremen -
dous amount of de-stigmatization around therapy and mental 
health as a whole over the past couple of years. Just as society 
seemed to be dri/f_ting towards prioritizing individualism, the 
pandemic proved just how vital human interaction and con -
nection truly are. Lori Gottlieb released “Maybe You Should 
Talk to Someone” almost like an omen, and it became an in -
stant New York Times bestseller less than a year before every -
one was con/f_ined to their homes.
At the beginning of the novel, readers /f_ind Gottlieb at the 
top of her game. A/f_ter many years of soul-searching through 
various careers, she eventually /f_inds her calling as a therapist. 
With great friends, a son she loves more than anything, and a 
/f_iancée she adores, she believes her life is in the exact place she 
wants it to be. It’s a well-oiled machine functioning with the 
sole purpose of creating personal joy and satisfaction. How -
ever, when her /f_iancée calls oﬀ their marriage, the emotions 
she once had under control quickly begin to unravel, pushing 
her to /f_ind a therapist of her own. Gottlieb's emotional dissec -
tion pulls at thoughts that she was not even entirely aware of, 
and the more she uncovers, the more she sees herself re/f_lected 
back in her patients. 
/T_he four clients that Gottlieb deliberately picks to share 
with readers each have a wildly diﬀerent personality as well 
as their own unique set of problems. Gottlieb has clear favor -
ites, taking more chapters to share takeaways from those who 
have more jarring and emotionally intensive burdens to work 
through as opposed to the one who appears minor by com -
parison. /T_his favoritism and selectively longer chapters can be 
attributed to her desire to bulk up her novel and give it emo -
tional weight as, understandably, heavier conversations and 
sadder realities stick with readers for longer than those of nor -
malcy. However, the issue with this decision is that if the goal 
of the novel is to encourage people to become more willing 
to unpack their emotional burdens, utilizing such intensive 
examples may dissuade readers from contributing their own internal conversations. It could potentially stimulate doubt for people who /f_ind themselves comparing their 
situations to these characters and thinking they need drastic events to seek therapy. Gottlieb does somewhat 
avoid this pitfall through talks with her own therapist, as she presents arguably the most mundane of problems 
in the novel and still /f_inds emotional baggage she needs to work through. It is clear that the discussion revolving 
around these damaged characters is by no means exploitative, serving to showcase how even those in the bleak -
est of situations can /f_ind hope. 
I will be the /f_irst to admit that this criticism stems from the fact that I /f_ind myself constantly comparing 
myself to others — especially when it comes to downplaying personal emotional knots. However, it is worth 
mentioning because so many of us play this
comparison game in every aspect of our lives. Daily life is riddled with comparison, and there is a relatively high 
likelihood that others might come to the novel with this same lens. 
Regardless, this does not take away from how much of an enjoyable read this novel truly is. It’s fast-paced 
and constantly punctures anecdotes with humor, yet knows exactly when to pull back for the sake of compas -
sion. Gottlieb is unafraid to delve into incredibly heavy themes of love, loss, and emptiness, writing with the 
humanizing lens of a therapist; a lens with a slight fixation on the future. She explains that a therapist's goal 
is to get to a place where their clients no longer need to come to them. There is always the desire for the client 
to reach a point of emotional stability. This emphasis on the future does not by any means rush the process of 
healing emotional wounds, but instead, consistently weaves the theme of hope. It's easy to be blinded by emo -
tions because — when in the thick of them — they often feel all-consuming. A therapist, however, helps pick 
at them until they are manageable and once-buried joy is unearthed. 
Gottlieb makes it clear that she can never do the emotional heavy lifting for her patients, but, through 
conversation, she can help create the stepping stone towards the hope that will eventually lead them there. She 
crafts this process as an intensive one through blatantly honest observations — both humorous and not — 
highlighting how important people are to one another.
The heart of this novel does truly lie within its conversations. Many of the scenes open in the setting of a 
therapist's office which seems to establish a consistent precedent: an encouragement for honest conversation. 
Gottlieb is brilliant in the way she handles vulnerability. It’s a privilege to watch the delicate process in which 
she shapes her words and the imprint of self-reflection that they leave in their wake. Her internal monologue 
feels wonderfully human; its transparency increases the trust audiences feel that they can place in her. Some of 
her most impactful observations are her most obvious, but it’s the exact type of obviousness that the mind and 
heart crave. There are just things we need to hear being said, or in this case read, to pull them to the forefront 
of our mindfulness. Conversation gives us these insights to absorb and — when placed into the setting of ther -
apy — becomes the tool to reach what Gottlieb emphasizes as the most vital piece of life: human connection. 
If there were only one reason to pick up this novel, it would be to serve as a reminder to cherish all human 
connections that exist within your sphere and anticipate all that will come. There is nothing more human 
than emotions and the desire to connect, and what better way to feel human is there than to talk to someone? 
Grade: A-
Release Date: April 2, 2019
The Unbearble Weight 
of  Massive Talent Review
Screen legend Nicolas Cage shines in the role he was born to play … himself, where he rediscovers 
friendship, family, and his love for acting.
In one scene from “/T_he Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent,” Nick Cage is led into 
a room that is dedicated to his entire career, /f_illed with memorabilia and a “grotesque” 
/f_igure of himself from the movie “Face/Oﬀ.” When Nick stares at himself in disbelief and 
amazement before oﬀering to pay $20,000 for it, I couldn’t help but feel the same way 
while watching this /f_ilm. 
We follow a /f_ictionalized version of Nicolas Cage who is creatively stumped and sad -
dled with debt, accepting an invitation to be a guest at a dodgy superfan’s birthday party 
for $1 million. If you are a fan of Cage’s /f_ilmography, you will greatly enjoy the /f_ilm’s many 
references to Cage’s most notable movies including “Face/Oﬀ,” “Con Air,” “National Trea -
sure,” “Mandy,” and even “/T_he Croods: A New Age.” Anyone familiar with Cage’s proli/f_ic 
career knows he’s capable of doing any genre, and those skills shine in this /f_ilm. Direc -
tor Tom Gormican creates an interesting blend of the action, comedy, romance, and spy 
genres in this /f_ilm and Cage expertly navigates this to bring us the best experience. Cage 
builds upon all of his previous performances and gives a genuine performance of himself 
that is heartfelt but also playful. 
Cage’s chemistry with co-star Pedro Pascal, who plays superfan Javi Gutierrez, is very 
Photo courtesy of Scribe UK. 
Photo courtesy of Slant Magazine. Jonathan Shlesinger  /gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Kamiah Johnson /gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00126/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
enjoyable to watch. Although this is their /f_irst /f_ilm together and their onscreen charac -
ters have only known each other for maybe two days, it feels like they have been best friends 
for years. Cage and Pascal’s energy bounces oﬀ each other in a way that makes every joke hit, 
especially in the scene where they are running away from people who they think are spies 
and Nick has to dramatically leave Javi behind with a touching goodbye. /T_he scenes where 
the two of them are together steal the show — and I mean steal the show. /T_hey playfully dip 
their toes in the romantic comedy genre with scenes and shots that feel like you are watch -
ing an indie rom-com. /T_he /f_ilm then switches genres and turns into an action-adventure spy 
/f_ilm when Nick is recruited by the CIA to investigate Javi, who might be an international 
crime boss. Although we do get some comedic scenes of Cage trying his best to be a spy, 
including a scene with CIA agent Vivian (Tiﬀany Haddish) trying to guide Nick through a 
mission while he fails spectacularly, it takes up time that could have been spent developing 
Nick and Javi’s relationship more. /T_his is an issue that falls prey to the /f_ilm’s overall editing, 
which could have been better paced to give more time to /f_lesh out Nick's relationship with 
not only Javi, but his ex-wife (Sharon Horgan) and daughter (Lily Mo Sheen). His family is 
what grounds him, separating his career from the real world, and adding more screen time 
for them could have made us care more about them. 
/T_he /f_ilm never takes itself too seriously, and just throws everything at the wall with its 
self-awareness. /T_he movie constantly references itself in many diﬀerent ways that get dan -
gerously close to overbearing. /T_he meta commentary about the /f_ilm industry works better 
when it is subtle, rather than when it is in your face. /T_he /f_ilm also includes the addition of 
Nicky (also played by Cage), a /f_igment of Nick’s imagination who physically resembles a 
younger Cage. Nicky periodically shows up to plague Nick's mind about his career choices 
and make fun of himself. While this gives Cage a chance to portray his energetic younger 
self and do wacky things like kiss and smack himself, it doesn’t do much for Nick’s charac -
ter arc. Nicky’s presence sometimes felt oﬀ, and if removed, the /f_ilm would have roughly 
remained the same, which is interesting since the character of Nicky is what drew Cage to 
the project.
“/T_he Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent” is a rollercoaster of genres, emotions and 
action packed scenes that overall make for a wonderfully fun experience. Cage has so much 
fun portraying himself in a way that — funnily enough — couldn’t be further from who he 
is in real life. It is a great homage to Cage and his career, and will leave you wanting to watch 
his best movies again. 
Grade: B
Directed by: Tom Gormican
Starring: Nicolas Cage, Pedro Pascal, Sharon Horgan, Ike Barinholtz
Rated: R
Released: April 22, 2022
TV Recap: "Tokyo Vice" 
Episodes 4-5
“Tokyo Vice” raises the stakes with shi/f_ting relationships, surprising backstories, and a potential gang 
war.
When we last saw reporter Jake Adelstein (Ansel Elgort), he was being forced away 
from the company of his work friends by some no-nonsense Yakuza members. Luckily, 
the latest episode reveals that he’s not in any serious danger — at least, not yet. In a closed-
door meeting with Chihara-kai gang head Hitoshi Ishida (Shun Sugata), Adelstein learns 
that his investigative abilities and police connections are valuable in the underworld. He’s 
given an ultimatum: uncover a mole within the Chihara-kai gang or face Ishida’s cronies. 
Since his focus remains investigating the predatory loan organization behind a number 
of recent suicides, Adelstein asks Detective Katagiri to help him ful/f_ill Ishida’s request. At 
the same time, another cop sows doubt about Katagiri’s motives, leaving Adelstein with 
second thoughts about who he can trust. 
Episode four, titled “I Want It /T_hat Way” in reference to Sato’s comical misunderstand -
ing of the hit Backstreet Boys song, is all about shi/f_ting relationships. We know who the 
players are and something of the world they’re in. /T_he question becomes what will hap -
pen when they collide, be that in a cooperative, violent, or even romantic way. Sato and 
Adelstein’s bromance continues to deliver some of the best chemistry in the series. A/f_ter 
his meeting with Ishida, Sato drives Adelstein home while the aforementioned Backstreet 
Boys song plays. /T_he duo laugh over Sato’s strange interpretation of the lyrics and debate 
NSYNC’s inferiority. Later, they spend a wild night around Tokyo, picking up prostitutes 
at a high-octane nightclub. /T_hey end their romp at a fancy restaurant where Adelstein 
oﬀers his card to a high-ranking gangster, despite Sato’s warnings. Unfortunately, their 
opposing occupations make a bromance breakup seem more than likely. Hopefully, such 
a breakup wouldn’t reduce the amount of screentime for Sato (Shô Kasamatsu). /T_here’s 
something about Kasamatsu’s facial expressions that makes them feel especially vulner -
able. He doesn’t have to say much to take over a scene, making him the perfect foil to the 
energetic, /f_lighty performance Elgort gives. 
Beyond the bromance, Adelstein also makes progress with his editor at the paper, Emi 
Maruyama (Rinko Kikuchi), convincing her at last that his story is worth pursuing. It’s 
entertaining to watch Maruyama and Adelstein con their way into valuable information 
with Maruyama pretending to be desperately broke so she can get eyes on the terms of the 
predatory loan. We even get a brief mention of her backstory — she can speak Korean and 
has family from Jinhae. Perhaps more notably, Maruyama illustrates what it’s like to be a 
female journalist in the corrupt space that Adelstein navigates with relative ease. When 
she tries to investigate a story about a string of murdered women, she must suﬀer being 
sexually harassed by a detective in order to /f_ind out more information. It’s a stark contrast 
to the relaxed family dinners Adelstein shares with Detective Katagiri. Like at the news -
paper and within the Yakuza, the police force is another boys’ club that Maruyama and 
other women struggle against.
Episode /f_ive, ominously titled “Everybody Pays,” gives us a peek into Samantha’s past. 
Before she entertained businessmen and Yakuza at the hostess club, she was… a mission -
ary from Utah? Unexpected as it is, Rachel Keller believably portrays Samantha’s innocent 
younger self: a dutiful Christian excited to bring the gospel across the globe, and ultimate -
ly attracted to the more secular lifestyle she could have in Japan. Unfortunately, Samantha 
decided to rob the church of around 40 grand in order to set herself up in Tokyo. Her fear 
of extradition and having to face the church is understandable, but I’ll admit to having 
a hard time seeing her as justi/f_ied in this situation. It’s not that the show suggests what 
she did was right, but the way she is unmotivated to make any reparations for her crime 
cooled her character to me. I can’t tell if the show wants us to continue rooting for her to 
get away with the the/f_t. When compared to the Yakuza members’ crimes, she looks better 
in comparison—but so would almost anyone who isn’t a gangster. 
Unfortunately for Samantha, an unscrupulous private investigator is onto her. To 
make matters worse, her boss at the hostess club is clued in on her plans to start her own 
place. Facing enemies on multiple fronts, Samantha turns a tense exchange with Sato into 
a steamy hookup. /T_he show leaves it unclear if she’s truly falling for him, or if she thinks 
she can get something out of him by playing into his desires. It’s hard to take the idea of 
reciprocity out of the equation of constant exchange — of information, of lives, and of 
love. Few actions in Tokyo’s underworld are not quid pro quo. Even Adelstein falls victim 
to this, deciding to use Ishida’s help to advance his investigation as a reward for exposing 
the mole within his organization. 
Without spoiling who the mole is, the reveal leads to one of two riveting, bloody con -
/f_licts between Yakuza members in this week’s episodes. /T_he tensions that began brewing 
at the beginning of the season are /f_inally boiling over, and it’s not just the Yakuza that 
are being burned. Adelstein must endure the guilt of one of his sources dying. Samantha 
must pay a fee to Sato if she hopes to get her club up and running. Katagiri, still impec -
cably commanding and complex as portrayed by Ken Watanabe, tries to put out the /f_ires 
he can. Yet, a war between the modern, self-assured Tozawa gang and the struggling-to-
adapt Chihara-kan gang seems inevitable; Katagiri’s peacekeeping eﬀorts notwithstand -
ing. Speaking of “peacekeeping,” I found it compelling when Katagiri used violence as a 
tool to uncover the mole. Yes, he’s operating in a corrupt underworld where the means of 
violence seem justi/f_ied by the end of peace, but I can’t help feeling that he’s going to make 
himself no more respectable than the gangsters. I don’t think he’s quite crossed the hori -
zon yet, but he’s toeing the line of immorality. His character faces an interesting dilemma: 
is it more ethical to maintain the status quo by unsavory methods or to allow things to go 
to hell and try to lawfully manage the a/f_termath?
Episode /f_ive ends on a bloody note. /T_he show might have crawled its way to a genre-
worthy /f_ight scene, but the payoﬀ is worth it. /T_here are swords, hand-to-hand combat, and 
even what appears to be a familiar face from the “Meicho Shimbun” in the middle of the 
mess. A/f_ter such a revved-up climax, it’s hard to believe there are only three episodes le/f_t 
in the /f_irst season. Will that be a suﬃcient amount of time to continue escalating — and 
perhaps /f_inally resolving — the story’s many threads? We can only hope so. Otherwise, 
“Tokyo Vice” had better be renewed for a second season, or risk leaving too many ques -
tions unanswered.
Photo courtesy of New Y ork Times. 
Grade: A
Created by: J.T. Rogers 
Starring: Ansel Elgort, Ken Watanabe, Rachel Keller
Release date: April 14, 2022
Rated: TV-MABailey Bujnosek /gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00126/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
The Revelations of  Creative Writing
By eunice kim
Staff WriterStudent-run organization, “Revellations,” finds their members discovering their own epiphanies in writing and 
making these revelations known through their online posts and publication as a whole.
The colleges that are spread out 
on UC San Diego grounds carry 
some official writing-oriented or -
ganizations for aspiring writers or 
simply the curious student scouting 
for clubs to join.
“Revellations” — which has no 
affiliation with a religious organi -
zation — is one such official writ -
ing publication in Revelle College. 
They declare that they are the old -
est student writing publication on 
campus. In fact, they started out as 
a newspaper a few years after UCSD 
was first established in 1960 before 
fading out over the years. They be -
gan to get more heavily involved 
around 2017 through publishing vi -
sual and written pieces online. 
The reason behind the choice of 
the name “Revellations” is a mys -
tery. The name might stem from 
the revelations that occur during 
the  writing process. Overall, it’s a 
charming pun.
Reese Welch, a senior, reflects 
on her experience thus far as chair 
of “Revellations.” She is open to 
on-the-spot conversations and 
is warmly conversational, never 
breaking eye contact or flow. She 
takes on ice breakers without hesi -
tation and when she talks, she uses 
grand hand gestures while delving 
into the publication that she dubs as 
one of the hidden gems on campus. 
While Revelle College funds 
the publication, students from any 
college are  welcome to join. Welch 
joined the publication in 2018 as a 
freshman after seeing them adver -
tise through tabling on campus. It 
was advertised as a creative writing 
publication, which drew her in im -
mediately. As a creative writing mi -
nor, she said that writing occupied 
all of her free time and she relished 
that this platform functioned as a 
safe space for her.
Though Welch likes short sto -
ries, many members also focus on 
rhyming in poetry or free-form ma -
terial. Others do photography. Some 
try to describe normal experiences 
and sounds as well as engage in 
horror and interactive themes. For 
instance, one section of the publica -tion in early 2019 called “The 
Fog” was interactive, with in -
dividuals being able to choose 
which route to take around cam -
pus amidst a foggy environment 
by choosing from a set of links. 
It’s akin to the Twine platform, 
where you create a full story that 
others follow along by clicking a 
pathway. These kinds of pieces 
are also unique for each reader, 
which makes for an active and 
personalized experience. 
“It fosters a community of 
writers … gives us the space to 
brainstorm … to go and be cre -
ative,” Welch told The UCSD 
Guardian.
The organization puts em -
phasis on writing out of a desire 
to write above anything else. 
Welch explicitly says that they’re 
not trying to sell anything. 
They do have printed pam -
phlets, which may return at 
the end of this quarter or the 
next, along with a tabling event 
called “The Best of Revellations,” 
which is composed of poems or 
story snippets from each writer. 
The members used to pass 
out the pamphlets once a quar -
ter in Revelle Plaza along with 
donuts. Physical publications 
would always be reserved for the 
end of the quarter as a celebra -
tion of the members’ hard work.
But nothing has been strict 
about the format: the types of 
writings or the number of pieces 
have never been capped or fixed, 
and writers are encouraged to 
write as much as they want.
There is a neat balance be -
tween discerning the need to 
write and going on your own 
schedule of creative output. 
Here, the team embraces the 
latter. Welch believes that there 
aren’t many organizations like 
“Revellations,” with a fixation 
on creative writing sans the 
strict deadlines. 
In fact, she compares it to a 
creative writing class on campus 
without the daunting grade as -
pect. Works from creative work -
shop classes are sometimes even 
submission pieces for “Revella -
tions.”“[‘Revellations’] fosters a com -
munity for creative writing. It 
gives us a space to give each other 
feedback, brainstorm, things like 
that,” Welch said. “It’s incredibly 
validating and it’s also just re -
ally fun. We’re such a small org 
— we’re very much like a group of 
friends.”
As chair of the publication 
since her second year, Welch is 
familiar with the logistics of the 
team. She directs the meetings 
and helps post on their Facebook 
page and Medium platform; in 
the latter, they post their works 
on Mondays, Wednesdays, and 
Fridays. 
However, there are some chal -
lenges. Welch calls the Medium 
site hostile sometimes; the dif -
ficulty in indenting makes for a 
hard time displaying the works, 
particularly experimental poetry 
that has intentional spacing and 
overall formatting. They humor -
ously bypass the issue sometimes 
by screenshotting their work and 
posting that instead. 
Along with this challenge, 
“Revellations” had an online year 
with its own ups and downs due 
to COVID-19. Consistency was 
especially hard to maintain, and 
Welch acknowledges this.
“COVID was a really difficult 
time for everyone,” Welch said. 
“I myself have slipped with the 
online format, which I do regret. 
[But] I can’t be too hard on my -
self. I can’t be too hard on others.”
This quarter, they are publish -
ing solely on the Medium site. The 
effects from COVID still linger — 
weekly meetings will probably 
stay in Zoom format until fall 
quarter. 
Otherwise, Welch said that 
she has been very happy with her 
team at “Revellations.” Welch is 
in charge of being an intermedi -
ary voice between her and her 
supervisor, and is a leader in her 
own right. 
During meetings, the envi -
ronment is just as liberal as the 
writing is. Welch starts the meet -
ing by discussing current events 
and catching up with everyone’s 
days. Sometimes, they end up just chatting loosely about whatever 
comes to mind or having fun, en -
gaging group activities. She remi -
nisces on the past when they used 
to do quickwrite “flash writing,” 
in which they quickly dive into a 
prompt and write about it. 
Then, they jump into the pieces 
that are ready, which go into the 
Google Drive. Each piece in the 
drive gets verbal feedback. Mem -
bers take turns giving general feed -
back in a workshop format and 
engaging in marginalia for the 
work–but never directly editing, 
which is considered impolite.
Marginalia consists of read -
ers writing notes in the margins 
of books or documents; while it al -
lows for you to be actively engaged 
with the material in literature, it 
also allows you  to also make “tan -
gible” commentary that allows for 
discussion with others to arise. 
When the works are ready to be 
published, the writers can publish 
onto the Medium site. But this is 
not mandatory; many works can 
stay in the Google Drive for per -
sonal viewing and sharing with 
other members.
The goal ultimately is to foster 
creative writers. The world is your 
oyster; you can explore mediums 
such as poetry, short stories, and 
nonfiction essays and stick to what 
they know or branch out. The space 
is serene and intimate — any cre -
ative writing is welcome and wor -
thy there. 
Katie Clemmer writes for “Rev -
ellations” and is taking a work -
shop writing class on campus to 
write more on sci-fi and fantastical 
themes. She appreciates the best 
of both worlds in fiction and non-
fiction; to her, the realistic and the 
fantastical intertwine for the two 
genres. Regarding her work for the 
publication, she focuses on per -
sonal or political topics people can 
connect to.
“I have a lot of poetry talking 
about universal suffering or spe -
cific events like the femicides that 
take place on the border between 
the U.S. and Mexico or even the 
Capitol Hill attack, etc. For that, I 
do use some fantastical elements or 
perhaps metaphors but they have never really been categorized in my 
mind as works of fiction,” Clemmer 
told The Guardian.
Welch and some of the other 
members write for a possible fu -
ture career in writing, while others 
write as a hobby. 
“Sometimes you don’t want 
to write news stuff,” Welch said. 
“Sometimes you don’t want to write 
satire. Sometimes you just want to 
be able to publish just a random 
poem you wrote on a whim one 
night or when you were deep in 
your feelings.”
After Welch graduates, Rhian -
non Scray, a third-year student, 
will be chair. Scray joined “Revel -
lations” a couple of years ago and 
wishes to recruit more people be -
fore becoming chair, but as long as 
the team she works with is sincerely 
dedicated, she doesn’t mind the 
size of less than 10 members. Aside 
from some nerves with learning 
about publishing and the techni -
calities, Scray expressed her excite -
ment to work with more members. 
“We see diverse types of writing 
[here]. “Lately, a lot of us have been 
gravitating towards poetry,” Scray 
said. “For me, I’ve been doing a lot 
of love poems. Not romantic po -
ems. Appreciation poems.”
As of now, the team is headed 
by a few women who have consis -
tently been a part of it for at least a 
year, though this wasn’t the case in 
the past when there was more bal -
ance between men and women.  
Still, Welch said that she wants 
more pieces published, which re -
quires some strictness. Again, the 
beauty is letting the writers write 
as they wish and feeling secure in 
the close knit, niche community 
they have built with one another. 
Similar to Scray, increasing the or -
ganization’s size isn’t necessarily a 
priority, though a few more mem -
bers would be beneficial. 
While some point to writing 
about trauma or stressful topics as 
a damaging thing, there is merit in 
being aware overall of writing to 
heal.
Read more 
@uscdguardian.org!
Photo courtesy of Skylar Kang for UCSD Guardian. LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Dear Humanities 
Majors,
UC San Diego is one of the 
biggest research institutions in 
the world, known for its biology, 
engineering, and computer sci -
ence programs. Students from all 
over come here to study different 
STEM-related fields, hoping that 
their hard work (and the prestige 
of the school) will help them get 
high-paying and fulfilling jobs. 
Looking at it from a literature 
major perspective, it all seems a 
bit daunting. 
You’ve probably heard the 
same questions that I have. A lit -
erature major? At UCSD? But…
why? People always question my 
dedication to the field, my interest 
in it, and even my future job pros -
pects. I once overheard a girl ask 
her friend, “who would ever be 
a lit major?” She was not talking 
about me, but I still had to resist 
chiming in. 
The funny thing is that be -
ing a literature major was never 
really my plan. I applied as one 
because I liked writing, but I had 
always assumed that my final de -
gree would be in something else. 
When people asked me what I 
planned on studying, I would say 
“Oh, I’m a literature major but 
that’s probably going to change.” I 
had never felt a strong connection 
to the subject, seeing it as more of 
a placeholder before I discovered 
what I really wanted to do. 
But over time, I began to real -
ize that graduating with a degree 
in literature might actually be my 
final goal. I really like all of the 
classes that I have taken so far and 
I’ve heard that they only get bet -
ter from here. There are not any 
other majors that I would rather 
pursue. Unfortunately, the more 
set on this path I become, the 
more doubts appear.
In all honesty, I do not know 
what I’m going to do with a litera -
ture degree. My parents always 
told me that with a degree in the 
humanities, you can do every -
thing and you can do nothing, 
a sentiment that is not ideal for 
someone as indecisive as me. No 
matter how much I rationalize 
or look up jobs or make plans for 
grad school, there is always this 
voice telling me to choose some -
thing more practical with a clear 
career path. Sometimes those 
voices are in my head, sometimes 
they come from other people. 
I don’t mind when people 
make fun of my major. When it Samantha Phan   Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Annie Spratton on Unsplash. comes to friends I know it is not 
serious, and that I can always 
make fun of their majors in re -
turn. But every once in a while 
I get reminded that people with 
other majors are moving so much 
faster than I am. STEM majors 
know what jobs they want when 
they graduate. They know how 
they are going to pay their bills. 
They are cramming for finals 
week when I sit off to the side with 
my silly little book, making my 
silly little highlights. And while 
some of these may be exaggera -
tions or flat out false, it is how I 
feel. 
The work you do as a lit -
erature major, or even as a hu -
manities major, is vastly differ -
ent — though not necessarily 
easier — than what you study in 
hard science or math. And with 
a school that is mostly STEM 
majors, that difference can feel 
overwhelming. I cannot help but 
feel that, when everyone around 
me is talking about clicker ques -
tions or MATLAB, I am falling 
behind and making the wrong 
decision. That once we graduate, 
everyone else will know what they 
are doing while I am still figuring 
things out.
I guess what I am trying to say 
is that being a humanities ma -
jor at a majority STEM school, 
at least in my experience, comes 
with a lot of doubt. It is hard and 
it’s scary to see everyone around 
you doing work that is so much 
more tangible than yours. It is 
difficult to have a major that does 
not apply to the job market well 
while everyone else around you 
does. This also applies to people 
who are not a part of the humani -
ties division, but still have a lot of 
doubts about their future. 
What helped me was realizing 
that college is not a competition. 
I am trying not to worry about 
what everyone else is doing, and 
what everyone else is studying 
because my path is going to be 
different anyway. All of our paths 
are going to be different. Nobody 
knows what they are doing every 
step of the way, even though from 
here it seems like they might. So 
relax, and take a deep breath. Ev -
erything is (probably) going to be 
fine. 
Signing off,
Samantha The Search for the Perfect Chocolate 
Chip Cookie
Summer Noel  Contributing Writer
For years, I’ve been search -
ing for the perfect chocolate chip 
cookie. One that’s ooey and gooey 
with a slight crunch on the out -
side, and doesn’t just taste good 
the first day but somehow man -
ages to keep that “freshly baked” 
flavor even days later. To me, 
chocolate chip cookies scream 
nostalgia. They’re the easy, go-
to cookie that nearly everyone’s 
mom and grandma makes for 
them when they need cheering 
up. So why is it so hard to find a 
recipe that’s actually good? And 
how can they all claim to be the 
best? 
Well, this past week I tried 
three different recipes to see 
which one will take the cake (or 
cookie) and go home a winner. 
And even though I woke up at 3 
a.m. with a stomach ache, it was 
totally worth it.
Ina Garten’s Giant Crinkled 
Chocolate Chip Cookies
If you grew up with a Food 
Network obsessed mom, then 
chances are you know this name. 
Ina Garten, aka Barefoot Con -
tessa, was my mom’s absolute 
favorite cook. I remember walk -
ing into the kitchen after hours 
of homework to find my mom 
standing directly in front of the 
TV to watch Garten’s every move. 
So when I saw that she came out 
with a new cookbook and includ -
ed a chocolate chip cookie recipe, 
I knew I had to try it.
I was especially drawn to this 
recipe because it includes steps on 
how to make them look like those 
giant gourmet cookies that you 
get at restaurants or fancy hotels. 
I wanted to make my cookies both 
delicious and picture perfect. So, 
I did as the Barefoot Contessa in -
structed and slammed the cookie 
sheet on the counter every 3 min -
utes, sending my cat running and 
my dog giving me the evil eye for 
disturbing her nap. 
And let me tell you, it was 
not worth it. At first, I thought I 
found the perfect cookie. They 
were soft and just a little gooey with a slight crunch on the out -
side, but then the next day they 
were hard as rocks. While the 
slamming technique definitely 
worked to make them look like 
the perfect cookie, they definitely 
didn’t taste like it the next day. 
However, after warming them 
up in the microwave, they were 
nearly as soft as they were when 
I first baked them, but you have 
to eat fast since they’ll harden as 
they cool.
Rating: 7/10
Katiebird Bakes’ Banana 
Oatmeal Breakfast Cookies
Now, I know what you’re 
thinking. A banana oatmeal 
cookie isn’t the same as a normal 
chocolate chip cookie. And yeah, 
you’re right, but I wanted to try 
this recipe so that we could get a 
well-rounded perspective on all 
the different kinds of cookies out 
there, which includes vegan ones. 
So, for all of my vegan friends out 
there, this one goes out to you!
Not only was this recipe easy, 
but it also tasted amazing! You 
basically just mash up the ba -
nanas, throw everything else in 
the bowl, and then mix it all up. 
It can’t get much easier than that. 
The only part that was slightly 
more complicated was when I had 
to blend 1 cup of oatmeal into a 
powder to make oatmeal flour. 
Overall, this step is easy. Throw 
it into a blender and then, POOF, 
you have oatmeal flour. If you 
don’t have a blender, then you can 
probably just substitute for nor -
mal flour.
I can’t exactly compare it to 
the other cookies because it is dif -
ferent, but they definitely put up 
a good fight, and I can say that 
it’s now my go-to for an easy des -
sert. Even though the texture is 
completely different because of 
the oatmeal, these cookies are 
still soft to the point of practi -
cally melting in your mouth. 
Plus, that teaspoon of cinnamon 
really gives them that little bit of 
something special that keeps you 
wanting more.
Note: Be sure to check out the ingredients on your chocolate 
chips! Some contain milk. Dark 
chocolate is the best option to 
ensure your chocolate chips are 
truly vegan.
Rating: 8.5/10
The Baking ChocolaTess’ Soft 
Batch Chocolate Chip Cookies! 
Pure Nirvana
This recipe is an old family fa -
vorite. We used to make it when 
I was younger, and, based on my 
memory, they always came out 
ooey and gooey, but that could’ve 
just been my nostalgic brain play -
ing tricks on me. So I put it to the 
test.
Pretty much every cookie rec -
ipe you encounter will tell you to 
make the butter (usually mixed 
with the sugar) light and fluffy. 
I’ve been making cookies for 
years and I still don’t know what 
this means, but I just blend it 
with my electric mixer and hope 
for the best. Aside from this step, 
which you’ll run into with basi -
cally any cookie, these were easy, 
basic cookies. 
And that’s just it. They were 
pretty much your basic chocolate 
chip cookie, but when it comes 
to a chocolate chip cookie, basic 
is all you need. While they were 
better than Ina Garten’s, they still 
didn’t have that ooey-gooey tex -
ture I was looking for. They also 
definitely weren’t the prettiest 
cookies. But what they lacked in 
beauty, they made up for in taste 
and the fact that they were able 
to retain more of that soft, freshly 
baked flavor than Garten’s ver -
sion. 
Rating: 9/10
After trying 3 different reci -
pes, the search continues. Even 
though I didn’t find the perfect 
chocolate chip cookie, I got pretty 
close, and even found a new go-
to cookie for when I’m craving 
something sweet. But give them 
a try and let us know what you 
think by sending us an email 
at: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org! 
Maybe you’ll even have better 
luck than I did!
Image courtesy of Jason Jarrach on Unsplash. 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
tritonoutfitters
shop online at to.ucsd.eduYour outlet to campus cultureBy Priscilla Anne Puno 
Lifestyle Co-editor
The post-spring break limbo 
had hit and I was not prepared 
for the quarter ahead of me. 
Facing my last 10 weeks full of 
lectures, books, and discussion 
posts, the senioritis had spread 
throughout my body starting 
from the top of my head to the 
tips of my toes. 
So there I was, sitting in 
lecture mindlessly scrolling 
through my photo-dumped, 
ad-filled Instagram feed. Until I 
saw it: “Club 90’s Presents: One 
Direction Night”. My body froze 
and the excitement took over. 
Now if you’re anything like 
me, pink-colored walls plastered 
with Niall Horan posters, I was 
in a state of nostalgic shock. 
I ferociously texted my friends 
and reeled them right in. Quickly 
adding the ticket to my cart, I 
was prepared for what would be 
the highlight of my quarter.
Fast forward to the night 
of the event, I blasted One 
Direction’s entire discography as 
I winged out my eyeliner with 
precision. I then scurried off into 
my closet attempting to find a 
little black dress that would fit 
the occasion, but simply settled 
for a simple blue dress and 
some new Doc Martens (rookie 
mistake). The familiar sound of 
my text tone went off notifying 
my friend was outside and it was 
time to go.
Located in the heart of 
downtown San Diego, “Club 
90’s” takes place at the House 
of Blues. If you’re familiar 
with downtown, parking is 
an absolute nightmare with 
no sight of street parking on 
a lively Saturday night, so we 
settled for the reliant and sturdy parking structure that cost us... 
40 US dollars. Now utilizing the 
parking structures is always a 
last resort, but we quickly split 
the cost, parked the car, and ran 
to the venue.
We were shortly met with 
a line that wrapped around 
the block, but luckily the line 
went by fast and we were in! We 
dashed down the stairs into the 
main room and were met with 
an energetic crowd. As dramatic 
as it sounds, I felt at home.
Screaming the last few 
lines of “Diana”, we caught our 
breaths and said our hellos to 
more friends that attended. The 
crowd was just as lively as the 
busy streets outside and I was 
preparing for the night ahead of 
me. Attempting to acclimate to 
the environment, my friend and 
I quickly ran up to the bar to 
get some drinks and went back 
down the stairwell. 
As soon as we got back 
down to the main floor, the 
stereos boomed my favorite, 
and what I think is, the best 
One Direction song out of their 
whole discography: “Nobody 
Compares”. I screamed my 
heart out and the nostalgia took 
over my body. Then suddenly I 
was transported back into my 
childhood bedroom, searching 
up “Nobody Compares lyrics” 
in the Youtube search bar. 
Snapping back into reality, we 
quickly befriended the very 
nice girls right next to us as 
we simultaneously sang the 
lyrics until the very last note. 
The comradery within the venue 
was unmatched, assuming we all 
lived the same life in 2014.
The DJ then switched up the 
tone of the crowd as he started 
playing “Night Changes”. This 
was a time for me to observe 
those around me and of course, see what people were wearing. I 
spotted familiar old tour t-shirts 
and inside jokes plastered across 
their bodies and couldn’t help 
but smile. 
We then said our goodbyes to 
the girls next to us and met up 
with more friends to continue 
dancing the night away.
Of course, it was a One 
Direction night, but the DJ also 
blasted many other songs that 
walked us through memory 
lanes, such as Taylor Swift’s 
“Love Story”, and even the 
Hannah Montana theme song. 
He then proceeded to play 
the boys’ solo songs which of 
course made an uproar within 
the crowd. Depending on 
which artist received the most 
applause, he would continue to 
play that member’s solo songs. 
Even before playing, there was 
a consensus on who would win. 
And that was, of course, Harry 
Styles. Blasting new and old songs off of Harry’s discography, 
we then continued back with 
our regularly scheduled 
programming.
The crowd began to die down 
as time passed and pockets of 
space formed as people started 
to leave. Making our way to the 
front, we began requesting more 
iconic songs for the DJ to play. 
I scrambled to grab my phone 
to pull up the Snapchat app, 
capturing a plain black screen 
and typing the words “Rock Me” 
to further fulfill my desire of 
completing the Take Me Home 
album. Our requests were seen 
and executed perfectly as we 
continued throughout our night 
interacting with other fellow 
Directioners. Sweaty bodies 
continued to sway on the dance 
floor as our favorite songs blared 
through the speakers while we 
moved and sang in a trance.
Snapping back into reality, 
I checked my phone as a disheartening “1 AM” displayed 
on my screen. Catching our 
breaths, my friend and I made 
our way toward the water 
station to wind down the night. 
Contemplating my poor choice 
of shoes, we decided it was time 
to leave the dancing bodies 
around us. 
I took one last glance at the 
swarm of bodies and realized I 
missed the rush that came with 
attending events, no matter how 
big or small the occasion would 
be.
We made our way back up 
what felt like a never-ending 
flight of stairs, as we scurried 
back to our whopping $40 
parking spot. 
Glimpsing at the flashing 
lights of the venue sign one 
last time, I knew I left with 
an abundance of midnight 
memories.I Went to a One Direction Night and This is What Happened...
Image courtesy of Antoine J on Unsplash.PHOTO  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Photo EssayThe annual Warren Live Concert took place in PC West Ballroom on 
April 8th. This marks the the first time the live event returned in-person 
since the pandemic. The headlining artist was ASTN while artist JamieBoy 
opened.
Photos courtesy of Gauri Swarup. 12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs UC Riverside
at Steve Scott Invitational
at Steve Scott Invitational
at UC Riverside
vs UC RiversideUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Track
Track
Softball
Baseball6:30PM
All Day
All Day
1PM
2PM4/29
4/29
4/30
4/30
4/30
By Luke Reyes
Staff Writer
UC San Diego women’s 
water polo (20–11, 3–3 Big 
West) defeated UC Davis (16–
12, 3–3 Big West) in a double-
overtime match in the Big 
West conference tournament 
quarterfinals round on 
Thursday, 12–11, before losing 
a close semifinal of their own 
to the hometown University of 
Hawaii to end their season.
The Big West Tournament 
was hosted in Honolulu with 
UCSD entering as the fifth-seeded team in the conference. 
The quarterfinals opened with 
UC Davis jumping out to an 
early 3–0 lead over UCSD with 
40 seconds remaining in the 
first period. Despite the slow 
start on both ends of the ball, 
the Tritons put a stop to the dry 
spell just before the conclusion 
of the first, with a goal scored 
by graduate utility player Taylor 
Onstott, making the score 3–1 
after one. 
Onstott’s goal proved to 
be the spark that the UCSD 
Tritons needed for their offense 
to get going, as they were able 
to score 4 goals the following 
period, outscoring the UC Davis Aggies 4–2. The second period 
saw scoring contributions 
from senior utility player Holly 
Maine, sophomore utility 
player Annika Arroyo, and two 
goals were scored by freshman 
attacker Courtney Okumara, 
knotting up the score at 5–5 
after two. 
UCSD’s strong second period 
performance set the game up 
for an exciting and competitive 
second half of play, as both 
teams did a great job of playing 
strong defense and responding 
on the offensive end when 
either side scored. In the third 
period, Okumara added to her 
strong offensive performance by tacking on a couple more 
goals of her own, and Arroyo 
contributed by scoring another 
goal in the period. The third 
concluded with the Tritons 
scoring a total of 3 goals and 
the Aggies scoring 3 as well, 
including 2 goals from their 
junior center Noelle Wijnbelt, 
who had a strong performance 
with 5 total goals scored. 
Similar to the third period, 
the fourth consisted of another 
evenly matched display of tight 
defense and timely scoring 
from UCSD and UC Davis. The 
Tritons received more scoring 
contributions from Onstott 
and Arroyo, as well as a late 
goal scored by freshman utility 
player Lucia Doak, giving the 
Tritons an 11–10 lead with 
1:37 remaining in regulation. 
The Aggies responded quickly 
with a goal from their senior 
attacker Emily Aikema, tying 
the game with 25 seconds left 
and sending it into overtime. 
After a scoreless first 
overtime period, the Tritons 
were able to snap the game’s 
scoring drought in the second 
overtime period thanks to a 
last-second penalty shot attempt 
resulting in a goal by Arroyo, 
ending the game and sealing a 
12–11 victory for the Tritons. 
UCSD’s graduate goalkeeper 
Bennett Bugelli finished the 
match with 11 saves. This win 
marked UCSD’s first ever Big 
West tournament victory, as 
well as their first win against 
UC Davis this season. 
Friday’s game consisted of 
the Tritons taking on the top-
seeded University of Hawai’i 
(16–6, 7–0 Big West) in the 
semifinals round. In the first 
period Hawaii came out strong, 
scoring 5 goals to UCSD’s 3. 
Much of Hawaii’s early scoring 
came from their freshman utility player Morgan McDowall, who 
finished the first period with 3 
goals scored. UCSD’s Annika 
Arroyo, Courtney Okumara, 
and Lucia Doak picked up 
where they left off in their prior 
match, each scoring 1 goal in 
the first period. The second 
and third periods were very 
similar to the first, with Hawaii 
outscoring UCSD in each of 
these periods. In the second, the 
Hawaii Rainbow Wahine scored 
4 goals, including another from 
McDowall. Hawaii scored an 
additional 4 goals in the third 
period, making their lead 13–8 
after three. 
Although the Tritons 
had to make up quite a bit of 
ground heading into the fourth 
period, they showed resilience 
as they clawed back to narrow 
down Hawaii’s lead to just 1 
with 27 seconds remaining in 
regulation following a late goal 
by Taylor Onstott, her third of 
the game. Shortly after Onstott’s 
goal, Hawaii’s sophomore 
attacker Lucia Gomez de la 
Puente secured their victory 
by answering right back with a 
goal of her own with 21 seconds 
remaining in the game. Hawaii 
defeated UCSD by a score of 
14–12, eliminating the Tritons 
from the Big West tournament.  
Despite coming up short 
in the tournament, UCSD’s 
final game featured another 
competitive match, concluding 
an overall solid season for the 
Tritons. The 2022 Big West 
tournament concluded on 
Saturday with the No. 2 ranked 
UC Irvine (22–6, 5–1 Big 
West) defeating Hawaii in the 
final round by a score of 11–8, 
making UC Irvine champions 
of the Big West. Women’s Water Polo Falls Just Short 
of  Finals in Big West Tournament
It was a short trip to Hawaii 
for UC San Diego’s No. 9 men’s 
volleyball team, as they were 
eliminated in the first round 
of the Big West conference 
tournament on Thursday by 
rival UC Irvine in straight sets, 
25–23, 25–20, and 30–28. The 
Tritons end the season 13–11 
and 5–5 in the Big West after 
the loss, after having reached 
the finals of the tournament the 
year prior.
Entering Thursday’s match 
in the Stan Sheriff Center at the 
University of Hawaii, the UCSD 
Tritons looked to have the 
advantage; they had the better 
record and a season sweep 
of the UC Irvine Anteaters, 
11–15 and 3–7 in the Big West, 
under their belt. In the 2021 
tournament, UCSD had taken 
down undefeated national No. 
1 Hawaii in a five-set thriller 
before falling to UC Santa 
Barbara in the finals, and they 
entered this year’s tournament 
looking to make similar noise.
Both teams kept it close in 
the opening stages of the first 
set, with the Tritons getting 
the first point on a kill from 
star senior outside hitter Kyle 
McCauley. After some back-
and-forth play, UCSD took a 
13–9 lead, the largest yet, on 
a 3–0 run capped off by a kill from redshirt junior outside 
hitter and San Marcos product 
Ryan Ka. But after that run, 
UC Irvine hit right back with a 
4–0 run of their own, the final 
2 points of which came on a 
pair of impressive team blocks, 
and tied the match back up. The 
Anteaters soon got another 4–0 
run to go up 19–16, but UCSD 
managed to tie things back up 
at 21 and 22. But Irvine would 
get 3 of the final 4 points of the 
set to eke out the advantage by 
the closest of margins, 25–23.
The match remained close 
as the action moved into 
the second set, and another 
McCauley kill put UCSD up 7–6 
early. But 4 straight from Irvine 
kicked off by a Ka service error 
put them in the driver’s seat in 
the crucial second set. For the 
Tritons, the offense dried up, 
as even with 6 Irvine service 
errors down the stretch, they 
still strayed further from the 
lead. A late 5–1 run to draw 
within three was too little, too 
late for UCSD, and Irvine took 
the commanding 2–0 set lead, 
25–20.
The Tritons once again 
had a tenuous lead to open the 
third set, with 3 early kills from 
senior middle blocker Logan 
Clark helping UCSD to an 8–5 
advantage. But unlike in the 
last two sets, UCSD did manage 
to hold onto that lead down the 
stretch, trading points back and 
forth with the Anteaters. But 
leading 20–18 and looking to spark a comeback, the Tritons 
couldn’t accomplish the first 
piece of that puzzle, as after 
an Irvine block, a Ka attack 
error, and an Anteater kill, 
UCSD suddenly found itself 
down 21–20. It wasn’t over yet, 
though, as McCauley equalized 
on the next play, and the teams 
continued to trade blows.
A McCauley ace late had 
the Tritons at set point, but 
UCSD couldn’t get it done on 
the next play. After Irvine failed 
to convert a match point of 
their own on a Clark kill, they 
finally ended the match on a 
kill followed by a stuff block on 
McCauley to earn the set three 
victory, 30–28, and the sweep.
The match will be a 
heartbreaker for the Tritons, 
with a triplet of very winnable 
sets being the difference 
between moving on in the 
tournament and the straight-
sets defeat they received. But 
though it was close all night, the 
Tritons were by some margin 
the less efficient team, hitting 
only .230 to the Anteaters’ 
.405. Irvine also showed their 
strength on defense, with 8 
blocks to the Tritons’ 3.
On the stat sheet, the Tritons 
were led in kills by McCauley, in 
his final collegiate match, with 
13 and Ka with 9. Senior setter 
Blake Crisp had himself a nice 
night as well, with 31assists. On 
defense, senior outside hitter 
Wyatt Harrison, also in his last 
UCSD contest, led the squad by being involved in all three of 
the team’s blocks.
After the match, Triton 
coach Kevin Ring expressed his 
feelings about the frustrating 
loss.
“Tough loss tonight… 
Coming in, we were real 
confident,” said Ring. “…The 
third set was pretty fun late, 
to give the crowd a show, but 
unfortunately we came up 
short. I would have loved to 
send it to a fourth set, and see 
what these guys and the rest 
of the guys in our locker room 
could have done, because we 
were going to keep battling.”On a more positive note, 
Harrison noted postgame the 
support the Tritons had on the 
road, including from the UCSD 
women’s water polo team, who 
were in Honolulu for their own 
Big West tournament. “It was 
great. We have a lot of senior 
guys on our team, so a lot of 
families made the trip. We also 
had our women’s water polo 
team — we went to their game 
earlier, they got a good win and 
we were cheering loud for them 
— so it was nice to have them 
come back supporting us, and it 
was awesome.”Anteaters Bounce Tritons Out of  Big West Tourney 
in Straight Sets
By Praveen Nair 
Sports Editor
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics.
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics.