INDUSTRIAL
EMPIRE
  Traffic, pollution, housing 
crises. Feature’s Staff Writer 
Louis Avalos tackles the rising 
concerns of the inland empire. 
Read more about the industrial 
presence of the Southern 
California Valley. 
A&E’S STAFF SUMMER HITS
TRADER JOE’S MYSTIQUEmovies, concerts, albums & more
who knew grocery shopping could be 
sexy?A&E,  Page   4
lifestyle,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The administration has 
welcomed this man onto 
our campus, given him 
a dorm and a seat in our 
classes. But how are we, 
as students, supposed to 
welcome him into our Triton 
community? How do we 
make space for him without 
pushing out the Indian 
women that he has been 
actively undermining?”
- MEDHA UPADHYAY
OPINION, PAGE 3features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY  
H 75 L 68
WEDNESDAY  
H 79 L 68
IMAGE COURTESY OF KEHN HERMANO.IMAGE COURTESY OF KEHN HERMANO.
TUESDAY  
H 78 L 69
THURSDAY
H 79 L 67
COVID............................2
BEYONCE................... ...5
REDDIT..........................7
WATERPOLO.................9
CALENDAR..................10VOLUME 56, ISSUE 1  MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
With the commencement of Fall 2022 and UC San Diego’s 
rapid expansion, students and staff are faced with ever-
changing campus topography upon returning to campus. 
Currently, UCSD has 16 projects across its main and expanded cam -
pus. The following is The UCSD Guardian’s guide to projects set to 
debut in the 2022-23 school year. 
Epstein Family Amphitheater
Opening this fall, a 2,650-seat, open-air venue located in Earl 
Warren College is set to host a variety of shows, ranging from theat -
rical dance to rock concerts, as well as to be a space to be used by the 
theater, dance, visual arts and music students for performances. The 
amphitheater is in close proximity to the Blue Line trolley, in hopes 
of weaving UCSD into the larger San Diego artistic community.
The total project cost is reported to be $67.9 million, including a 
$10 million donation from Daniel and Phyllis Epstein. The Epstein 
family has previously contributed to the university by donating $25 
million for Alzheimer’s research as well as donations to ArtPower at 
UC San Diego and the San Diego Symphony. 
The amphitheater is set to have approximately 300 performances 
each year, debuting with performances in October by the San Diego 
Symphony and artist Niki. The four-story building in Jacobs School 
of Engineering opens Fall 2022. The building is named after Qual -
comm co-founder Franklin Antonio, who donated $30 million to the 
construction of the project. Antonio’s contribution was based on the 
premise that the building must prioritize student-faculty collabora -
tion. 
The amphitheater is set to have approximately 300 performances 
each year, debuting with performances in October by the San Diego 
Symphony and artist Niki. Performances are planned to be offered to 
UCSD students for free or at an accessible cost. 
To view the upcoming performances or reserve tickets, visit the 
website here.
Franklin Antonio Hall
The four-story building in Jacobs School of Engineering opens 
Fall 2022. The building is named after Qualcomm co-founder Frank -
lin Antonio, who donated $30 million to the construction of the proj -
ect. Antonio’s contribution was based on the premise that the build -
ing must prioritize student-faculty collaboration. 
“I don’t like the idea of professors being behind a locked door, ” 
Antonio told Triton Magazine. “One of my main requests for this 
building was that students be able to access professors’ offices and 
have direct interaction. Undergraduates, especially—they benefit 
tremendously from direct interaction with professors. ”Campus Construction Update and Ongoing Projects
by Niloufar Shahbandi  NEWS EDITORCAMPUS
To fulfill the late Antonio’s wishes, the building features 13 
“collaboratories, ” open spaces within the building with professors 
and students aimed to facilitate connections and cooperation. 
The $180 million building also houses a 25-seat auditorium and 
two 100-seat classrooms. An estimated 25% of the Jacobs School 
faculty will be situated in the hall. 
Mandeville Art Gallery Renovations
Set to complete this Fall, the gallery renovations will include 
infrastructure updates as well as adding a new external entry. The 
new entry will display LED lights upon a canopy that will show -
case dynamic images to the public plaza. 
Data Science Institute
By Winter 2023, The Data Science Institute (DSI), currently 
located in the San Diego Supercomputer building, will be reload -
ed to the Literature building in Warren College. The building has 
been used by the literature department since 1990 but with the 
completion of North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighbor -
hood (NTPLLN), the department has since moved into their of -
fice spaces in NTPLLN. The building is undergoing renovations 
which include a new facade for the building, new entryway and 
lobby, restroom renovations, the addition of gender-inclusive re -
strooms, and the general revitalization of office spaces and inter -
nal infrastructure.
Y ork Hall 
The 26 year-old building at John Muir College currently cov -
ered by tapestries is undergoing seismic improvements set to 
complete Winter 2023.
  Pepper Canyon West Living and Learning Neighborhood
While it won’t be completed for another 2 years, the   Pepper 
Canyon West Living and Learning Neighborhood is one of the 
university’s most widely-anticipated projects. UCSD received 
$100 million of state funding for this project from Governor 
Gavin Newsom’s revised budget proposal. The neighborhood 
aims to ease the housing demand in the La Jolla area by provid -
ing an additional 1,300 single-occupancy rooms to transfer and 
upper-division undergraduate students by Fall 2024. The project 
includes two 22- and 23-story towers which will be connected to 
five-story buildings, surrounded by outdoor terrace seating, retail 
space, as well as two large courtyards with access to canyon trails. 
To learn more about current construction projects, please click 
the link here. 
Image courtesy of Alexander Olsen for the UCSD Guardian.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. You wouldn’t 
expect the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Nilou Shahbandi
Aishwarya Mitra
Donovan Perez Schipper
Eunice Kim
Oishee Misra
Hector Arrieta
Bradley Beggs 
Ava Bayley 
Millie Root
Marjorie Pradhan 
Elise Jonas-Delson
Cherry Nguyen
Ava Beinsenstein
Alexander Olsen
Ifunanya OkoromaEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Co-Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Art Editor
Photo Editor
Chief Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Design Editor
Marketing Directors
Data Visualization Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado   
Page Layout  
Alfredo VilanoUCSD COVID/Monkeypox Policy COVID
With the advent of a new school 
year at UC San Diego, thousands of 
students returned to in-person classes 
and events amidst continuing concerns 
about COVID-19 and rising cases of 
monkeypox. UCSD has made several 
updates and changes to campus policies 
to address these concerns regarding 
in-person education and on-campus 
living. 
Firstly, UC San Diego Health and 
Student Health Services continue to 
administer vaccines, including the two 
booster vaccines from Pfizer and Mod -
erna. According to an email from the 
Office of the Chancellor, sent on Sept. 
9, students and employees can sched -
ule appointments at the La Jolla Medi -
cal Center drive-up location at 9460 
Athena Circle and at the Recreation 
Gym near the Old Student Center on 
campus. 
Additionally, UCSD is continuing 
a mask mandate in indoor classrooms, 
instructional settings, clinical settings, 
and on Triton/university transporta -
tion. Additionally, UCSD requires stu -
dents regardless of vaccination status 
to wear masks inside dorms and other 
residence halls other than their own 
bedroom and in the shower. Students 
must also mask in hallways, common 
areas, and lobbies. However, there are 
some exceptions; people with hearing 
impairments or people who are speak -
ing to a person who is hearing impaired 
aren’t required to wear a mask if it is 
necessary to show mouth movement. 
Notably, UCSD is one of the few 
UC campuses requiring masks. Other 
UCs, such as UC Berkeley and UCLA, 
only recommend masking in indoor 
spaces, with some exceptions such as 
medical facilities. 
Meetings and special events on 
campus now have new policies de -
tailed on the Return to Learn website. 
UCSD events are still on a yellow sta -
tus, which means that masking, proof 
of vaccination, and testing are still en -
couraged. While masking is still highly 
recommended, it is no longer required 
at events. However, event hosts are rec -
ommended to offer mask distribution. 
Additionally, formal approval from a 
vice chancellor is no longer required to 
host an on-campus event, but an Events 
and Activities Intake form (for depart -
ment or unit events) or a Triton Activ -
ity Planner (for student organization 
events) is still required. At events, stu -
dents, staff, and faculty no longer need 
to show their daily symptom checker, 
and event hosts no longer need to en -
courage guests to test 24 hours before 
the event. 
On the other hand, UCSD has not 
taken an official stance or offered guide -
lines on monkeypox. Even though San 
Diego has reported that local monkey -pox cases have been decreasing and 
the California Department of Public 
Health has reported that general public 
risk is low, both encourage individuals 
to remain cautious. Following these an -
nouncements, UCSD Student Health 
Services (SHS) released an official web -
site on monkeypox.
According to SHS, the county has 
granted UCSD Health a limited amount 
of JYNNEOS vaccines. These vaccines 
are meant to help to reduce the spread 
of monkeypox and help those who have 
been infected or exposed. A portion of 
these vaccines will be reserved for qual -
ifying students. The current population 
that qualifies for this vaccine is detailed 
below: 
• People with more than one sexual 
partner in the past 14 days known 
to have monkeypox
• Gay, transgender, or bisexual-
identifying males, or otherwise 
male who has sex with other men, 
who have had more than one 
sexual partner in the past 14 days, 
or has had a sexually transmitted 
infection diagnosis in the past 3 
months 
• People receiving HIV PrEP treat -
ment
In addition, researchers at UCSD 
have expanded the program monitor -
ing traces of COVID in wastewater 
to also detect traces of monkeypox. 
Starting in May, researchers began 
experimenting with the process, test -ing wastewater from the Point Loma 
treatment plant. They detected their 
first positive test on July 10. For the 
researchers, the add-on of monitoring 
monkeypox was relatively simple. 
“ All we had to do was to change the 
qPCR primers from ones that match 
the SARS-CoV-2 genome to ones that 
match the monkeypox genome, ” ex -
plained Center for Microbiome Inno -
vation Director Rob Knight in an email 
to The UCSD Guardian. “In general, it 
is easy to adapt the system to look for 
new pathogens, because we designed it 
that way. ” 
The program works by detecting 
the number of copies per liter that have 
the monkeypox genome using probes 
very specific to that genome, Knight 
elaborated. 
However, the program is currently 
not ongoing. Knight explained that his 
team performed a one-off pilot run to 
determine the capability, and will only 
execute a plan with communication to 
students once there is a demand. 
“If there is demand from Student 
Health, CST, and the Chancellor’s 
Cabinet, and the cost/benefit analysis 
determines that monitoring is war -
ranted, we will develop a communica -
tions plan likely using the same infra -
structure as our COVID-19 wastewater 
system, ” Knight stated.
Both COVID and Monkeypox are 
developing issues that The Guardian 
will continue to monitor.By Kaitlin Lee
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Image courtesy of Alexander Olsen for the UCSD Guardian.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     SPARKY MITRA
UC San Diego’s Acceptance of controversial TikToker 
shows Administration’s Disregard Toward Indian Women
Even now, it's difficult for me 
to describe the way my stomach 
dropped when I first heard that 
Avaneesh Kanala was coming to 
UC San Diego. At first glance, 
Kanala might seem like an aver -
age UCSD transfer student, but 
a quick search of his name will 
pull up the TikTok account where 
he spews racist and misogynistic 
“hot takes” to over 350,000 fol -
lowers. I've had the misfortune of 
seeing his videos on my “For Y ou 
Page” for the past couple years, 
but the thought of him coming 
here was truly gut-wrenching.
A large chunk of Kanala’s con -
tent is tips for women to make 
themselves more attractive to 
men; his advice includes things 
like “learn cooking and other 
house chores, ” and to “only do 
cardio. ” A particularly great one 
tells women to “focus on looks 
over education, ” something that 
is obviously very comforting to 
hear from one of your future 
classmates.
Another facet of Kanala’s Tik -
Tok revolves around degrading 
Indian women in favor of White 
women or light-skinned Latinas. 
These types of statements serve to 
demean South Asian women by 
classifying them as unwanted or 
lower quality. Kanala’s posts paint 
one type of woman as being infe -
rior and unwanted, while simul -
taneously objectifying and sexu -
alizing another based on race. 
Kanala’s videos reduce women 
to mere objects, belittling every -
thing about them from their bod -
ies to their education to their cul -
ture, with targeted attacks on his 
female classmates. This kind of hateful content has always been 
aimed at people like me: Indian 
women who aspire to be inde -
pendent and intelligent. For the 
past few years, Kanala’s TikTok 
content has been a painful but 
bearable rabbit hole that I would 
occasionally be sucked into. But 
now I am seeing demons from 
my screen materialize as Kanala 
steps onto the UCSD campus. My 
school has taken someone who 
can kindly be described as a troll, 
and presented them in the flesh; 
am I wrong to see this as a sting -
ing betrayal?    
I know that in the real world, 
there are battles that I will lose. 
There will be people who will 
spew hatred at me and try to push 
me down. But here? On my home 
turf? This is a knife in my back, a 
sinking feeling in my stomach. It 
is a loss of trust, a broken prom -
ise.
While a lot of Kanala’s content 
is just generic racism and misog -
yny, there is also no shortage of 
disturbing content posted about 
his female classmates. 
I have always believed UCSD 
when they claimed that this is “an 
inclusive community where all 
have the opportunity to thrive, ” 
but the acceptance of Kanala has 
left me questioning the purity of 
their ideals. Until now, I consid -
ered this school a safe place, a 
place where my classmates and I 
would be protected and uplifted. 
The inclusive community here 
is one of the first things I bring 
up when people ask about my fa -
vorite parts of UCSD. I tell them 
how I turned down other schools 
because I didn’t want to be sur -
rounded by toxic clout chasers 
who put down other people in 
some sort of twisted game. I tell 
them that UCSD promised me a 
place where I would be respected — where I would be valued. 
One case cannot make or 
break the culture of an entire 
university, but UCSD bringing 
a student like this onto campus 
would make their stance on in -
clusion infinitely clearer than 
thousands of memos ever could; 
after all, what good is a school 
that goes on and on about mak -
ing sure that everyone “feels in -
cluded in campus life” and then 
turns around and provides a wel -
come to someone who is actively 
spreading hateful and prejudiced 
messaging? Will the school only 
take action after these kinds of 
posts lead to physical violence 
against women? And what about 
the other hidden incels at UCSD 
who will take Kanala’s acceptance 
at UCSD as a green light for their 
own brands of misogyny and sex -
ual violence? One case can easily 
serve as the straw that breaks the 
camel’s back.
Kanala has also complained 
that “brown TikTok teamed up to 
get [him] kicked out of Purdue. ” 
In this case, he is referring to the 
South Asian community on tik -
tok, many of whom claim that he 
was facing multiple sexual assault 
allegations. 
Whether Kanala was expelled 
from Purdue or left of his own 
volition, he is placing the blame 
on a mass grassroots uprising. 
While the details of his situation 
are not publicly available, it is not 
unreasonable to believe that all 
those people had a strong reason 
to push him out of school. If he 
was truly “kicked out” of Purdue 
as he claims, why has UCSD wel -
comed him here? Has he made 
amends for his actions?
Kanala has been boasting 
about his UCSD acceptance and 
using it as proof that he is a good 
person and a valuable member of 
society despite everything that 
people dislike about him. He has 
also made claims that “brown 
TikTok” is responsible for him 
getting “kicked out” of Purdue.
The administration has wel -
comed this man onto our cam -
pus, given him a dorm and a seat 
in our classes. But how are we, as 
students, supposed to welcome 
him into our Triton community? 
How do we make space for him 
without pushing out the Indian 
women that he has been actively 
undermining? I don’t think we 
can. I think that a line has been 
drawn in the sand and we must 
choose sides. 
I can rest easier knowing that 
many will choose the clearly cor -
rect side, and it is comforting to 
see students leaping to denounce 
Kanala’s actions. Although it’s 
heartwarming to see everyone 
coming together like this, we all 
know that administration’s accep -
tance of Kanala reigns supreme. 
The truth of the matter is that 
UCSD’s acceptance of Kanala is 
serving as a strong form of vali -
dation for his hateful rhetoric. 
While this may not have been 
their intention, UCSD send the 
message that this student is a re -
spectable citizen who lives by the 
Triton values. This, in turn, cre -
ates an uncomfortable, and po -
tentially unsafe, environment for 
Indian women at UCSD.
To be absolutely clear, I do not 
know Avaneesh personally, nor 
am I advocating for any specific 
action to be taken against him. 
All I have to say is that I am deep -
ly disappointed in my school. 
Something in our Triton commu -
nity has broken, and I’m afraid it 
may be irreparable.By  BenJAMIN LIOU
STAFF WRITER
Image courtesy of Unsplash.
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 4
HECTOR ARRIETA
Yung Bae’s “Continental Groove” Tour’s two-day stop in Los Angeles 
was arguably the best two days of my entire summer. Day one, Sept. 8, 
featured a pop-up shop event at LA ’s iconic Catch One venue. This pop-
up might as well have been an entire concert of its own. Not only did the 
event feature the general pop-up show offerings like artist merchandise 
and meet-and-greets, but it also featured a nine-artist performance line -
up featuring: Discoholic, Fibre, Mere Notilde, Pad Chennington, Dan 
Manson, Engelwood, Matt Watson, FrankJavCee, and Skyler Spence 
(also known as Saint Pepsi). Although I had to miss Fibre’s set as I was 
in line for merchandise, if the other sets were anything to go by, then 
his performance must have also been amazing. Each artist brought a 
huge piece of their personality into their sets. For example, Discoholic, 
wearing his signature disco ball helmet, would often go around to the 
front of the stage and begin pointing at several physical PowerPoint slide 
cards he had, each having a random image. However, the highlight of 
this event was finally getting to meet all of the artists I had been follow -
ing since high school. I got to meet Yung Bae, Skyler Spence, Moe Shop, 
Vantage, Macross 82-99, Night Tempo, George Clanton, and Flamingo -
sis — all of whom would perform the following night.
Day two, Sept. 9, featured all eight previously mentioned artists per -
forming at the Shrine Expo Hall. To say I had been waiting for this show 
would be quite the understatement. Although I had been in attendance 
at Yung Bae’s last LA show in November 2021 at The Novo, which also 
featured Vantage, Macross 82-99, and Night Tempo, this show just felt 
different. The concert felt even more energetic than the last one, even 
when an artist like George Clanton would slow down the pace signifi -
cantly with his deep, electronic pop. Night Tempo, who in his last out -
ing in LA had a rather shy stage presence, just completely went all out 
this time, jumping around and even asking for audience participation by 
having attendees take out their phones and wave their flashlights dur -
ing his set. All the other artists brought their own form of energy to the 
show; Macross, Vantage, and Moe Shop all had a hyped presence during 
their sets, Flamingosis laid down some of the best dance moves I have 
ever seen, and Skyler Spence possessed a laser focus with each musical 
decision having surgical precision (a carry over from his set during the 
pop-up as there too he performed with such determination in his face). 
Lastly, how could I not mention the main star of the show: Yung Bae. 
From when I first saw him perform in 2017 at The Roxy in LA to now, 
his growth as a performer has been immense. He knows how and when 
to raise the energy of the crowd and how to maintain that level through -
out the entire set. And just like Yung Bae didn’t want to take his foot off  
the gas, neither did the audience, with the entire venue jumping, danc -
ing, swaying, and singing along to every artist that was there.
These two days were something that I will always remember for the 
rest of my life, and I look forward to Yung Bae and company’s next visit 
to LA. A&E Summer 2022 Hits
Does this box-office smash hit need an introduction? Probably not, as it seems the trending question this 
summer was “Did you see ‘Top Gun: Maverick’?” . If you didn’t, or your parents didn’t string you along to see it 
in theaters — no worries! Grab some salted peanuts and hop into the cockpit while I tell you why it’s amazing.
It’s two hours of flying goodness. There’s action, aviation, friendship, family, romance, and teamwork. 
Y ou’ll laugh and cry and feel like you’re part of the squad. Tom Cruise graces the screen once again as the 
cocky-yet-lovable Navy pilot Pete ‘Maverick’ Mitchell. Miles Teller plays foil to Maverick as purposeful pilot 
Bradley ‘Rooster’ Bradshaw. Rooster ties the past to the present as the son of Maverick’s fallen friend, Nick 
“Goose” Bradshaw. It’s certainly poignant to see how the two interact, with brilliant and emotional perfor -
mances, from a mentor-student relationship to one as close as brothers.
Amongst all the intensity between the two main protagonists, there’s also some fun and games. Maverick 
strikes up a relationship with bar owner Penny Benjamin (Jennifer Connelly) and often banters with the 
younger pilots. After all, you need some attitude to fly with the best of them.
Of course, no movie is ever gold-standard without the music of Hans Zimmer, truly capturing that high-
flying feeling of aviation. Then, paired with the vision of director Joseph Kosinski, the film brings the audi -
ence a sense of wonderment, yes, but also authenticity. It feels real, sounds real, looks real. The audience gets a 
glimpse into the world of the U.S. military, as well as what it takes to train as a fighter pilot: a LOT of bravery.
So buckle up and hold tight, because “Top Gun: Maverick” is worth your time.Contemplative indie-rock from an observant songwriter coming 
to terms with the past in order to blossom into the person she de -
sires. 
Julia Jacklin’s 2019 album “Crushing” was an emotionally inten -
sive, stripped-down album that showcases her ability to capture the 
morally gray lover she tries to give herself to, and then does her best 
to claw herself back from. Her 2022 release “Pre-Pleasure” is more 
centered around self-reflection. The album cover, inspired by the 
stand-out track “I Was Neon, ” displays a blown up portrait of her 
face as a smaller version of herself paws at the frame. The song is gui -
tar heavy and incredibly upbeat relative to her previous music, and 
it dissolves into repetition of the phrase, “I don’t wanna lose myself 
again. ” It reads as a thesis for the entire project. As she picks the piec -
es of fractured relationships out of her skin and reveals the depths of 
the love she has to offer to herself, she sounds entirely self-assured 
in maintaining the person she is at her core. The track “Magic” en -
capsulates this idea most deeply. It’s a play by play of everything that 
might lead up to sex: the preparation, psyching herself up, wearing 
her favorite clothes, and leading her lover to the bedroom. As the 
song builds and seems to come to an explosive climax, it dissipates 
into a plea to wait until she’s ready. It takes self-understanding to 
know what you truly want, and it requires self-worth to ask for it. 
The album is incredibly enjoyable as Jacklin makes strides with her 
rock-influence, but doesn’t entirely abandon her singer-songwriter 
beginning through songs like “Less of Stranger” and “Too In Love To 
Die. ” It’s clear by the end Julia has a clear understanding of herself 
and her capacity to love, and if there’s any longing, it's aimed at find -
ing more security within herself. Yung Bae’s Continental Groove Tour
That High-Flying Feeling - Review of  “Top Gun: Maverick”
Hector Arrieta  SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Kayla Swartzberg  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Julia Jackin, Pre-Pleasure 
Jonathan shlesinger  STAFF WRITER
Image courtesy of Choose Chicago.
Image courtesy of The Banner.
Image courtesy of The Guardian.5 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Black Midi’s third studio record “Hellfire” is not only the perfect way to describe the 
California heat this summer, but is also a standout example of a band reaching their initial 
potential. Since their first record in 2019, Black Midi has consistently pushed the barrier of 
what could be considered post-punk. For their most recent outing, Black Midi decided to 
not only reinvent themselves again, but completely master their newest take on progressive 
rock, channeling the likes of legendary acts like Primus, King Crimson, and even Miles 
Davis.
What lies beneath the bubblegum pink album cover is a consistent sonorous wall of 
sound that could entertain even the most cynical old-head rock purist. The record is split 
into two distinct sides, the first half refining the punky chaotic sound they’ve come to be 
known for. It also just so happens to feature the most remarkable three-track run of the 
year. From track two, “Sugar/Tzu, ” to track four, “Welcome to Hell, ” each song is back-to-
back greatness. The second half of the record opts to move toward a more jazz-oriented ap -
proach, no doubt inspired by their friends from fellow European rock band Black Country, 
New Road. Much like the first half, each track exceeds all possible expectations and will 
likely define the inevitable legacy of Black Midi. 
Each member brings their A-game to the project with some of Geordie Greep’s best 
vocal performances. With that said, the group’s drummer Morgan Simpson just steals the 
show throughout the record, absolutely dominating a majority of the tracks. His ridiculous 
chops are especially undeniable on singles like “Sugar/Tzu” and the album closer “27 Ques -
tions. ”
“Hellfire” has solidified itself as one of the finest records of the year, released during a 
time already crowded with high-profile releases from the likes of Kendrick Lamar and Be -
yoncé. Despite this, it still stands tall among the greats and has no chance of losing the spot 
of most memorable record of the summer. 
It isn’t often that I think a television adaption is better than a book series. However, 
Amazon Prime’s adaptation of “The Summer I Turned Pretty” has passed that bar. The show 
follows Isabel “Belly” Conklin and her summer at Cousins Beach. She and her family go to 
the beach every year alongside her mother’s best friend and her family. We have the moms, 
Laurel and Susannah; as well as the boys, Belly’s brother Steven and Susannah’s sons, Jer -
emiah and Conrad. There are a couple of main things that contributed to the overall success 
of the show. The first is that the book’s author Jenny Han was heavily involved in the cre -
ation and filming of the show. Han is most notably known for the “To All The Boys I Loved 
Before” trilogy. This is another teen, YA hit. However, TSITP was Han’s debut series, and no 
debut is perfect, but because she was so involved with the storyline, she was able to make 
changes that benefited the show for the better which doesn’t happen often. With adapta -
tions, changes can feel out of place or out of character, but almost every single change added 
something and helped audiences understand the characters and their dynamics better. 
Additionally, the show did a wonderful job at creating an atmosphere for audiences to 
fall in love with. Whether it was through the perfectly curated soundtrack, the inviting na -
ture of Cousins Beach, or just the simple story of a wonderful summer, it just worked. It was 
easy to fall in love with the characters. We got to watch Belly grow into herself, grow more 
comfortable in her own skin, and find a sense of independence. We empathized as Conrad 
struggled with his emotions all on his own. We covered the connection between Susannah 
and Laurel, the purest love in the show. 
“The Summer I Turned Pretty” is a coming of age story. It’s a love triangle and it has its 
cheesy moments. However, it feels grounded. It brings us an Asian protagonist and an en -
semble of new charming characters. It’s a welcome escape into the waves of Cousins Beach, 
wrapped in the comfort the town brings. I cannot wait to see how the show continues as I 
eagerly await for season two and another summer in Cousins. 
One of the summer’s most anticipated and awaited albums that did not disappoint was 
Beyoncé’s seventh studio album, “Renaissance. ” Since its release, many fans, including my -
self, have not been able to stop listening to it on repeat. The album features 16 songs that 
vary in different genres spanning from Pop to Afrobeats. Although the album’s songs each  
sound different, they all give off the same free-spirited vibe and sound that makes it sound 
like a cohesive project. “BREAK MY SOUL, ” the lead single released ahead of the album’s 
July 29 release, sets the mood for the entire album in a way that is not clear until you listen 
through it, serving as a strong opening for even better songs on the album. Standout songs 
such as “ ALIEN SUPERSTAR, ” “CUFF IT, ” and “ENERGY” all showcase Beyoncé’s impres -
sive vocal range. The songs make me very excited to see what she will do when she performs 
them on her “Renaissance” tour in the summer of 2023. “Renaissance” feels like a timeless, 
classic album due to the many samples she and her producers incorporate into the songs. 
Some of these samples include “Get with you” performed by Tommy Wright III & Princess Black Midi’s Third Record “Hellfire”
The Summer I Turned Pretty 
Beyoncé’s Renaissance
Loko, “Explode” performed by Big Freedia, “Center of Thy Will” performed by the Clark 
Sisters, and “I Feel Love” performed by Donna Summer. Using these samples in the way she 
does is an art form of its own, and I think she does it masterfully. Overall, “Renaissance” 
is the album of the summer. It’s happy, fun, and makes you want to go out and enjoy life to 
the fullest. Listening to this album with the knowledge that Beyoncé will release two more 
albums in tandem with “Renaissance” makes listening to it that much better. Fabian Garcia senior  STAFF WRITER
Laila Del Rio  STAFF WRITER
Kamiah Johnson  SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Image courtesy of Black Midi.
Image courtesy of TV Insider.
Image courtesy of Pitchfork.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
EUNICE KIM & OISHEE MISRA 
A Southern California Valley 
has ended up as an industry center, 
leaving residents to suffer the con -
sequences. 
Southern California is home to 
10 counties, with the Inland Em -
pire covering two of its largest: San 
Bernardino and Riverside coun -
ties. 
The region first became popular 
in the 1880s due to the construc -
tion of the railroad. Moreover, the 
county gained its recognition from 
its fertile land, which was priori -
tized for agriculture. 
Vineyards and orange groves 
soon became industrial complexes 
with the logistics industry first be -
ing introduced in the city of Mira 
Loma during the 1980s. The indus -
try is led by consumer practices, 
and prioritizes production usually 
constructed in the form of ware -
houses. The mixture of cheap land 
and a high demand for consumer 
goods made the Inland Empire a 
breeding ground for industry and 
the construction of major ware -
houses. 
Ranked third in the U.S. for 
large warehouse leases, large cor -
porations such as Amazon, UPS, 
Home Depot, Target, and Lowe’s 
have taken over the region. 
Developers hired by these cor -
porations have reasoned with com -
munities in the region, explaining 
that the logistics industry will cre -
ate new jobs.
Local elected officials such as 
Andrea De Leon, the executive 
director for the Fontana Chamber 
of Commerce, have also argued in 
favor of corporations, as she stated 
the following at a public commis -
sion hearing: 
“We send 50% of our work -
ing population to other counties 
to find work. Thousands of them 
by car loads who have to leave 
our community for work. Keep us 
home.” 
Although the support of local 
officials is steadfast, there is outcry 
from communities in the Inland 
Empire.
On August 16, during a town 
hall meeting held by the Planning 
Commission Council for the city of Fontana, the commission vot -
ed on several new construction 
projects in the city, the most im -
portant one being the construc -
tion of the West Valley Logistics 
Center.
The center would consist of 
over 3.4 million square feet of 
land dedicated for industrial us -
age. Six warehouses are set to be 
built in this project. 
The logistics center is 
planned to be built at the heart 
of Bloomington (San Bernardi -
no County), with construction 
being just a street over from resi -
dential communities. 
In the meeting, the major -
ity of council members asked 
questions about transportation 
issues relating to streets and 
freeway usage. In response, IDI 
Developer Steve Hoilest, prom -
ised to dedicate funding into 
city streets around the project, 
as an additional 794 trucks will 
be added onto Bloomington 
roads daily. 
The legalities surrounding 
this project arose at the end 
of the council hearing. Gary 
Grossion, the vice chair of the 
Bloomington Municipal Advi -
sor Council, referred to the En -
vironmental Justice Committee 
lawsuit and the San Bernardino 
County Lawsuit against the first 
proposal of this same project in 
2019. 
“I’m not sure how you’re go -
ing to get around this project 
when it was already in a legal 
settlement,” Grossion said. 
Matthew Gordon, a com -
missioner on the council, was 
the only member to bring forth 
environmental concerns. In re -
sponse, the developer stated that 
air pollutants will be centered at 
truck loading dock zones which 
are at a supposed safe distance 
from surrounding neighbor -
hoods. 
The developer was given an 
unlimited amount of time to 
reason with the council. Citi -
zens of the community were 
given three minutes. 
Over 12 public statements were made by members of the 
community, expressing their con -
cerns with the project. 
Jasmine Cunningham, the 
treasurer for the South Fontana 
Concern Coalition and a resident 
in close proximity of an existing 
warehouse, shared how her kids 
get nose bleeds from playing out -
side past 30 minutes. 
Sam Amadas, a community 
member, made the following 
statement in response to the de -
veloper expressing his plan to 
construct bike lanes and promote 
ride sharing apps for workers at 
the industrial center. 
“No one carpools. It’s 100+ 
degrees and the air quality is ter -
rible in the city. You’re putting a 
personal responsibility to miti -
gate those environmental impacts 
[onto locals] when those impacts 
are caused by the trucks and 
warehouses,” Amadas said. 
The environmental concerns 
of Inland Empire residents have 
been ongoing for decades. In 
1984, natural water pools in the 
area, Stringfellow, were used by 
industries as a toxic dumping 
ground. Heavy rains caused tox -
ins to wash down into communi -
ties below. The coalition of com -
munity members which formed 
in wake of this information cre -
ated the Center for Community 
Action and Environmental Jus -
tice (CCAEJ) situated in Jurupa 
Valley.
When asked about public 
health issues that may develop 
from industrial development, 
UC San Diego Professor of Pub -
lic Health Harvey Checkoway 
shared the following: 
“High levels [of diesel ex -
haust exposure] can increase the 
risks for lung cancer and cause 
non-cancer and respiratory ef -
fects [asthma, chronic bronchitis, 
cough, and shortness of breath],” 
Checkoway said.
Project ENRRICH, a study 
conducted by scientists at Loma 
Linda university, found that resi -
dents on San Bernardino’s west 
side exposed to high levels of die -
sel pollution have, in fact, devel -oped an abundance of health is -
sues such as asthma, sputum, and 
consistent coughing. 
Alicia Aguayo, the communi -
cations manager for the People’s 
Collective for Environmental Jus -
tice (PC4EJ), refers to this as the 
“west side cancer clusters.” In an 
interview with Ms. Aguayo, she 
explained how San Bernardino 
residents are exposed to these 
emissions on a daily basis. This 
has caused respiratory issues to 
become common on the west side 
of San Bernardino. 
Furthermore, UCSD Profes -
sor of Urban Studies Leslie R. 
Lewis stated that dedicating vast 
areas of land for industrial pur -
poses creates “missed opportu -
nity” costs. In other words, they 
are costs in the form of missed 
opportunities for communal 
unity and benefit. She referred to 
them as “ugly” since they fail to 
offer community amenities and 
instead displace communal unity. 
Lewis also shared the envi -
ronmental impacts of mass ware -
house construction. The heat 
island effect, driven by open con -
crete fields, is contributing to the 
already increasing temperatures 
in valley communities. Moreover, 
emissions from industrial trans -
portation have pushed the Inland 
Empire to have the worst smog in 
the United States. 
In an interview with CCAEJ, 
organizer Joaquin Castellejos 
provided this statement when 
asked why large corporations 
have set their eyes onto the Inland 
Empire. 
“They see us for our labor. 
They’re pushing college gradu -
ates out of the area. Everyone 
who lives in the area is becoming 
dependent on the warehouses to 
live. People need to survive.” 
In the interview, Joaquin 
further mentioned how corpo -
rations, such as Amazon, have 
launched logistic pathway pro -
grams in high schools throughout 
the Inland Empire. 
These programs are imple -
mented in schools within the 
region to teach students ware -housing skills while they’re in 
high school so they are prepared 
to work in the industry once they 
graduate. 
In San Bernardino, Cajon 
High School was the first to ac -
cept the offer from Amazon. Joa -
quin says the mass construction 
of warehouses have shifted the job 
demographics of residents in the 
Inland Empire. 
“They put it in your face. That’s 
all you see. It’s either construc -
tion or warehouses,” Joaquin said. 
In addition to the Inland Em -
pire holding a large working class, 
the area holds access to Califor -
nia’s largest freeways including 
the 10, 60, and 15. Joaquin would 
describe the region in the eyes 
of developers as the Inland Port 
being similar to the LA Ports in 
terms of commercial importance. 
The industrialization of the 
valley stems from American con -
sumer practices. UCSD Professor 
of Urban Studies Leslie R. Lewis 
mentioned how “big box” build -
ings are meant to serve the “at 
your doorstep” lifestyle: a lifestyle 
popularized by consumerism 
that focuses on the consumer’s 
demand for online order and de -
livery. 
Although the construction of 
major warehouses are continuing 
to be approved, Joaquin described 
a lighter note of the situation in 
this statement. 
“The Inland Empire is at a 
critical point in its history right 
now. I see people standing up for 
themselves. Community power. 
There might be a lot of money and 
opposition against us, but when 
the community comes together, 
there’s nothing that can stop us,” 
Joaquin said. 
Community members have 
been showing up to commis -
sion hearings. Although those 
commissions tend to ignore the 
public outcry, the amount of resi -
dents who are aware of the issue 
is growing, according to Joaquin. 
Alicia Aguayo, PC4EJ com -
munications manager, described..
Read more @ ucsdguardian.org! 
 The Industrial Empire
Louis Avalos CONTRIBUTING WRITER
A Southern California Valley has ended up as an industry center, leaving residents to suffer the consequences. 
Image courtesy of Kehn Hermano.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Individuals on Reddit can up -
vote or downvote conversations, 
pushing the conversation to the 
top of one’s feed. Users can also 
obtain social credibility through 
the earning of “karma” points for 
appropriate and relevant input 
to the conversation. Moreover, 
everything is done under the 
comfortable veil of anonymity. 
Indeed, the majority of users post 
what they wish to see on social 
media platforms. 
But Reddit is a social media 
platform that isn’t quite like oth -
ers. Reddit is known for its unique 
form of “decentralized modera -
tion.” In other words, there is no 
singular authority representing 
all those who participate in the 
platform’s subreddits. Rules also 
vary for subreddits, depending on 
the moderators’ wishes. Subred -
dits — or communities for more 
niche topics to take place — take 
all contributors’ interests into 
account, with moderators spear -
heading by keeping everyone in 
check, hence the name.
In the summer of 2005, Reddit 
emerged and eventually bloomed 
through its success on subreddit 
threads. The culture of Reddit 
isn’t unlike other social media 
platforms, where the focus has 
always been on individuals and 
encouraging them to stay on the 
sites so that the creators can gar -
ner revenue. But even benign sub -
reddits like ones on specific skin 
care routines and new tricks for 
skateboarding are a testament to 
the extremely niche content that 
will accommodate everyone who 
joins Reddit.
Ultimately, there is an inclina -
tion towards community or some 
kind of solace in others’ agree -
ment or advice on Reddit. For 
instance, as of late, many subred -
dit conversations on “Am I the 
A–hole” or A.I.T.A Reddit have 
gone viral for the anonymous 
individuals’ blaringly oblivious 
confessions to acting as the name 
implies. Still, these users trust 
strangers with being able to hon -
estly discuss with them if their 
behavior was righteous or not. 
These conversations have even 
triggered more dialogue by be -
ing posted to other social media 
platforms such as YouTube and 
Instagram.
A simple Google search im -
mediately offers a wide expanse 
of answers, from quick tips to re -
search papers. Again, on Reddit, 
moderators are at bay to make 
sure questions are getting an -
swered or remaining germane to 
the discussion. This system allows 
any curious individual to Google 
a question and obtain some nu -
anced answers. In other words, 
Redditors tackle some of the most 
specific questions and their infor -
mative explanations gain them 
standing through the accumula -
tion of “karma” points. 
But community guidelines 
have increased in strictness. 
Since recent backlash from users, 
guidelines have been more intact 
to stifle white supremacy, racism, 
and misogynistic behavior. This 
means being less lax with inap -
propriate Reddit comments and 
hateful speech, which is not justi -
fied by freedom of speech on the platform.
Reddit has the means to quar -
antine a subreddit, which pre -
vents growth and then as a last 
resort, banning the subreddit if 
they don’t follow basic commu -
nity guidelines. Banning a com -
munity and its users is possible 
for those who invoke violence or 
hate. 
Ashley Judd, in her frank 
2016 TED Talk on the online 
hate speech toward women, ad -
dresses the topic of misogyny. She 
remarked that “you can’t make a 
cucumber out of a pickle,” refer -
ring to the traumatizing, misogy -
nistic comments one receives and 
can’t just reverse the consequenc -
es of. Additionally, she states that 
online violence is an extension 
of in-person violence. Regard -
less, negative comments affect 
one physically, psychologically, 
and mentally. Thus, Reddit is un -
doubtedly a powerful platform 
when hateful speech can further 
expand to physical violence.
Reddit has empowered many 
individuals shrouded by ano -
nymity who dub themselves “in -
cels” and seeth under the reign 
of “Chad/Stacy”s. The term that’s 
short for “involuntary celibate” 
arose especially on Reddit. The 
individuals express bitterness 
and distaste for those more sexu -
ally attractive than them — the 
“Chad”s and the “Stacy”s — as 
well as those who do not deem 
them attractive. 
In a study on Reddit incels by 
Rosalie Gillett and Nicolas Suzor, 
their analysis detailed how incels 
responded to criticism and exter -nal pressure to change their ways. 
They noted in their study that 
punitive measures did not knock 
incels off their subreddits. Rather, 
moderators need to be more com -
mitted and united in warding 
toxic ideologies. Individuals most 
tied to their ideologies, according 
to Gillett and Suzor, will simply 
become more tied in tighter, fur -
ther communities. These, then, 
might be more difficult to con -
front and correct.
In the same study on Reddit 
incel behavior, the authors state 
that the threat of prohibition 
won’t change the culture of sub -
reddits. There need to be more 
deep-rooted measures such as ad -
dressing cultural norms and not 
individual communities. 
Cancel culture or the — usu -
ally online — bashing of anyone 
engaged in wrongful or inappro -
priate behavior comes to mind, 
especially when incels are usually 
humorously denounced. 
The idea of “cancel culture” 
might, though, not be so produc -
tive as it is counterintuitive. Ac -
cording to writer Jon Ronson, 
author of “So You’ve Been Pub -
licly Shamed,” we like to sur -
round ourselves with those who 
are in agreement with what we 
do. This, again, emphasizes the 
importance of community. How -
ever, this desire to show care can 
also lead to a barrage of negativity 
against those who have commit -
ted wrongs such as incel behavior 
without any actual rectification of 
their actions on their part. 
After all, some subreddits that 
attempted to distance themselves from the hatred-oriented themes 
in incel communities while still 
expressing discontentment at not 
having a romantic interest ended 
up devolving into incel ideology. 
Reddit prides itself on its em -
phasis on community. This can 
backfire in toxic groups such as 
the notorious, banned r/Incels 
or r/braincels that had a strong 
group identity and didn’t take 
criticism. Useful functions such 
as “Automod'' on Reddit automat -
ically apply subreddit rules; these 
can often be used to keep norms 
intact as well as easily stifle any 
outsiders’ perspectives. Once the 
latter takes place, a community 
is less likely to change their ways 
but rather have a stronger group 
identity. 
Reddit’s popularity as a plat -
form has not waned. But it has 
easily begun as a breeding ground 
for extremely toxic communi -
ties — those that Reddit has been 
more willing to weed out. Though 
such has been said to have im -
posed on freedom of expression 
or camaraderie in communities, 
particular inappropriate behav -
iors will continue to be called to 
attention by outsiders. Anonym -
ity and solidarity in words create 
both hearth and opportunity for 
ostracization. 
Whether content moderation 
is successful or not in addressing 
seriously egregious behavior is 
questionable. Benefits may arise 
from pinpointing the ideologies 
of these “incels” or other toxic 
members of Reddit and unravel -
ing them from there.
 What Reddit Did for Accountability
Eunice Kim  C0-EDITOR OF FEATURES
Image courtesy of Brett Jordan.
Reddit is an immensely popular platform and it has gone through its own growing pains since its start, bringing forth how misused freedom of expression can 
easily rewrite community guidelines as well as Reddit contributors’ expectations.LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     BRADLEY BEGGS
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
Who’s excited for a new school 
year back in person?
Whether you’re a new student 
or returning from a nice summer 
break, hopefully you’ll take some 
time to reflect on how far you’ve 
come.
Y ou might be thinking about 
your goals and where you’re at 
now. Y ou might be excited, or 
nervous. Or, you might have that 
butterfly feeling when it’s both! 
The question becomes, how are 
you going to achieve your goals? 
Hopefully this quick article can 
help!
Be open, be curious, and ask questions. Everyone here is nice 
and friendly, so all it takes is a little 
branching out. Go to library walk 
and talk with the people tabling. 
Talk with your roommates and 
suitemates. Chat up the people 
sitting next to you in class. Find a 
common interest.
I know this can be intimidat -
ing. I was introverted my first year 
and it took me time to grow out of 
my shell. My biggest advice would 
be to not be self-conscious. While 
there is an art to everything, get -
ting started is most important.
I look at it like this: observe, ori -
ent, decide, act. Rinse and repeat. 
It’s all about working hard, playing 
harder, and sleeping like a rock.
I know this may sound stressful, 
but it doesn’t have to be that way. New Year, New You
By  BenJAMIN LIOU
STAFF WRITERIt can be fun once you get used to 
it, perhaps even zen-like.
For example, I went on to li -
brary walk to collect info on clubs 
and free food events (observe). 
I had a great time talking with 
the people at JSA, and they even 
helped me practice my Japanese 
(orient). I checked my calendar 
to see which events I could go to 
today (decide). And, I hopped on 
the bus with people from AACF, 
who I only met the day before, and 
got food and met even more new 
people (act).
At the end of the day, do what 
you have to do.
Whether it’s taking care of 
yourself, shifting your focus to 
that lab that’s due tomorrow even 
if you have friends going out, or 
dropping a class so you can have 
more of a social life, just do what’s 
best for you. Everyone has differ -
ent needs, and it can be hard to 
say no, but there’s always a way 
to make things work. Be flexible. 
But also know what you hold most 
dear, and protect it.
I hope this helps. If you have 
ideas to add or have different 
views, please comment by all 
means! And by the way, if you’re 
ever interested in writing, mak -
ing friends, and improving your 
soft skills, please consider join -
ing us at The UCSD Guardian! 
We’re always open to newcom -
ers!
The Trader Joe’s Mystique
By  Bradley Beggs
LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Do you remember going to 
the grocery store when you were 
little? The long shelves of sugary 
cereal, the plethora of produce, 
chips, crackers, and cookies, fridg -
es and freezers with Lunchables 
and too many ice cream flavors 
to count, and best of all, the bak -
ery with cakes, donuts, and fresh 
baked bread. 
Now, going to the grocery 
store is another chore on our long 
lists of adult things we need to do 
to survive. The intrigue and joy of 
the grocery store is long gone, and 
in its place, a daunting task that 
takes too much time out of your 
busy schedule. Or, so I thought… 
Enter, Trader Joe’s. Y ou may be 
thinking that Trader Joe’s is just 
another chain of American gro -
cery stores; however, I am here to tell you it is so much more than a 
place where you buy food. 
Before college, I had never 
shopped at a Trader Joe’s. I always 
thought it was a place for hipsters 
or millennials that only buy expen -
sive vegan organic cage-free pick -
les. But now as an up- and- com -
ing young adult, I decided to take 
the leap and buy my groceries at a 
place where the cashiers will appar -
ently hit on you to make you buy 
more cucumber-durian hard selt -
zers. 
To my surprise, their products 
were more interesting than ho -
ity. Of course, they had produce, 
bread, milk, and eggs, but looking 
beyond the basics, a variety of fla -
vors and artisanal foods exists in 
this bohemian-esque environment 
where it seems that interior design 
is just as important as the food on 
the shelves. 
They have plenty of maple, cin -
namon, and pumpkin flavors to satisfy even the most dedicated 
autumn enjoyer, snacks that 
made me nostalgic for my child -
hood, and flowers that would 
make any house into a home. 
After I finished my shopping, 
I made my way over to the check -
out counters, where I intrinsical -
ly entered the line with the cutest 
cashier. I was interested in seeing 
if the flirtatious energy was real 
or made up by lonely singles who 
search for connections in the 
smallest of places. Immediately, 
the cashier asked my plans for 
the day, gave personal anecdotes, 
laughed at my jokes, and looked 
me dead in the eye and healed 
my soul with only their gaze. 
So, it’s safe to say the rumors are 
true: Trader Joe’s is a place teem -
ing with unspoken words and 
extreme sensuality. Who knew 
grocery shopping could be sexy?
Lastly, the presumption that 
Trader Joe’s was expensive that I had cemented into my mind was 
quickly jack-hammered away. To 
my surprise, their products were 
affordable; I left with a week’s 
worth of groceries for under 30$! 
And while some frozen meals and 
chip bags would only feed one, 
there are sizable bags of veggies, 
frozen dumplings, and tubs of 
cookies, just to name a few.
However, I found myself lack -
ing major necessities after my 
adventure. Condiments, spices, 
sauces, grains, and kitchen sup -
plies always seemed to escape my 
mind when I entered that magical 
space. I knew of this tribulation: 
many before me have had to go 
real grocery shopping after only 
buying premade pastas and loaves 
of brioche. Regardless, I got things 
I couldn’t get anywhere else for a 
better price. And if anything, the 
experience made up for the trip I 
had to make into the Ralph’s next 
door. At the end of the day, I believe 
that the Trader Joe’s mystique is 
real. There is something about 
entering that store and exiting 
with pumpkin seeds, strawberry 
mango guava lemonade, eggs, and 
a new boyfriend that has brought 
back the magic of grocery shop -
ping back into my life. So, I im -
plore all of you broke young adults 
to rediscover the grocery store ex -
perience at Trader Joe’s.
Image courtesy of Unsplash.
Image courtesy of Unsplash.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DONOVAN PEREZ SCHIPPER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs UC Riverside
vs CSU Bakersfield 
vs UC Davis
at Air ForceUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
W Soccer
M Soccer
M Water Polo7PM
6PM
6PM
6PM10/1
9/30
9/29
10/1
UC San Diego men’s water 
polo (3–7, 2–0 Big West) hosted 
Loyola Marymount University 
(7–1, 3–0 West Coast Confer -
ence) last Wednesday, in what was 
the first matchup between both 
teams this season. UCSD entered 
Wednesday’s match looking to 
bounce back from a loss in their 
previous game against California 
State University, Long Beach.
The Tritons got off to a hot 
start in the first with a strong col -
lective effort on both sides of the 
ball, keeping the Lions scoreless 
and jumping out to a 2–0 lead by 
the end of the quarter. Their first 
scoring contribution came from 
sophomore utility player Rhys 
Bugelli, who scored his twenty-
third goal of the season with 5:54 
remaining in the first. Following 
Bugelli’s goal, the Tritons held 
onto their lead by collecting a 
number of timely stops on the de -
fensive end and scoring a last-sec -
ond insurance goal from senior 
utility player Manuel Augusto, 
giving the team momentum head -
ing into the second quarter. 
LMU put a stop to their of -
fensive dry spell by scoring their 
first goal of the match at the 4:49 
mark of the second quarter, cut -
ting the Tritons’ lead to one goal. 
UCSD quickly retaliated the fol -
lowing possession with a goal of 
their own from their freshman 
utility player Bennett Axline, who 
scored an additional goal later Men’s Water Polo Falls Just Short in Battle of  the Kings Match
Image courtesy of Kathleen Shiroma
The Las Vegas Aces’ collection 
of starpower propelled them to 
victory over the Connecticut Sun 
to be crowned as the champion of 
the WNBA. The 3–1 series victory 
is the first Championship won by 
the Aces, who were stopped short 
by the Seattle Storm two seasons 
ago in the 2020 championship, 
and were a few points away from 
returning to the WNBA champi -
onship last season, but fell a few 
points short to the Phoenix Mer -
cury. The win also marks the first 
championship for Las Vegas in 
major sports history, the first of 
what likely will be many for the 
Aces based on the success they 
have had thus far. 
The accomplishments that the 
Aces have enjoyed just 5 seasons 
is nothing short of remarkable. 
After their inaugural season, they 
have made the playoffs every sea -
son. Including this season, they 
have finished the regular season 
in first place three seasons in a 
row. The difficulty of that streak 
of dominance can not be over -
stated, and this potential dynasty 
has been made possible by their 
star players. A ’ja Wilson has been 
an absolute menace ever since she 
stepped on the floor after leaving 
the University of South Carolina 
as the number one overall draft  
choice and is a top talent in the 
entire league. 
The perennial MVP candidate 
Wilson is flanked by a trio of all-
star caliber guards. Kelsey Plum 
is one of them, a shooter and dis -
tributor who has flourished in her 
new role as a starter this season. 
Jackie Y oung, a former number 
one overall pick herself in 2019 
who took a leap forward in her 
play with greater efficiency to pair 
with her elite scoring, is another member of the backcourt. Chel -
sea Gray seemed to be the miss -
ing piece to this team’s puzzle. She 
started off slow this season after 
being signed in the offseason, but 
Gray’s impact in the postseason 
was palpable. 
Highlighted by winning 
WNBA Finals MVP , the veteran 
Gray is the obvious emotional 
leader of this team shown by her 
fiery playing style. In the playoffs, 
she added outstanding scoring to 
pair with her consistently stellar 
defense. Gray put the team on her 
back in these playoffs, and they 
were head and shoulders above 
the competition in large part due 
to her contributions. 
This is not to say that their 
journey was easy, the competition 
this year was fierce. The Connecti -
cut Sun posed a difficult matchup 
due to their comparatively big 
lineup. The unique talents of 
frontcourt players Alyssa Thomas 
and Jonquel Jones were difficult 
to deal with for the Aces, but first 
year coach Becky Hammon mas -
terfully worked the game plan to 
accentuate the players’ strengths.
Throughout the series, the of -
fense was perimeter oriented and 
ran through Chelsea Gray’s play -
making abilities, setting up team -
mates for easy looks. Defensively, 
the Aces dared the Sun to shoot 
and forced difficult shots for the 
Sun’s wing players. The lone game 
that the Aces dropped in the se -
ries came when DeWanna Bon -
ner and Natisha Hiedeman led an 
extremely efficient outing for the 
Sun, converting a whopping 53% 
of their three-point attempts. 
Hammon’s ability to draw out 
the most from her team must be 
given due credit, because the first-
year coach truly knew how to 
manage this star-studded team. 
Throughout the season each of the 
trio of guards had their moment, 
with Y oung, Plum, and Gray each taking turns as the hero of the day 
for a team that really did not need 
much saving. To mesh their tal -
ents with those of Wilson worked 
wonders for this team, and Ham -
mon’s acumen presented itself 
with her adjustments to keep the 
ball out of the paint and force the 
Sun to create from the outside. 
This team is a rarity in that it 
has all the stars currently under 
contract for next season, so unlike 
the regular turnover that WNBA 
teams experience each offseason, 
the Aces will likely have a very 
similar team to start next season. 
They will undoubtedly be a favor -
ite to win again when the playoffs 
roll back around next year, and 
perhaps start a bona fide dynasty 
that can thrust this franchise into 
the basketball history books.The Las Vegas Aces Win the Championship - In Commanding Fashionin the period to give the Tritons 
a 4–-1 lead. With the Tritons up 
three, the Lions were able to cut 
the deficit to two with a goal from 
their senior attacker Blazo Mitro -
vic, but UCSD answered back late 
in the period once again, this time 
with a goal scored by their senior 
utility player Vedran Latkovic. The 
first half came to a close with the 
Tritons leading 5–2. 
In the third quarter, the game 
got a bit tense for the Tritons as 
their lead began to slip away. The 
Lions were able to rattle off three 
goals and knot up the score at 5–5 
around the halfway mark in the 
period as the Lions finally dented 
a rugged Triton defense. Trying 
to keep the offense alive, Augusto 
scored another goal for the Tri -
tons, giving them a 6–5 lead head -
ing into the fourth.
In the final period of regula -
tion, LMU was able to tie the game 
once again, making the score 6–6 
with over seven minutes left in the 
quarter. About a minute after the 
Lions’ game-tying goal, UCSD’s 
Latkovic scored once again to give 
the Tritons another lead, but their 
lead lasted all but ten seconds as 
LMU’s Bruno Salonikios answered 
right back to tie the game at 7–7. 
The final six minutes of regulation 
featured a number of big defensive 
stops for both sides, as both teams 
went scoreless for the remainder 
of the fourth, resulting in two 
overtime periods being played.
The Lions dominated the first 
overtime period with two goals, 
and put the Triton’s back up 
against the wall. With the pres -sure on the Tritons to score in 
crunch time, they were able to 
tie the game again in the second 
overtime period with more scor -
ing contributions from Axline 
and Augusto. The score was 9–9 
at the end of both overtime peri -
ods, setting the stage for a sudden 
victory finish. Both teams played 
tight defense down the stretch, 
but it was the Lions who emerged 
victorious off of a game-winning 
goal from Rimlinger. The Lions 
won Wednesday’s match 10–9. 
Although the Tritons lost a close 
one, they still gave a solid effort 
on both ends of the ball and had 
many positives to take away from their performance.  
Following the game, Tritons 
head coach Matt Ustaszewski 
spoke to Tthe UCSD Guardian 
about his team’s struggles in the 
third quarter and the adjustments 
they should have made to ensure 
the victory. “We got out of our 
rhythm a little bit in our front -
court offense and it let them get 
some transition opportunities, so 
I think if we would have stuck to 
the game plan in the first half and 
continued to work for our young 
centers, we would like to have that 
back for sure” said Ustaszewski. 
The Tritons will be back at 
home on Thursday, September 29th, and will match up against 
Biola University, where they will 
look to deliver a crucial victory.
Image courtesy of Lorie ShaullBy  donovan perez schipper 
SPORTS EDITORBy  LUKE REYES
SPORTS WRITER
MON9.265pm
SUCCULENT & SIP /hyphen.case GOODY'S 
PATIO
Join us on Goody's Patio on Wednesday, 
September 28th from 1-3PM to pick up 
your own succulent! You will also have 
the opportunity to decorate a pot for your 
new plant friend. Make sure to pick up a 
free cup of boba while you decorate! 
Supplies and boba are first come, first 
serve!
5pm
LIBRARY DE/hyphen.caseSTRESS 
PUBLICATIONS /hyphen.case LIBRARY
Check out our webpage today for a new 
e-publication featuring fun activities you 
can do at home, such as original 
coloring pages, puzzles, simple recipes, 
de-stress tips, and more! Fall 
publications are posted every other 
Wednesday. Send questions, comments, 
and suggestions to 
LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu.6pm
NOT YOUR MOTHERS BOOK 
CLUB WITH ACT /hyphen.case GOODY'S 
PATIO
It's not your mother's book club, but 
there definitely will be books! Come 
down to Goody's Patio at 4-6 PM on 
Monday, September 26th, to help create 
a Marshall Community Spotify Playlist, 
as well as learn about and grab books 
that talk about social justice within our 
world!FRI9.30
4-6pm
MUIR, SIXTH, AND WARREN 
TRANSFER SOCIAL HOURS /hyphen.case 
MARSHALL FIELD
CJoin us as we kick off a new academic 
year and connect with other transfer 
students and transfer student leaders. 
Free food for the first 30 students!NEW 
LOCATION & TIME 1pm
DINE/hyphen.caseIN WITH DOC /hyphen.case GOODY'S 
PATIO
Join us on Goody's Patio on Wednesday, 
September 28th from 1-3PM to pick up 
your own succulent! You will also have 
the opportunity to decorate a A meet & 
greet with DOC! This is a chance for 
students to engage with DOC Professors 
and TA while enjoying a nice lunch! 
Please register to attend this event! Food 
is first come, first serve! 
TUE9.27
UPSLIME DOWN /hyphen.case  GOODY'S 
PATIO
Meet us in the Upslime Down! Come out 
to Goody's Patio on Thursday, September 
27th from 1-3pm to our create-your-own 
slime bar. Please register to attend this 
event!
GEISEL LIBRARY 2ND FLOOR 
RENOVATION REVEAL /hyphen.case  
GEISEL LIBRARY, 2ND /parenleft.caseMAIN/parenright.case 
FLOOR
Welcome back to campus, Tritons! The 
Library invites you to come explore the 
newly renovated spaces on the main floor 
of Geisel Library while enjoying a few 
hours of food, fun, prizes and activities.
2:00 – 2:20 p.m.: Ribbon cutting and 
remarks by Chancellor Khosla, EVC 
Simmons and Audrey Geisel University 
Librarian Erik Mitchell
Be one of the first 100 students to join 
the event to receive a $5 Audrey’s Café 
gift card and a Cravory cookie after the 
ribbon cutting and remarks
2:20 – 4:00 p.m.: Explore our new and 
existing spaces and meet our Library 
experts. Attendees will be able to:
Meet some of our librarians and subject 
specialists so you know who to turn to for 
help this year
Learn about helpful Library resources and 
services like tech lending, grab and go 
Chromebooks, course reserves, regular 
Library de-stress activities, how to join 
the Library Student Advisory Council and 
more!
Enjoy music by UC San Diego’s Deejays 
and Vinylphiles Club
De-stress by making a zine or decorating 
a custom Geisel crown and bookmark
Snap a selfie with friends at our photo 
booth
Grab some snacks and Library swag
Students who visit and collect stamps 
from select locations in Geisel Library will 
be entered to win one of the following 
prizes!*
Apple Airpods Pro
Beats Studio Buds
$100 Bookstore Gift Card
$100 Target Gift Card
$100 Amazon Gift CardTHU9.29
1pm
GEISEL’S 22ND ANNUAL TOY 
PIANO FESTIVAL 
CELEBRATION /hyphen.case SEUSS 
ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
Here at the UC San Diego Library, toy 
pianos have been celebrated with 
great fanfare on or around September 
5 to honor the birthday of composer 
John Cage. Cage was the first 
composer to write a “serious“ piece for 
toy piano. This year marks 22 years of 
celebrating a big passion for tiny 
music!This event is free and open to 
the public.SAT10.1
10:30pm
TRITON FEST: MOVIE 
UNDER THE STARS /hyphen.case 
MATTHEWS QUAD
Join us under the stars at Matthews 
Quad for a special movie screening on 
Saturday, October 1, 2022. Free and 
open to current undergraduate and 
graduate students with valid school 
ID. First 150 students at the door will 
receive a special Triton Fest picnic 
blanket! Personal blankets or low lawn 
chairs are welcome. Check-in starts at 
7:30PM; movie begins at 8:00PM.Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
SEP 26 - OCT 22022
POWER ED B Y THE ST UDENT  EVENTS INSIDE R AND  THE UCSD GUARDIA N
WED9.28
5pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM: TRITON 
WEEKS OF WELCOME /hyphen.case BIRCH 
AQUARIUM
UC San Diego is home to a world-class 
aquarium and BONUS, it’s only a shuttle 
stop away! As the public outreach center 
for UC San Diego’s renowned Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography, Birch 
Aquarium brings you into the exciting 
underwater world of cutting-edge 
research. Explore interactive exhibits and 
come face to face with exciting creatures 
including a rescued Loggerhead Sea 
Turtle, Leopard Sharks and seadragons. 
Don’t miss the two-story Giant Kelp 
Forest, or Beyster Family Little Blue 
Penguins, the only place on the West 
Coast to see the world’s smallest 
penguins!
In honor of Triton Weeks of Welcome 
(TWOW), Birch Aquarium is offering FREE 
admission to UC San Diego Students from 
September 7 to 30. Capacity is limited, so 
advanced reservations are required.
Please note, free admission is limited to 
one free ticket per student from 
September 7-30, 2022.
Tickets must be reserved online in 
advance for a specific date and time. For 
entry, you will need to present your ticket 
and current UC San Diego student ID.
If you love what you see, you can visit 
year-round with a UC San Diego Student 
membership for only $45. Birch Aquarium 
also offers student jobs and volunteer 
opportunities, as well as fun events 
throughout the year. It’s YOUR campus 
aquarium, so visit today!
2pm
WELL/hyphen.caseBEING FAIR /hyphen.case UCSD 
TOWNE CENTER
Come join UCSD campus departments at 
the Well-Being Resource Fair. Grab your 
scavenger hunt card, enjoy free 
giveaways, and snap a picture in our 
photo booth. First 100 attendees will 
receive a free tote bag!
YAMA ENSEMBLE
THU, 9.29.22 • The Loft •/uni00A0artpower.comARTPOWER presents
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CALENDAR6
3
79
842
6
3
97
1
2
45
74
6
31
4
8
9
#69854 Difficulty: moderate6
89
5
7
23
78
6
7
4
14
2
8
5912
8
9
4
#74053 Difficulty: moderate
3
65
6
18
3
41
25
9
19
8
44
5
79
7
6
8
#217699 Difficulty: moderate7
4
16
8
5
41
77
3
98
2
5
98
41
9
62
6
7
#199549 Difficulty: moderate
3
94
61
2
7
52
8
6
154
1
8
27
9
3
1
78
#122271 Difficulty: moderate3
9
78
19
647
8
9
14
6
52
1
3
52
3
6
8
#95487 Difficulty: moderateGet new sudokus at https://sudoku.cba.si/
Can't solve it? Check the solution at https://sudoku.cba.si/CLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Father of “Number One 
Son”
5. Country album?
10. Chief Norse god
14. Late-night monologist
15. Fauvist painter Dufy
16. Melt fish
17. Echo on the streetcorner 
of old
19. Walked on
20. Religious beliefs
21. California wind
23. Horseshoe site
25. Bride’s concern
26. Impudent
29. Take a pick
32. Gymnast Comaneci
35. Chills and fever
36. On the way out?
38. Caterer’s vessel
39. Head over heels
40. Marina site
41. Fabled prince?
42. LAX guesstimate
43. State trooper, over the CB
44. Nathan of “The Birdcage”
45. To the point
47. Bunch of bills
48. LP material
49. Cyber junkmail
51. Kind of mother
53. Juliet, to Romeo
57. Save
61. Fires do it sometimes
62. Restaurant chain’s 
echoing slogan
64. Just --- (not much)
65. Young Jetson
66. Speaker’s spot
67. Garden grower of rhyme
68. Love and mercy, e.g.
69. Scot’s tongueDOWN
1. Staff symbol
2. Prefix meaning six
3. Debate side
4. It’s between the British 
Isles and Scandinavia
5. Reply to “Am not!”
6. Sales add-on
7. They may be drawn
8. Heavenly glow
9. Latest lingo
10. NHL city
11. Band with an echo
12. Privy to
13. Zero, zip or zilch
18. Greeting from Popeye
22. Broadway award
24. Temporarily
26. “Full House” star
27. Playing marble
28. Pop chart echo of ‘69
30. Piece for squeezeboxes
31. Some jacket fabrics
33. Humor with a twist
34. Financial backer
36. Slow-witted
37. Hog haven
41. “Hound Dog, ” relative to 
“Don’t Be Cruel”
43. Prepare to mail
46. --- Gonzales (cartoon 
mouse)
48. Number-two exec
50. Has the blues
52. Busboy’s pickups
53. Rail runner
54. Pro ---
55. Morally reprehensible
56. Metrical Pound
58. Big shot of industry
59. Israeli submachine guns
60. Effortlessness
63. “B.C. ” sound effect
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeet
organization with Triton 
Outfitter’s Made TO 
Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian
.
orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11