ROUND ONE:
WILL SMITH VS. THE 
OSCARS
Will Smith is trending, and 
for all the wrong reasons. 
Want the steaming hot tea 
of what exactly happened at 
the Oscars? Come join us at 
Opinion’s section to sort our 
thoughts about the situation.
DEATH TO BOOKS
ANTHONY & KATEBANNING LITERATURE ISN’T NEW OR 
CLEAN-CUT CONCEPT
BRIDGERTON REVIEWOPINION,  Page   4
A & E,  Page  6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“A conservative 
movement that once 
claimed to stand for 
limited government is 
increasingly embracing 
the coercive use of law 
to commandeer a culture 
it fears it has lost. ”
- ZACH BEAUCHAMP
SENIOR CORRESPONDANT 
OF VOX
FEATURES, PAGE 5OPINION,   PAGE  4
MONDAY  
H 18 L 13
WEDNESDAY  
H 17 L 12
ILLUSTRATION BY ALLEN CHEN.ILLUSTRATION BY ALLEN CHEN.
TUESDAY  
H 17 L 13
THURSDAY
H 17 L 13V
OSCARS........................4
TOKYO VICE.............. ...7
FITNESS........................8
SPRING CLEANING......9
UCSB LOSS................12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 24   MONDA Y , APRIL 18, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MUSIC
2022 Sun God Festival: Facts and Other Things to Know 
Before Y ou Go
By HECTOR ARRIETA  /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019/gid00001 &  TIANRUI HUANG  /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019Museum of  
Contemporary Art San 
Diego Flagship Reopens 
at La JollaART
By TIANRUI HUANG 
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
UC San Diego’s Sun God Festival is the univer -
sity’s /f_lagship annual event, given the honor 
of “Top 5 College Concerts /T_hat Should Be 
Actual Festivals” by Live Nation. However, Sun God 
has remained dormant since 2020, with that year’s 
festival being canceled due to the rise of COVID-19. 
However, along with improvements in COVID viral 
activity on campus, the Associated Students’ Con -
certs & Events (ASCE) department seeks to revive the 
festival a/f_ter its short hiatus. 
Sun God Festival is set to take place on April 30 
from 12–6 p.m. on RIMAC Field. Students can regis -
ter for tickets on the UCSD Box Oﬃce website and are 
free for all undergraduate students; ASCE also stated 
that students who have already graduated during the 
2021–2022 academic year can still attend the event. 
Although the event is primarily aimed towards un -
dergraduates, graduate students can attend the event 
for $40. Upon registration or purchase, students will 
have access to the one-of-a-kind experience of Sun 
God that ASCE has established over its 40 year ex -
istence. 
A large part of this mystical experience is the 
line up of big name artists. Previous Sun God line -
ups include notable artists like Vince Staples and Joji 
in 2019, ScHoolboy Q in 2017, Snoop Dog and Jhene 
Aiko in 2015, Kendrick Lamar in 2013, and Drake in 
2010. /T_he 2022 lineup currently boasts Peach Tree 
Rascals and Keshi, with three more artists to still be 
revealed at the time of this article. Peach Tree Ras -
cals are a band hailing from San Jose, California. 
/T_he group is known for their hit song “Mariposa,” an upbeat, joyous song, as well as others like “Mango” 
and “I’m Sorry. ” If Peach Tree Rascals are the uptem -
po group of the event, Keshi is the more low tempo 
artist. A Vietnamese-American artist representing 
Houston, Texas is known for his falsetto-y ballads 
about love and heartbreak sung over hip-hop beats. 
Notable songs of his include “like i need you” and 
“beside you. ” Obtaining artists like Peach Tree Ras -
cals and Keshi is a long process that requires logistics 
on the student body front and music industry front.
When planning the Sun God festival, ASCE takes 
multiple factors into account. Carolina Solorio, Se -
nior Associate Vice President for ASCE, noted that 
Sun God takes place a/f_ter weekend one and before 
weekend two of Coachella. Time issues like this deter -
mine which artists ASCE can try and book. Another 
aspect that ASCE has to consider is artists’ citizenship. 
Whether the artist is a California local, out-of-state 
or even international adds another layer of logistics.  
However, the main aspect that Solorio is concerned 
with are the students.
“Something that we always keep in mind when look -
ing for these artists when planning is the survey that 
we send out at the very beginning of the school year, ” 
Solorio said. “/T_hat survey is targeted towards the stu -
dents to ask about what kind of music genres they are 
interested in. ‘ Are there any artists that they would 
like to see in the festivals?’ It’s a pretty extensive sur -
vey and I think that’s the major pool that my team and 
I work around. ”
Besides, given the current reality of the pandemic and 
Spacewalking Astronaut and Alumna Jessica Meir to be Commencement 
Keynote SpeakerGRADUATION
By KAITLIN LEE 
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Astronaut and UC San Diego alumna Jessica 
Meir will serve as the keynote speaker at the 2022 
All Campus Commencement Ceremony. Meir was 
part of the six-month expedition in 2020 to the Inter -
national Space Station and was selected to /f_ly to the 
moon in 2025 for NASA’s Project Artemis. 
In a statement, UCSD Chancellor Pradeep K. 
Khosla said that Meir’s impressive achievements as a 
scientist and astronaut made her the clear choice for 
the speaker. “UC San Diego alumna Jessica Meir entered histo -
ry as a scientist, an astronaut and as an ambassador of 
peace and goodwill for all of humanity, ” Khosla said. 
“Her fearless exploration and collaborative research 
with scientists and astronauts from around the globe 
exemplify the spirit of UC San Diego. Our graduates 
are looking forward to learning about her adventures 
— from the sea to space — and hearing her words of 
wisdom. ”
Meir will most likely speak to the largest-ever 
graduating class, where it’s believed that up to 11,000 
students could get their degrees. After a four-year-long, 
$105-million-input renovation 
and expansion, the Museum of 
Contemporary Art San Diego 
(MCASD) reopened on April 9. 
The expanded museum features 
“Niki de Saint Phalle in the 
1960s” as the inaugural exhibi -
tion.
Originally founded as the 
Art Center in La Jolla, MCASD 
has gone through several signif -
icant changes and evolved into 
an art museum mainly focused 
on the collection, preservation, 
exhibition, and interpretation 
of works of art from 1950 to 
the present. It has two sites: the 
flagship building located in La 
Jolla and the other in Down -
town San Diego. 
In 2014, MCASD named ar -
chitect Annabelle Selldorf for 
expansion, quadrating the mu -
seum gallery space in La Jolla. 
The new museum is 104,400 
square feet large in total size, 
with an addition of 46,400 
square feet compared to four 
years ago. It is also equipped 
with two levels of light-filled 
galleries, a public park, and new 
seaside terraces offering dra -
matic views of the Pacific Coast. 
“With the Selldorf expan -
sion, MCASD’s flagship build -
ing is, at last, scaled to showcase 
the work it has collected over 
the past decades. Soaring ceil -
ings and natural light allow for 
inviting displays of the collec -
tion alongside lively, changing 
exhibitions, ” said Kathryn Kan -
jo, the CEO at MCASD.
Currently, MCASD hosts 
more than 5,600 contemporary 
art exhibitions, among which 
more than 4,700 works were 
created after 1950, across vari -
ous media and genres. These 
post-World War II works in -
clude key pieces from color field 
painter Ellsworth Kelly, mini -
malist sculptor Donald Judd 
and renowned California instal -
lation artist Robert Irwin. Ells -
worth Kelly’s “Red Blue Green, ” 
Andy Warhol’s “Liz Taylor Dip -
tych,” and John Baldessari’s 
“T erms Most Useful” are some 
of the notable works collected at 
MCASD.
The expanded La Jolla build -
ing will be renamed after phi -
lanthropists Joan and Irwin Ja -
cobs, who donated $20 million 
in fundraising and donated two 
additional sculptures (a stain -
less steel pumpkin with color -
ful polka dots by Yayoi Kusama, 
See GRADUATION , page 2 See ART, page 2See MUSIC , page 2
Photo courtesy of Angela Liang for UCSD Guardian. 
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado 
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
/uni25B6 MUSIC , from page 1
COVID-19, ASCE must bal -
ance between taking pandemic 
prevention measures and deliver -
ing the best possible experience 
to students. In order to register 
for Sun God, students must ful/f_ill 
UCSD’s COVID-19 requirements 
by April 27, meaning students 
must at least have one vaccine 
shot by that day. Students will 
also be required to wear masks
meet people with similar tastes. 
Fortunately, I like the artists 
they have lined up.
Celeste Huggins (/T_hird-year): 
I was really disappointed but 
honestly there were bigger 
things to worry about besides 
Sun God 2020. /T_he lack of a Sun 
God 2021 was honestly more 
disappointing because it felt 
like things would never get bet -
ter. I’m actually really excited to 
be in a space where people are 
just there to have a good time 
because it’s felt like that hasn’t 
been available the last few years.
Amy Trinh (First-year): I’m 
really looking forward to ex -
periencing live music with my 
friends and just overall having a 
good time with them. I honestly 
feel kinda lucky that Sun God is 
coming back right on time for 
my /f_irst year, so then I could 
possibly experience four dif -
ferent lineups during my years 
here at UCSD.
Once beloved by students, still 
beloved by students, Sun God is 
truly the place to be, come the end 
of April. Needless to say, Sun God 
has risen from its nap and is ready 
to give students an experience 
they surely won’t forget.  /uni25B6 ART , from page 1
and an oversized stack of lead 
books by Anselm Kiefer) on the 
occasion of reopening. 
/T_he collection exhibition at 
this new building will display 
works that have seldom been put 
on show before, including those 
of John Baldessari, Larry Bell, and 
Sam Gilliam, along with a 460-
page handbook about the strength 
and distinction in each collection. 
“Our collection includes some 
of the greatest artists from the 
past century that represent diverse 
geographies, aesthetics, genders, 
races, and o/f_ten re/f_lect the Muse -
um’s position by the Mexico bor -
der. With this added space we can 
consistently present these objects 
to a curious public, ” Kanjo said. 
/T_he museum’s inaugural exhi -
bition features French-American 
artist Niki de Saint Phalle (1930-
2002), focusing speci/f_ically on 
her works completed during the 
1960s. /T_his exhibition is the /f_irst 
to explore her experimental pieces 
during those transformative 10 
years. Well known in France, 
Saint Phalle’s achievements were 
largely ignored in America, 
though. /T_his special exhibition 
also marks the /f_irst time that nu -
merous underrepresented Euro -
pean works are displayed in the 
United States.
“While local audiences are 
familiar with Saint Phalle’s later 
fantastical works of public art, 
we in Southern California have 
had less exposure to her radical 
work of the 1960s,” Jill Dawsey, 
Senior Curator at the MCASD, 
explained.
Saint Phalle, in fact, spent her 
last years in La Jolla before she tions will present solo exhibitions 
from trailblazing female artists, 
from Yolanda López to Alexis 
Smith.
Both of them are path-break -
ing artists and activists, who 
greatly contributed to their com -
munity and society through their 
art. 
/T_he MCASD is now open 
most days from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Tickets to MCASD cost $15 for 
students, while people at or under 
age 25 can enjoy a free visit. 
Photo courtesy of Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego. 
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianpassed away. During this period 
she created the Sun God Statue as 
her /f_irst outdoor commission in 
the United States.
“Saint Phalle had an impor -
tant relationship to this region. In 
the early 1960s, she staged several 
shooting sessions in Los Angeles, 
in what were among the earli -
est instances of performance art 
in Southern California,” Dawsey 
said. “She would eventually settle 
in San Diego in the 1990s.”
/T_he exhibition displayed two 
of Saint Phalle’s most signi/f_i -
cant series. One is the “Tirs,” or 
“shooting paintings.” /T_his work 
was completed in 1970 and was 
made as the artist shot at paint 
bags placed on the canvas. “Tirs” 
was created for Saint Phalle’s ex -
hibition, “Feu à Volonté” (Fire at 
Will) in Paris in 1961. It was her 
third exhibition since Galerie J 
opened and symbolized the art -
ist’s entry into the nouveau ré -
aliste group. /T_he nouveau réaliste 
artists tended to incorporate  
everyday objects in artworks through assemblage, collage, and 
paintings. 
/T_he other series is “Nanas,” 
the exuberant sculptures of wom -
en. /T_hese sculptures represent a 
dramatic change in Saint Phalle’s 
depiction of women; instead of 
portraying women as sad and 
passive, she made them energetic 
and powerful /f_igures. /T_hus, she 
named it “Nanas,” a slightly de -
rogatory French term for girls, 
especially in reference to young, 
saucy women. Some of these 
sculptures were created in light of 
the American Civil Rights Move -
ment (1954-1968) and highlighted 
how “all women are goddesses, 
regardless of color.”
“Many of Saint Phalle’s fantas -
tical creatures and visionary en -
vironments cover our landscape 
and resonate with the commu -
nity,” Kanjo said. “/T_his rare pre -
sentation from a pivotal period in 
the artist’s career is a gi/f_t to our 
public and a homecoming for the 
artist.” /T_his year, both the La Jolla 
and Downtown San Diego loca
throughout the duration of 
the event, not including when eat -
ing in speci/f_ied areas. 
ASCE also had to consider the 
layout of the festival as they’re 
making great eﬀorts to put nu -
merous attractions to keep stu -
dents from bundling into large 
crowds. Lastly, ASCE under -
stands that some students may 
still be suﬀering /f_inancial strains 
from the pandemic, or others will 
simply need to eat something as a 
result of substances taken before 
the festival, and, as such, are in 
talks with food vendors to either 
lower prices of their goods or ac -
cept dining dollars. 
“A lot of students might not be 
/f_inancially stable or /f_inancially in 
a place to buy a $15 hot dog, and 
that’s something we talk to ven -
dors about,” Solorio said. “We are 
[also] under the impression that 
people might not eat [prior to the 
event], and before they attend the 
festival people will be under the 
in/f_luence. Whether that’s drugs 
or alcohol — which we don’t con -
done — in the case of someone 
not feeling very well and needs 
to eat something, that resource is 
available to them.”
Aside from the physical logis -
tical changes and a greater em -
phasis on student safety becausenever had the opportunity to see 
Sun God, let alone attend one, so 
that being said, we’re all start -
ing brand new and it’s giving us 
the experience and opportunity 
to reimagine it they way that we 
think…will make their UCSD 
experience the most thrilling and 
exciting.” 
Solorio brought up a great 
point about her staﬀ that could 
apply to a large portion of the stu -
dent population, primarily third 
year students and younger: they 
have never experienced a Sun 
God. First through third year stu -
dents would experience their /f_irst, 
but third year students are the co -
hort that had the festival canceled 
right before their very eyes. 
Here’s what some students 
have to say about the festival:
u / Te a r s A reI nYou rEye s 
(/T_hird-year — asked to remain 
anonymous): I was pretty dis -
appointed that it was canceled. 
Joji was playing the year before 
and I hoped UCSD would bring 
another artist like him to 2020. 
Kinda disappointed [with] this 
Sun God so far, but it'll be fun 
to go since it's something dif -
ferent. ASCE has done some 
fun stuﬀ over the years, like 
bring[ing] Josh Peck, Phoebe 
Bridgers, and Jimmy O Yang to of COVID-19, ASCE sees this as 
an opportunity for Sun God to be 
completely diﬀerent from what 
the previous 40 years have dem -
onstrated to students.
“[Because of COVID-19], 
we’re able to reimagine what the 
festival will look like this year 
by scrapping everything we once 
knew and starting pretty much 
knew,” Solorio said. “Most of the 
staﬀ that I am working with has name a few.
Nicole (/T_hird-year): As a third 
year, I wasn’t too hyped for it 
in my freshman year, though 
I’ll say that seeing the lineup 
for Sun God in 2019 made me 
excited. Sun God 2020 didn’t 
seem too far along announce -
ment wise so that’s probably 
why I wasn’t too excited. Now 
that I’ve missed two years of it, 
I’m just excited to u
c
s
d
g
u
a
r
d
i
a
n
.
o
r
gYOUR
NEWS
NOW!NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
/uni25B6 GRADUATION , from page 1
/T_he All-Campus Commence -
ment ceremony on Saturday, June 
11 at RIMAC Field will begin at 
8:15 a.m., with the procession 
of graduates, and will last from 
9–11 a.m. /T_he graduate division 
master’s ceremony will be from 
12:30–2:30 p.m. /T_hen, starting 
the individual college commence -
ments, graduates from John Muir 
college will walk from 1:30–3:15 
p.m. /T_he Graduate Division Doc -
toral/Master of Fine Arts Cere -
mony will be from 4:30–6:30 p.m. 
/T_hen from 5:30–7:15 p.m.. gradu -
ates from Sixth College will walk 
for the Sixth College commence -
ment. 
Additionally on June 11, the 
Jacobs School of Engineering 
will host a ring ceremony, where 
graduating undergraduates from 
the school will recite a graduation 
oath, and receive a ring represent -
ing their commitment to uphold -
ing standards of ethics, integrity, 
and quality as engineers. 
/T_hen on Sunday, June 12, 
there will be more commence -
ment ceremonies focusing on spe -
ci/f_ic schools and colleges. Revelle 
College graduates will be walking 
at their own college-speci/f_ic com -
mencement from 8–9:45 a.m., 
while graduates of Rady School 
of Management will be walking 
at the RIMAC Arena from 9–11 
a.m. /T_hurgood Marshall College 
graduates will have their own 
commencement at 11:30 a.m. to 
1:15 p.m. at RIMAC Field. /T_hen, 
graduating students in the School 
of Global Policy and Strategy will 
have their commencement at the 
RIMAC Arena. /T_he Eleanor Roo -
sevelt College Commencement 
will happen from 3–4:45 p.m. at 
RIMAC Field. Finally, the Earl 
Warren College Commencement 
will take place at RIMAC Field 
from 6:30–8:15 p.m. 
Additionally, there will be 
special graduation ceremonies for 
more speci/f_ic student groups on 
campus. /T_he Military-Connected 
Graduation Ceremony will be on 
May 25 at 12 p.m. On Tuesday, 
May 31, the CASP grad ceremony 
will take place and feature stu -
dent leaders from CASP partner -
ship schools, VCSA, VC EDI, VC 
Advancement, EVC, College Pro -
vosts and Deans. On June 1, the 
Transfer Grad Celebration will 
take place in-person at 7 p.m. /T_he 
Rainbow Graduation Ceremony 
for LGBTQIA+ students will take 
place on June 4, at 10 a.m. Finally, the Black Graduation Ceremony 
and the Xicanx/Latinx Gradu -
ation Ceremony will happen on 
Friday, June 10.      
Meir graduated from Brown 
University with a bachelor’s de -
gree in biology in 1999 and then 
received a Master’s in Space Stud -
ies from the International Space 
University at the university in 
Strasbourg in 2000. She then 
earned a doctorate’s degree in 
Marine Biology at Scripps Insti -
tution of Oceanography in 2009. 
“Since /f_inishing her degree, 
she has continued to be involved 
with the campus, including par -
ticipating in a Facebook live video 
to answer student questions in 
2017 and speaking with young 
students from space through a 
program with Scripps Oceanog -
raphy in 2020,” University Com -
munications Assistant Director 
Erika Johnson said on the behalf 
of UCSD. 
Prior to being an astronaut, 
Meir studied the physiologies of 
animals living in extreme con -
ditions. From 2000 to 2003, she 
worked for Lockheed Martin’s 
Human Research Facility. During 
this time, Meir helped in research 
/f_lights on NASA’s reduced gravity 
aircra/f_t and served as an aqua -
naut in an underwater habitat for 
NASA’s Extreme Environment 
Mission Operation. 
While she was a doctoral stu -
dent at Scripps, Meir studied the 
physiology of deep-diving ani -
mals such as emperor penguins. 
She studied penguins during four 
research expeditions to Antarc -
tica. /T_here, Meir lived in isolation 
with a small team that included 
her Scripps advisors Paul Pon -
ganis and Jerry Kooyman. Meir 
credits this experience to hav -
ing helped her prepare for space 
travel. 
“/T_here are so many paral -
lels to the way that we do things 
at NASA in terms of learning 
those valuable teamwork skills: 
leadership, followership, commu -
nication and taking care of the 
team,” Meir said to the UC San 
Diego News Center. “Especially 
in a harsh environment like the 
Antarctic and space, there are 
so many parallels and all of that 
training, all of my Scripps men -
tors were really invaluable to 
that process.” In 2013, Meir was 
chosen for astronaut training at 
NASA. 
In September 2019, Meir 
reached new heights when she 
Photo courtesy of NASA. 
made her first trip into space. 
Meir traveled to the Interna -
tional Space Station, where 
she spent more than 200 days 
as part of the outpost’s science 
team. One month later, on Oct. 
18, 2019, Meir and fellow as -
tronaut Christina Koch made 
history when they performed 
the first all-woman spacewalk 
while doing upgrades.
When asked why UCSD 
chose Meir to speak at gradua -
tion, Johnson stated that Meir 
was a great source of inspira -
tion to students at her alma 
mater, and was a shining rep -
resentation of UCSD’s mission 
of collaboration and ingenu -
ity. 
Photo courtesy of NASA. “Meir, PhD ’09, is a shining 
example of how the Triton spirit 
of innovation and bold explora -
tion can propel you to infinite 
heights and world-renowned 
impact,” Johnson said. “Meir’s 
fearless exploration and collab -
orative research with scientists 
and astronauts from around the 
globe exemplify the spirit of UC 
San Diego. She has made strides 
in science in ways that only a 
small number of people ever 
have — or ever will — and rep -
resents the ethos of innovation, 
protecting our planet, and forg -
ing new paths that our students 
are taught to embrace.” 
UCSD also hopes that Meir 
will give great insights to graduates about future career paths. 
“Meir will oﬀer insights about 
her journey as a scientist, an astro -
naut, and as an ambassador of peace 
to inspire graduates to see limitless 
possibilities for their futures,” John -
son said. 
/T_he All Campus Commence -
ment will be an in-person ceremony 
for all undergraduate and graduate 
students and are open to all gradu -
ating students and their guests. For 
those who are unable to attend the 
commencement ceremony in per -
son, a livestream will be available on 
the UCSD Commencement website 
beginning at 9 a.m. Paci/f_ic Daylight 
Time on June 11. For more infor -
mation, you can refer to the UCSD 
Commencement website. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
The night of the 94th 
Academy Awards Ceremony, the 
internet erupted into chaos. In a 
matter of seconds, a prestigious 
award show turned into a 
drama-filled spectacle from an 
altercation that lasted less than 
a minute. Will Smith and Chris 
Rock were trending on Twitter in 
a matter of seconds and it seemed 
everyone had an opinion to share 
on this broadcasted scene. Many 
were convinced it was merely 
a staged performance since 
such a rudimentary argument 
was not expected to take place 
at a well-respected Hollywood 
event. Nevertheless, hungry for 
drama, news outlets, the ever-
forgiving views of social media 
users, and even fellow celebrities 
took advantage of the spectacle, 
arguably pushing it too far and 
dramatizing events that pale 
in comparison to some of the 
other atrocities the Academy has 
turned a blind eye to.  
The Academy is not an innocent establishment. Over 
the years, they have been 
criticized for a lack of diversity 
and representation amongst 
nominees and award winners. 
After being under the spotlight 
for so long, the Academy was able 
to implement gradual changes 
that continue to wax and wane in 
terms of boosting representation 
of minority groups. However, 
the majority of the Academy’s 
choices are designed to placate 
critics and patch over deep-
rooted issues. In countless 
scandals throughout Hollywood 
and the film industry, the Board 
of Governors has remained 
passive and inattentive to the 
injustices they perpetuate. 
A prominent example is 
Roman Polanski, famous Oscar-
winner and known fugitive. In 
1978, he fled the United States, 
moving around various European 
countries over the years in order 
to avoid his final sentencing 
after pleading guilty to unlawful 
sexual intercourse with a minor. 
Yet, this convicted felon who 
escaped his punishment in the 
U.S. went on to be nominated 
for an Academy Award in 2003, and he won. Years after pleading 
guilty to raping a thirteen-year-
old girl, Polanski was chosen by 
the Academy as Best Director 
for his film The Pianist. While 
the film lost in the category of 
Best Motion Picture that night, 
it collected two more awards for 
Best Actor and Best Adapted 
Screenplay. 
Nearly 15 years later, the 
Board of Governors ultimately 
decided to expel Polanski from 
the Academy shortly after 
expelling Bill Cosby. Cosby’s 
conviction and the MeToo 
movement in 2017 prompted the 
Academy to create an updated 
Standards of Conduct centered 
on “respect for human dignity.” 
Without this popularized 
social movement and scrutiny 
from the public, it is highly 
unlikely that the Academy 
would have taken any corrective 
action against Polanski, who 
is unfortunately still praised 
by many in Hollywood. Even 
now, the Academy has not 
rescinded any awards from 
Polanski, Harvey Weinstein, and 
various others who have been 
accused or convicted of heinous sexual crimes. Only a total of 
six people have been expelled 
from the Academy. Meanwhile, 
previous award-winners like Mel 
Gibson, who was homophobic, 
antisemitic, and physically 
and verbally abusive, remain 
unaffected and even privileged 
by the prestige of having an 
Oscar. Casey Affleck and 
Woody Allen are two additional 
examples. Like Polanski, Affleck 
was awarded his Oscar after 
being sued twice for sexual 
harassment seven years prior. 
The list goes on and on 
in part because there are 
no consequences for these 
behaviors. Actors, directors, and 
big names in the film industry 
are not being deterred or even 
moderately prevented from 
committing similar crimes. As 
a “prestigious” and “respected” 
institution, the Academy 
needs to demonstrate greater 
accountability — which leads 
back to the Smith scandal.  
Before agreeing on the 10-year 
ban from the Academy, Smith 
had already willingly renounced 
his Academy membership. He 
recognized that his behavior was inappropriate, he apologized, 
and accepted that assault should 
not be taken lightly. There is no 
denying that what he did was 
wrong. However, for the Academy 
to pretend to bring down the 
hammer on Smith and perform 
harsh corrective actions to show 
their commitment to morality 
that has been consistently 
absent when it comes to doling 
out consequences to convicted 
criminals is a cruel joke. This 
is yet another sad example of 
the Academy’s desire to save 
face and satiate the needs of the 
public by creating its own form 
of retribution that is superficial 
at most and an all-around feeble 
attempt at justice. 
The Academy claims that 
they want to use this incident 
as an establishing “step towards 
a larger goal of protecting the 
safety of [their] performers and 
guests, and restoring trust in 
[them].” But, that commitment 
and objective remains out of 
sight when corrective actions are 
handled so carelessly and on the 
basis of public attention. By Marcella Barneclo 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045Slapping Some Sense 
Into The Academy
Art by Allen Chen for the UCSD Guardian.RAYMOND TRANFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
NELSON ESPINAL 
 Banning Literature Isn’t a New or Clean-cut Concept
By EUNICE KIM 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045Book banning extends centuries back, but today–while its eﬀects are not usually popular–it is said to keep in mind students’ safety and emotional well-being.
 Still, most individuals are against this form of censorship and it extends not just to books, but other forms of literature and teachings.
On Twitter, a few weeks back, 
Governor Gavin Newsom posted a 
photo of him reading the book “Be -
loved” by Tony Morrison among 
a set of other classics such as “To 
Kill a Mockingbird'' by Harper Lee 
and “1984” by George Orwell. He 
took a jab at the states that imposed 
book bans as they were apparently 
“afraid” of these books.
Newsom was met with some 
positive feedback, while other dis -
gruntled Twitter commenters and 
political opponents spoke not just 
on his apparent mishandling of 
his political career, but the hypoc -
risy of his actions when his state — 
California — banned some of these 
books. 
Back in late 2020, a speci/f_ic few 
books, such as the very famous “To 
Kill a Mockingbird,” were chal -
lenged in school curriculums by 
parents in Burbank, California and 
called to undergo a review process. 
/T_here were no “yes/no” answers; the 
diﬃculty in coming to a consensus 
was in the attempt to accommodate 
all of the student population so that 
they could safely learn the material 
that o/f_ten covered racism and racial 
slurs.
Some schools in the U.S. — par -
ticularly middle and high schools — 
either banned or challenged certain 
books. /T_he controversy that ensues 
due to the book banning process 
occurs because of how it encroaches 
on freedom of speech as well as stu -
dents’ opportunities to learn stimu -
lating material that is more o/f_ten 
than not intense or controversial. 
/T_he reasons behind calls for 
book bans are not all on the same 
coin. Some adults dub certain 
books too inappropriate or even 
harmful for young students, which 
displays that their requests for bans 
aren’t necessarily of ill intent. For 
instance, some schools have banned 
“To Kill a Mockingbird” because of its tackling of racial injustices 
from a white protagonist's per -
spective and the peppered-in ra -
cial slurs. Others feel more of a 
moral calling to object to certain 
books, especially those with racial 
or LGBTQ+ themes, which some 
say is the result of conservative 
states’ desires to have more of a 
say in their children’s learning. 
According to the American 
Library Association, some of the 
top 10 most challenged books of 
2021 include the more contem -
porary “/T_he Hate U Give” by An -
gie /T_homas and “/T_he Absolutely 
True Diary of a Part-Time Indi -
an” by Sherman Alexie. Further, 
while certain school curriculums 
speci/f_ically censored books that 
focus on racism and LGBTQ+ 
themes, they also censored books 
with explicit themes and profan -
ity. Both plots of the books are 
vastly diﬀerent from each other, 
but some themes were perceived 
as either too controversial or too 
degrading. 
Unsurprisingly then, the 
American Library Association 
counted a few hundred challenges 
to library, school, and university 
materials as well as other research 
databases and though this num -
ber may seem small, it is also just 
the result of voluntary reporting 
by educators. 
Holland Rockwell, a /T_hur -
good Marshall College junior, 
states that ultimately one can take 
liberties to /f_ind a book regardless 
of a ban since they can go to a dif -
ferent library or perhaps bootleg 
the book for free online. However, 
it can be a time for growth in a 
school setting. 
“If you’re reading a work of 
literature in an academic setting 
[and] there’s something prob -
lematic that’s coming out of it, 
students should discuss it. It’s an 
opportunity to get deeper with 
it, ” Rockwell said. “/T_here’s only a 
handful of books that everybody  reads. If you’re discussing it in a 
classroom [though] it’s /f_ine. You 
have access to an educated adult.” 
In fact, book bans had a simi -
lar, humorous eﬀect to prohibition 
laws in the early 20th century — 
people just sought the source of 
some peoples’ anger even more. 
Due to the book bans in states like 
Tennessee and California, many 
took to Twitter to express their 
rebellion for book bans by posting 
photos with their favorite banned 
books and encouraging individu -
als to keep on reading. Bookstores 
and libraries also played a part as 
well. 
Barnes and Noble has a list of 
banned and challenged books that 
can easily be found on their web -
site. As of April 13 through the 
end of May, the New York Public 
Library allowed readers to get se -
lect banned or challenged books 
for free on their e-reader app, Sim -
plyE, for iOS or Android. Banned 
Books Week also takes place an -
nually and will be held Sept. 18–24 
this year to celebrate censored ma -
terials.
UC San Diego participated in 
Banned Books Week just last year, 
which denounced censorship in 
favor of more reading. During the 
winter, the main /f_loor of Geisel 
Library had a small exhibit for the 
/f_irst edition copy of “Ulysses” by 
James Joyce. /T_he book was once 
banned in the U.S. for obscenity 
reasons.
Interestingly enough, the re -
cently /f_lared up discussion on 
banned books coincides with 
National Poetry Month of April, 
which Geisel Library is presently 
acknowledging. National Poetry 
Month was /f_irst launched in April 
1996 with intent on showcasing 
the achievement of American po -
ets and encouraging attention on 
poetry; this comes just a couple 
of decades a/f_ter the /f_irst Banned 
Book week. As of now, there are 
eight poetry display cases along Geisel West on the second /f_loor and 
on the /f_loor below in Geisel West, 
there are four glass displays cel -
ebrating National Poetry Month. 
/T_he exhibits neatly display un -
bridled content of haikus and ele -
gies, poems in diﬀerent languages 
such as Spanish, poems in diﬀerent 
mediums such as magnets or origa -
mi paper, and much more. In fact, 
the poems also delve into experi -
mental writing, with many poems 
displayed in codes such as in “Code 
Poems” by Hannah Weiner.
A few decades ago, some 
schools banned “We Real Cool,” a 
short poem by Gwendolyn Brooks, 
for its apparent sexual connota -
tions of the word “jazz.” Brooks 
said that was not her intent but that 
poetry is for personal use and while 
she is the author, anyone is free to 
interpret the lines as they wish. 
/T_he poem “Howl” by Allen Gins -
berg was so controversial that it 
went into an obscenity trial, where 
it was eventually dubbed to not be 
obscene. /T_he Archive for New Po -
etry has a /f_irst edition, /f_irst printing 
of the piece by the author in Geisel 
Library.
Similar to Brooks, academic in -
stitutions' lack of censorship simi -
larly makes it clear that students 
or other readers carry the right 
to come to their own viewpoints, 
which is why book bans are usually 
denounced and especially not com -
monplace in higher institutions 
such as universities. 
 “ A conservative movement that 
once claimed to stand for limited 
government is increasingly em -
bracing the coercive use of law to 
commandeer a culture it fears it has 
lost,” Zach Beauchamp, senior cor -
respondent for Vox, said for a Feb -
ruary piece regarding book bans 
and its prevalence in more conser -
vative states. 
However, interestingly enough, 
in a survey done on behalf of the 
American Library Association, 
large majorities of voters or 71% of voters opposed eﬀorts to have 
books that are potentially oﬀen -
sive or inappropriate removed 
from local public libraries. Re -
gardless of political standpoint, 
the majority of the voters trust 
librarians as important /f_igures 
in the community and also trust 
that libraries oﬀer books with a 
diverse array of viewpoints. 
Again, book bans are not 
new and arise not just because 
of adults’ frustrations with what 
children are reading. /T_hey’ve oc -
curred for centuries due to ex -
plicit or obscene content, too, and 
they can represent a diﬀerence in 
ideas of the institution and paren -
tal /f_igures.
Jill Lepore, a professor of 
American History at Harvard 
University, compared book ban -
ning to the /f_ight over evolution 
teachings. For instance, in the 
1920s with the Scopes trial, one 
can note how both have been po -
liticized. /T_he Scopes trial, focused 
on biology teacher John Scopes 
who dove into evolution in class 
despite Tennessee's restriction on 
such academic topics and was ac -
cordingly put on trial. 
While Lepore acknowledges 
the validity of parents being con -
cerned about the appropriateness 
of the material their children are 
reading, she dubs the political /f_ig -
ures as most divisive. 
For instance, Lepore said that 
people objecting to their children 
learning about evolutionary top -
ics were also objecting to other 
things. Moreover, parental rights 
initially did go against mandatory 
public education, but today we see 
that compulsory public education 
is still very much intact. 
Today, the recently charged 
anger with some material being 
targeted arose in conservative 
states. And parents aren’t the only 
ones calling for action. 
For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org
Image courtesy of Movidagra/f_ica Barcelona of Pexels. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
Bridgerton Review
“Bridgerton” was de/f_initely one of my quarantine obsessions. It’s the perfect escape 
into the world of Regency-era England /f_illed with drama and romance. /T_he show follows 
the Bridgerton family, a widowed mother, and her eight children. Season 1 focused on the 
eldest daughter Daphne (Phoebe Dynevor) as she debuted into society to /f_ind a husband. 
Filled with classical covers of modern songs and steamy intimate scenes, “Bridgerton” was 
an instant hit. With the success of Season 1, Season 2 was de/f_initely a long-awaited event. 
We open to the Bridgerton family outside of Eloise’s room. Eloise (Claudia Jessie) makes 
her debut this season and doesn’t seem to want to leave her room. Due to Eloise’s reluc -
tance to exit her room, Daphne rushes in, complaining about Eloise’s lack of movement, 
and reaches for the doorknob. However, before she can open it, the door opens and we see 
the image of a disgruntled Eloise, threatening her siblings into silence. /T_his is a perfect /f_irst 
scene for the new season. It captures the dynamic of the family perfectly and mirrors the 
/f_irst season with Daphne’s debut. It’s a scene that feels familiar, like turning on the next 
chapter of an exciting story. 
/T_his season focuses on Anthony (Jonathan Bailey), the eldest Bridgerton and the head 
of the household. Anthony is beholden to his familial duties and responsibilities. While 
last season Anthony slept with whomever he pleased regardless of status, this season he is 
on a quest to /f_ind a wife. He doesn’t want to fall in love — because he believes love makes 
life more painful and it isn’t something he wants to submit someone else to — and has a 
list of qualities his wife must meet. Enter the Sharma family, consisting of Kate Sharma 
(Simone Ashley), Edwina Sharma (Charithra Chandran), and their mother. Edwina, at 
/f_irst glance, seems like the perfect girl for Anthony — answering all of his questions with 
the proper response. In contrast, Kate only seems to bump heads with Anthony, disagree -
ing with him at every turn. However, it is clear that the squabbling pair has chemistry and 
this is the path we follow throughout the season. /T_he relationship takes on an enemies-to-
lovers trope which was something I was very excited to see. /T_his manifested into an enter -
taining arc as their inevitable attraction to each other blossomed into explosive arguments 
and barely withheld desires. For me, it was enticing to watch this kind of romance. It felt 
like I was holding my breath throughout the whole season. /T_his type of slow-burn relation -
ship with tension-/f_illed interactions and longing glances isn’t for everyone, but it certainly 
made the payoﬀ of Kate and Anthony getting together even sweeter. 
In the new season, the overall costume and hair design of the characters seem to 
have found their niche. While the design strays away from period accurate clothing, it 
/f_its the characters, providing the audience with a better understanding of each character. 
/T_he dresses and sweeping set designs are one of my favorite parts. A perfect example of 
thoughtful visual representation is the way the Sharma sisters wear certain colors to hint 
at diﬀerent traits within them. Kate almost solely wore darker colors — blues, greens, and 
purples — signifying her age and wisdom, compared to Edwina’s naive light pinks and 
purples. /T_hese jewel tones were also a hint of their heritage. Additionally, the Feathering -
ton family, another one of the main royal families,tend to wear bright yellows, greens, and 
oranges, possibly highlighting their outsider status. /T_hese details are always fun to pick up 
on when watching the show. 
/T_his season is diﬀerent from the /f_irst in a lot of ways. /T_he romance between Kate and 
Anthony is slow and subtle. /T_here is a lot more nuance, with long silences where Kate and 
Anthony stare at each other with their thoughts written on their faces. In the /f_irst season, 
Daphne and Simon (Regé-Jean Page, had kissed by the fourth episode and quickly con -
tinued on to other activities. Meanwhile, Kate and Anthony’s /f_irst kiss is in episode six. 
We get /f_leeting moments of the couple and they don’t truly come together until the last 
episode. /T_his was one of my dislikes of the season as it felt like the build-up led to only a 
couple of scenes of them as an established couple. While the escalation of their relation -
ship was captivating, I did wish for more scenes of them being together. Hopefully, they 
will continue making appearances in the next season because seeing the domesticity of 
the couple was something that I missed. Of course, it wouldn’t be a Shonda Rhimes show 
without the premise of drama. In Kate and Anthony’s story, we get a love triangle, involv -
ing Kate’s own sister Edwina. /T_his was a diﬃcult storyline to work through, as we see 
Kate struggle internally with her feelings for Anthony and her overwhelming love for her 
sister. /T_hese two things result in an internal war, and Simone Ashley does a brilliant job at 
displaying this. One scene in which she does this is in one of the many scenes where Kate 
and Anthony are denying their attraction to each other. While on a hunting trip, Anthony stops to show Kate how to hold the gun a certain way. /T_hroughout their close proximity, 
we can see the visible resistance on Kate’s face. Meanwhile, Anthony’s internal obstacle is 
between his duty and a chance at love. Jonathan Bailey does an incredible job at expressing 
this inner turmoil. One scene where he does a brilliant job is a/f_ter Kate’s life is in danger. 
We see Anthony break down and the emotion Jonathan Bailey brings in when deciding 
whether to see someone he loves versus continuing  to be there for his family is exquisite. 
/T_his split between family and love is something both characters struggle with, which is 
part of what makes them such a good match. Furthermore, he accepts the fact that he is in 
love with Kate and delivers this news in the form of one of those classic romantic speeches. 
Bridgerton gave us sweeping romantic declarations in the /f_irst season and they de/f_initely 
continued  the trend in this season. /T_he way that Anthony felt about Kate was perfectly en -
capsulated and it le/f_t me smitten with the couple. He ends the season in love and ful/f_illed, 
proving that one can meet their goals and be happy. 
Although love is a major emotion fueling Anthony’s actions, his arc is not limited to 
it. Anthony’s character development this season was quite special. Anthony has been the 
Viscount since his father died, an event he was present for. /T_hroughout the season, grief is 
a major theme, as we watch him struggle with it even years later. He shares some heartfelt 
moments with his mother as they discuss his father’s death and his aversion to love. He 
begins as this closed-oﬀ man with a mission, a/f_ter his /f_irst season's heartbreak with his 
opera singer love interest. Over the course of eight episodes, we watch Anthony open up to 
love. He bonds with his family once again, connecting with his youngest two siblings and 
opening up to the older ones. /T_hese scenes were really sweet to watch. Watching him ease 
back into the caring older sibling role instead of the uptight and obligation-bound sibling 
we’ve come to know was delightful. One of the best things in Bridgerton is the bonds be -
tween the Bridgerton siblings and in this season we still get to see that close familial love. 
One of the special qualities of this season is seeing the subtle Indian ancestry imbued 
into the Sharma family. /T_he inclusion that Bridgerton portrays is a favorite aspect of mine. 
I was very excited to see it expanded upon this season. We notice this almost immediately 
in the way that Kate and Edwina refer to each other. Bon and Didi are both words of aﬀec -
tion to one’s sister. Additionally, we see multiple moments of Indian culture or tradition 
throughout the season. One of these is Kate making a cup of chai. We also see Kate oiling 
Edwina’s hair. Another moment is seeing the Sharma family partake in Haldi as a wed -
ding tradition. All of these moments provide both insights into Indian culture and a sense 
of pride for watchers of the show who can relate. 
/T_here are a couple of other storylines throughout the season that are also noteworthy. 
First of all, Penelope (Nicola Coughlan), who was revealed to be the mystery Mrs. Whis -
tledown at the end of the /f_irst season, works on pushing out new gossip and keeping her 
operation a secret. She works with Madame Delacroix (Kathryn Drysdale) —the town’s 
seamstress— to continue peddling her pamphlets. Additionally, Eloise once again begins 
to investigate who Mrs. Whistledown is, determined to talk with the writer and convince 
her to take a more feminist lens. /T_his leads her into a forbidden friendship with a printer’s 
assistant and a big blow-up with Penelope at the end of the season. As well, the Feather -
ington family receives a new head of household, which invokes new schemes and shenani -
gans. All of these weren’t necessarily exciting to watch. In my opinion, the Featherington 
family’s storyline was the one I cared about the least, while Penelope and Eloise’s journey 
was more interesting to me. Even the limited screen times of the other elder Bridgerton 
brothers, Benedict (Luke /T_hompson) and Colin (Luke Newton) were more exciting than 
the Featherington family subplot. 
All in all, this Regency-era gossip show isn’t going anywhere anytime soon. Kate and 
Anthony had me swooning as they /f_illed the episodes with almost touches and passionate 
exchanges. Chemistry is something that the couples of Bridgerton certainly don’t have 
to worry about which makes it even more thrilling to watch. With eight books of source 
material and Shonda Rhimes producing, I’m excited for the next Bridgerton sibling and 
their love story. 
Grade: A-
Starring: Jonathan Bailey, Simone Ashley, Claudia Jessie, Charithra Chandran, 
Nicola Coughlan 
Release date: March 25, 2022Season 2 of Bridgerton comes in with a bang as audiences follow an exciting romance through steamy suspense and a compelling narrative. 
Photo courtesy of Net/f_lix. Laila Del-rio /gid00001/gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
TV Review: 
"Tokyo Vice" 
Episodes 1-3 
Adapted from the memoir of the same 
name, HBO’s latest mystery series dives 
into Tokyo’s underworld with slow and 
steady precision.
You’ve had your grimey crime shows in New York, Miami, Los Angeles — but now, it’s 
time to give Tokyo a try. Boasting a gritty, neon aesthetic of noir counterparts like “Blade 
Runner,” and hosting the Yakuza crime syndicate, the Japanese city is the prime location 
for a reporter to uncover a career-making crime story. /T_hat’s the conceit behind “Tokyo 
Vice,” a new HBO Max series based on the 2009 memoir of the same name by journalist 
Jake Adelstein. Adelstein’s chronicle of his time as an American journalist working for 
“Yomiuri Shimbun,” one of the /f_ive major Japanese newspapers, found popularity thanks 
to its authenticity and true crime appeal. /T_he small-screen adaptation keeps the heart of 
Adelstein’s story intact, conveying the struggles and thrills Adelstein faces while working 
the crime beat as the /f_irst foreign reporter at the paper. Where the show breaks from the 
memoir is in narrowing its focus to one intriguing mystery and adding a slew of /f_ictional 
characters that, like Adelstein, must break the rules to get ahead in Tokyo’s seedy under -
world.
Bringing Adelstein to life is Ansel Elgort from “West Side Story,” who is believable in 
his turn as the persistent, anxious journalist determined to investigate the stories oth -
ers ignore. Elgort had to learn Japanese for the role, though he occasionally breaks into 
English when talking with fellow American Samantha (Rachel Keller) or his coworkers at 
the /f_ictional “Meicho Shimbun.” Playing opposite him is Ken Watanabe as Detective Hi -
roto Katagiri. Calm and authoritative, Katagiri is the perfect foil to Elgort’s well-meaning, 
but occasionally naive, Adelstein. Watanabe makes the character memorable and likable, 
despite being a reserved presence in the /f_irst few episodes. /T_he audience is prompted to 
wonder how he commands such respect from the shadowy men that make up the Yakuza 
gang Adelstein is investigating — and how the duo end up in the tense closed-door meet -
ing that serves as the cold open for the series, set two years ahead of the events of the show.
Elgort and Watanabe aren’t the only ones serving up interesting performances. Keller’s 
Samantha is a con/f_ident hostess saving enough money to open her own club. When she’s 
not bonding with Adelstein over their /f_ish-out-of-water experiences or /f_lirting with tipsy 
patrons, she’s helping out her fellow hostesses and holding her own against the morally 
dubious club owner. /T_he show’s other main female character is Adelstein’s boss at the 
paper, Eimi Maruyama (Rinko Kikuchi), who has regrettably limited screen time in the 
/f_irst three episodes. While several of the paper’s higher-ups look down on Adelstein due to 
his foreigner status, Maruyama treats him with the same tough love she shows the other 
reporters. In a scene that perfectly conveys how frustrating it is for Adelstein to adapt to 
the “Meicho Shimbun,” she rejects dra/f_t a/f_ter dra/f_t of a simple article until he’s met the pa -
per’s impossibly high standards. While it would be easy to write her as yet another obstacle 
in Adelstein’s /f_ledgling career, Maruyama appears to be a potential ally for the impulsive 
journalist — at least, she’s not his enemy.
Rounding out the main characters, of course, is a member of the Yakuza: brooding, 
violent Sato (Shô Kasamatsu). As Adelstein and Samantha warm up to each other at the 
hostess club, Sato looks on with apparent jealousy. He cryptically takes Samantha to a back 
room of the club to try on an expensive dress, only to forbid her from buying it when she 
expresses interest.If Sato’s falling for her, he’s doing a poor job of expressing it. Nevertheless, Sato 
seems primed to nurture a personal vendetta against Adelstein later in the season 
— either because he discovers that the latter is a journalist, or because he gets ter -
ritorial over Samantha, or both. For now, the two share a surprisingly lighthearted 
scene at the hostess club, bantering over the counterfeit accessories market without 
an awareness of each other’s occupations.
While it’s natural for a show to spend its first few episodes introducing charac -
ters and setting up conflicts, “Tokyo Vice” can’t help but drag in terms of its mystery 
element. Despite being told by hedonistic cop Miyamoto (Hideaki Itô) that there is 
“no murder in Japan,” Adelstein starts to investigate a mysterious set of ‘suicides’ 
that he connects to a Yakuza-run loan shark enterprise. But no matter how hard 
he presses with his editor, the cops, and the families of victims, he can’t seem to 
penetrate the many smokescreens that obscure the Yakuza’s inner circle from their 
crimes. Once he teams up with Detective Katagiri, he seems to have an in — just 
don’t expect the fast-moving, tightly-paced mystery of your typical investigative 
series. “Tokyo Vice” is a slow burn. It devotes an equal amount of time to Adelstein 
listening to tapes from his sister on his Walkman and commiserating about his job 
with his coworkers as it does to a tense stand-off between members of the rival T o -
zawa and Chihara-kai gangs. The attention to character building does lend the show 
a nice depth, even if it slows down the action one expects from a show with “Vice” 
in its title.
Ultimately, “Tokyo Vice” can laze its way through its primary mystery all it 
wants. The show’s promising characters and well-crafted shots are sure to keep your 
attention when the plot isn’t. For all the dangerous elements brewing in the shad -
ows, the show makes Tokyo look vibrant and charming. It’s not hard to see why 
Adelstein and Samantha chose to make their new lives there. Whether Adelstein is 
perusing the options at a quaint local market or taking the bus to the serene enclave 
where Katagiri and his family reside, the cinematography makes his surroundings 
seem picturesque. The noir genre has its influence, as well — the blue-tinted interior 
of the hostess club could pass for one of the joints in the  reimagined Los Angeles 
in “Blade Runner,” while intimate, shadowy close-ups of Adelstein, Samantha, and 
Sato convey the emotional nuance most noir works achieve with a voice-over.
Episodes one through three raise a number of questions, not just about the crop 
of unexplained suicides, but about what characters like Adelstein and Samantha 
are running from in coming to Japan — and where they’re going to end up by the 
season’s end. Meanwhile, Watanabe and Kasamatsu’s characters offer a necessary, 
enlightening alternative to the expat storylines. These are the guys who know Tokyo 
inside-out and will do whatever it takes to survive its jagged edges. The price of that 
survival is yet to be seen, but given the glimpses we’ve already had of the city’s cut -
throat underworld, it’s certain to be steep.
Grade: A
Created by: J.T. Rogers 
Starring: Ansel Elgort, Ken Watanabe, Rachel Keller
Release date: April 7, 2022
Rated: TV-MA
Photo courtesy of New Y ork Times. Bailey Bujnosek /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
The Importance of 
Live Music with 
Stephen McBean of 
Pink Mountaintops
In recent times, live music 
has suﬀered at the hands of the 
pandemic. Shows have been post -
poned, canceled, and delayed, 
leaving fans without seeing their 
favorite artists and musicians 
themselves unable to do what 
they love. 
Luckily, this spring has seen 
a rebirth of concerts and live 
music. Hundreds of artists are 
holding their /f_irst tours since the 
pandemic in the coming months, 
with many being held right here 
in San Diego! And with the Sun 
God Festival on the way, live mu -
sic has never been more relevant. 
For those avid concert goers out 
there, this news has prompted 
you to buy as many concert tick -
ets as possible, even if the Sun 
God website keeps crashing. But 
for those who like to stay away 
from the crowds or have never 
been to a concert before, I am 
here to change your mind. 
For the fans, live concerts 
are their chance to see the songs 
they have fallen in love with per -
formed in person by their favorite 
artists. Take a second to imagine 
this: You have been listening to 
one particular song for a couple of 
months now. It seems to pop up 
on shuﬄe every time you are at 
the gym, studying, or in the car. 
And everytime you hear it, you 
never skip it, even though you’ve 
heard it a million times. Next, 
you /f_ind out that the same artist 
is performing live soon. You buy 
tickets, anticipate the show, and 
once the lights dim and the mu -
sicians walk out from the wings 
of the stage, they strum the /f_irst 
note of that song you have not 
been able to escape. You cheer, 
clap, and scream as you watch the 
artist perform their heart out and 
you dance like no one is watching. 
Alternatively, attending live 
concerts can help you discov -
er new artists. Jump back into 
imagination land with me: Your 
friend makes you buy tickets to 
an artist you have never heard of. 
Disgruntled, you go with them to Bradley Beggs /gid00001/gid00001/gid00013/gid00036/gid00033/gid00032/gid00046/gid00047/gid00052/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00004/gid00042/gid00183/gid00006/gid00031/gid00036/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045
Image courtesy of Laura Pleasants. the show, only to realize the mu -
sic they are playing is fantastic! 
And just like that, you’ve found a 
new musician who speaks to you, 
whose music you truly love a/f_ter 
seeing their performance. 
/T_his is what live music is like. 
You are experiencing the songs 
you know and love being played 
by the artists who created them 
from nothing, or actively discov -
ering a new artist you will talk 
about to your friends because see -
ing them live was so amazing.
As for the performers’ per -
spective, I asked Pink Mountain -
tops’s Stephen McBean how it 
feels to perform live; what makes 
it so special?
“/T_he chemistry of audience, 
venue, songs, and performance 
is where it comes alive in magi -
cal union or /f_lops to the /f_loor like 
a wet noodle. All the elements 
strangling new life out of some 
chords and words have always 
been fascinating. Life on the road 
is where the anxiety frazzles.”
I think Stephen put it perfect -
ly. /T_he energy and life is incom -
parable to anything else when 
you are at a concert. Personally, 
I look forward to my concerts – 
it’s something to be excited about 
in the coming weeks! And when 
I am there, the stress of school, 
work, and frankly, life, seem to 
melt away as I am transported 
into the world the artists have cre -
ated for me through their songs. 
Even if you don’t know the artist 
or their songs, the vibes of a good 
concert are unmatched. 
So, I implore all of you out 
there to see at least one concert 
this spring quarter. Or at the very 
least, register for Sun God! Broad -
en your musical horizons, get out 
of your comfort zone, and enjoy 
an energy like no other. 
Special thanks to Stephen for 
his insight, and if you suddenly 
need to see a live concert that isn’t 
on the RIMAC /f_ield, be sure to 
check out Pink Mountaintops live 
at Casbah on Sunday, April 24. 
1<ZQML,QٺMZMV\.Q\VM[[
Classes at UCSD
Celeste Walstrom-Vangor  /gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Since the end of COVID, there 
has been a surge of students get -
ting involved in /f_itness, especially 
in instructor-led classes like yoga, 
pilates, barre, and kickboxing. 
And incase you haven’t heard yet, 
there is a Recreation Activity Pass 
(RAP) that allows UCSD students 
to sign up for these classes for 
free. So, I got one and attended 
four diﬀerent classes to give you 
all the lowdown.
Monday 10  a.m. | SunRISE 
Yoga with Jane
I’ve only done one of these 
classes but I would highly recom -
mend this class. Each week there 
is a speci/f_ic theme that the two 
instructors focus on and bring 
each part of the practice back to. 
/T_his week, the theme was Inner 
Peace and one of the instructors 
brought journals for each person, 
along with a handmade mixture 
of water, oil, and food coloring for 
each person to shake, signifying 
the chaos of inner emotions. She 
explained at the start of class that 
each person should take a journal, 
pencil, and a jar with the concoc -
tion and begin the class by hav -
ing us write in the journals and 
play with the very stimulating 
jars. Next, we did yoga for about 
twenty minutes. /T_he yoga was 
very basic and not all that chal -
lenging, so I think it would be fun 
for beginners or anyone looking 
for a quick run-through of simple 
movements. /T_he classes ended 
with meditation and each person 
was given a small amethyst heart 
to take home.
In all, the class felt like a very 
productive way to start oﬀ my 
week by focusing on gratitude and 
meditation. I enjoyed the teach -
ers, and it was a co-ed class with 
varying skill levels. I de/f_initely 
thought there would be more 
yoga, so if you’re looking for an 
intense yoga class or even a long 
yoga pattern, this might not be 
the best class for you. Regardless, 
the teachers are kind and dedi -
cated to teaching their students 
about the core theme for that day. 
It’s a great way to start your week, 
if you’re willing to wake up before 
10 a.m. on a Monday!Monday 4  p.m. | Pilates 
Props with Michelle
I tried this class twice and re -
ally enjoyed it! I had never done 
pilates before and only knew what 
I had seen from in/f_luencers on 
Tik Tok and Instagram, so I was 
a little bit nervous. I thought the 
class was going to require /f_lex -
ibility or the knowledge of spe -
ci/f_ic movements, but it turned 
out to be really fun and not all 
that demanding. /T_he instruc -
tor, Michelle, is very sweet and 
gives helpful directions for each 
movement, so I never felt com -
pletely lost. /T_he room in RIMAC 
is covered in mirrors so you can 
check your form and make sure it 
aligns with what she is describing. 
Michelle provided us with equip -
ment, including a mat, pilates 
ball, hoop, and bands, so all you 
have to do is show up. We did a 
collection of a bunch of diﬀerent 
movements, most of them target -
ing the core, and we worked on 
glutes and arms as well. /T_he class 
goes by relatively quickly because 
Michelle has an entertaining rou -
tine that kept me interested. Some 
of the movements were more 
challenging than others, but all 
of them were doable and Michelle 
was there to help if needed. 
I would highly recommend 
going to this class because it was 
a low intensity activity that made 
me feel healthy — like I was one 
of those “it-girls” I always see on 
social media. I made the mis -
take of sitting in a place where 
I couldn’t see Michelle at some 
angles which made some of the 
movements more challenging 
than they should have been, so if 
possible, sit where you can com -
pletely see her. /T_he class is fun 
and a great way to get some activ -
ity in on a Monday!
Tuesday 5  p.m. | Cardio Kick 
Box with Eldridge
I’m going to be completely 
honest with you, this class is 
probably not at all what you think 
of when you picture kickbox -
ing. Personally, when someone 
says “kickboxing class” I think 
of women in red boxing gloves 
taking out their rage on hang -
ing punching bags. /T_his class was de/f_initely not that. While the in -
structor did teach us the proper 
form for a punch and sidekick, 
it was only used as part of a car -
dio routine in rhythm with mu -
sic. /T_his class is basically a dance 
routine with some air punches 
and a couple of sidekicks. /T_he 
class would be fun to bring a close 
friend or two and laugh at how ri -
diculous you feel, because alone, 
you feel a little bit silly watching 
yourself dance (with kicks and 
punches) in the wall of mirrors. 
It’s great cardio if you’re looking 
for a class to get your heart rate 
up, but I doubt this class is  what 
you’d expect. Take the class if 
you want to follow a routine and 
punch a little, but not if you’re 
looking to kickbox!
Wednesday 10:30 a.m. | Ha -
tha Flow with Rebecca
/T_his class was a true yoga class. 
/T_he instructor, Rebecca, clearly 
knew what she was talking about 
and there were only about seven 
students in the class, which al -
lowed her to work with each per -
son individually to correct their 
form. /T_his class is de/f_initely more 
structured than the sunRISE class 
on Monday, and is great for stu -
dents who want a purely yoga rou -
tine. I enjoyed the class because I 
have done yoga before and was 
looking for a 50 minute only-yoga 
class. She thoroughly explained 
each movement beforehand, so if 
you’re new to yoga don’t be intim -
idated! /T_here were varying skill 
levels in the class, and Rebecca 
catered to those who were more 
advanced, as well as gave options 
for those who couldn’t fully com -
plete a position. /T_he only critique 
I could give was the lack of music. 
At /f_irst it really threw me oﬀ be -
cause I’m used to falling back on 
the relaxing music in the back -
ground when the instructor stops 
talking, but a/f_ter a while I got 
used to it. All in all, I would rec -
ommend trying this class if you 
want a real yoga experience that 
will strengthen your yoga skills 
and bring you a sense of peace in 
the middle of the week!
So now that I have done my 
part in taking these classes, it’s 
your turn to try them out for 
yourselves. Best of luck!
Image courtesy of Dylan Gillis from Unsplash. LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
What is the first thing that 
comes to mind when I say the 
phrase “spring cleaning?” Is 
it that you need to donate the 
clothing that you promised 
yourself you would wear, but 
always pass over when looking 
for an outfit? Is it the triton to-go 
boxes that have piled up because 
the machine always seems to be 
down right when you need it? 
When I usually think about this 
idea of getting rid of old to make 
room for new, my mind pivots 
mainly to the physical act of 
decluttering. One thing I noticed 
through all of this was that most 
of spring cleaning focused on 
this spiritual cleansing of oneself 
for a new cycle — whether that 
is the new year, Passover, or 
something else. So, the question 
I suppose I should ask is why 
are we solely focused on the 
decluttering of our space?
It’s not to say that decluttering 
isn’t important. I personally find 
when my space is clean, I am 
calm. However, we are coming 
into our fourth week of Spring 
Quarter 2022, and I for one 
already see my space reflecting 
my mind. Clothes that aren’t 
dirty but aren’t clean shoved into 
a corner, my once-empty desk 
piling up with papers missing 
folders and a couple water bottles 
that definitely need washing. I 
always see those instagram posts 
about spring cleaning, and I 
admit that my first thought of 
this phenomena is making your 
space nice and neat. But when 
looking at all of these physical, 
material items that pile up into 
giant mess, I notice that I’m 
equating my mental health to 
what I can see, and not what I 
can feel. Spring cleaning should 
go further than your space, and 
by the end of this article, you’ll 
be able to list all the ways you 
can bring in the new season for 
a better space, body, and mind.Declutter your space
I know, I just spent two 
paragraphs saying let’s not focus 
on our space, but I promise it is an 
important part of this equation. 
As we are in our Spring Quarter 
and counting down the weeks 
until summer break, I’m sure I’m 
not alone in wondering about 
what I should do with all of the 
things I acquired over the last 
six months. The quarter system 
goes back very fast, so to help 
minimize the stress of packing, 
donating, and selling, I have a 
goal that by each Saturday I will 
pack one part of my room. Last 
weekend I packed up my printer 
and my extra monitor that I keep 
on my desk, and also gathered 
everything that I would like to 
sell. Next weekend, my goal is to 
take photos of everything that I 
put in the sell pile and, because I 
have an apartment, pack up any 
kitchen supplies I don’t expect to 
use in these next six or so weeks. 
In addition to selling, there are 
many resources when it comes 
to donating. My friend informed 
me that places like Goodwill and 
Salvation Army will actually 
come and pick up boxes of items 
that you wish to donate for free! 
I didn’t know that this was an 
option, but it can be a great 
resource if you don’t have the 
ability to travel off campus to 
donate items! 
Declutter your mind
I listened to a talk recently by 
Garry Ridge, and one thing he 
said really stood out to me. He 
said “Stress is the feeling of being 
unable to have the resources to 
complete a goal.” Whether that 
resource is time, money, or room, 
we start to say we don’t have some 
of these items—which, when it 
comes to monetary needs, can 
be very true. I want to focus 
on refreshing the way I tackle 
issues, and how I let my mind be 
its best as much as possible. A 
few ideas that come to me when 
I think of decluttering my mind 
are: reevaluating relationships, 
time management skills, and allowing yourself breaks.
College is where you meet a 
lot of long-term acquaintances 
and friends, and maybe even 
more, but this also means 
meeting new people who are 
toxic or do not align with who 
you are as a person. It is okay to 
acknowledge this! Really think 
about if your relationships are 
benefitting you, analyze where 
you might be causing the issues 
in relationships, and make plans 
with the people who feel good to 
be around. Surrounding yourself 
with people you connect with is 
one of the best ways to destress, 
which ultimately leads to a better 
mind.
Now, I know that the quarter 
system leaves very little room 
for breaks, but there still is 
room. Whether that is early in 
the morning, late at night, or 
in between lectures, take time 
for yourself to adjust. We are 
in uncertain times right now, 
and this quarter is the first 
one in two years that is 100 
percent in person! It is okay to 
feel overwhelmed, exhausted, 
and have low social energy. This 
is the time to rekindle hobbies 
that take your mind away from 
the busy world of academia. For 
me, that’s taking a “for-fun” 
book with me everywhere I go 
and wearing noise-canceling 
headphones to help not become 
over-stimulated with all the loud 
atmospheres. I also try to make it 
a goal to not go on my phone in 
the morning for at least the first 
twenty minutes as my eyes adjust 
to the room and my body accepts 
it’s time to get ready. 
Finally, we’ve set the scene 
for what every college student 
needs but may not have: time 
management skills. Ah, the 
horror! How could we ever 
manage our time when our 
university doesn’t give us notice 
about anything? (That was an 
exaggeration… maybe). My time 
management skills are based 
solely around motivation and 
reward. I also follow the block 
method that I found somewhere 
on YouTube a while ago, which 
is essentially mapping out blocks of productivity and breaks. At 
the end of your productivity 
block, which can range from 30 
minutes to an hour — and you 
really shouldn’t go past an hour, 
as that’s when our productivity 
lowers — no matter if you 
finished your work or not, you 
jot down bullet points of your 
train of thought and then put 
it away. My reward during my 
break might be finishing part 
of a course in Mario Nintendo 
64, or the newest episode of a 
show — something that gives a 
definite ending place. The days 
feel shorter with everything in 
person, but it’s all about balance.
Declutter your body
Now, this is where I think 
most of us have issues. With 
everything going back in person, 
it definitely ruined the healthy 
schedule that I made when we 
were remote. Instead of twenty 
minute morning stretches and a 
home cooked breakfast, my wake 
up period coincides with my 
getting ready period, with about 
fifteen minutes to wake up. Sleep 
in general decreased, and I’m 
lucky if I’m asleep by midnight 
so I can have about seven 
hours of sleep. But sleep is very 
important—yes, the annoying 
phrase that is much easier to say 
than to do, especially as a college 
student. I’m not saying you need 
to go to bed at 10 p.m. every 
night, but most professionals say 
the best kind of sleep is regular 
sleep. This means going to bed 
around the same time every day. 
Whether that means you go to 
sleep at 3 a.m. and wake up at 10 
a.m., or going to bed at 10 p.m. 
and waking up at 6 a.m., you 
should have a consistent time 
that you fall asleep and wake up. 
This helps with concentration, 
mood regulation, and overall you 
just feel more rested when you 
have a fixed circadian rhythm.
Something that relates to 
sleep is fitness. Sometimes when 
we can’t fall asleep, it’s because 
we have too much energy and/
or are overstimulated. While 
a fitness schedule will look different depending on who you 
talk to, movement is medicine! 
(I saw that on a billboard once 
and now my father always 
quotes it.) Being able to move in 
whatever way works for you and 
your bodily needs can help you 
calm down in the late hours. I 
notice even if my movement is 
just stretching and then walking 
for twenty minutes at a time 
— which we already have to do 
as students — that I am able 
to go to bed much easier and 
have deeper rest. This also helps 
declutter your mind, especially 
if you have mental illnesses. 
My ADHD and anxiety are way 
easier to manage when I can get 
some of that nervous energy out.
To end this triangle of 
wellness, the food we put into our 
body dictates our energy levels 
and mood. Have you ever gotten 
the overwhelming urge that you 
just NEED to eat a piece of fruit? 
Or down a green smoothie? 
Eating 2–3 meals a day is usually 
best, but of course, do what you 
and/or professionals have said is 
best for you, no matter what that 
looks like. Nothing is bad for you 
in proportion. Eating a serving 
size of takis — which no, is not 
the whole bag — is perfectly 
fine! I use the app LoseIt,mainly 
because it has a lot of UC San 
Diego dining hall foods on it,so 
I can make sure I’m around 
the ballpark for what I need 
based on what nutritionists 
have said. If you need help with 
proper nutrition, we have a 
free nutritionist on campus for 
students with UCSHIP!
I hope that this article gave 
you a different perspective on 
what it means to clean for spring 
as much as it did for me while I 
researched the topic! Again, all 
of these are just suggestions, and 
at the end of the day, you know 
what is best for you. I’m so glad 
to be fully back in person, even 
if it’s only for ten small weeks 
of the whole school year. Now, if 
only this weather would match 
the season, we might be able to 
enjoy the twenty minute walks 
to class!By Rosabella Debty 
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034 /gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045Spring Cleaning, Past the Triton-To-Go Boxes
Image courtesy of Noelle Australia from Unsplash.3:30pm
QUEER RELATIONSHIPS /hyphen.case 
LGBT RESOURCE CENTER
Join CAPS and the LGBT Resource 
Center, with support from CARE at SARC 
for a workshop on Queer Relationships. 
The session is on Wednesday, April 20 at 
5:30 pm and will cover dating, 
non-monogamy, boundaries and 
interpersonal violence. To register 
please email Dr. Taylor McCavanagh 
(tmccavanagh@health.ucsd.edu) and 
Dr. Tyler Hatchel 
(thatchel@heatlh.ucsd.edu).nts.1pm
UCDC&UCCS INFO SESSION /hyphen.case 
ONLINE EVENT
The UCDC Program is an academic 
internship program providing UCSD 
students with the opportunity to intern for 
a quarter in Washington D.C. while 
enrolling in UC courses and living in the 
UC Washington Center. UCDC is open to all 
majors with extraordinary internship 
opportunities in every field. We are 
currently accepting applications for our 
Spring 2022 and Winter 2023 cohorts and 
invite you to apply if you are interested. If 
you would like to learn more join us for an 
info session on February 17 
3:00pm-4:00pm. Attend to learn more 
about the programs, what kinds of 
internships you can do, and how you can 
apply for upcoming quarters.FRI4.22
12pm
UC/hyphen.caseWIDE EARTH DAY 
CLIMATE RALLY/hyphen.case GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Join a UC-wide climate rally to shut down 
the co-gen plant and demand a 
fossil-free UCWED 4.20 TUE 4.19
THU 4.21
9am
LET'S BUILD: VOLUNTEER 
ON/hyphen.caseCAMPUS! /hyphen.case PRICE 
CENTER & ERC GREEN 
Help UC San Diego build 
Corsi-Rosenthal air filtration boxes on 
campus for your college’s shared spaces 
and Geisel Library! Volunteer shifts 
occur on April 21 and April 25 from 9-5 
each day. Come meet and volunteer with 
other students - no experience is 
needed. Sign up now: bit.ly/ucsdboxesSAT 4.23
10am
APSA RISE AND GRIND: 
BREAKFAST AND HEADSHOTS  
/hyphen.case THE HUMP /hyphen.case THE GREEN IN 
BETWEEN MAIN GYM AND THE 
OLD STUDENT CENTER 
Join Asian and Pacific Islander Student 
Alliance for a Saturday morning of *free* 
headshots, breakfast from Einstein's 
Bagels, and connecting with your 
community!
**We recommend dressing 
professional/business casual from the top 
up for your photo. Also, please be prepared 
to show a green thumb at this event!**Tahrir WEE KTHISat UC SAN D IEGO
APR 18 - APR 242022
POWE RED BY THE S TUDEN T EVENTS INSID ER AN D THE U CSD  GUARDIAN
FRI, APR 22 /bullet.case 8PM /bullet.case THE LOFTARTPOWER
PRESENTS:
artpower.ucsd.eduCANELLAKIS-BROWN DUO10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS MORE FUN&
$CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Nearly 20-hour Ken Burns 
documentary of 2001
5. Channel 7, in New York City
9. Reuse the juices
14. “I ___ rock from the moon... ” (Talking 
Heads lyric)
15. ___ podrida (hodgepodge)
16. Home of a mail order steak business
17. Make haunted house noises
18. It may be made for dessert
19. Buckminster Fuller structures
20. Comedian who’ll be playing George 
Burns’s role in a remake of “Oh, God!”
23. ___-mo
24. Post-___ (surgery wrap-ups)
25. Java holder
26. “Ben-___”
28. “48 Hours Investigates” host Lesley
30. “Twin Peaks” character Dale Cooper, 
for one
32. Tour helper
34. Rear in Britain
35. Holiday just before a famous Robert 
Burns poem is sung
38. One way to hold your horses
40. Bring into harmony
41. Figures out a mystery
44. Casa divisions
47. “Pimp My Ride” channel
48. DiFranco with the double album 
“Living in Clip”
49. Abbr. in addresses for mobile home 
parks
50. Company that merged with 
WorldCom in 1998
52. C. Montgomery Burns’ right-hand 
man
56. Huge test
57. Ending for theater or church
58. Part of the name of a game with a 
pelota
59. Make ___ for oneself
60. “Dies ___” (noted hymn)
61. Philbin cohost
62. Like a sty
63. No jock
64. TV show where Frank Burns wooed 
Hot LipsDOWN
1. Hetfield of Metallica
2. They’re mostly in the Pacific
3. Fervent sort
4. Billy of “Titanic”
5. Puns and such
6. Plants with healing powers
7. Place for political rants
8. Cheese said to inspire Dali’s 
“The Persistence of Memory”
9. Store that may carry Mexican 
brands
10. Love, in Latin
11. Copycat’s response
12. Phoenix team
13. ___ in “Edward”
21. Not at all
22. “Rapa ___” (1994 Easter 
Island film)
27. Hwy.
29. Venue for some football 
games
30. Automobiles manufactured 
in Turin
31. “Case dismissed” item
33. Adding a player to a poker 
game
35. Blissful states
36. Took a deep breath
37. Make into law
38. Mojito ingredient
39. Get tangled
42. San Fernando, e.g.
43. Brian of Roxy Music
45. Earhart who served 
as aviation editor for 
“Cosmopolitan”
46. Leftovers for Rover
49. Negative campaign tactic
51. Knicks president of basketball 
operations Thomas
53. They may be candied
54. Feeling the workout 
afterwards
55. Damage
56. “The whole ___ damily”
W
\RXUYLV
*(7$)5((
4827(72'$<LRQ
RXUPLVVLRQ
PDGHWRRUGHU#XFVGHGX&UHDWHFXVWRPDSSDUHO
WRSURPRWH\RXUVWXGHHW
RUJDQL]DWLRQZLWK7ULWRQ
2XWILWWHU¶V0DGH72
2UGHUSURJUDP
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
u
c
s
d
g
u
a
r
d
i
a
n
.
o
r
gYOUR
NEWS
NOW!LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11By Miguel Carias
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 18, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at UCLA
vs SDSU
vs SDSU 
vs UC Irvine
TBAUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
Baseball
Softball
M Volleyball
W Water Polo11AM
6PM
5PM
7:30PM
TBA4/19
4/19
4/20
4/21
4/21
In an exciting senior night 
matchup, UC San Diego’s 
men’s volleyball team (13–10, 
5–5 Big West) faced off against 
UC Santa Barbara (18–8, 6–4 
Big West), which also marked 
the Tritons’ final game of this 
regular season. Coming into 
the game, UC Santa Barbara 
ranked sixth, while the Tritons 
ranked ninth following a huge 
win against No. 2 California 
State University, Long Beach. 
With big implications 
for the upcoming Big West 
Championship tournament, 
the Tritons hoped to take a 
significant victory against 
UCSB, who had already 
previously defeated the Tritons this season in four sets in 
Santa Barbara on February 
24. Despite a valiant effort by 
the Tritons to bring home a 
win on their ceremonial senior 
night, the Tritons suffered 
another hard-fought loss, losing 
the match 3–1, with scores of 
25–22, 18–25, 25–22, and 25–14.
The Tritons got off to a 
great start during the first set, 
establishing a quick 2–0 lead 
following two outstanding kills 
by junior outside hitter Ryan 
Ka. The Tritons would maintain 
control of the set, soon leading 
7–3, and going up 4 once again 
at 13–9 during the halfway 
mark of the set. 
However, the tide slowly 
started to turn as UCSB began 
to claw back into the game. 
Despite the Tritons’ efforts to 
regroup, UCSB would build on 
their momentum, going on a 9–1 run. A block from senior 
middle blocker Shane Benetz 
would draw UCSD within two, 
but UCSB would close out and 
win the first set 25–21..
Following a tough first-set 
loss, the Tritons would come out 
on a mission in the second set, 
behind the play of star senior 
outside hitter, Kyle McCauley, 
whose ace would give the Tritons 
a quick 3–1 lead, resulting in 
a UCSB timeout. Following 
the timeout, The Tritons 
continued their hot start to the 
set, gaining a 6–1 lead. While 
UCSB would pull to within two, 
down 9–7, the Tritons would 
not let UCSB back in the set, 
pushing the lead to 18–11. With 
UCSB committing multiple 
errors leading to points, and 
the Tritons playing tremendous 
defense led by senior libero, 
Matt Palma, who would end 
with a game-high 14 digs, the 
Tritons would go on to win the 
second set, 25–17, on an ace by 
McCauley. 
With each team now having 
won a set, both squads entered 
the third set with a high level 
of intensity and focus, each 
aiming at taking this crucial 
third set. While the Tritons 
forced UCSB to commit two 
errors to start off the set, UCSB 
also delivered two kills, starting 
the set off in a very nip and tuck 
manner as both teams were tied 
at 3–3. However, UCSB would 
break away and go on a key run, 
scoring seven of the next eight 
points, putting UCSB up 10–4 
and leading to a UCSD timeout. 
Coming out of their timeout, the 
Tritons would string a couple 
of points together, including 
an ace by senior outside hitter 
Wyatt Harrison and a kill 
by McCauley following an amazing back and forth rally 
which would bring the Tritons 
within three, 10–7. 
UCSB, however, would take 
control of the set again, going 
up 15–11 following a couple of 
errors by the Tritons that led 
to easy points for UCSB. The 
Tritons would not give up by 
any means, though, as they tied 
the set up at 17–17, and then 
again at 20–20. But following a 
long and significant challenge 
call by UCSB, which resulted 
in a reversed call and a 24–22 
lead, Santa Barbara would 
take the set 25–22 on a cross-
court kill by their outside hitter 
Dayne Chalmers. UCSB was 
now up 2–1 in the match, with 
a potential game-winning set 
coming up.
The struggles late in the 
second set bled into the third, 
as the Tritons went down 7–3 to 
begin. Despite UCSD’s attempts 
at getting back in the game, 
and a few very impressive 
and long-lasting rallies, the 
Gauchos would take control 
in this fourth and final set, 
jumping out to a 17–8 lead, and 
a Triton service error closed 
out the final set, 25–13. UCSB 
outhit UCSD .320 to .036 in 
the set. The brightest moment 
of the set for the Tritons would 
be the substitution of freshman 
outside hitter Matthew Lim, 
who received a loud cheer from 
fans as he made his way into the 
game for the first time halfway 
into the set, but nonetheless, the 
Tritons would lose the match 
3–1 to UCSB following the poor 
fourth set.
The UCSD Guardian caught 
up with Triton head coach 
Kevin Ring after the match 
about his thoughts on his 
team’s performance following a difficult loss.
“We knew we were going to 
have to play at a real high level, 
and I thought we did in spurts 
tonight, but just not enough. 
Unfortunately, the fourth set 
got away from us, but I thought 
the first three sets could go 
either way, and we just have 
to make sure we go out and 
capitalize on plays and not just 
wait for our opponents to help 
us earn some points, and while 
we have done that really well at 
times this year, we just did not 
do that tonight.”
Coach Ring would also 
share a few words about the 
seniors on the team following 
their senior night celebration.
“You look at that group of 
guys and what they have meant 
to this program and what we 
have been able to accomplish 
over the last few years, that’s 
largely credited to their work 
and efforts that they have 
constantly put forth for this 
team.”
After the match, the eight 
UC San Diego seniors that 
were celebrated included Shane 
Benetz, Logan Clark, Blake 
Crisp, Wyatt Harrison, Jason 
Lee, Kyle McCauley, Berkeley 
Miesfeld, and Matt Palma.
With the loss, the Tritons will 
head into their upcoming Big 
West Conference tournament 
as the 4th seed, preparing to 
face off against 5th-seeded UC 
Irvine. The tournament will 
take place at the Stan Sheriff 
Center on the campus of the 
University of Hawaii, from 
April 21 to 23, with the Tritons’ 
first match on Thursday, April 
21, at 7:30 p.m. PST, leaving the 
Tritons with just under a week 
to prepare for this crucial first-
round tournament matchup.Tritons Suffer Uncer -
emonious Senior Night 
Loss to No. 6 UCSB
If you’ve been to a UC San 
Diego athletics event this year, 
you’ve probably seen how fun 
and engaging it is to be a part 
of the Triton fan community. 
Beyond the thrill of watching 
the sports themselves, Game 
Day is made more special when 
the crowd turns out, when 
T-shirts are tossed into the 
audience and when our chants 
echo around RIMAC. The 
Guardian sat down (virtually) 
with Aliyah Ellis and William 
Kessinger, co-presidents of 
Triton Tide at UC San Diego, 
to see how their work with the 
athletics department makes this 
all happen and enhances the fan 
experience. 
So, what exactly is Triton 
Tide?
WK:  Triton Tide is the 
official student engagement 
group at UC San Diego for all 
of our NCAA Division I athletic 
events. Triton Tide is about 
Tritons supporting Tritons, 
and we help drive school spirit 
through social activities that 
are some of the biggest social 
events on campus at UC San 
Diego. Whether you are the 
biggest sports fan, or even if you 
haven’t been to a game before, 
Triton Tide is a safe space for 
all UC San Diego students to 
come and support our NCAA 
Division I athletes. Triton Tide 
recently reformed 2 years ago, 
which was mine and Aliyah’s 
freshman year. Historically, 
Triton Tide has been the student engagement group at UCSD, but 
it hasn’t existed for many years 
until 2 years ago, when a group 
of students, under the direction 
of the athletic department, 
decided to reform what is now 
Triton Tide, and now Aliyah and 
I are the current co-presidents.
What has been your favorite 
sporting event to be involved 
in this year?
WK:  Probably my favorite 
sporting event this year was 
during fall quarter. The men’s 
water polo game versus [Loyola 
Marymount University] is 
called “Battle of the Kings,” and 
it’s an annual UC San Diego 
tradition. We haven’t been able 
to have fans at the “Battle of the 
Kings” since mine and Aliyah’s 
freshman year, but this year we 
gave away these yellow crowns 
(you can see them on the Triton 
Tide Instagram). We had 1,300 
people in the stadium, which 
was absolutely insane. Then we 
had hundreds of people waiting 
to get in at the door, but we 
were at capacity. It was the most 
insane game of all time. The 
energy was so intense and it was 
so much fun, especially coming 
back to school in person. We 
had a buzzer beater moment 
with our water polo team, which 
is one of the best in the nation, 
so it was a really great day.
AE:  I can’t just choose one, 
so I’m just going to say the 
Spirit Night Saga. We had this 
really cool event where we had 
our DJ Club come out and they 
performed a mini concert for 
UCSD students, and it was so 
cool how good they were and 
just listening to their music. We 
had the soccer blow-up house that you kicked the ball in, and 
we had so much stuff. We had 
glow-in-the-dark bracelets and 
a bracelet making station. Then 
at spirit night, we packed the 
arena. I haven’t seen that many 
students in the arena since my 
freshman year. It was crazy. 
Everyone was on their feet the 
entire time cheering on the 
team. It was absolutely amazing 
and I just felt at home in that 
atmosphere.
How does being a leader 
with Triton Tide help you 
engage with the UCSD 
community?
AE:  I would say that being a 
leader in Triton Tide helps open 
my eyes to different students 
that I might not be around. Like 
our athletes — I don’t quite get 
to see them a lot around campus 
but being in Triton Tide, I’m at 
the games all the time, I’m there 
when they’re warming up. And 
being one of the co-presidents, 
we can be a liaison between 
students and student athletes. 
We can put both of the groups 
together, so they’re not separate, 
because a lot of schools like to 
separate them. 
But, at the end of the day, 
we’re all students and we’re all 
here to study and to learn and 
go out in the real world and 
have really good jobs and things 
like that. So, I would say that 
aspect really opened my eyes 
because it let me see different 
perspectives, and got rid of a 
bunch of different stereotypes. 
Also, it helps me become a 
better person, because now I 
know that I need to get to know 
people more instead of judging 
them off of a first glance. Like you might think that our 
athletes keep to themselves and 
they’re so superior, but honestly, 
they’re the sweetest people that 
I’ve ever met and I’m so glad 
that I had the opportunity to 
actually meet them in these 
environments.
WK:  I  r e a l l y  f e e l  l i k e  m y  
voice as a student is heard by 
the department, and all of the 
ideas that I have are taken 
into account and listened to, 
sometimes even executed. 
Thinking back to my freshman 
year, at men’s volleyball, we 
gave away UC San Diego fanny 
packs, which was an idea I 
tossed around when I was very 
new to the athletic department. 
So, just being able to have a 
voice that the department 
listens to and being so present 
at all of the athletic games, it 
doesn’t feel like a leadership 
position or like work to me. It 
feels like I’m just going to the 
place that I’m supposed to be. 
I’m supposed to be at the game 
and I’m supposed to be there 
cheering them on, or dropping 
a Board & Brew coupon from the ceiling.
How has it gone this year 
with fans back after so long? 
What kinds of steps has Triton 
Tide taken to re-engage the 
UCSD community?
AE:  W e ’ v e  h a d  w a y  m o r e  
fans this year at our events 
than we did our freshman year 
when we could have fans. It’s 
been really amazing to see that 
because I’m from Alabama, so 
sports are super huge to me. 
Coming here my freshman 
year and seeing that not many 
people go out to the games or 
not many people know about 
it was kind of heartbreaking 
to me. But this year I’ve never 
seen so many people at a men’s 
volleyball game or a water polo 
game. Everyone shows up and 
they show out and I just think 
that’s so precious, especially 
with the past year that we’ve 
had. It shows that people really 
want to come out and support 
and have fun.Behind the Tritons: Q&A with Triton Tide Co-Presidents Aliyah 
Ellis and William Kessinger
By Emer Nolan 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis / UC San Diego Athletics.
Image courtesy of Andrew Fischer / UC San Diego Athletics.
For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org