INCOMING BOPS
OF 2022
New music is coming in 
strong for 2022. Check out 
A & E’s article examining all 
your favorite artist’s upcoming 
releases or new rising stars 
set to hit the charts!
COVID-19 PROTOCOLS
DEATH TO HALTER TOPSDON’T COMPROMISE ON COVID SAFETY 
MEASURES
TRENDS I THINK WILL DIE IN 2022OPINION,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Education prevents 
recidivism, and recidivism 
is the tendency to reoffend 
and end up back in jail. 
When you start educating 
people, and giving them 
options other than the lives 
that were contributing to 
their incarceration, then the 
incarceration cycle stops.”
- COLLEEN MURPHY
FEATURES, PAGE 7A & E,   PAGE  5
MONDAY 
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY 
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF PITCKFORK.IMAGE COURTESY OF PITCKFORK.
TUESDAY 
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
CAMPUS REDO............3
MUSIC 2022..................5
STUDENT ORG.............7
GIFTING GIFTS.............8
UCSD VS. UCR.............9VOLUME 55, ISSUE 12   MONDAY , JANUARY 10, 2022  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Pause on Student Loan Payments Extended to May
By Jose Chavez Senior Staff WriterSTUDENT LOANS
On Dec. 22, 2021, President Joe Biden 
formally extended the pause on student 
loan repayment until May 1, 2022. Ac -
cording to the statement, the extension will permit the Biden Administration to assess the impacts of the Omicron variant on nearly 41 million student bor -
rowers, provide more time for borrowers to plan for 
the resumption of payments, and reduce the risk of 
defaults after repayment resumes.
“As we are taking this action, I’m asking all stu -
dent loan borrowers to do their part as well,” Biden 
said. “Take full advantage of the Department of 
Education’s (ED) resources to help you prepare for 
payments to resume; look at options to lower your 
payments through income-based repayment plans; 
explore public service loan forgiveness; and make 
sure you are vaccinated and boosted when eligible.”
All student loan payments and accrued interest 
have been put on hold since the pandemic began two years ago. The pause was initiated by the The Coro -
navirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) 
Act, a $2.2 trillion economic stimulus bill signed into 
law by former President Donald Trump on March 27, 
2020. 
Loans considered eligible for relief measures are 
as follows:
• Direct Loans (defaulted and non-defaulted)
• Federal Family Education loans (FFEL) Program loans held by ED (defaulted and non-defaulted)
• Federal Perkins Loans held by ED (defaulted and non-defaulted)
• Defaulted FFEL Program loans not held by ED
• Defaulted Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL)
Student loans that are not covered under the ex -
ecutive order include non-defaulted FFEL and HEAL 
loans, Federal Perkins Loans not held by ED (de -
faulted and non-defaulted), as well as private student 
loans. If your loan is not eligible for suspended pay -
ments, the Federal Student Aid Office advises that you contact your servicers to ask about what benefits 
may be available.Some local officials in San Diego see the student 
loan repayment pause as an essential measure to re -
duce the economic burden the pandemic has on stu -
dents and graduated borrowers alike. U.S. Congress -
man Scott Peters of California’s 52nd District issued 
a statement to The UCSD Guardian concerning this 
matter. “Once the repayment freeze is ended, the De -
partment of Education needs to make it very clear 
to borrowers what’s expected of them and what they 
need to do to resume payments,” Peters said. “As your representative, it’s my job to help you and other borrowers to navigate the Department of Education and what your options are to repay student loans, so please reach out to my office if you need assistance.”
Peters also noted some legislative actions on this 
issue. He emphasized his support of loan forgive -
ness based on income levels and strengthening 
income-driven repayment programs, as well as 
reducing the interest rates, allowing refinancing 
and allowing people to discharge student loans in bankruptcy. Additionally, he has worked within the House of Representatives to successfully pass bipar -
tisan student loan reduction legislation.
“I support loan forgiveness based on income 
levels and strengthening income-driven repayment programs, as well as reducing the interest rates, allowing refinancing and allowing people to dis -
charge student loans in bankruptcy,” Peters wrote. “I introduced and passed the only student loan reduction legislation that has become law in the past couple years, which would incentivize businesses to pay off their employees’ student loans.”
UC San Diego has greatly benefited from federal 
aid since the beginning of the pandemic. Both the emergency financial grants distributed by the CARES Act in addition to the newly established High Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) have aided in the alleviation of financial stress. This fund was created to allow for universities to cover costs associated with the radical changes to scholas -
tic instruction due COVID-19. 
See STUDENT LOANS,  page 2Hillcrest UCSD 
Health Center Begins 
RenovationsCAMPUS
By Tianrui Huang
Staff Writer
The construction of the south -
east portion of the UC San Diego Medical Center in Hillcrest start -
ed in November 2021, initiating 
Phase One of the Hillcrest Cam -
pus Long Range Development 
Plan (LRDP). The Hillcrest loca -
tion has been a part of the UC San 
Diego campus since 1966, when 
the university first began operat -
ing the county hospital. Nearly 
half of the buildings on the Hill -
crest Campus were constructed 
before 1970.
As one of five academic medi -
cal centers in the University of 
California system, UCSD holds 
a two-campus strategy: distrib -
uting and integrating research, 
teaching, and clinical care at its 
Hillcrest and La Jolla locations.
The Hillcrest Campus pro -
vides care for all patients in the 
community, including those 
who are uninsured and under-
insured. As an essential regional resource, it is equipped with a 
Level 1 Trauma Center, Regional 
Burn Center, and Comprehensive 
Stroke Center, according to the 
Long Range Development Plan 
webpage. 
Driven by the need to replace 
the hospital, modernize facilities, 
improve circulation, and ensure 
compliance with seismic safe -
ty provisions of the California 
Health and Safety Code (Alquist Act/SB 1953) by 2030, the LRDP was approved by the UC Board of 
Regents in November 2019 as the 
third comprehensive long-range 
plan for the physical development of the campus. This followed pre -
vious plans in 1978 and 1995.
The first phase includes the 
Outpatient Pavilion project, 
which extends around 251,000 
gross square feet. The space is 
planned to be used for various 
diagnostics, treatments, and sur -
gical services, across special pro -
grams including oncology, neu -
rosurgery, and orthopedics. 
Additional space for new pa -
tient-centric drop-off corridors 
and extra accommodations for 
multimodal transportations will 
be made due to an extension on 
First Avenue.  Bachman Place/
Arbor Drive and Central Utility 
Plant (CUP) will accommodate 
multimodal transportations and 
expand patient access routes. 
This includes the building of new 
transit vehicle lanes and grade-
separated bike lanes. Addition -
ally, a new parking structure with approximately 1,850 parking 
spaces will be established. 
“The new hospital will..
See CAMPUS,  page 3SUSTAINABILITY
California Commences the New Year with a New Composting Law
California Senate Bill 1383, which targets reduc -
ing food waste and greenhouse gas emissions, went 
into effect Jan. 1, 2022. The bill requires all residents 
and businesses in the state to separate their organic 
and compostable waste as well as requiring grocery 
stores and other food suppliers to donate all edible 
food waste to a food bank or food rescue organiza -
tion. California jurisdictions were obliged to have, at 
minimum, a plan for diverting residential food waste from landfills by the start of the new year. However, in San Diego, such plans have been 
placed on hold due to supply chain shortages caused by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as a labor strike by sanitation workers. ABC10 News reported that there are shipment delays of 240,000 green recycling bins, 285,000 kitchen collection caddies, and 43 new trucks. These hold ups have pushed back the start of the city’s recycling services for residential customers with city officials disclosing that the City of San
See SUSTAINABILITY , page 3By  Niloufar Shahbandi News Editorial Assistant
Image courtesy of Jim Watson for Getty Images.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD  
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing EditorCo-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features EditorA&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 UCSD was awared $17,931,499, 
most of which was dedicated to 
cover room and board refunds 
paid to students and a portion of 
the Return to Learn initiative.
UCSD has one of the low -
est student loan default rates in the country, sitting 8 percentage 
points below the national average 
of 10%. However, student loan 
repayment has proved especially 
difficult during the COVID-19 pandemic. A recent survey con -
ducted by the Student Debt Crisis Center found that 89% of fully-employed student loan borrowers said they financially couldn’t re -
sume payments on the initial end 
of the loan freeze extension, Feb. 
1. Erika Johnson, the assistant di -
rector of university communica -
tion for UCSD, said that the loan 
pause extension will serve as a 
much needed break for university 
graduates and their parents and 
thus minimize the risk of default -
ing. 
“This is good news for stu -
dents and parents who currently 
have loans in repayment sta -
tus and are in good standing,” Johnson told The Guardian. “It allows students and parents, es -
pecially those adversely affected by the current health crisis and 
uncertain employment situation, 
to have additional time to adjust 
to their future financial obliga -
tions.” Johnson also noted that 
borrowers do not have to pay to 
receive the delayed payments 
and 0% interest and students that 
have taken out loans should be 
cautious if contacted by non-fed -
erally affiliated companies who 
are offering assistance for a fee. 
“The Department of Education will continue to assess the CO -
VID-19 situation and the impact on borrowers,” Johnson added. “As always, students and parents 
with loans in repayment should 
be sure to keep current contact 
information up to date with their 
loan’s servicers. Borrowers will 
be contacted when it is time to 
resume making payments.  Keep -
ing loans out of delinquency and and default will avoid unwanted 
financial consequences.”
UCSD students looking for 
assistance with loan repayment beyond state and federal grants 
can take advantage of under -
graduate scholarships. Continu -
ing undergraduate students can 
apply to a myriad of scholarships 
sponsored by UCSD by March 2, 
2022 using the Financial Aid Tool 
via TritonLink. Graduate stu -
dents —excluding those enrolled in the UCSD School of Medicine —can apply to the 2021–22 UCSD HEERF III Grant Request Form for financial assistance. Requests 
are considered on a first-come, 
first-served basis.
Those seeking more informa -
tion concerning loan repayment 
can refer to the Department of 
Education’s website or Federal 
Student Aid office directly for 
official information about the 
extension. Additionally, those 
seeking assistance from Rep. Pe -
ters’s office can email him directly through a portal on his website.▶ STUDENT LOANS , from page 1
▶ SUSTAINABILITY , from page 1
The second part of the bill 
addresses both food waste and 
food insecurity. In California,  
11.2 billion pounds of food are sent to landfills each year. The 
new legislation mandates that 
grocery stores, supermarkets, 
and wholesalers must donate 
their surplus edible food waste 
to food banks such as Feeding 
San Diego. In 2024, this require -
ment will expand to businesses 
including restaurants, hotels, and health facilities. 
Rachel Wagoner, director of 
CalRecycle, the agency in charge of ensuring that local jurisdic -
tions comply with the new regu -
lations, spoke about the bill with the San Francisco chronicle.
“This is the biggest change to 
trash since we started recycling 
in the 1980s,” Wagoner said. 
“Reducing organics in landfills 
by 75% would be the equivalent of taking 1.7 million gas-powered cars off the road for a year.”
For UC San Diego, the new bill will have little direct im -
plications. The University of Cali -
fornia Office of the President has 
already committed all of its cam -
puses to reach zero waste, which 
they have defined as 90 percent diversion of waste from landfills. 
As part of this zero waste com -
mitment, University of California 
campuses are currently working 
on phasing out single-use plastics. 
UCSD is also transitioning away 
from plastic 
bags in retail and dining loca -
tions. The plan is to eliminate all single-use plastic cutlery by Sum -
mer 2021 and in 2023 single-use 
beverage bottles will be eliminat -
ed at all UC campuses.
To reduce food waste, UCSD is 
currently working to implement 
an organic’s recycling program by Fall Quarter 2021. The new 
anaerobic digestion will collect 
leftover food scraps, paper towels, 
and napkins, and eventually ani -
mal bedding from research labo -
ratories and use bacteria to break 
down these organic materials in 
the absence of oxygen. Through this program, UCSD will be di -
verting upwards of 960 pounds of 
food waste per week, equating to 
25 tons per year.In response to the UCSD Guard -
ian’s inquiry about changes to 
campus policy regarding Senate 
Bill 1383, Leslie Sepuka, the As -
sociate Director of University 
Communications, provided the 
following statement. 
“UC San Diego has incor -
porated the elements of Senate Bill 1383 and other food/organic waste-related legislation into our 
operations,” Sepuka said. “As 
a specific example, North Tor -
rey Pines Living and Learning 
Neighborhood has large waste 
collection rooms that can accom -
modate new food waste bins. In 
addition, the retail restaurants on the east side of the neighborhood are working with the university to minimize trash and food waste.”
Sepuka also shared that there 
will be new food waste containers added to Price Center as part of a 
pilot study on food waste.
The official deadline for Cali -
fornia cities to have fully opera -
tional composting facilities is in 2024, when fines will begin to be 
enforced for non-compliant cities. 
To learn more about Senate Bill 
1383 and composting visit CalRe -
cycle. A guide for separating your 
garbage can be found here.
Image courtesy of Tony Anguiano for UCSD Guardian.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
provide new facilities, new tech -
nology, and increased capacity, 
while expanding care offerings and addressing the growing de -
mand for specialty care,” Patty Maysent, the CEO of UCSD Health, said to UC San Diego News. “It will be the cornerstone of a modern medical campus and a premier destination for health care.” The goals of the LDRP were 
described in a Hillcrest Informa -
tion Session in August 2021 as improving Hillcrest as a center of teaching and care.“This new framework [built on LRDP] will help UC San Diego achieve a complete redevelop -
ment of its Hillcrest Campus that will further its commit -
ment to teaching, research, and patient care, while also creating a healthy, sustainable campus environment,” the presentation said. 
Aside from New Outpatient 
Services and Parking, the fol -
lowing planned phases include construction and improvements on  the Research/Educational Facilities, Community Wellness Facility and Workforce Hous -
ing, and $2.5 to $3 billion total financial investment. In a statement to the UCSD News Center, the chief admin -
istrative officer for the Hillcrest Campus, Lisa Rhodes, expressed optimism about the renovations to the project. “The teams who work in Hill -
crest have this in common: they love the Hillcrest Campus, our mission, and our patients,” Rhodes said. “It brings me great satisfaction to be on the preci -
pice of Hillcrest’s journey and to renew its status as a beacon of world-class health care, and 
I am honored to help lead that 
process. The result will be mag -
nificent and will truly transform 
our staff, patient, and community 
experiences.”
As part of the project phasing, 
some of the UCSD Health staff  will move from their area, with the earliest wave starting in 2024. 
In the second stage (outreach 
stage) for the 2019 LRDP prepa -
rations, UC San Diego proposed and shared both the draft and final versions of the 2019 LRDP with the campus and the sur -
rounding communities through holding five open houses. 
Prior to certification of the Environmental Impact Report 
(EIR), the public was invited to 
share their opinions during the 
30-day scoping period and 45-day 
draft EIR public review and take 
part in a public hearing in accor -
dance with the requirements of 
EIR. Regular updates were sent 
to local leaders and communities such as Bankers Hill Community Group and Hillcrest Business As-sociations. A Hillcrest Advisory Council was also established to 
address topics such as circula -
tion, transportation, housing, 
program, sustainability, and 
amenities.
The LRDP development has 
previously seen some criticism. 
In a 2020 “Readers React” col -
umn for the San Diego Union-
Tribune, San Diego resident 
Randall Collins called for a re -
consideration of LRDP develop -
ment as it may bring undesired higher density to the Hillcrest 
community. 
“A major reason why San 
Diego has a low incidence of 
coronavirus spread compared 
to cities like New York City is that we are a low-density, out -
door city,” Collins said. “City 
planners should be awake to the 
new realities, instead of taking 
away our best defenses against future epidemics.”
Phase One is expected to 
finish in 2025, as the new Out -
patient Pavillion is expected 
to open in May 2025. And the 
second phase will include the renovation and construction of 
the new hospital. The antici -
pated time span to complete all 
five phases of development is 15 
years.▶ CAMPUS , from page 1Curious for more?
Visit us at 
ucsdguardian.org!
Image courtesy of Irvin Y ang for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
Don’t compromise on COVID safety measures
Headlines this past week were 
inundated with those regarding 
the Democratic Party’s fear of 
schools going back to remote instruction. While they had 
previously promised that schools 
would remain open following their election, their fear of the contrary is largely illegitimate. 
Instead of centering their fears 
on promises which were made before the current Covid surge, 
the party should revert back 
to putting science and people’s safety first. The facts have written themselves out. Teachers’ unions 
have made their stance clear and 
in favor of remote instruction. Their voice is as important as 
anybody else’s. If parents want to 
undermine their children’s safety by sending them to school, that’s 
their prerogative. But ensuring 
the teachers’ workplace is safe 
is contractually mandated, and 
threatening it in any way is 
ridiculous especially when there is an alternative.
Many have asserted that 
we must treat times under coronavirus as the new normal. This would include having 
in-person classes during this 
ongoing pandemic. But I propose that this permanent fix and arrangement can only be made when we have taken permanent precautions against the virus as 
well. Currently, this is not the 
case. Many states such as Texas are requiring in-person classes 
in public schools and universities 
such as Texas A&M without 
mandating masks or vaccines. Vaccine and mask mandates are 
the permanent solution which 
can lead to us having in person classes safely and with no fear of returning to remote instruction. 
The surge in COVID cases 
that the beginning of 2022 has seen, came with a new variant 
that truly proliferated during a vacation period. 
According to Dr. Ashish Jha, 
the Dean of the Brown University 
School of Public Health, 
mutations almost exclusively 
occur within the unvaccinated. This is primarily because of the 
long duration that the virus stays 
in an unvaccinated person when 
they are infected compared to in a vaccinated person. To stop 
these mutations, the best course 
of action would be to reach a close to a 100% vaccination rate, with a vaccine that is 95% effective with 
the most current variant. That 
is the permanent solution that can stop mutations which drive 
these new infection case surges during every break. Prematurely 
going back to school to put our youngest generations at risk of infection, and subsequently 
being subject to long COVID 
is not the solution. Anti-gun control and anti-vaccine  parents 
have long believed that ignoring 
life-threatening occurrences 
such as mass shootings and pandemics will just make them 
disappear. But in both instances, 
it has been made abundantly clear that ignorance leads to these problems becoming more 
detrimental to humans than they 
have to be.
During a pandemic, the 
best solution entails a measure supported by teachers to return to remote instruction. The Chicago Teachers Union has in fact held its ground as it 
demands returning to virtual 
classes. But because the city refuses to address the teachers’ 
concerns, ongoing strikes have 
led to delays in Chicago school openings. 
Besides the quintessential 
conservative arguments against 
implementing COVID safety 
measures, there is one other 
argument that holds more water. 
Many working parents are being forced to return to work 
regardless of infection hazard, 
which leaves their children 
without supervision if they have 
no school to physically attend. 
But during a pandemic, there are better ways for the Democratic 
Party to address these qualms 
than putting teachers in dangerous conditions. Namely, passing the Build Back Better act 
which mandates practices that 
will lower childcare costs in the long term.
The permanent solution 
must not include a permanent disregard for people’s safety. Our 
long-term strategy for dealing 
with crises like the coronavirus pandemic must include 
temporary mandates that reduce 
mutation and contagion rates. Because in 2022, workplace safety 
includes protection from infection.
By sparky mitra
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Kelly Sikkema from Unsplash.
The best solution is always 
the one that benefits the 
most people and keeps the 
most people out of harm’s 
way.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ELIAS ROMAN
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Underground hip-hop poster child Earl Sweatshirt is set to release his upcoming 
fourth studio album “Sick!” on Jan. 14, 2022. Sweatshirt first announced the record 
in December of 2021. Subsequently, the three singles “2010,””, “Tabula Rasa," and “Ti -
tanic” have been released from the 10- track project. In a statement to HipHopDx, the 
rapper said, “““‘Sick!”’ is my humble offering of 10 songs recorded in the wake of the 
worldwide Coronavirus pandemic and its subsequent lockdowns.”
Judging from the singles, Sweatshirt’s newest sound is a natural progression from 
his previous record “Some Rap Songs.” The only exception being the third song “Ti -
tanic,” which is Earl’s return to the ever-popular trap genre. The production, which is rumored to feature the likes of The Alchemist and Black Noi$e, seems to compli -
ment Sweatshirt’s steady and monotone delivery. Of course, the logophile remains as articulate as ever dropping complicated bars over progressive rhyme schemes. With the wait nearly over, we are itching to hear what he’s been quietly working on over the past few years. A&E Staff Writer Fabian Garcia breaks down his 
most anticipated albums of 2022. The new year 
has brought with it a wave of new records that 
have been teased or are already set to release in 
2022. Here is a comprehensive list of some of our 
most anticipated albums in no particular order. 
Earl Sweatshirt,  “Sick!”
In late 2021, Kendrick Lamar finally gave fans relative knowledge of his whereabouts 
after a long period of silence following the release of his 2017 record “DAMN.” Not only did his verses on Baby Keem’s “family ties” and “range brothers” completely shock the world, but it’s now been confirmed that a new project from Kung-Fu Kenny is coming down the pipeline. 
A post on the rapper’s social media linked to a website called “oklama.com” where he 
revealed he was creating his final record under Top Dawg Entertainment. Lamar further explained, “I feel joy to have been a part of such a cultural imprint after 17 years… May 
the Most High continue to use Top Dawg as a vessel for candid creators. As I continue to 
pursue my life’s calling.”
There is no official release date for the upcoming record;, however, Lamar's sched -
uled inclusion in the Super Bowl LVI Halftime Show and his recent appearance at the 
2021 Day N Vegas festival  is further confirmation 2022 will not be a quiet year for the Compton-born rapper. 
Unnamed Kendrick Lamar 
Record  
Radiohead and its various personnel have remained relatively 
busy since the release of their 2016 record “A Moon Shaped Pool.” 
Frontman Thom Yorke and guitarist Johnny Greenwood have 
returned alongside Sons of Kemet drummer Tom Skinner and Ra -
diohead producer Nigel Godrich for a brand new project called The 
Smile. First announced in early 2021, the band released their debut 
single "You Will Never Work in Television Again" on Jan.uary 5, 
2022 and announced that their first record was complete. In an In -
stagram post, the group said “we’re at the track-listing stage, where 
there are 6227020800 possible song orders.” A roundabout way of saying the record is 13 tracks long. 
The Smile seems to be invoking their previous Radiohead sound 
from the ’90s. “We are very keen/scared/proud for you to hear these 
songs, and are currently practicing in a small room in Oxford, where 
work is more fun than fun, like the man said,.” said the group on 
Instagram. While there is no official release date for the unnamed record, it seems that it's only a matter of time before it is released.The Smile Unnamed Record (Radiohead sister band)A&E Guardian's Most Anticipated Albums of 2022
Image courtesy of Pitchfork.
Image courtesy of Consequence of Sound.
Image courtesy of Pitchfork.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
In recent years, Charli XCX has established herself as the one of 
the queens of hyper pop. The release of her 2020 record “How I’m 
Feeling Now” came amidst the initial wave of lockdowns spurred on by COVID-19 and featured a selection of tracks anchored in her iconic exaggerated poppy sound. Now in 2022, fans will finally have 
a fresh selection of 12 tracks thanks to her upcoming fifth studio 
record “CRASH.” However, this time with an unexpected twist. 
It would seem from recent singles and comments by the singer 
that her new record would follow a different style known simply as “poptastic” or “ultimate pop.” An interview with Refinery29 reveals 
her thoughts further, “I’m just very into making ultimate pop music, 
and the whole album is very contrasting from ‘“How I'm Feeling 
Now.’”
What could this mean for the rest of the album, which is set to 
release on March 18, 2022? It would seem only time will tell. 
Additionally, it’s also worth noting two collaborators confirmed 
to be featured on “CRASH” Caroline Polacheck and Rina Sawayama 
are expected to release their next projects in 2022. Fingers crossed. In the past, Mitski has revealed her struggles with being a public figure while also being a 
private person. Following the release of her 2018 record “Be the Cowboy,” she took a three-year hiatus to clear her mind. During this period is when she also found the inspiration to write a 
majority of the songs from her upcoming sixth studio album “Laurel Hell.” 
In an official statement, the Japanese-American singer said the record is: “a soundtrack 
for transformation, a map to the place where vulnerability and resilience, sorrow and delight, 
error and transcendence can all sit within our humanity, can all be seen as worthy of acknowl -
edgment, and ultimately, love.”
An initial set of 3 singles were released before the record was officially announced in No -
vember 2021. The record is set to release on Feb.ruary 4, 2022, just ahead of her European and North American tours.
Mitski “Laurel Hell”
Charli XCX “CRASH”
Image courtesy of Pitchfork.
Image courtesy of Ticketmaster.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     NELSON  ESPINAL 
By Oishee Misra
Features Editor
Underground Scholars is 
a student organization that 
supports formerly incarcerated 
or system-impacted individuals through their advocacy, outreach, 
and policy reform work. Colleen 
Murphy, a first year transfer student and the new president of Underground Scholars, says 
that “in three short years, I went 
from living in my car on drugs to completely sober, happy, healthy, 
making intentional choices in my 
life to perpetuate this happiness and this holistic health.” After 
past experiences involving 
alcoholism, drugs, and an arrest, Murphy is now an avid advocate for systemic reform when it comes 
to incarceration. In the future, 
she hopes to become a US senator. Currently, she is dedicated to the 
Underground Scholars initiative.
Murphy explains that the 
Underground Scholars initiative was founded at UC Berkeley 
in 2013 and has since opened chapters in all the other UC 
campuses. “We’re just here on 
this campus trying to make a difference for other people who don’t realize that there are other 
options than continuing this 
lifestyle that they had,” Murphy told The UCSD Guardian. “The 
main point of the Underground 
Scholars Initiative is to create a prison-to-university pipeline.” 
Although Underground Scholars 
is a student-led organization, UCSD offers institutional 
support in the form of funding, 
through another initiative 
called the Triton Underground 
Scholars. Murphy adds that the people participating in both 
initiatives and the activities they 
do are nearly identical, since both organizations work closely together. 
On the UCSD campus, 
approximately 25 students have participated in Underground 
Scholars in some capacity, and 
12 to 15 students are currently active members. Murphy notes 
that the student organization 
is not specifically for formerly incarcerated students. The 
initiative is also for system-
impacted students —anyone who has been affected by incarceration in any way, such as a family 
member’s arrest —as well as 
“anyone who’s interested in policy reform or supporting a movement 
of equality and equity.” An 
important aspect of Underground Scholars is outreach;for instance, 
they host workshops that 
are tailored to assist current community college students with 
their UC Transfer Application 
and resume development. 
Murphy says that for 
meaningful, institutional changes to continue occurring, full-time positions are required; for instance, she believes that a full-
time position will allow for more 
outreach —whether that takes place at community colleges or 
legislatures —, organization, 
and eventual significant overall growth. Currently, they plan to 
ask for four million dollars in the 
ongoing funding in the budget, and will know if this comes 
to fruition by approximately 
mid-2022. Additionally, Underground Scholars does 
advocacy work related to 
policy reform. In January of 2022, they are hosting a retreat 
in Sacramento to request 
consideration in the California budget and subsequent ongoing funding from the legislature. 
According to Murphy, they 
have also been meeting with local representatives, and she 
specifically has been working 
with the Fresh Start program a department of the public 
defender, which helps formerly 
incarcerated people with the expungement process  (clearing or reducing their records). She 
plans to educate and promote 
this process in January of 2022. As a formerly incarcerated 
individual who has gotten her 
record expunged, Murphy 
wants to make sure that other people are also aware of these 
types of programs because 
“they’re free and they’re intended to help people move 
on from that previous life.”
For Colleen Murphy, her 
previous life began in a small 
rural town in San Bernardino 
County, near Joshua Tree 
National Park. After doing well in high school and graduating 
a year early, Murphy moved 
to San Diego in 2005  due to more economic and schooling 
opportunities to attend a local 
community college. Murphy attended school and worked 
full-time to support herself, 
but moving away from home 
and her support systems 
was challenging. She began 
experiencing mental health issues, and eventually turned 
to alcohol and drugs as coping 
mechanisms. At first, Murphy continued attending school and working as an investment 
broker at TD Ameritrade, 
but her mental health issues and substance abuse issues 
continued to persist. 
During this time, Murphy 
was also involved in abusive relationships. Eventually, 
she ended up leaving her job, dropping out of school, and moving back to her hometown 
in 2008. After returning to her 
hometown, as a consequence of her unhealthy coping 
mechanisms, she ended up 
arrested. Prior to her arrest, she was going through background 
checks and other processes 
required for employment. As soon as her potential employers 
were notified about her charges, 
they rescinded her offer of employment. 
“That was just the beginning 
of the institutional and social barriers that were put up because of my arrest,” Murphy said. 
“Even before I was convicted 
on any of the charges, that job was taken away. The financial 
repercussions of being arrested 
are significant.” The arrest made it impossible for Murphy to find gainful employment, 
which she explains perpetuated 
her dependence on unhealthy, abusive relationships and 
exacerbated poor mental health. After years of going through 
this, in June 2018, Murphy 
decided she needed to break out of this cycle. She packed her car, 
took her two dogs, and moved 
back to San Diego. Soon after she moved back, Murphy ended up in another abusive relationship. 
After suffering physical abuse 
from her then-partner, Murphy ended up in the hospital. At 
the hospital, a routine check-up 
led her to discover that she was pregnant. 
Murphy decided that she 
needed to ask for help. She was living in her car at the time, so she sought refuge at a homeless 
shelter in downtown San Diego 
called the Alpha Project. “When I came in there, I had nothing,” 
Murphy said. “When you’re 
homeless, you lose everything so quickly, because it’s just like, 
you have no way to maintain 
anything. It’s just a terrible, 
terrible thing. I can’t say how difficult it is, especially being a 
woman, to be homeless.” During 
her time at the shelter, Murphy was able to finally take care of her 
physical and mental health and 
realign her priorities. She ended up getting housing through their programs, and her son was born 
in July of 2019. 
When her son was six 
months old, Murphy went back to school and got a part-time 
job working as an insurance agent, and has been in school 
ever since. “Through all of my 
trials and tribulations, education has been probably one of the most liberating forces in my life,” 
Murphy told The Guardian. “It’s 
been extremely empowering, 
working with groups like the 
Underground Scholars.”
In 2020, Murphy graduated 
with three associates degrees —a degree in psychology, a degree in sociology, and then a degree in university studies, social and behavioral sciences —from 
Grossmont Community College. 
After receiving her degrees in 2020, Murphy applied to 
UCSD and was denied. Murphy 
appealed the decision, explaining that she was attempting to build a framework to help this 
demographic and that her voice 
was important, and got in on appeal. At the time she came 
to UCSD, the majority of the 
Underground Scholars officers had recently graduated, so the 
officer team had multiple vacant 
positions. Murphy was asked if she would be willing to fill the vacancy in the presidency 
of Underground Scholars. Since 
she had been doing similar type of work at Grossmont, she agreed 
to take on the position. 
Her main goal through 
Underground Scholars is to 
help break down institutional 
barriers, so people who have 
made poor decisions in the past due to disadvantaged 
life circumstances can find 
a fulfilling life. She wants the “voices that have been quieted 
because of this carceral history” 
to be heard. She also notes that mass incarceration is a systemic 
issue as well – marginalized communities such as the Latinx 
and Black communities are 
disproportionately impacted by this issue.
Murphy says that although 
the university has been supportive of the Underground Scholars initiative, there is more 
that they could do to uplift the 
formerly incarcerated students 
demographic. For instance, 
Murphy says that there could be the implementation of a project like Project Rebound, 
which is a program at the 
California State level that helps increase the number of formerly 
incarcerated students that are 
able to attend college by taking into consideration that they were formerly incarcerated during the application review process. 
UCSD Faculty is also involved 
in this process of supporting formerly incarcerated and system-impacted individuals, 
namely through the cross 
enrollment process. Through the cross enrollment process, 
students at community colleges 
who identify as formerly incarcerated or are just interested 
in the topic can enroll in a UCSD 
course relating to the carceral system. “I’m hoping that during 
my time here, that I will be able to 
reach out to the administration and see if there’s any way we can create that pipeline,” 
Murphy said. “I would really 
love to see that demographic given some sort of preference 
to come here because that is life 
changing. Education prevents recidivism, and recidivism is 
the tendency to reoffend and 
end up back in jail. When you start educating people, and giving them options other than 
the lives that were contributing 
to their incarceration, then the incarceration cycle stops.”
Murphy says that although 
all the formerly incarcerated individuals she has met have 
different experiences, education 
and its ability to liberate them has always been the common 
theme. “This campus has become 
our platform for empowering others in this situation,” Murphy told The Guardian. “Anyone 
who’s been incarcerated, even 
people who are currently 
incarcerated,we’re reaching out 
to currently incarcerated people who are completing classes in prison. We want them to come 
here, we want them to know 
that there’s a place for them here so that when they get out, they 
can come and have education, 
because it’s such a liberating Underground Scholars: New Grounds for Change
New President of Underground Scholars shares her past experiences with the carceral 
system and her future goals to support formerly incarcerated and system-impacted 
individuals through the advocacy, outreach and educational work being done by the 
Underground Scholars initiative. 
Art by Angela Liang for The UCSD Guardian.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
Seven Steps to Getting Rid of  Gifts You Didn’t Want
Trends I Think will Die in 2022  
As the New Year and new 
quarter kick into gear, I can’t 
help but reflect on the year 
that 2021 brought us in the fashion world. From sourcing 
new vintage pieces, the Y2K 
revival, chunky boots, and the surge of subversive basics, I was personally inspired to throw my 
old closet away in exchange for a 
new one (but of course, like any other college student, I sadly did 
not have the funds).
A fresh start calls for new 
trends and although I cannot predict the future, here are some 
of the trends I think might die in 2022. Perhaps I am simply writing my projections and 
would like to see these trends end 
(even though I’m a hypocrite and did partake in some of these), 
but if they don’t come true, you 
can come back to this article and say, “I told you so.”
Colorful PatternsFrom what I’ve seen on 
the internet and my mediocre 
observation skills, 2021 was the 
year of color. From the infamous House of Sunny, “Hockney 
Dress,” to the Maison Soksi 
tights, trends of bright, swirly patterns wore down so quickly that the $132.56 you spent on that 
dress is *probably* collecting 
dust in your closet. Of course, I am a victim and have indulged in the act of impulsively spending my paychecks worth on OMIGHTY dresses and maxi 
skirts (please don’t do that), but 
have now come to realize I have not worn these pieces since July of 2021. Now, I’m not saying 
to never buy these pieces, but 
much of the clothing that designers create are meant to 
be worn for short periods rather 
than lasting you a lifetime. We all love a little bit of color in 
our wardrobe, but I find that 
incorporating color into outfits through small accessories such as jewelry, hairpieces, and 
sunglasses might be the better 
move this year. 
Chunky NecklacesNow I love the chunky 
necklace trend, with its 
glistening pearls and statement 
charms, but in terms of longevity, I don’t see this trend 
lasting past summer. Many of 
the necklaces I have seen myself fit to one’s “aesthetic” liking, and if you’re like me and your 
sense of style tends to change 
every so often, these necklaces will probably continue to hang 
around in your room. But if 
large amounts of hardware are your thing, layering necklaces 
might be the way to incorporate 
tons of sparkling jewelry into your wardrobe.
The I.AM.GIA Cult FashionNow hear me out, I find that 
I.AM.GIA continues to make the trendiest pieces that are really up-to-date and loved by 
millions, but that’s the catch: it’s 
a trend (and don’t get me started on its lack of inclusive sizing). 
Trends aren’t meant to last you 
years worth of wear. With the success of the television show Euphoria and the cult following 
that Alexa Demie has created, 
they have popularized the wear of glimmering matching sets for 
the past two years but have lasted 
only months after viewers have stopped raving about the show. 
This one is a little tricky on my 
end because who knows? The new season of Euphoria about to 
launch may cause a comeback in 
the realm of glitz and glam.
Wrap Halter Tops
As seen on your favorite social 
media influencer’s Instagram, 
this trend was cute, flattering, and made heads turn. But, I feel 
as if this piece has made its final 
stretch and has been overworn. Now I love the idea of wrap 
tops in general because they are 
versatile and comfortable, and who doesn’t love that? I would 
like to see the different ways 
wrap tops can be worn rather than the same, overused pattern 
of a halter top. There are other 
methods of wearing wrap tops that can easily complement your 
silhouette without having fabric 
tugging at the back of your neck.Written BY Priscilla Anne Puno
Lifestyle Co-Editor
Photo by David Dvořáček for UnsplashFor most of us, winter quarter 
has begun and the holiday 
season is over. Say goodbye to 
all of the great meals, beautiful decorations, and festive music; it 
is now time to move into the new 
year and re-establish your daily routine. However, there is one thing from the holidays that we can never seem to leave behind: 
terrible gifts.
Of course, we appreciate 
our loved ones and everything they do for us, but if we are 
being honest, there are some occasions in which we all would have preferred a simple 
card to whatever present was 
sitting underneath the tree. So, if you have an out-of-touch grandmother, strange neighbor, or lazy Secret Santa, this article is for you. Instead of letting this weird gift sit in your house for 
years, follow this seven-step 
guide to getting rid of gifts you didn’t actually want!
1.  Regifting!  
 Why buy more gifts when 
you can simply pass on the ones that you already got? After all, one man’s trash could very well be another man’s trash. With 
this method, you can get rid of 
the unwanted gift and save the energy it takes to get one for 
someone else! The only thing you 
have to do is rewrap the present in order to have a brand new gift! 
Just make sure you don’t give it 
back to the same person, or else they could get mad and exact 
some ominous revenge on you. 
This is especially important to remember if this person knows where you live!
But maybe the time for gift-
giving is already over, and you don’t want to keep something 
like this around until the next 
holiday season. This brings us to step two. This brings us to 
step two.
2. Selling!  
 Now it’s time to bring out 
your inner business major and 
make some money. After all, the gift is now yours, and if 
they truly love you, your friends 
and family (or creepy next-door neighbor) would be happy to let 
you exchange their thoughtful 
present for some cold hard cash. There are lots of ways you can 
go about this, from selling on 
eBay to attending a flea market. Unfortunately, this method does not work if your gift is so 
disturbing that nobody actually 
wants it, which leads us to step three.
3. Donating!  
At this point, it’s probably 
become clear that you won’t be getting anything useful out of 
this gift. You’re starting to feel 
paranoid, and worry that this gift may be watching you. That’s 
when you remember that you 
can just donate it! This useful technique will allow you a zero-
stress way to get rid of whatever 
dark energy that gift has. Just drop it off at Goodwill, Salvation Army, or an unassuming random 
person’s home. You can even 
mail it to the president! I’m sure he would appreciate it, assuming 
something like this gets past the 
Secret Service.
4. Repurposing!  
If, for some reason, you can’t 
give away this present (perhaps because everyone you tried has refused to let it into their home) try repurposing! This works 
great for personalized t-shirts 
from your fashion-clueless mom, portraits from your niece who 
“wants to be an artist,” and 
dolls made in your image by the neighbor next door who keeps 
on watching you through the 
windows. This method allows your creativity to shine. Simply 
brainstorm alternative ways to 
use these items that you find far more useful than their original purposes. For example, the pins 
underneath that doll’s dress 
could be useful for sewing!
 5. Force Someone Else To Help You                       
REPurpose It!  This one is self-explanatory. 
If you aren’t creative enough to make something new, find someone who is! After all, friends 
are there to lend a helping hand. 
This is an especially good option 
if this gift is so upsetting that 
you don’t even want to touch it anymore, for fear of being 
possessed or otherwise. Don’t be 
afraid to reach out!
6. Destroying! 
 You’ve tried everything. 
There’s simply no easy way to get 
rid of this gift. There’s only one 
more option: destroy it. There 
are several ways to go about this. 
You can throw it in the bin and 
wait for the garbage truck to 
take it away. Or, if you feel that would take too long and you 
are worried the trash compactor 
may not be enough, you can 
use other means! Some of my 
favorites include setting it on fire, running it through a paper 
shredder, or dumping it in toxic 
chemicals. Just be sure to use gloves!
7. Banishing to Another Realm!  In the extremely rare case 
that this gift has the ability to come back from the dead, you may want to consider this option. 
It may take a bit more effort and 
supplies, but it will definitely be worth it, especially since you will finally be able to sleep at night. 
Just make sure that nothing from 
that dimension crosses over here! Instructions for this will come in 
the next issue.
Remember, you never know 
who, or what, is watching! Happy 
New Year everyone!
Photo by Teo Zac from Unsplash
WRITTEN BY Samantha phan
Contributing Lifestyle Writer8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at UC Irvine
vs UC Irvine vs Hawai‘iat UCLAvs HarvardUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W BasketballW Basketball
MW Swim
M Volleyball7PM7PM7PM
TBA
7PM1/111/111/131/141/14
In their first game of 
the season in the Big West 
Conference, the UC San Diego 
women’s basketball team (4–6, 
1–0 Big West) defeated UC 
Riverside (3–4, 0–1 Big West), 
60–57 in RIMAC Arena this 
past Thursday in a hard-fought, 
spectator-free win to kick off the new year. The victory marked 
UCSD’s fourth win of the season 
in all competitions, and was 
especially welcome after their 
most recent two defeats against 
California Baptist University 
and San Diego State University in December. 
It was a tight game, with the lead never exceeding 9 points 
for either team. The Tritons 
were feeling the effects of their extended break from play as the 
night wore on; San Diego’s last 
game had been Dec. 17, so there 
was some rust to play through 
on Thursday. Regardless, they 
put on a determined display 
and persevered, continuing their undefeated run in all 
three of their games against the 
Highlanders since they joined 
the conference last year. The 
standout performance for the 
Tritons came from sophomore 
forward Aishah Brown, who logged an impressive double-
double with career highs of 19 
points and 16 rebounds. 
Riverside opened the 
scoring in the first minute with a bucket by Ryanne Walters after winning the tipoff, but 
the Tritons rallied to take 
the lead soon after, courtesy 
of a 3-pointer followed by a 
basket from in the paint by 
senior guard Sydney Brown, 
who also put up an impressive 
season-high 17 points in 
the game. The first quarter 
followed this back-and-forth 
between the two sides, seeing Aishah Brown net a 3-pointer, 
freshman center Bridget 
Mullings provide a layup, and 
junior guard Ula Chamberlin a 
jumper to maintain San Diego’s 
lead throughout the period. 
Chamberlin also contributed a pretty 3-pointer of her own on 
a fastbreak with 41 seconds on 
the clock to put the score at 
15–10 to the home side at the 
break.
The second period began 
with the Highlanders coming back into the game and 
narrowing the lead to just a 
point within the first minute 
through a pair of baskets from 
Keilanei Cooper. The Tritons 
showed signs of fatigue, their 
game slightly slower in the second quarter; despite two 
good free throws by Aishah 
Brown, Riverside took back the 
lead for the first time since their 
opening points at the beginning 
of the game. It was a relatively 
short-lived lead though, as Aishah Brown’s layup combined 
with a 3-pointer from a fastbreak 
by senior guard Madison Baxter 
to put San Diego ahead again, a 
lead they widened over the rest of the quarter. 
As the scoreline grew for both 
sides, San Diego maintained the 
gap in points with contributions 
from Chamberlin, Baxter, and 
senior guard Julia Macabuhay. Riverside responded with 
incremental points that chipped 
a little from the lead each time, 
but not enough to pull ahead. 
A jumper from a fastbreak by 
Mullins brought the Triton’s 
lead to its highest in the game 
at 9 points with a little over a 
minute left before the half, and 
a Riverside basket by Walters 5 
seconds from the buzzer led the 
teams into halftime with the score a comfortable 31–24 to the 
Tritons.
UCSD looked tired in the 
third period, conceding a foul 
that led to a free throw being 
converted by the Highlanders. 
A 3-pointer by Sydney Brown and a layup by Aishah Brown 
maintained the home side’s 
advantage, but preceded a 
three-minute period with no 
points scored by the Tritons, 
during which Riverside stole 
back the lead with a trio of successive jumpers. After a 
time out allowed the teams 
to regroup for a moment, the 
Tritons rallied. A layup by 
Aishah Brown with five seconds 
on the clock put UCSD back 
ahead at 40–39 before the final period of the game.
The last quarter saw the lead 
pass from one side to the other a 
number of times. The home side 
added to the advantage they had 
re-established before the break 
thanks to a good free throw by Sydney Brown, but the Tritons 
needed to regain it again after 
Riverside tied the score with a 
layup by Mele Finau. For the 
next 5 minutes, the teams went 
back and forth, with San Diego 
pulling ahead and Riverside 
responding by tying or taking 
the lead themselves. This period 
saw points by UCSD’s Sydney 
Brown, Ula Chamberlin, Aishah Brown, and redshirt 
senior guard Emily Cangelosi. 
The Tritons doggedly fought 
to keep their lead in a tense 
final 2 minutes, and despite the 
Highlanders putting up 7, the 8 points the home side scored was enough to see the game out to a 
victorious end, the final score 
60–57.
Although it was an incredibly 
tight game down to the last minute, San Diego showed 
perseverance and grit to get the 
result in the end. At times, there 
was evidence of rust in their 
play, with 17 total turnovers 
and moments of sloppy play. 
However, despite the hitches in their performance, the 
Tritons and head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer can be proud of the 
victory they earned in the end.
On an individual level, 
Aishah Brown statistically stood out, providing much-
needed points at key moments 
to bring the Tritons back into 
the game. Of Brown’s career-
high 19 points on the night, 10 
were scored from free throws, as she went a perfect 10-for-
10 from the line. Though she 
also committed a game-high 
7 turnovers, her impressive 
offensive performance 
overshadowed many of those 
defensive mistakes, culminating in an important win to kick off 
UCSD’s conference season.
The Tritons followed this 
performance with another Big 
West win at home on Friday 
against the UC Davis Aggies, 
again eking out a narrow win, 59–56. They will next face UC 
Irvine at RIMAC on Tuesday, 
Jan. 11 in their third successive 
Big West home game.Brown’s Double-Double 
Helps UCSD Overcome 
Riverside in Conference 
Opener
UC San Diego’s men’s 
basketball team (8–7) lost a close contest to UC Davis 
(7–4) on Saturday, Dec. 8 by 
a score of 78–71. These two 
teams were evenly matched 
throughout the game, but the 
Tritons were not able to close it out and were sunk by some 
clutch UC Davis free-throw 
shooting. While the offense was 
balanced and effective, the 78 
points were the most UCSD has allowed in a regulation game this season. This loss will sting even worse because it was a 
winnable game against one of 
the most talented teams in the 
Big West. The Tritons will look 
to continue their crisp offensive 
momentum, while keeping the 
opposing team off the free-throw line in the next one.
The Tritons came to play 
early in this matchup. Three-
pointers from senior guard 
Jake Killingsworth, sophomore guard Jace Rocquemore, and 
freshman forward Francis 
Nwaokorie with an added 
jumper by Rocquemore gave the 
Tritons a whopping 16–4 lead 
six minutes into the first half. 
The Tritons blitzed the Aggies 
from the outside, where they 
were very effective all night, but UC Davis responded to the 
Tritons 14–0 run with a 6–0 run 
themselves, cutting the deficit 
to a manageable 6.
Right as the Tritons were 
losing momentum on offense, 
the offensive leader, senior forward Toni Rocak, stepped in 
with two layups, set up nicely by 
the threat of the outside attack. 
Going up ten forced another 
timeout, and UCSD was firmly 
in control again. Out of the 
timeout, Davis once again cut it to six, but sophomore guard 
Bryce Pope came through with 
a layup of his own to get on 
the scoreboard. UC Davis was 
playing more aggressively and 
their effort was getting them 
back into the game, especially at the free-throw line. Pope soon 
returned the favor, getting to 
the line after being fouled on a 
three pointer at the 6:15 mark, 
making two of three free throws 
to give the Tritons a 29–23 lead. 
UC Davis methodically 
cut the lead down, and with a minute and a half the once-large 
lead had been cut to a measly 
1 point, now 33–32. With 30 
seconds to play, UC Davis took 
their first lead since the opening 
minutes with a three pointer; UCSD now trailed 37–35. UCSD 
showed their poise by coming 
right back down the floor and 
getting Pope open, who lasered a contested three pointer and 
was fouled. He converted the 
4-point play and just like that, 
the Tritons entered the locker 
room with both a 2-point 
lead as well as the once-lost 
momentum. 
The game continued to 
be tightly contested, with the Tritons’ shooting being 
matched by UC Davis’ scrappy 
play and interior prowess 
against the smaller UC San 
Diego team. The game was knotted at 41 for a long time 
with the teams trading stops, perhaps uncharacteristically 
in this high-scoring affair, 
until a layup from senior 
guard Kaden Rasheed gave the Tritons the leg up. Soon after, 
Killingsowrth continued the 
scoring with 2 three pointers 
flanked by a Rocak layup, 
with the score now reading 
53–48 with 11 minutes to go. 
Killingsworth was running the offense spectacularly, but the 
defensive execution thereafter 
left a lot to be desired, with 
four Tritons fouls committed in 
under 2 minutes. After all the 
free throws tallied, the back and 
forth game was once again tied, now at 60. 
The closing stretch saw the roles reverse to a degree–fouls gave UCSD opportunities at the 
line with Rocak hitting four 
free throws and Killingsworth 
adding another, but UC Davis 
matched the scoring at every turn., After Davis made another 
layup inside to go up 69–67, 
Rocak committed a charging 
foul with 3:16 left on the 
clock. Fortunately, the Tritons got a stop and Bryce Pope’s 
determination on the drive 
got him to the free-throw line, 
where he converted one of two.
The Tritons called a timeout 
after forcing a turnover with 
1:08 to go, and the play call got Killingsworth open for 
his fourth three of the game. Needing a stop down one, the 
Tritons committed an errant 
foul. Now down three, the 
shooting that was there all night did not give them this final 
boost, and Pope missed the all-
important jumper allowing the 
Aggies to ice the game with 
free throws, with the final score 
being 78–71. 
Trying to shake this difficult 
road stretch, the UCSD Tritons will next take on Big West 
Player of the Year candidate 
Collin Welp and UC Irvine on 
the road Tuesday, Jan. 11, where 
the team will surely hope to 
shore up their interior defense.By Donovan Perez-Schipper
Senior Staff WriterMen’s Basketball Road Woes Continue in Loss to UC Davis 
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis / UC San Diego.
Image courtesy of Jeff Tourial / UC San Diego Athletics.By Emer Nolan
Staff WriterSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , JANUARY 10, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9