OLYMPIC ATHLETE
DOPING SCANDAL
Kamila Valieva’s recent 
scandal at the Olympics 
rushes forward questions on 
the integrity of the skating 
community. Read more about 
this topic in Opinion’s section 
this week.
POLICE BRUTALITY
CRITICAL RESIGNATIONSUCSD MEDICAL DIRECTOR TESTIFIES IN 
POLICE BRUTALITY CASES
Two UCSD Faculty Resign from Critical 
Gender Studies Executive CommitteeNEWS,  Page   3
NEWS,  Page  3
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“I must have missed this 
question on my application, 
but based on the number 
of pedestrian collisions I 
see on a daily basis, this 
had to be an admission 
requirement. So, in order to 
survive this concrete jungle 
full of dangers, we need 
to revisit such sidewalk 
etiquette. ”
- GAVIN  D’ELIA
THE  YUKKA
OPINION, PAGE 4OPINION,   PAGE  4
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF NY TIMES.IMAGE COURTESY OF NY TIMES.
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
CHANGE-MAKER..........5
BATTLE IN RUSSIA.......6
BOOK CORNER............8
HAIKU............................9
UCSD LOSS................10VOLUME 55, ISSUE 18  TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Editor’s Note: This article contains potentially upsetting 
anecdotes and descriptions of sexual harassment, sexual 
assault, drug use, racism, and violence.   In a decision announced internally on Feb. 15, UC 
San Diego’s Collegiate Panhellenic Association ef -
fectively canceled social events with all chapters in 
the Interfraternity Council for the remainder of Winter 
Quarter 2022. The CPA decision comes in response to 
rising allegations of sexual assault/harassment, drug -
ging, and physical violence occurring at off-campus 
fraternity parties. 
 The canceled social events across Sorority and Fra -
ternity Life include “exchanges,” which are social events 
that typically occur between a designated sorority and 
a fraternity. The decision doesn’t include “opens,” which 
are larger events where both those affiliated and unaf -
filiated with SFL are welcome to attend. For this reason, 
practices differ between fraternal chapters on who is 
welcome to attend their opens — especially when con -
sidering whether men who are not in their chapter are 
allowed to attend.
An anonymous upperclassman from a UCSD soror -
ity shared with The UCSD Guardian that CPA’s desired 
next step is to work with IFC to strengthen their com -
munications and connections. Some of their goals are to 
reach an agreement that attempts to mend the situation 
through heightened risk prevention policies, recogni -
tion of the victims’ trauma, and ultimately comprehen -
sive measures that empower members of SFL to feel safe 
and comfortable at social events. 
An imperative measure she highlighted was to look 
closely at the chapters which have allegations against 
them.
“What we wanted to see was that they care and just 
hear us out and care about amending the situation as 
much as they can,” she said to The Guardian. “Obvious -
ly, you can’t time travel and stop it from happening, but 
one of the things that is really important is finding out if 
it’s a chapter that is cultivating that kind of and perpetu -
ating that kind of behavior or whether it just happened 
to be an individual in that situation.” 
The anonymous member stated that IFC needs to 
have better risk management practices that are commu -
nicated more clearly to party attendees. She recognizes 
two truths: the boards of SFL, CPA, and IFC are doing 
what they can to protect their members, and that their 
lack of expertise due to their age and their experience 
dealing with assault allegations may make it more dif -
ficult to work effectively.
UCSD Sororities 
Suspend Social Relations with Fraternities Amidst 
Increasing Allegations of  Misconduct, 
Sexual Assault, Drugging, and ViolenceGREEK LIFE
By JOCELYN BROSSIA ASSOCIATE NEWS WRITERGraduate and PhD 
Students Protest at 
Chancellor’s Mansion 
Against Rent BurdenHOUSING
By Brandon Mariano
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
UC San Diego academic work -
ers and their supporters partici -
pated in a march on Wednesday, 
Feb. 16 that began at Pacific Hall 
and concluded at Chancellor 
Khosla’s residence. The protestors 
demanded the University of Cali -
fornia act on the housing crisis 
that has put a financial burden on 
many academic workers.
Some attendees of the dem -
onstration said that they were fo -
cused on developing a bargaining 
process with the University of Cal -
ifornia to lower rents, have greater 
availability of housing, and pro -
vide housing stipends for academ -
ic student workers. Demonstrators 
also expressed frustrations involv -
ing the fact that Chancellor Khosla 
received an over $100k raise in his 
pay while living rent-free in his La 
Jolla mansion across from campus. 
It’s important to note that San 
Diego has recently passed San 
Francisco as the most unafford -
able housing market according to 
a recent report by OJO Labs. Not 
only did the report mention af -
fordability but the lack of hous -
ing supply has all contributed to a 
greater housing crisis. San Diego 
also has a reported shortage of af -
fordable rental housing with av -
erage cost being $2,009 a month, 
thus making the off-campus hous -
ing alternative highly difficult to 
come across and an expensive op -
tion. 
“Our goal is ultimately to ne -
gotiate with the UC on the matters 
of housing. The Chancellor told us 
that this is a student issue and not 
a worker issue,” stated Kaden who 
is a biological sciences PhD candi -
date at UCSD. “The UC is also our 
landlord in terms of housing so 
then this is an employer and em -
ployee issue. Civil disobedience is 
necessary sometimes to bring at -
tention to some of the issues that 
we face.”
Many PhD candidates and 
other graduate students have faced 
a housing market crisis across all 
of San Diego in both  availabil -
ity and affordability. Some even 
stated that many of them were 
overworked and some had to live 
within their labs or other places 
of work. Academic workers are 
now spending an average of 30% 
of their income on housing alone 
with most being rent burdened. 
Those living within UC gradu -
ate housing have faced sudden 
increases in rent costs, with the 
average being a 31% increase and 
the highest reaching up to 85% for 
See GREEK LIFE,  page 2 See HOUSING,  page 2
Art courtesy of Ava Bayley for UCSD Guardian. 
Above all, she said that she hopes that people recog -
nize the traumatic nature of this situation rather than 
view it as gossip.  
“I want people to remember that this isn’t just gos -
sip about who can’t hang with who,” she said. “People 
have actually been traumatized and people are actually 
going through legal channels and there are actually 
open investigations and this is actually a very serious 
thing and it’s not just ‘no more partying.’”
In the perspective of a second anonymous source 
from a UCSD sorority — who wanted to remain anon -
ymous to avoid possible repercussions — halting social 
relations with IFC is the safest decision for everyone at 
the moment. 
Despite this decision, the member has expressed 
concern that students will still throw parties regardless 
of the ban and that unofficial parties likely will not have 
the same supervisions (e.g. sober monitors) that allow 
people to seek help and accountability lest something 
go wrong. She is also worried that behaviors will not 
change, due to her belief that current fraternal mea -
sures to handle allegations (e.g. the revocation of access 
to parties or membership in the chapter) do not provide 
consequences serious enough to match the gravity of 
the offense.
“I think the entire idea is to kind of let things cool 
off, work on it for the rest of the quarter, and then get 
back next quarter and just continue as if nothing really 
happened,” this sorority member said. “Which I am 
pretty skeptical about because I feel like that’s what we 
say every single time and I haven’t seen a single change 
in IFC since I came to this school.” 
Previous Allegations Among SFL at UCSD
Most recently, allegations of assault and drugging 
occurred at a Jan. 30 Sigma Nu party; it was themed af -
ter the TV show “Euphoria,” which itself has met criti -
cism for potentially glorifying drug use. The party was 
open, meaning that anyone could attend as long as they 
obtained a wristband. 
The anonymous sorority member, who attended 
the “Nuphoria” party, said that approximately 400-
450 wristbands were allotted for distribution to guests 
in order to attend the party. From her perspective, the 
event was unable to be properly supervised due to the 
fact that the house’s capacity was not suitable for the 
large number of individuals in attendance. To her, this 
created a significantly overcrowded, sweaty, and un -
comfortable environment. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  ▶ GREEK LIFE , from page 1
▶ HOUSING , from page 1
some units. 
Demonstrators said that if these costs aren’t 
covered in a timely manner, then this leads to holds 
on their student accounts. For many graduate stu -
dents, this means that they are not able to sign up 
for classes and are not able to work.
“We can’t let the university continuously ignore 
the housing crisis that they helped perpetuate,” 
said Ahmad Aktar, a graduate student in the UCSD 
physics department. “Through really exploitative 
housing practices, like raising rents exorbitantly 
on graduate students, we’re here to really fight on 
this issue and force the UC to respond to it with 
real solutions.”
“I think if we don’t take action now and start 
bargaining with the UC to get affordable housing  
for our workers then the university will continue to 
profit off of us and not take students’ and workers’ 
best interest at heart,” commented Lauren Bibi, a 
fifth year graduate student in the UCSD biological 
Image courtesy of Millie Root. In addition, she said that there 
were a plethora of popular recre -
ational drugs at the party, includ -
ing alcohol, cannabis, nicotine, 
LSD, MDMA, psilocybin, cocaine, 
ketamine, and lean. To her, the level 
of intoxication she witnessed was 
greater than she had seen at any 
other event; she believed people to 
be past the point of being able to 
ensure their own safety, to ensure 
the safety of those around them, 
and to hold others accountable for 
inappropriate behavior.
“I think the Sig Nu party kind of 
pushed it over the edge because that 
was like a—there were so many al -
legations that night that people just 
had to point fingers and everyone 
was panicking because people were 
drugged and people were sexually 
assaulted out in the open and peo -
ple got hit and cut open and it was 
so bad,” the sorority member said. 
Safety protocols that Sigma Nu 
stated they would implement in 
their Facebook invitation were not 
enforced, according to the sorority 
member.
“Sig Nu said that they would 
have a strict [COVID] policy and 
they definitely did not,” she said. 
“They also said wristbands would 
be pretty strict, but I feel like 450 
wristbands of a very generic color 
being given out to people to dis -
tribute […] I think it was not a great 
way of ensuring that people’s safety 
was a top priority.” 
As the second anonymous so -
rority member said, the scope of 
misconduct and abuse expanded 
past the events of the Sigma Nu 
party — and fraternity parties in 
general. She stated that fraternity 
members generally behave disre -
spectfully and are exclusionary 
towards those who are not in fra -
ternities.
An anonymous employee at 
UCSD Recreation stated that she 
was verbally harassed by players 
on the IFC basketball intramural 
teams a few weeks ago after in -
structing them to leave when the 
building was closing. She said most 
fraternities there were involved in 
the harassment — some of whom 
she previously considered to be her 
friends. 
“The most recent completely 
jarring one was being called a [b—-
] and a [w—-] and a [c—] by mem -
bers of IFC,” she said. “Also being 
hit on to my face super explicitly by 
members of Pike, like they walked 
behind me and literally said ‘Look 
at her ass,’ and then one of them 
was like, ‘I wish my girl had a booty 
like that.’ And I turned around and 
I was like, ‘Are you serious?’ and 
they just laughed in my face and kept going and were so disgusting 
about it. I had problems with almost 
every single frat there and all of them 
making comments and being disre -
spectful.”
“I had friends that ignored me — 
or I guess I wouldn’t call them friends 
now — people that I knew and had 
been friendly with that ignored me 
that then turned around and called 
me a [b—-] to all of their friends for 
doing my job,” she continued. 
These recent allegations are not 
isolated events. CPA’s decision fol -
lows a public sexual assault allegation 
against the president of Phi Gamma 
Delta (commonly known as Fiji) in 
Fall Quarter 2021 and the Univer -
sity’s ongoing, multi-year suspension 
of Sigma Chi due to sexual assault al -
legations since Spring Quarter 2019. 
In Winter Quarter 2010, Pi Kap -
pa Alpha (Pike) and IFC threw the 
racist ‘Compton Cookout’-themed 
party. The event’s aftermath led 
to the dubbing of Winter Quarter 
2010 as “Black Winter” and was ref -
erenced in director Justin Simien’s 
film “Dear White People.” In Spring 
Quarter 2003, images of the Ku Klux 
Klan appeared on allegedly-falsified 
Spring Rush fliers for Sigma Chi. In a 
since-deleted Instagram post, Fiji an -
nounced that they removed the for -
mer president from the chapter. Sig -
ma Chi continues to operate locally 
outside of affiliation with UCSD. 
Junior Cara Puscasiu, a formerly-
affiliated member of the Pi Beta Phi 
sorority, dropped her chapter in an 
act of an alliance with victims of 
sexual assault nationwide; she felt 
a widespread lack of support from 
the Panhellenic community towards 
victims. Puscasiu said that when 
she asked her chapter to inform SFL 
about an individual (non-affiliated 
but in adjacent social circles) who 
had assaulted her, no action was tak -
en. Puscasiu also felt as though she 
was denied the opportunity to take 
on a leadership position within her 
sorority due to assumptions made 
about her in terms of her involve -
ment in sexual assault allegations 
and the perceived state of her mental 
health.
“As I learned more about the in -
ternal structures of Greek Life as a 
whole — nothing related to Pi Phi, 
specifically — but, the environment 
of protecting sexual assaulters and 
people who are accused of things — 
there should be a zero-tolerance pol -
icy and it just doesn’t seem like there 
is,” Puscasiu said. 
Puscasiu emphasized that both 
Panhellenic and IFC should have 
more strongly established channels 
in place that consistently educate and 
enforce policies about assault and 
abuse. Considering how common 
cases of assault and abuse are among 
SFL, she thinks it vital for these edu -cation and policy practices to pre -
vent the enablement of assaulters 
and abusers – who are both formally 
affiliated and non-formally affiliated 
with SFL.
“The chapter didn’t do anything 
even when I talked to higher-up 
people,” she continued. “[…] Just 
kept saying they would talk to people 
higher up [across SFL], and then I ba -
sically asked like 4-5 times and like, 
‘Oh, did you ever hear back from 
them?’ They’re like, ‘We’re just deal -
ing with something a lot recently so 
we haven’t been able to talk to them 
specifically about this, and then, by 
the time I dropped there was not 
anything really that could be done.” 
An anonymous member of one of 
the fraternities stated above said that 
he feels disappointed by the continu -
ous cases of sexual assault and the 
general intoxigenic nature of SFL, es -
pecially in light of various chapters’ 
statements that say they are working 
to rectify existing cases of assault and 
strengthen risk prevention practices. 
“They claim to be really against 
sexual assault and everything that 
comes with it, but it obviously keeps 
happening,” he said to The Guard -
ian. “I feel like a lot of time when they 
kick them out it’s just like a publicity 
stunt —  just like to make sure the so -
rorities know that they don’t do it or 
that they take action against it.”
“I think that, for the majority of 
the people in Greek life, over at least 
75%, […] they go there for the reason 
of a potential sexual encounter,” the 
fraternity member continued. 
Additionally, the member of the 
fraternity stated that he is saddened 
by watching the impact that sexual 
assault in SFL has on victims in real-
time. 
“Seeing the flip side of those who 
have had the bad things happen to 
them that […] they’re stopping the 
parties for — the sexual assault — 
I’ve known people who are the ones 
that have been assaulted,” the anony -
mous source said. “I think that it’s re -
ally sad that I was, and all my college 
friends were a part of something that 
could lead to so many cases of that. 
And it’s not just an anomaly.”
Moving Forward
As previously mentioned by 
the first anonymous source from a 
sorority, CPA hopes to proceed by 
strengthening communications and 
relations with IFC in a manner that 
honors CPA’s requests to increase 
safety and comfortability.
The anonymous fraternity mem -
ber offered suggestions on how to 
increase safety at social events in a 
way that demonstrates IFC takes this 
matter seriously. One option is to de -
crease and set a limit on the amount 
of alcohol bought in preparation for 
a social event. Another would be 
to move social events entirely away 
department. “The university really extracts profit 
from us and we need to take a stand.” When asked 
if the university has given them any justifications 
for the increase in rents, she simply stated no. 
The only claims for the raise in rents on gradu -
ate housing was to cover the costs of new housing 
and other structures for the university’s influx of 
students. Due to the fact that the UCSD housing 
department doesn’t receive federal, state, or tuition 
funding, the costs of these mortgages and staff  
salaries are being covered by student rents. The 
only remedies offered by the university’s housing 
department to make up for the raise in rents was 
giving students the option to double up in rooms 
and apartments.
If one is in dire need of emergency housing on 
campus at UCSD, they may rely on Basic Needs. 
The process begins when one fills out a Basic Needs 
Assistance form but they may also email basic -
needs@ucsd.edu for temporary housing.from individual off-campus homes 
to rented venues; hosting an event 
at a venue would help limit exces -
sive consumption of alcohol and 
ensure alcohol is not served to 
those under the age of 21.  
“Most of them, if that got taken 
away, they wouldn’t see the point 
of Greek life, which is sad, but oh, 
well,” he said. 
Puscasiu stated she believes so -
rorities and fraternities both should 
spend their time without social 
events trying to make concerted 
efforts to increase communication 
and transparency about their be -
havioral standards and risk preven -
tion policies.
“It would be good for them to 
communicate standards and re -
ally proactively create measures to 
actually prevent this from happen -
ing in the future,” she said. “I think 
it’s a first step, but they have to take 
this time wisely because they can’t 
just be like ‘Yeah we’re taking a 
break and holding people account -
able and investigating,’ like we’ve 
all heard that a million times. And 
then nothing really changes, and I 
think UCSD should be that univer -
sity that really puts an end to these 
types of things because it’s so nor -
malized — it’s disgusting.”
The second anonymous soror -
ity member echoed sentiments that 
the cancellation of social events is a 
good first step. She continued that 
she believes harm reduction prac -
tices are a necessary implementa -
tion to move forward in creating 
lasting change. Her ideas include 
comprehensive harm-reductionist 
drug education that seeks to teach 
young adults about drug interac -
tions and dosages that cause over -
doses. She said that sexual assault 
and harassment training within 
SFL should be redesigned to place 
greater emphasis on the conse -
quences of assault that will follow 
the victim and the perpetrator for 
life. Additionally, the source said 
that allegations of sexual assault 
need to be seriously investigated 
and with more serious repercus -
sions for perpetrators within their 
chapters. Finally, she questioned 
how impactful a consequence be -
ing dropped from one’s chapter 
actually is.
--------------------------------
The Guardian reached out to 
SFL, CPA, IFC, and the publicly-
available contacts for the chapters’ 
executive members for comment. 
SFL, CPA, and IFC did not respond 
to a request for an interview. 12 of 
12 contacted sorority boards and 
11 of 12 contacted fraternity boards 
did not respond to a request for an 
interview. 
Editor’s Note: The author of 
this article was affiliated with the Sigma Kappa sorority from Fall 
Quarter 2019 until her resignation 
in Summer 2020. Additionally, she 
is currently employed at UCSD 
Recreation, where one anonymous 
source also works. Their shared 
place of employment did not im -
pact the production of this article 
in any way.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
With at least 1,134 people 
killed by the police in 2021 alone, 
police brutality remains a salient 
topic within public discourse. 
However, what is not as often 
discussed is the power of expert 
witness testimonies in influenc -
ing jury decisions in the ensuing 
legal process. These experts are 
doctors and researchers –– some 
of whom are from UC San Diego 
–– study the effects of force on the 
body and how similar police tac -
tics could contribute to the death 
of individuals.
Some of these expert witness -
es are UCSD professors like Dr. 
Gary M. Vilke or Dr. Theodore 
Chan. Dr. Vilke is a prominent 
individual in the San Diego med -
ical community due to his posi -
tions as the director of both the 
emergency and risk management POLICE BRUTALITY
UCSD Medical Director Testifies in Police Brutality Cases
By ANDREW HA
NEWS EDITOR
departments of UCSD Health and 
a professor of emergency medicine. 
Dr. Chan, moreover, is the chair 
of the department of emergency 
medicine at UCSD and has worked 
previously in the California State 
Senate and Washington D.C. Office 
of the Assistant Surgeon General. 
According to a New York Times in -
vestigation, their research and ex -
pert testimonies are used in many 
court cases spanning over two de -
cades and often conclude that de -
fendants’ actions did not contribute 
to the death of the arrestees. 
These incidents, legally referred 
to as death-in-custody cases, define 
a body of police action that encom -
passes the death of those under 
arrest, undergoing incarceration 
or are incarcerated in a prison. In 
California, there is a dispropor -
tionately higher number of minor -
ity –– especially African American 
–– representation in the percent 
of arrest-related deaths compared to the overall population. Vilke’s 
reports are repeatedly critiqued by 
police accountability advocates as an 
institutionalized means of exonerat -
ing misconduct. 
Movements like Cops Off Cam -
pus, which is composed of many 
UCSD affiliates, have called upon the 
university to remove ties with the po -
lice and halt the usage of campus offi -
cers. A student involved in the group 
stated that incarceration is unjust 
because it does not take into account 
societal inequalities that push people 
to break the law in the first place.
“[Vilke’s] ‘expert’ testimony is 
precisely the condition of individu -
alizing, pinpointing, and not allow -
ing outside events or circumstances 
to enter a courtroom,” the student 
said. “You have the moment of crimi -
nalization happen through this one 
particular event. The courtroom, 
through prosecutorial power, aims to 
solidify that one moment as all that 
should be talked about. It does a gross 
injustice on understanding the mul -
tiple co-occurring injustices that the 
state wields on its population.”
In the recent 2017 case of Antho -
ny Perez, Fresno police officers had 
stopped Perez on the street because 
he looked distressed; it was later dis -
covered that he had taken a high dose 
of methamphetamines. According 
to the officers, attempts at deescala -
tion made Perez more belligerent and 
paramedics placed a gurney on top 
of Perez in order to take him to the 
hospital. Throughout this process, 
a paramedic instructed an officer to sit atop of the backboard in order to 
apply enough pressure to strap Perez 
down. This act of compressive as -
phyxiation and restraint was deemed 
the cause of death by the Fresno 
County Coroner's office. 
Dr. Vilke, who was later hired by 
American Ambulance, stated –– in 
contradiction to the coroner’s office 
–– that the paramedics were not at 
fault for Perez’s death. In his expert 
report, the doctor argued that Perez’s 
death was caused rather by his use 
of meth in conjunction with heart 
illness, agitation, and continued re -
sistance. In particular, he noted that 
the officer sat on top of the gurney at 
the position of Perez’s butt, not chest; 
this and the modest weight applied 
throughout the interaction was al -
legedly insufficient to cause death by 
asphyxiation. 
“My opinions and testimony are 
based on assessing the facts avail -
able and the applicable body of sci -
entific literature,” Dr. Vilke said to 
The UCSD Guardian in an email. “I 
do not regret any of the opinions that 
I have given as they are based on my 
training, education and experience. 
All cases involving arrest related 
deaths are sad and impact many 
people who are involved. Our scien -
tific work has been performed to find 
out what are the physiologic impacts 
and what may or may not be causing 
these deaths in order to implement 
scientifically validated strategies to 
prevent these tragedies in the future.”
Much like the Perez case, Estate 
of Michael Barrera v. City of Wood -Much like the Perez case, Estate 
of Michael Barrera v. City of Wood -
land, et al. highlighted similar fea -
tures of police brutality that were dis -
missed by expert testimony. Barrera, 
who was allegedly wielding a golf 
club and intoxicated, was tasered by 
officers and put into a restraint. Bar -
rera’s family claims that the Wood -
land Police Department and the Yolo 
County District Attorney covered up 
the case and used Vilke’s report to 
absolve the police of wrongdoing in 
Barrera's cardiac arrest and death. 
In either the Barrera or the Perez 
case, many of the research studies 
cited, some of which were written 
by Dr. Vilke and Chan, used healthy 
patients to draw conclusions about 
the lethality of police restraint and 
force. While it is unethical to provide 
drugs to subjects or choose subjects 
with pre-existing health conditions, 
the use of solely healthy individuals 
in research studies highlights major 
limitations for real-world application. 
Nevertheless, expert witnesses still 
use these studies to draw general -
ized conclusions in death-in-custody 
court cases in which arrestees are in -
toxicated or ill. 
To address this shortcoming, a 
subsequent epidemiological study 
was conducted by Vilke et al. that ob -
served the results of police force on a 
variety of individuals, some of which 
were under emotional distress or had 
taken drugs. 
Read the complete story online at
ucsdguardian.org.
EDUCATION
Two UCSD Faculty Resign from Critical Gender Studies Executive Committee
By ABBY LEE
STAFF WRITER
Two UC San Diego faculty 
members, Assistant Professor Dr. 
Shaista Patel and Associate Profes -
sor Dr. Wendy Matsura, have re -
signed from UCSD’s Critical Gender 
Studies (CGS) Program’s Executive 
Committee. On Jan. 4, the CGS 
program’s Executive Committee 
authored and published “CGS State -
ment on Faculty Affiliation” that 
addressed concerns about Associate 
Professor of Anthropology Dr. Saiba 
Varma’s research in Kashmiri clin -
ics, as an upper caste Indian anthro -
pologist with familial ties to India’s 
highest intelligence agency, the Re -
search and Analysis Wing (RAW).
Their resignations follow an ad -
visory decision by the CGS program 
to remove CGS Executive Commit -
tee’s Jan 4. statement. Patel and Mat -
sura will continue their positions 
in the UCSD ethnic Studies and 
history departments respectively, 
and remain affiliated with the CGS 
program. 
Varma has been embroiled in 
controversy since September last 
year. On Sept. 14, an anonymous 
Twitter handle revealed that she had 
concealed her father’s employment 
by RAW in Kashmir in the 1990s, 
when researching the interconnect -
edness of medicine and militarism 
in the Kashmiri context. The Twitter 
account, which claimed to represent 
“a group of Kashmiri activists, stu -
dents & researchers,” asserted that 
such concealment violated standard 
research ethics and protocol. 
These revelations sparked both 
condemnation and defense from 
numerous groups. A separate group 
of Kashmiri scholars defended 
Varma, arguing that she should not 
be held responsible for her father’s 
involvement. On the other hand, the 
Indian publisher of Varma’s book, 
Arpita Das of Yoda Press, advocated 
for researchers’ complete disclosure 
on her Twitter account.
In response to the online furor, 
the CGS had released a statement 
discussing Varma’s research prac -
tices. Referring to an open letter 
signed by “dominant caste Indian 
scholars, other concerned scholars, 
and everyone in solidarity with col -
onized people of Kashmir” to Duke 
University Press, the U.S. publisher 
of Varma’s book, the CGS Execu -
tive Committee's statement asserts 
that Varma’s decision to conduct 
research in Kashmir on Kashmiris, 
despite her intimate familial ties to 
the RAW, was deceitful and violent. 
“We also believe that Varma’s unrelentingly violent decision to 
work in this place, where the colo -
nial Indian state intelligence appara -
tus had appointed her father … and 
his colleagues to draw up plans that 
included torture, sexual violence, 
and counter-insurgency as instru -
ments of war and everyday occupa -
tion was dishonest and deliberately 
misleading,” the statement read.   
The statement also asserts that 
Varma’s non-disclosure of her fa -
ther’s employment with the RAW to 
other Kashmiri scholars, and most 
importantly to her research subjects, 
Kashmiris seeking treatment at psy -
chiatric clinics, was both harmful 
and irresponsible. 
“Furthermore, Varma worked 
without disclosing these familial ties 
to the patients in whose sessions she 
sat, or to the psychiatrists and other 
Kashmiris she is accountable to as 
an Indian anthropologist working 
on Kashmir, teaching courses on de -
colonial methodology, and claiming 
to harbor a commitment to decolo -nial, anti-racist, and feminist of col -
or politics” the statment continued.  
In closing, the statement con -
cluded that CGS has disaffiliated 
from Varma, clarifying that Varma’s 
courses will no longer count toward 
the CGS major or minor. 
However, during the faculty 
affiliates’ meeting on Feb. 4, it ap -
peared clear to Patel and Matsura 
that CGS faculty had conflicting 
views about the statement. 
In Matsura’s resignation state -
ment, they elaborated on the pro -
ceedings of the faculty affiliates’ 
meeting. Matsura wrote that their 
primary reason for resignation was 
their feeling unsafe to remain on the 
Executive Committee, given the dif -
ferences in priorities of CGS faculty. 
“I resigned primarily because 
it did not feel safe to remain on the 
executive committee,” Matsura said. 
“During the affiliates’ meeting, it 
became clear that the most vocal 
of those who attended were mostly 
offended by what they read as a 
‘breach in collegiality’ and a viola -
tion of the ‘due process’ rather than 
what the statement amplified — se -
rious questions of professional eth -
ics by an anthropologist working in 
Kashmir that scholars and activists 
had been voicing, but that came to 
broader public awareness last Sep -
tember.” 
In Patel’s resignation statement, 
they explained that the meeting was 
unproductive in fostering discus -
sion about improving accountability 
practices in research, given the ques -
tionable research practices of the 
UCSD-employed caste-dominant Indian academic. 
“Testimonies from us mostly 
Dalit, Muslim, Indigenous, and ra -
cialized women and non-binary un -
tenured scholars (clearly all on one 
side with mostly tenured white fac -
ulty on the other — think about this 
matter even just in terms of the vi -
sual optics) advocated for strength -
ening practices of accountability in 
academic research, but were ignored 
for the sake of staying on the side of 
institutional power and upholding 
its misogynist, casteist, colonial, and 
racist practices,” Patel wrote.
Patel noted that academia’s dis -
connect with and distance from the 
individuals it conducts research on 
is nothing new. However, Patel reaf -
firms their commitment to continue 
fighting for gender studies programs 
as a Muslim feminist social scientist.
“Decades ago, gender studies 
departments and programs were 
fought for by Black, Indigenous, 
Latinx and other racialized women 
and non-binary scholars on this 
continent in ways that connected 
the streets to these ivory towers,” 
Patel wrote. “We pay homage to that 
radical organizing and are abso -
lutely not invested in upholding the 
power of any program that seeks to 
do convenient solidarity work.” 
Varma has not responded to 
CGS’s statement directly, but she 
had previously addressed a state -
ment from a group of 53 scholars 
condemning Varma’s research prac -
tices. 
Read the complete story online at 
ucsdguardian.org.
Art courtesy of Tony Anguiano for UCSD Guardian. 
Art courtesy of Angela Liang for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
A recent doping scandal in 
women’s independent figure 
skating at the 2022 Beijing 
Winter Olympics has shaken 
the foundation of the sport and 
caused outrage among athletes, 
coaches, and the general public. 
Kamila Valieva, the 15-year-old 
skater representing the Russian 
Olympic Committee stands at 
the center of this scandal after 
failing an anti-doping test for 
taking trimetazidine, a heart 
medication intended to increase 
endurance. While it is simple to 
acknowledge that the ingestion 
of banned substances is a top 
tier offense in athletics, the 
underlying issue here stems 
from the fact that Valieva is an 
impressionable minor who was 
subjected to incredible amounts 
of pressure and responsibilities 
far above her age level. Standing 
behind this young girl is a 
notoriously ruthless woman 
named Eteri Tutberidze who is 
widely known for coaching her 
skaters into early retirement at 
the age of 17 to 19 at the latest.   
Tutberidze, originally from 
Russia, began her coaching 
career in America before 
eventually moving back to her 
home country and taking up 
a position at the Sambo-70, a 
widely regarded children’s and 
youth sports school in Moscow. 
It was here that Tutberidze began 
to turn out young skaters. The ROC is also represented 
by gold medalist Anna 
Shcherbakova and silver 
medalist Alexandra Trusova 
who are both 17 years old and 
coached by Tutberidze. Together, 
Tutberidze intended for Valieva, 
Shcherbakova, and Trusova to 
sweep the podium by taking 
a formulaic approach and 
crowding each girls’ performance 
with quadruple jumps and 
especially difficult moves in 
order to achieve inflated scores. 
Valieva was the first woman 
to successfully complete a 
quadruple jump at the Olympic 
games, and Shcherbakova and 
Trusova were quick to follow, 
with Trusova planning a record-
breaking five quadruple jumps 
in her routine. 
However, it should be noted 
that quad jumps become almost 
impossible to perform after the 
age of 17 and Tutberidze’s method 
of rotating before performing 
the jump is known to cause 
incredibly harmful long-term 
back injuries. In order to have 
almost all her athletes perform 
this jump in competition, 
Tutberidze began to set her 
sights on 12 to 15-year-olds, 
working these children tirelessly 
with up to 12-hour training days 
with little regard to the long-
term mental and physical toll of 
this training and the pressures of 
international competition. In the 
skating community, Tutberidze 
is known for her “one and done” 
scheme with none of her athletes 
earning more than one gold 
medal before retiring. Eight years ago, Yulia 
Lipnitskaya won a gold medal 
at the age of 15 in Sochi’s 
2014 Winter Olympics. She 
performed stunningly, skating 
to a song from “Schindler’s 
List” and quickly becoming a 
crowd favorite. Like Valieva, 
she was coached by Tutberidze 
until she retired at the age of 19 
due to her battle with anorexia 
that required hospitalization 
and three months of treatment. 
Tutberidze once reported to 
the news that Lipnitskaya was 
sustained by an all-powder diet, 
which kept her “fit” enough 
to perform well on the ice. 
Lipnitskaya later spoke out 
about her difficulties with the 
pressures of the public eye and 
the need to achieve perfection. 
Lipnitskaya’s final performance 
before her retirement was 
heartbreaking; she struggled 
through the larger jumps in 
her program and stopped mid-
skate with tears in her eyes. She 
finished in last place. While 
these events took place years 
ago, nothing has been done to 
intervene and put an end to this 
notably discernable pattern that 
continues on with Valieva and 
her teammates. The skating 
community has repeatedly 
acknowledged Tutberidze’s 
harsh methods and yet no 
corrections have been made. In 
fact, Tutberidze was awarded 
coach of the year in 2020 by 
the International Skating Union 
(ISU) who described her as a 
talented coach.  
This inaction is reminiscent of what occurred with USA 
Gymnastics Doctor Larry Nassar 
who abused young gymnasts 
for countless years while the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
was aware of the situation but 
remained inactive for nearly a 
year, essentially enabling his 
horrible actions. All around, 
the system as a whole failed to 
protect these young girls and 
ensure that they were getting 
proper and safe treatment from 
those around them. Nassar was 
eventually sentenced to 60 years 
in prison, but this does not undo 
the pain he has inflicted on these 
athletes, and clearly the Olympic 
Committees on a national level 
have not learned their lesson. 
While the ISU and multiple 
antidoping agencies pushed 
for Valieva not to compete due 
to her failed doping test, there 
would have been no interference 
or red flags raised had she passed 
the antidoping test. 
In addition, the Court 
of Arbitration for Sport – an 
independent international body 
that aids in settling disputes 
– made the executive decision 
to allow Valieva to skate in 
the women’s free skate since 
disqualifying Valieva while her 
doping investigation remained 
ongoing would result in personal 
“irreparable harm.” Though, if 
the COA genuinely had Valieva’s 
best interest in mind they 
would have sent her home and 
provided proper resources for 
her to mentally and emotionally 
overcome the challenges she has 
faced and the barbed criticisms raining down on her from all 
angles. Furthermore, if the ISU 
focused on the well-being of 
its skaters, it would raise the 
minimum age and not allow 
children to experience the strain 
and pressures of the Olympics 
when they are not yet mentally 
and emotionally equipped to 
handle such difficult challenges. 
It is disheartening to see that 
a large scandal is required 
for committees to reanalyze 
an already flawed system and 
finally pay attention to the abuse 
occurring right under their 
noses rather than excusing it. 
Valieva is arguably one 
of the most talented female 
figure skaters on the ice at this 
year’s Winter Olympics. Her 
performances are breathtaking 
to watch and the execution 
of her jumps and combined 
artistry marked her as a future 
gold medalist with a promising 
career ahead of her. Now, due 
to the actions of her coach 
and the adults around her, her 
shining career may be boiled 
down to a performance riddled 
with mistakes and nowhere 
near indicative of her true 
talent. To protect young girls 
from experiencing the same 
difficulties in the future, the 
minimum age of the sport needs 
to be raised, and athletes should 
be looked after instead of viewed 
as mere tools to achieve gold 
medals for their country.By Marcella Barncelo 
Staff WriterHow Eteri Tutberidze’s Skaters are Re -
peatedly Failed by Those Around Them
Image courtesy of The New Y ork Times.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
The Democratic moderate 
has failed. He failed when he 
praised stability over progress. 
He failed when he referred to 
the Democratic progressive as a 
dividing force. Instead of telling 
Americans what they don’t need 
in a candidate, it is time for 
Democrats to follow through on 
providing Americans with the 
help they do need to survive.
Democrats are weak in the 
U.S. House of Representatives 
and are on the brink of losing 
their majority. Rather than 
bolstering their approval 
ratings by following through 
on radically-progressive yet 
exceedingly-popular campaign 
promises, many Democrats have 
chosen to use their negative 
congressional position to sow 
fear of the unknown among 
constituents. In one of my own 
encounters within the political 
space, I witnessed a moderate 
unduly claiming that getting 
behind him, the incumbent, 
was a surer way to ensure the 
maintenance of a Democratic 
congressional majority. His race 
was deemed safely democratic, yet he was keen on making other 
Democratic contenders out to be 
less feasible than him. 
When Americans go to 
vote in safely blue or red 
districts, most are no longer 
voting for a political party in 
a competitive district. Most 
are no longer concerned about 
blank statements by politicians 
trying to win solely with identity 
politics. They are voting for the 
candidate based on their respect 
for the struggle endured by their 
constituents. They are voting for 
those who value their masses 
over a few big donors. They are 
not voting based on partisan 
rivalries. They are instead voting 
on what candidate’s promises 
cater best to them. Voters are 
not dividing a party by standing 
beside one candidate over an 
incumbent, both of whom are 
Democrats. They are instead 
writing the future of the party’s 
political movement towards 
the left. They are gradually 
redefining what it means to be 
a Democrat based on their needs 
in the 21st century. 
Instead of focusing on the 
progressive label of primary 
challengers, moderate Democrat 
incumbents must start looking 
at the issues their challengers 
amplify. Some representatives By Sparky Mitra
Staff Writerhave done just that. Whether it is 
to run against progressives or to 
choose a successor who may lean 
left of them, some moderates 
are open to being genuinely 
receptive to the people in their 
constituency. Congresswoman 
Eddie Bernice Johnson is 
precisely one of these people. 
A mainstream Democrat with 
a relatively-progressive political 
record, this lawmaker of 30 years 
endorsed Jasmine Crockett, a 
civil rights attorney with the 
backing of multiple leftist groups. 
More consequentially, taking 
inspiration from competitors 
like Bernie Sanders, Joe Biden 
has shifted considerably left 
(though perhaps not enough) 
on programs such as student 
loan forgiveness. Coming to the 
aid of ordinary Americans over 
Big Pharma and big money is a 
popular idea, supported by 80% 
of us according to Gallup.
Instead of starting at a 
compromise on bills bolstering 
voting rights and citizens’ 
economic power, Democrats 
can work down to that. The 
idea that the most progressive 
solution will shut down any 
room for legislative discussion 
with conservatives is an archaic 
one, considering the radically-
racist legislation that is breezing through legislative bodies 
nationwide. The conservative 
position is to be skeptical 
of progress. They will always 
say, “No!” to reform. Moderate 
lawmakers like Senator Joe 
Manchin fail to realize this fact. 
Being a good lawmaker 
is important, but running an 
election where you rely more 
on excusing your moderate 
positioning to just “doing 
your job” and “passing bills” is 
preposterous. A bill that helps no 
one is just a pretty piece of paper. 
Representing people is an elected official’s primary job. That is 
why they are elected.
It is time for moderate 
Democrats to drop this charade 
of trying to bring progress 
slowly. It is time for them to 
stop villainizing those who can’t 
afford to wait. Democrats were 
elected to follow through on their 
promises, mainly of which have 
become exceedingly progressive 
due to the needs of the youth. 
Don’t treat progressives as 
rebels, understand their vision 
and maybe, just maybe, adopt 
some of it as your own.There’s No Such Thing as a 
Moderate Change-maker
Art by Sparky Mitra for the UCSD Guardian.Listen to the people, stop blaming “radicals” 
and forge ahead on progressive changeFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Over the past few months, 
Russia has increased its level 
of aggression towards Ukraine. 
Through placing forces closer to 
the border and intelligence leaks 
from the Pentagon warning of 
an attack, Putin is establishing 
at least the threat of an attack. 
The diplomacy between Russia 
and Ukraine deteriorated a while 
ago, starting with Ukraine’s 
departure from the Soviet Union. 
After the Soviet Union collapsed, 
the nuclear weapons were spread 
across four countries, two of which 
were Russia and Ukraine. Ukraine 
gave up their arms in exchange 
for diplomacy with Russia. 
The issues came when the 
United States offered an invitation 
for Ukraine to join NATO, making 
Putin feel threatened by the western 
alliance group. The threat is based 
around having a Western-allied 
power so close to the motherland. 
Back in 2015, Putin threatened 
with a similar attack: push military 
forces to the border of Ukraine 
and Russia along with an upstick 
of Russian propaganda in the area. 
Now, Russia is pushing in 
again on the Ukraine borders, 
moving in tanks, military 
personnel, and resources. While 
their administration denies any 
kind of attempted aggression, 
the United States military feels 
otherwise. On the brink of war, 
Russia is continuing a staple of the 
Putin administration: controlling 
the narrative their people receive. 
The vast majority of media 
based in Russia is government 
controlled, which allows the 
government to direct the narrative 
reported to the masses. Mariëlle 
Wijermars, assistant professor in cyber-security and politics at 
the faculty of arts and social 
sciences, outlined the rise of 
Russia’s control over the media. 
“When Putin came to 
power, he started a campaign 
to take power back from the 
oligarchs, including in the 
media sphere,” Wijermars 
wrote.  “Slowly but steadily 
he nationalized TV channels 
and established control over 
most newspapers. Since then, 
the news has become one-
sided again, even though there 
still are a few exceptions, and 
Russian state media do not shy 
away from using propaganda 
and conspiracy theories.”
The Russian government, 
over the course of the last 
year, attacked the Ukrainian 
government through the 
media with stories labeling 
them  as “pro-nazi” and 
detailing a story about a boy 
who was crucified in Ukraine . 
Paired with their alliance 
to the United States, Ukraine’s 
portrayal in the Russian 
media is meant to show the 
need for an invasion. Along 
with the selective stories, the 
spin placed on the stories 
usually are meant to get 
across certain ideals as well. 
The media often peddles 
anti-Western culture messages, 
aiming at America the most 
prominently. From painting 
Biden as weak and dangerous, 
Russia is able to generate 
hysteria towards Americans 
through their media channels. 
The anti-American coverage 
is no accident — Russia 
repeatedly villanizes America 
and their transgreans overall. 
The establishment of the bias 
against the United States allows for the Russian public to blame 
Biden for the lack of diplomacy. 
According to The Moscow 
Times, the Russian media is 
blaming the United States for 
the reports of an invasion on 
Ukraine. The government 
denies the claims and believes 
that the U.S. is simply trying 
to generate “hysteria.” 
“The majority of the Western 
elite thinks that eventually 
Russia will evaluate everything 
and retreat, allowing Kyiv to 
forcefully cleanse Donbas of 
everything Russian,” an anchor 
stated in the Moscow times. “But 
along with this illusion, there 
is also a concrete plan, and we 
know who is behind it — to pit 
Russia and Europe against each 
other in a total war of sanctions.”
Apart from instilling ideals, 
the Russian government carries 
the ability to redirect the focus 
of the Russian people and some 
of those in America with denials 
of what is actually happening. In 
regards to the recent showings 
of aggression, their conflicting 
reports with America pose 
questions for both sides.
“Even as Russia gathers 
troops at Ukraine’s border, the 
Kremlin’s messengers have been 
planting the seed that Ukraine 
and/or Western governments are 
planning a false flag operation to 
incite a conflict with Russia,” the 
Alliance for Securing Democracy 
stated. “Officials and state media 
have warned about Ukrainian/
Western terrorist attacks, 
chemical weapons attacks, 
and sniper fire, among other 
alleged plans to provoke war.”
If Russia started a war 
against Ukraine, the Russian 
people could, theoretically, 
be the last people to find out As Russian and Ukrainian tensions boiled over for the past few months, Russia’s media control gives them the first win without firing a shot.The battle over information happening in Russia
By Nelson Espinal 
Features Editorit happened and started. 
The circulation of 
information slows down when 
the information is funneled 
through the Russian government, 
creating a delayed reaction to 
events or allowing for the events 
to be retold in a different fashion. 
An example of the 
information transforming is in 
the story of the exploding car 
on the edge of Ukraine. A few 
cars caught on fire and outright 
exploded, a “false-flag” that 
Russian wanted to use as a means 
of invasion. The Russian media 
blamed the bombing on the 
United States, stating the action 
was a means of prokation and 
turning Europe against them. 
Such a case shows the 
control Russia wields over an 
event, but traditional media is 
not the only means of doing 
so. Through the years, Russia 
is targeting the new-age 
information source: social media. 
New censorship policies 
provide a greater control on 
what is seen on social channels, 
with Russia passing a similar 
law against hate speech 
that Germany once passed. 
“Since 2017, large platforms 
need to have a complaints 
mechanism where users 
can report illegal content,” 
Wijermars wrote . “Russia makes 
clever use of this by simply 
stating ‘look, Germany does 
it too and Germany is a very 
democratic country, we are just 
following their lead in banning 
information from social media 
that can be harmful.’ In reality, 
Russian censorship of course 
goes much further than what 
the Germans do in terms of 
limiting online hate speech.”
In combination with the dominance of traditional 
media, Russia’s grip over the 
social media realm places a 
chokehold on information. 
The state of media in Russia 
provides a key example of 
how Putin is able to shape his 
narrative not only among his 
people, but the world at large. The 
inconsistency of the reporting 
requires further digging from 
Western reporters or intelligence 
officers in order to truly know 
what happens in the Kremlin. 
One lifeline for Russia media 
consumers is the rise in social 
media activists. According to the 
Maastricht University, there are 
groups which are protesting and 
circulating information at a faster 
rate in Russia . These groups are 
able to circumvent the “hate 
speech” legislation put in place. 
Yet, the rise of such activist 
groups casts doubt on where 
Russians can turn for information 
about their own country. These 
activist groups remain sparse 
and only able to relay so much. 
“I also find it quite troubling 
to view social media as the beacon 
of democracy and freedom of 
speech,” Wijermars wrote. 
That’s why it’s so important 
to remain a critical thinker.”
The United States, along 
with NATO, might enter talks 
with Putin over a non-violent 
resolution, but the flames of 
a Russian attack are already 
stoked among the Russia people. 
While the United States 
and Russia work towards a 
potential diplomatic resolution, 
the battle for control of the 
narrative is already won. To his 
people, Vladimir Putin comes 
out on top again, adding to 
his credibility for a potential 
real attack down the line. 
Image courtesy of Geralt of Pixabay.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
ELIAS ROMAN
The weekend before Valentine’s Day, the new romantic comedy “Mar -
ry Me” was released in theaters, as well as online for premium subscribers 
of Peacock. In the movie, Jennifer Lopez plays Kat Valdez, a pop star and 
international influencer. At a televised concert in which she is supposed to 
marry her fiancé and fellow performer Bastian (Maluma), she discovers clips 
of him cheating. As a result, Kat picks unassuming math teacher Charlie 
(Owen Wilson) out of the crowd and decides to marry him instead. In the af -
termath of their hasty and public wedding, Kat and Charlie get to know each 
other. She is a beautiful celebrity, while he is a normal single father — over 
the course of their relationship, they have to ask: Are their vastly different 
worlds capable of coexisting?
The premise of “Marry Me” is implausible, but the romantic comedy 
genre is built on a foundation of far-fetched bets, coincidental meetings, and 
unlikely pairings. Part of this is the magic of movie-making, but also, luck 
is a part of love. Accidents happen, though in real life they usually do not 
involve the risky high stakes of marriage to a stranger. Even Kat is unable 
to fully explain why she felt compelled to marry Charlie, but she tells the 
world: “If you want something different, you have to do something differ -
ent.” There are less drastic steps she could have taken, but it is a movie. The 
audience is asked to suspend disbelief and imagine a world where normal 
people can attain unbelievable good luck. If you can get past these flaws in 
logic, “Marry Me” is a fun film. Lopez and Wilson have an awkward chem -
istry that never fully makes sense, but they are two charismatic actors who 
light up the screen. 
This film has its flaws, but some people refuse to take the romantic com -
edy genre seriously regardless of quality. “Chick flick” is a descriptor that 
devalues a film’s worth, and a plot focusing on love will immediately turn 
away certain audiences. Romantic comedies are rarely considered reputa -
ble, and part of the issue is that women’s perspectives in film are not as re -
spected as men’s. As a result, the number of romantic comedies has shrunk 
over time and fewer audiences care to watch them in theaters. Though the 
genre includes countless iconic films such as “When Harry Met Sally” and 
“10 Things I Hate About You,” the relevance of the romantic comedy in pop 
culture has faded within the last few decades. The genre was popular and 
effective in the 90s and early 2000s because of its relatable characters and 
settings, but in recent years the film industry has been focusing less on ro -
mance and more on action films with guaranteed profit. people trying to “Marry Me”: What Happened to Romantic Comedies?
After watching Jennifer Lopez and Owen Wilson’s “Marry Me, ” Staff Writer Kaley Chun wonders what it will take to reinvigorate the rom-com.
“Marry Me” is a prime example of this change: it shows two people trying to harmonize their different lifestyles, 
it contains catchy original songs, plus Jennifer Lopez, Owen Wilson, and Maluma are all legitimate stars. On paper it 
should be a successful film anytime of the year, yet “Marry Me” was released at a pointedly chosen time. Are people 
only allowed to enjoy love the week of February 14th? Is that the only time a romance can be successful in the modern 
film landscape?
In recent years, popular culture has been spending its time and money on sequels, remakes, and films that hit 
familiar notes of comfort and nostalgia. There is nothing wrong with franchises, but unique, self-contained content 
is also important. Romantic comedies have been pushed to the side, but their lack of popularity is not due to a lack of 
interest. With Netflix’s aid, they are making a slow but steady resurgence. However, most of the streaming rom-coms 
are predictable, silly, low-budget attempts at creating thoughtless content to fill streaming platforms. Of the thin selec -
tion of contemporary romantic comedies, glamorous films like “Crazy Rich Asians” are few and far between, while 
low-budget adaptations like “The Kissing Booth” and “He’s All That” fall into the same acting and writing snafus as 
“Marry Me.” Lopez’s newest acting endeavor is a fine and fun film overall, but it misses the heart and the chemistry 
that characterizes the best films of the genre. Hopefully its existence points to a resurgence of charming romantic 
comedies, but unfortunately, it does not meet the mark itself.
Time will tell whether romance cinema has the capacity to make a serious resurgence. Will the genre ever again 
hold a place against the steep competition of traditional blockbusters? No genre is ever resolutely dead, and it is diffi -
cult to tell what stories will make a resurgence at any given time. It feels likely, because the desire for quality rom-coms 
exists. There is a low, steady clamoring for a new kind of revival instead of the millionth reboot this year. It may take 
years, and maybe the 90s rom-com is history, but putting two stars in a funny, romantic film can be magical. Finding 
the right plot, the right actors, and the right film is still a possibility. “Marry Me” is not going to be the film to inspire 
the reinvention of a classic genre, but it may be a step in the right direction. Though the romantic comedy revival is 
slow, Lopez and Wilson provide hope that someday, the film industry will recapture the power of movie star charisma 
and discover the heart in love stories once again.Grade: C
Directed by: Kat Coiro
Starring: Jennifer Lopez, 
Owen Wilson, Maluma
Release Date: Feb. 11, 2022
Rated: PG-13
Review: 2022 Super Bowl Halftime Show
A show that celebrates both the music and architecture of Compton.
On Feb. 13, the 2022 Super Bowl Halftime Show boasted a first in the lineage of halftime shows. This 
Super Bowl Halftime Show was the first of its kind to feature an all hip hop line up of artists that 
included Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Mary J. Blige, and Kendrick Lamar, alongside guest appear -
ances by 50 Cent and Anderson .Paak. Being from Los Angeles, a lot of aspects of the performance 
resonated with me, the most obvious being the music, but the set was the first aspect that caught both 
my attention and admiration. 
        There were several elements of the set that immediately stood out, especially in comparison to 
previous halftime show sets. With the exception of 2021’s show headlined by The Weeknd, the stages 
are usually just platforms with lights that are nothing more than a canvas for the artist(s) to perform 
on. However, this year the set took on a life of its own, being part of the show through artist interaction 
with the environment and the set actively conveying the history of Compton. A notable example in -
cludes the studio mixer Dr. Dre would interact with, changing sound channels and levels throughout 
the performance. Another memorable example was when Eminem literally broke out of the Compton 
Courthouse on the left end of the stage to begin his part of the show. Speaking of a notable Compton 
landmark, everything about the set exuded Compton’s personality. On the field was a projection of 
the map of Compton. Then, on both ends of the set were the Compton Courthouse and the Martin 
Luther King Jr. memorial, both images synonymous with the city. Growing up at my grandma’s place 
I had a great view of the towering courthouse; even now I can close my eyes and picture it in my head. 
In between the courthouse and the memorial were other notable locations like the Tams #21 on the 
corner of Central and Rosecrans Ave, both streets I repeatedly crossed through. Each building on the 
set featured the rooftop and a hollowed-out interior, both spaces the artists could perform in. Even 
the interiors of the sets conveyed either the personality of Compton or the history of the artists. For 
example, the building that housed the mixer Dr. Dre used featured a projection of his studio and ac -
colades. During Snoop Dogg’s performance of  “The Next Episode,” there were projections of his old 
album covers and music videos including the scene where he turns into a Doberman from “Who Am 
I (What’s My Name)?” and the cover for “Doggystyle.” Other parts of the set included projections 
of other notable locations like Dale’s Donuts on Atlantic and Alondra Boulevard. In sum, all of the 
components of the set design worked together not just to serve as a canvas, but as its own performer, 
speaking aloud insight into the culture and history of both Compton and its hip hop scene.
        Moving on from the set to the music, all of the artists seemed to be enjoying their time there. For 
instance, Snoop Dogg, who looked like he felt at home “crip walking” his way throughout the set, or 
Dr. Dre and Anderson .Paak constantly smiling throughout the show. You could see the passion in the eyes and facial expression of Mary J. Blige as she sang the words to “No More Drama,” and 
in Kendrick Lamar through his movements as he sang, most notably the way he twitched 
his hands to the speed of his verse from “Alright.” All of the song choices were great as they 
all recalled the history and influence of hip hop from both the old and new generation. 
My only issue with the entire performance is that Kendrick Lamar didn’t perform more. 
Lamar only performed the intro to “m.A.A.d city” and “Alright” from the albums “good 
kid, m.A.A.d city” and “To Pimp a Butterfly” respectively. These two albums are arguably 
the best in his discography, always swapping the number one and number two spots in 
most peoples’ rankings, so it makes sense for those songs to have been there. However, he 
completely left out his most recent album, 2017’s “DAMN,” which received both critical 
and commercial success. Kendrick also has a history of performing unreleased music or 
music for future releases, like during his performance at the 58th Grammy Awards where 
he performed “Untitled 05” a month before “Untitled Unmastered” was even released, but 
nothing of the like was done either. Although the show was clearly more geared towards 
“old heads,” as both Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg dominated the show, it would have been 
amazing to see Kendrick Lamar take the reins for longer, demonstrating a passing of the 
torch moment, rather than just coexisting with Eminem, Dr. Dre, and Snoop Dogg con -
tinuing to rap soon after.
Regardless of my slight critique of the limited performance from Kendrick Lamar, I 
still believe that everything about the 2022 Super Bowl Halftime Show blended together 
to make the perfect tribute to the history of hip hop and the city of Compton. For it being 
the first time hip hop took center stage at the Super Bowl, it made a great first impression 
and will definitely be in the conversation as one of the greatest halftime shows of all time.
 Artists: Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Mary J. Blige, 
Kendrick Lamar, 50 Cent, Anderson .Paak
Director: Hamish Hamilton
Grade: AHector Arrieta SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Image courtesy of Variety. 
Image courtesy of CBS Sports.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
When all of our cultural consumption is curated by “ for you” pages on social media apps, 
books are the natural alternative. Gone is the nefarious influence of the capitalist economy: 
readers are able to evade the subtle mind-controlling tactics of the algorithm, unimpeded 
by the slew of advertisements that have come to characterize online platforms. What better 
medium then, to explore the apocalyptic implications of life on the internet and how we have 
changed in response to its ubiquity? As someone who is both chronically online and an avid 
reader, I resort to books to help make sense of the digital spaces I occupy. Below is my literary 
guide to the digital apocalypse. 
“An Absolutely Remarkable Thing,” Hank Green
Written by YouTube veteran and VidCon co-founder Hank Green, “An Absolutely Re -
markable Thing” is an insider’s glimpse into the pitfalls of the influencer economy. The 
novel begins when 23-year-old April May vlogs her discovery of a sentient metal sculpture 
she nicknames “Carl.” What ensues is April May’s collision with the celebrity economy, 
as she grapples with the implications of her newfound stardom. Green’s debut novel is an 
exercise in self-awareness; few people understand our propensity for self-commodification 
as acutely as Green does. Just as April May’s fame results in unprecedented wealth for her 
and her friends, so too does it invite a distorted perception of self. “An Absolutely Remark -
able Thing” critiques the dual-identity syndrome rampant in internet culture and reasserts 
our vital need for collective compassion. 
“Ten Arguments for Deleting Your Social Media Accounts Right Now,” Jaron Lanier
 
In his brief manifesto on digital consumption, Jaron Lanier illuminates essential truths 
about social media; it is making us sadder, dumber, and angrier. Lanier interrogates our 
time on the internet with all the graveness that it demands. To Lanier, the prevalence of 
social media is not just irritating — it is dooming. The algorithm has so corrupted our au -
tonomy that we are reduced to diluted versions of our former selves, unable to distinguish 
our own personal tastes from that of our TikTok account’s perfected algorithm. While 
Lanier’s musings have a strong  philosophical basis — Lanier himself is an ex-Silicon Val -
ley tech bro, and has spent ample time reflecting on the consequences of his contributions 
— he offers little hope for the future of social media consumption. Indeed, Lanier’s con -
ceptions of internet use are without imagination. Refusing to engage with others online is 
not a panacea for all of society’s ills, but there is a resounding truth in Lanier’s skepticism 
of the internet. Despite his misleading fatalism, Lanier’s core argument is indisputable: we 
must reevaluate how we use social media.
“No One Is Talking About This,” Patricia Lockwood
Why are we so prone to emulating the slang and rhetoric we hear on TikTok? Because, 
Patricia Lockwood answers, the internet has indelibly altered our lexicon. In her novel, 
“No One Is Talking About This,” Lockwood conveys the utter sense of disillusionment that 
life on the internet invites. We follow the unnamed narrator as she experiences profound 
personal tragedy all the while maintaining a presence on the internet. The narrator speaks 
the language of social media influencers: she digresses, pontificates, and accuses with all 
the zest of an internet microcelebrity. Through convoluted prose and a startling emulation 
of online vernacular, Lockwood so clearly expresses our modern dilemma — that is, the 
struggle to reconcile our private lives with the performative nature of social media. 
“How to Do Nothing: Resisting the Attention Economy,” Jenny Odell
In a capitalist economy that rewards productivity and monetizes every facet of the 
human experience, doing nothing is an act of resistance. “How to Do Nothing” is both a 
clarion call to detach from online living and a rumination on the destructive quality of 
capitalism. Jenny Odell’s contemplative essays urge the importance of doing nothing in 
the digital age. If to be online is to abandon all pretext of geographic location and time, 
Sarah's Book Corner: A Literary Guide 
to the Digital Apocalypse
From social media manifestos to sci-fi excursions, here are five literary pieces that convey the pessimistic existentialism of the internet. 
then situating ourselves in the physical present is a refutation of internet culture. Odell is 
most convincing when she settles into her key philosophy: that participating in activities 
outside the realm of productivity and social media fosters a more joyful existence. 
“Night Sky,” Carl Dennis
 
 Carl Dennis, in his poem “Night Sky,” renders the unfathomable as ordinary; 
the cosmos are not a feat of galactic proportions, but a “stream / Or a glassy roadbed or 
bank of flowers.” Dennis connects our existentialist fears of mundanity and worthlessness 
with the natural world. He asserts that our lives, however trivial, will matter as long as we 
engage with the world in meaningful ways. Therein lies the key to online living. We must 
not be subsumed by the information on our social media feeds, but be able to experience 
the universe as it extends itself to us. 
-sarah delima SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Read It First: 
Conversations With Friends
Sally Rooney’s first novel cements her signature witty and intimate dialogue while centering 
uniquely damaged characters. Her blunt way of delving into the darker aspects of the human 
condition is unmatched, making it a must-read before the television adaptation airs in May. 
Picking up a Sally Rooney novel for the first time can be visually off-putting. The fact 
that there are no quotation marks around the dialogue makes for a slight learning curve. 
It’s a trademark of hers, most likely birthed out of the speed at which she gets her words 
onto paper. Rooney's writing process seems to consume her completely. She tells The 
UCSD Guardian that the first draft of “Conversations With Friends,” although incredibly 
rough, only took her three months to complete. 
Of course, it took much longer for her story to eventually grace bookshelves, but once 
it did it became abundantly clear that Rooney had a knack for taking seemingly mun -
dane moments and making them deeply engaging. It is easy to start appreciating the lack 
of punctuation, which eventually feels unnecessary, and consequently tear into the book 
with the same obsessive nature in which she created it. “Conversations With Friends” be -
gins with her hypnotic style, and it only takes a few minutes for readers to become capti -
vated by the fast-paced dialogue and be fully immersed in the perspective of Frances. 
21-year-old Frances is a mild, dark, and attentive personality. She performs spoken 
word poetry with her best friend and ex-girlfriend — Bobbi — who is of a bolder and 
slightly narcissistic nature. They meet a famous photographer at one of their performances 
— Melissa — and quickly become intertwined in the lives of the photographer and her 
husband, Nick. While Bobbi gravitates towards Melissa, Frances finds herself flirting with 
Nick over email and in public through subtle interactions. Before long, the two of them are 
involved in an affair that thins almost every one of their external relationships. 
The most gripping part of the novel is not the relationships or the affairs, but simply 
the tone of the novel as a whole. Rooney shapes Frances’s thoughts paradoxically: both 
cold and deeply emotional. Everything is stated as a matter of fact, but her matter of fact 
is borderline pessimistic. Even in the most emotional states, she appears relatively numb, 
expressing emotions simply as passing thoughts and navigating the world in a rather pas -
sive way. The few glimpses of emotional action manifest themselves self-destructively and 
are impossible to turn away from. 
It’s hard to not grow to love Frances, a girl who seems unaware of how desperately she 
desires it. She rolls the feeling between her teeth and lets it come off her tongue in the form 
of lust. Lust is an easier feeling for her to digest, as she finds desire to be easily swayed 
whereas love sits like a pit in her stomach. ions. It’s hard to place a simple definition on 
-Jonathan Shlesinger CONTRIBUTING WRITER
TO READ THE FULL ARTICLE, VISIT US @ UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG!
Image courtesy of AV Club.LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
1. Week 1
Oh no, here we go
Another quarter to come
Maybe I’ll be fine
 2. In the Deep End
Only Week 3 and
I am already drowning
I need a floaty
3. Midterms  
I have not left the
Library in days. Do I
really need this class?
4. Fresh Air
The stress is over
The air is sweeter… and hot
Time to hit the beach  5. Back To Normal
Study, sleep, repeat
Hang with friends and go to work
Finals still lurking
6. Finals
S.O.S send help
I didn’t study enough
Too many beach trips
7. Spring Break
It’s over; it’s done
Now to enjoy this big life
Spring will be alrightBy Bradley Beggs
Lifestyle Co-Editor7 Haikus that Encapsulate Winter 
Quarter
TO.UCSD.EDU
Photo via Jules on Unsplash.10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at USC
vs Long Beach State 
at UC Santa Barbara
at Long Beach State
vs Cal State FullertonUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
W Basketball
M Volleyball
W Tennis
M Basketball6PM
7PM
7PM
12PM
1PM2/22
2/24
2/24
2/26
2/26
The UCSD men’s basketball 
team (11–13, 5–8 Big West) 
drew a big crowd of 1,753 
Tuesday night for Spirit Night 
festivities against one of the 
better conference foes the Big 
West has to offer. UC Irvine 
(12–7, 6–3 Big West) was one 
of the preseason favorites, and 
although they are very talented, 
they’ve disappointed this season. UCSD’s balanced attack 
would look to take advantage 
of Irvine’s methodical pace and 
win a crucial rebounding battle 
to come out on top. 
The game started out with 
a lot of energy from both sides, 
and the star big men for each 
team were ready for the high-
profile matchup. Early on, it 
was UCSD senior forward Toni 
Rocak with the advantage, 
with six early points and a 
tough layup finish on his third 
basket to give the Tritons a 10–8 advantage, forcing a UCI 
timeout.
UCI was the aggressor on 
defense early on, leading to many 
difficult shots for the Tritons. 
In what seemed destined to be a 
matchup with a lot of back and 
forth, sophomore forward Jake 
Kosakowski knocked down 
a three without hesitation to 
retake the lead at 15–14. The 
Triton defense answered the 
call and forced a long Irvine 
drought until about the eight 
minute mark, but the offense 
wasn’t able to stretch the lead 
much. Both teams fought hard 
on the defensive end, and 
eventually the shots began to 
all rim out for the Tritons as 
well. After a run for UCI, UCSD 
needed a big bucket. They 
found it in freshman forward 
Francis Nwaokorie’s big and-
one layup. UCSD went on a run 
of their own, capped off by a 
sweet reverse layup from Rocak 
on a baseline drive. The 7–0 
run put the Tritons up 25–23 
with only a few minutes to go 
in the half. The trend of small 
runs for each team continued 
with UCI getting the last laugh, 
as a five-point run brought the 
score to 28–25 at the close of the 
first half after an open corner 
pocket three-pointer went in at 
the buzzer.
 The second half brought 
much of the same action as 
the first half. The two teams 
each seemed to have difficulty 
with the length and tenacity 
of the perimeter defense. The contested shots for each team 
were not high-percentage 
looks, which was reflected 
in the outstanding field goal 
percentage numbers. UCI shot 
a paltry 34%, and UCSD shot 
an absolutely ghastly 30% from 
the field. Neither team being 
able to capitalize off of missed 
shots and opportunities off 
of turnovers was the running 
theme, and right when it seemed 
like either team was about to get 
hot they would go on a large 
drought.
To start the half, UCSD 
came out throwing the first 
punch with five straight points 
after a three from Nwaokorie 
and a short jumper from Rocak. 
The Tritons would only score 
another two points in the next 
ten minutes though, and UC 
Irvine made a few free throws to 
all of a sudden take a 39–32 lead 
with nine minutes remaining. 
Rocak was the lone effective 
offensive force for the Tritons, 
and his herculean effort was 
most evident in the comeback 
effort. He scored free throws 
and a few layups to score the 
next six Triton points, and the 
lead was now 43–38. A UCI 
three pointer increased the lead, 
but Rocak responded with a 
converted and-one to keep the 
game within striking distance.
With UCSD down 46–41 
and three and a half minutes 
left on the clock, the need for 
some quick scores seemed dire. 
Free throws from UCI inflated 
the lead to nine, seemingly insurmountable with such little 
time. Two threes, the second 
one a bank shot from close 
to the logo, gave the Tritons 
exactly what was needed. The 
deficit was three at 50–47 with 
still 1:22 to go. Free throws 
were traded, and the lead was 
cut to two after UCSD was 
fouled on a three pointer and 
sent to the line, so the score 
sat at 52–50 with 40 seconds 
left. UCSD regained possession 
off a textbook drawn charge 
from Rocak, and UCSD called 
timeout to draw up a play for 
the winning basket.
With 20 seconds left, the 
Tritons inbounded the ball and 
set a double baseline screen for 
Kosakowski to leak out behind. 
He caught the ball cleanly, but 
was short on the three point 
shot. UCI secured the rebound 
and made their free throws, 
clinching the victory. The final 
score to this hard fought game 
was 56–50, with both halves 
scoring an identical 28–25 in 
favor of UC Irvine.
The UCSD offense was not 
ready for the aggressive and 
athletic brand of defense they 
faced from the Anteaters, 
but their own defense gave 
them plenty of opportunities 
throughout the game. The 
Tritons will look to figure 
out their anemic offense as 
they travel to California State 
University, Long Beach for their 
next matchup, which will take 
place Thursday, Feb. 24th.UCSD Men’s Basketball 
Entertains, but Loses on 
Spirit Night
Instead of the usual big-
picture set up followed by the 
detailed fight breakdown, this 
time, we’re doing something 
different. Israel Adesanya and 
Robert Whittaker fought for the 
middleweight title on February 
12th. The fight was a technical 
master class, human chess at 
the highest level. Both fighters 
are extremely well-coached and 
are two of the best strikers in 
the UFC. There were plenty 
of stakes for both fighters, but 
what happened in the fight was 
what grabbed my attention the 
most. After the fight, there was 
plenty of discussion about the 
scoring of the fight and whether 
the rightful winner actually 
won. This week in The Full 
Nelson, I’ll be getting into what 
happened in this fight and in 
the clash of the heavyweights, 
Derrick Lewis and Tai Tuivasa. 
Main Event Breakdown
The bigger picture of the 
fight was centered around the 
feints Israel Adesanya used. 
These are some sort of fake-out 
where the opposing fighter does 
not know whether a movement 
will turn into an attack or not, 
requiring a fighter to mirror 
every body movement between 
the feint and their actual strike. 
Adesanya is a master at feints, 
with hip movement, different 
postures, and constant stance 
switches which always hide 
what attack comes next. The 
angles are always different, 
and in combination with his 
otherworldly head movement, 
he is a handful striking-wise. 
Whittaker is also a proficient 
striker, but a lot of his success 
comes from mixing up his jiu-
jitsu along with wrestling as 
well. Robert’s triple jab was 
really effective in the fight, staying away from looping 
punches and keeping them 
straight for this fight. He mixed 
in a few takedowns and engaged 
in grappling situations to fight 
the best fight he could. 
Round 1 was all Adesnaya. 
Whittaker came out flat which 
allowed for Israel to establish 
range, setting traps with the 
feints. Israel beat up Whittaker’s 
lead leg, making it red after 
the first 3 minutes. Adesanya 
eventually dropped him with 
a straight right after a feint leg 
kick. Adesanya has a lot of ways 
to get leg kicks, but his stance 
switch to southpaw created so 
many avenues for the leg kick, 
eventually rocking Whittaker 
to sleep and then going for the 
head. 
I scored Round 2, 3, and 4 for 
Adesanya, all of which featured 
a similar tale. Whittaker 
landed a few takedowns and 
Adesanya showcased a high-
level scrambling ability to 
get up from the takedowns 
almost immediately. Adesanya 
continued to punish the legs 
of Whittaker, limiting his 
mobility and success overall. 
Round 2 was the closest out 
of the three, with Whittaker 
landing a good number of 
hits with the triple jab. But 
Adesanya’s kicks just seemed 
to cause too much damage to 
ignore. Whittaker wore them 
well, but their effectiveness 
was pronounced in the fight. 
If Whittaker addressed them 
with checks or just moving out 
of range completely, I think he 
would have won what ended up 
being a really close fight. 
The fifth round showcases 
the plan that Whittaker should 
have put out in the first place: the 
triple jab along with takedowns. 
None of the takedowns caused 
much damage, but with a fight 
that featured little damage 
from either side, takedowns 
and effective punches made the difference. Adesanya 
started out so hot that as the 
fight progressed, he became 
comfortable after the 4 rounds. 
This allowed Whitaker to easily 
win the 5th round and establish 
a game plan for a potential 
third meeting from these two 
fighters.
The fight was a showcase of 
easily the two best middleweight 
fighters on the UFC roster today.  
Adesanya is a puzzle, one that 
no one except Jan Blachowicz 
has managed to figure out over 
5 rounds. He is one of the most 
dominant fighters in the UFC, 
his kickboxing the best that the 
fight promotion has to offer. His 
traps, feints, and accuracy is just 
unbelievable, with his counter 
punching being devastating if a 
fighter gets too aggressive. The 
key to his game are those leg 
kicks, slowing the fighter down 
too much to be effective. 
Whittaker did an amazing 
job not showing the effectiveness 
of the kicks, but the damage was 
visible. Adesanya uses a tacit 
striking style full of tricks and 
deception. Whenever a fighter 
feels like they have him figured out, there are more layers to 
peel back. The leg kicks make 
the difference for Adesanya and 
until a fighter can provide an 
answer for them, “And still” is 
going to be uttered every time 
he fights. 
Co-Main Event Breakdown
The banger that was 
promised was delivered. Big 
time. Heavyweights Tai Tuivasa 
and Derrick Lewis faced off in 
a classic heavyweight slugfest. 
Both fighters are known for their 
power and willingness to stand 
in the pocket and trade. Lewis 
is a UFC veteran, holding the 
most knockouts in UFC history 
and providing notable power. 
He has fought for the title a few 
times, but continues to search 
for the belt. Tai Tuivasa is a 
surging heavyweight, known 
for his willingness to punch 
and stand in with anyone. He is 
known for his signature “shoey,” 
which features him getting a 
shoe and a beer thrown from 
the audience. He spits in the 
shoe, pours the beer inside, and 
chugs it, letting the foam drip 
on his head once he is done. 
These heavyweight stars promised to “swang and 
bang,” and they did exactly 
that. The first round featured 
Lewis having the most success, 
catching Tuivasa clean with 
punches to the chin. Tai 
showcased an incredible chin 
in the fight, taking multiple 
shots in that first round that 
would put away most fighters, 
but although he got rocked, he 
remained in the fight, clinching 
when needed to create some 
time to compose himself. 
The fight somehow got 
into the second round, with a 
takedown from Lewis in the 
clinch that led to devastating 
ground and pound. Again, all 
of these shots put away 90% of 
the heavyweights, but Tuivasa 
would not fall. Lewis’ spirit 
broke while at the same time 
eating large swinging overhands 
from Tuivasa. Eventually, after 
a clean elbow from the clinch, 
Lewis fell over. Tuivasa was so 
tired he couldn’t even get up the 
cage, leading to a delayed shoey 
from the top of the cage. By Nelson Espinal
Features EditorThe Full Nelson: UFC 271By Donovan Perez-Schipper 
Senior Staff Writer
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics. 
Image courtesy of UFC.For rest of the articles, 
visit UCSDGuardian.org