By Abby Lee   STAFF WRITER
FILM REVIEW:
“BELLE”
Who is Suzu? 
Come read A & E’s movie 
review of the Belle, a musical 
anime directed by Maromu 
Hosoda! Warning: Major 
spoilers ahead. 
HYPE HOUSE
LOSS OVER GRAND CANYONkeeping up with the Kardashians, PT. 2
Triton Volleyball Falls to Grand 
Canyon in Top-10 BattleA & E, Page 8
Sports, Page 11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDEDisclosure and transparency 
are important, which are 
some of what Varma failed 
to provide. But arguably 
more critically for Kashmiris, 
some claims even point to 
her abusing the very power 
structure she has spoken 
out against as she allegedly 
“demanded that Kashmiris 
discuss their trauma.”
 
-SPARKY MITRA
OPINION, PAGE 5A & E, PAGE  7
MONDAY  
H 19 L 9
WEDNESDAY  
H 20 L 7
TUESDAY  
H 17 L 9
THURSDAY
H 21 L 10
2022 CA BUDGET.........2
VOTING RIGHTS ...........4
CAPS........................6
EUPHORIA...................9
BASKETBALL............11VOLUME 55, ISSUE 14  MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
New California 
Law Mandates Free 
Menstrual Products 
in Public SchoolsBy Rodrigo Gutierrez  STAFF WRITERCAMPUS
See CAMPUS ENVIRONMENT , page 3UCSD’s Efforts to Ensure Campus 
Safety amidst Historic Weather
By KAITLIN LEE
STAFF WRITER
See WOMEN’S HEALTH , page 3COVID-19
Will UCSD Change its Masking Policy?
Surging Omicron cases in San Diego drove UC San Di -
ego to extend remote learning through the first four weeks 
of Winter Quarter 2022. As the target date of Jan. 31 for the 
return to in-person instruction inches closer, discussions 
about the role of masks to curb the spread of the especially 
infectious Omicron variant have grown more relevant.
According to UCSD’s current Face Covering Policy, ac -
ceptable face coverings include fabric face masks of at least 
two layers, surgical masks, and N95 or KN95 masks. Un -
acceptable face coverings include scarves, ski masks, ban -
danas, balaclavas, gaiters, collars, turtlenecks, plastic face 
shields, or a single layer of fabric.
In an interview with The UCSD Guardian, Associate 
Professor Brandon Brown, an epidemiologist at the UC 
Riverside School of Medicine, highly recommended the use 
of more effective masks to curb the spread of COVID-19, as 
See COVID-19 , page 3WOMEN’S HEALTH
On Saturday, Jan. 15, San Diegans woke up to 
find a rare warning on their phones regard -
ing a potential tsunami and higher than 
usual waves. The warning, which was issued for all cit -
ies along the Pacific Coast, was sent after a volcano ex -
ploded underwater near the island nation of Tonga and 
is just the latest in a series of bizarre weather instances 
that have been seen in recent years.
Although California and San Diego have not seen a 
tsunami in years, the potential risks associated with tsu -
namis pose threats to the area, as local infrastructure is 
not equipped to handle the aftermath of a catastrophic 
weather event.
For the UC San Diego campus, unpredictable 
weather patterns have been at the helm of dangerous 
situations for students and staff to encounter when vis -
iting the physical campus. Falling trees, flooded resi -
dential areas, and impacted walkways are just some ex -
amples of how the hazardous weather has been affecting 
students. Flooding, in particular, has been a recurring 
issue at UCSD as the topography of the college means 
that inadequate drainage systems and subpar housing 
often are affected by the weather in La Jolla.
The improvement of infrastructure in newer de -
velopments means that places on campus, such as the 
North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Community, 
are better equipped when it comes to handling issues 
such as flooding.
One of the architect firms behind the development, California public schools and 
universities will have to provide 
free menstrual products in rest -
rooms by the start of the 2022–23 
school year thanks to a bill signed 
in October 2021, by Governor 
Gavin Newsom. The Menstrual 
Equity Act of 2021 applies to all 
grades 6–12 public schools, com -
munity colleges, and California 
State University campuses. 
According to the bill, any public 
school, county education office, or 
charter school for middle and high 
school students will have to keep 
restrooms stocked with menstrual 
products in restrooms. This sup -
ply is expected to be made avail -
able, accessible, and freed in all 
women’s restrooms and all-gender 
restrooms, as well as in at least one 
men’s restroom. The law builds 
upon a previous 2017 law requir -
ing low-income schools to provide 
products to disadvantaged stu -
dents. 
However, the University of 
California system is not included 
in this bill. Instead, the UC Regents 
and independent colleges and uni -
versities are highly encouraged to 
follow suit. 
Assemblymember Cristina 
Garcia, who wrote this legislation 
stated that this bill is in response 
to the necessary need on the part 
of women and others with periods. 
“Having convenient and free 
access to these products means our 
period won’t prevent us from being 
productive members of society and 
would alleviate the anxiety of try -
ing to find a product when out in 
public,” Garcia said in a statement.
Supporters of the act say that 
this is the right step in guarantee -
ing women what should be seen as a 
natural right. Director of the Santa 
Clara Office of Women’s Policy, Di -
vision of Equity and Social Justice 
Protima Pandey expressed support 
for the bill, saying that it was neces -
sary for ensuring gender equity in 
California.
“Access to free period products 
for vulnerable communities is a 
gender equity issue and it affects 
the wellbeing and health equity for 
all women, girls, non-binary, and 
transgender people,”  Pandey said. 
“California can lead the nation in 
ensuring that we can finally des -
tigmatize menstruation and move 
towards a framework of equity that 
includes the needs of menstruating 
individuals.”  
This law and many other simi -
lar laws are meant to address the 
Image courtesy of Mila De La Torre for the UCSD Guardian. 
HKS Inc., described how the area was built with the in -
tention of utilizing conservation strategies.
“Stormwater runoff is managed on-site through bio -
swales that capture and treat 90% of the average annual 
rainfall.”  
This is a vast improvement and serves as an idea of 
how the campus can develop areas in the future to bet -
ter handle weather fluctuations.
In 2016, flooding associated with a heavy storm in -
undated Peterson Hall in Thurgood Marshall College. 
The floor and the first row of seats in the lecture hall 
were flooded with the rainfall, yet lectures continued 
despite the less than ideal conditions.
In the Fall Quarter of the 2019-2020 school year, 
heavy rainfall from a storm led to various instances of 
flooding for students in the Marshall residential areas. 
Students had to relocate to alternative housing situa -
tions while the university worked to address the situ -
ation.
Leslie Sepuka, the Associate Director of University 
Communication, reaffirmed in an email that the cam -
pus maintains that the safety of students, faculty, and 
staff remains the highest priority.
“The UC San Diego Triton Alert emergency notifi -
cation system keeps the campus community updated 
in emergency situations. These communications are 
carried out through the use of e-mail and text messag -
ing. As a student, your UC San Diego email account is 
already registered to receive Triton Alert emergency 
better masking could also serve as a bulwark against more 
drastic measures.
“  We have closed and opened many times, so it seems 
prudent to now be more cautious than not. ” Brown said, 
“If higher quality masks like N95 are made available to stu -
dents, staff, and faculty everyone should be using them for 
return to campus, whenever that may be. ”
Some Californian universities appear to share Professor 
Brown’s opinion and have moved to tighten their masking 
policy. For instance, the University of Southern California 
will require faculty, students, and visitors to wear medical 
grade masks, including surgical, N95, KN95, and KF94 
masks for the spring semester. Cloth masks are no longer 
allowed unless a surgical mask is worn underneath.
Assistant Director of University Communications, Eri -
ka Johnson, wrote in an email to The Guardian that UCSD 
Image courtesy of The NY Times.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission 
is strictly prohibited. © 2022, all rights reserved. The 
UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of 
unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed 
herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of 
the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or 
Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded 
by advertising. Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this 
paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Gavin Newsom Proposes 2022 California Budget
By  Nikita Cardozo  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
On Jan. 10, Gov. Gavin New -
som announced a $286.4 billion 
2022 California budget proposal, 
which he plans to spend on what 
he claims are the “greatest exis -
tential threats” facing California 
— climate change, homeless -
ness, and COVID-19.  He also 
expressed support for expanding 
healthcare for undocumented im -
migrants, which many liberals in 
his base have long advocated for. 
“This proposal will be con -
sidered in light of the challenges 
today, and we will back in light of 
the challenges that present them -
selves tomorrow,” Newsom said.
The governor has begun ne -
gotiations with the Legislature, 
which must pass a budget by June 
15. The final proposal could look 
very different from Newsom’s 
proposal once it goes through the 
negotiations, but State Senate Ma -
jority Toni Atkins has indicated 
support for the governor’s plan to 
help those in need. 
Retail Theft
To combat retail theft, New -
som proposed more than $300 
million to put police outside busi -
nesses and to investigate and pros -
ecute organized crime rings. After 
a series of flash-mob-style shop -
lifting incidents in San Francisco 
and Los Angeles, Newsom be -
lieves that this is called for to help 
prevent future crime. 
COVID-19
In the case of COVID-19, 
Newsom wants to dedicate fund -
Art by of Tony Anguiano for the UCSD Guardian.
CA STATE
ing to help overloaded hospitals 
hire additional staff and to expand 
testing and vaccination. Newsom 
called for bringing back supple -
mental paid sick leave for workers 
who test positive. 
In an interview with The 
UCSD Guardian, Eleanor Roo -
sevelt College sophomore Kate 
Merritt applauded the budget’s 
focus on COVID-19.
“I think it’s really important 
that Gavin Newsom is focusing 
and allocating this budget to -
ward COVID-19 efforts,” Merritt 
said. “Putting this money into the 
health of Californians will be an 
investment both into our health 
and into our economy as it is so 
important that people feel safe at 
work.” 
Furthermore, Newsom is fo -
cusing on increasing access to Me -
di-Cal to all California residents. 
Califorrnia has currently opened 
Medi-Cal to undocumented resi -
dents from ages 26–50. Expand -
ing this program universally 
would cover 700,000 more people 
and cost $2.2 billion per year. 
Climate Change
One vital issue is the natural 
disasters as a result of increased 
carbon emissions and climate 
change. 
Newsom plans to spend $1.2 
billion over two years for pro -
grams to increase forest thinning 
and build fuel breaks. Newsom 
also wants to give CalFire an -
other $248 million for new crews 
and equipment after the wildfires 
destroyed more than 10 million 
acres of land in California in 2020.The state has already agreed 
to spend $5.2 billion over three 
years to deal with the drought. 
Since some reservoirs dropped 
to their lowest levels during fall 
2021, Newsom is looking to add 
$750 million more for grants for 
farmers and water conservation 
programs. 
Furthermore, the governor 
has been planning to transition 
California to zero-emission vehi -
cles. In 2020, Newsom signed an 
executive order to terminate gas-
powered cars by 2035. The 2022 
budget proposal included $6.1 bil -
lion to fast-track the transition to 
cleaner vehicles.  
Homelessness  
The homelessness crisis has 
become increasingly prominent 
after the pandemic forced many 
people to lose their homes. The 
budget includes $2 billion to dis -
tribute grants to local govern -
ments to convert vacant hotels 
and other buildings into support -
ive housing for homeless people. 
Over the next two years, Newsom 
plans to provide interim housing 
as more permanent units are be -
ing transformed. 
Local Schools
The budget also includes $119 
billion for K-12 schools after the 
crisis due to lower enrollment and 
attendance. To avoid this problem, 
the governor is giving districts 
more leeway when reporting their 
average daily attendance, which 
is how the state determines their 
funding. Schools can now use ei -
ther the current year’s attendance 
or an average of three most recent 
years. 
The budget also includes $54 
million to help districts hire 
more teachers and waive exami -
nation and credential fees. After 
the spread of COVID-19, many 
California schools have noticed a 
shortage of staff. More than 12%of 
the teachers at San Francisco City 
Unified were absent in the first 
week of 2022. Long Beach Unified 
reported 11%of the teaching staff  
missing during the first week of 
2022, which is triple the normal 
level after a holiday. Colleges
In order to fulfill Newsom’s 
new goal of guaranteeing 70% of 
adults receive some kind of col -
lege degree by 2030, he discussed 
a five-year plan to expand in-state 
enrollment at the University of 
California and California State 
University. 
The state plans to dedicate 
money from the budget to add 
room for 7,100 students at UC and 
9,400 more spots at CSU. Over 
the next four years, the UCs and 
CSUs would get a five percent an -
nual funding increase if they meet 
the targets of expanding in-state 
enrollment by an extra 1% and 
closing student equity gaps across 
racial and economic groups. This 
means an extra 7,000 students 
from California at UC and 14,000 
at CSU. 
University of California Presi -
dent Michael V. Drake, released 
a statement on Jan. 10, offering 
support for Newsom’s proposed 
budget. 
“This sustained public com -
mitment will enable UC to make 
critical long-term investments, 
particularly in areas that directly 
support our students: further ex -
panding California undergradu -
ate enrollment, boosting resourc -
es to traditionally low-income and 
first-generation students, and in -
creasing college access and afford -
ability for hard-working students 
and families across the state,” 
Drake said.
The University of California 
Student Association, which repre -
sents over 285,000 students across 
the UC system, also expressed 
support for Governor Newsom’s 
2022 budget as it underscores his 
administration’s commitment 
to higher education. The UC San 
Diego community may see higher 
admission rates in future years if 
Newsom’s budget plan passes.
The budget is expected to be 
passed by June 15. While the al -
locations may be altered during 
Newsom’s negotiations with Leg -
islation, his team emphasizes his 
desire to provide structural sup -
port to those in need. 
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
▶ CAMPUS , from page 1
▶ WOMEN’S HEALTH , from page 1
email notifications. You must, how -
ever, add your phone devices if you 
wish to receive text messages—stu -
dents can do this by using the Stu -
dent Triton Alert emergency notifi -
cation portal,” Sepulka wrote. “[...] 
The university tracks weather con -
ditions in order to prepare for wind 
and rain events. Facilities Manage -
ment ensures campus drains are 
clear and runoff does not accumu -
late. Where runoff has a possibility 
of entering any spaces or creating a 
hazard, they check to ensure sand -
bag locations are stocked. Facilities 
Management also has an in-house 
flood response and remediation 
team, which is able to respond 
quickly.”
The high prevalence of eucalyp -
tus trees on campus has also raised 
concerns regarding the topic of 
safety on campus. The trees, which 
are invasive, populate many differ -
ent areas of campus, most notably 
the forest separating John Muir 
College from University Center.
In recent years, the close prox -
imity of these trees to walkways 
and housing areas has led to in -
stances of potential disaster for stu -
dents walking along these paths.
Strong winds and rain have 
been the cause behind the occa -
sional, yet dangerous occurrences 
where eucalyptus trees fall on cam -
pus. Yet these trees remain in high 
quantities close to walkways where 
they continue to have the potential 
to fall and injure students.
Sixth College junior Dan -
iel Berreondo-Cendejas told The 
UCSD Guardian about his experi -
ence where he encountered one of 
the instances where a tree fell on 
campus.
“My friend and I were walking 
from our dorm in Eleanor Roos -
evelt College to Price Center dur -
ing a storm,” Berreondo-Cendejas said. “As we were walking through 
Thurgood Marshall College, we 
heard a snap and heard a group of 
students behind us scream. As we 
turned around, we saw the trunk 
of the tree fall, barely missing the 
students.”
“It made me think about how 
the university handles the main -
tenance of trees on campus. After 
that incident, I saw workers trim -
ming the trees around the area. 
But I still see trees on campus near 
walkways that aren’t regularly 
maintained which I think reflects 
a safety issue within the campus.”
In her email, however, Sepuka 
mentioned that maintenance for 
these areas are part of preventative 
measures that are supposed to en -
sure that situations like this do not 
occur.
“Facilities Management also 
performs preventive maintenance 
on campus trees, in addition, the 
university works with arborists to 
perform preventive maintenance.” 
Sepuka also encouraged stu -
dents take the following precau -
tions in order to both protect them -
selves and maintain their safety:
“We recommend routinely 
listening to weather reports to 
determine storm tracking, con -
sider installing a weather app with 
alerts on your phone, avoiding ar -
eas subject to flooding, and if you 
see standing water in a roadway 
or other unusual locations do not 
drive nor attempt to walk or ride 
through it.”
If students should experience 
any instances of flooding on cam -
pus, they are encouraged to call 
534-HELP (534-4357). Campus 
Police will dispatch an Environ -
ment, Health & Safety (EH&S) pro -
fessional. Additional detail can be 
found here. ▶ COVID-19 , from page 1
currently has no plans to change 
masking guidelines. However, John -
son noted that UCSD’s public health 
researchers are continuing to monitor 
the situation closely and that any up -
dates to current interventions would 
only be with the goal of ensuring the 
safety of the UCSD community.
“The Return to Learn program is 
driven by an adaptive strategy, ” John -
son said. “We are continually collect -
ing data, refining our understanding 
of the situation and associated mod -
eling, and modifying tactics accord -
ingly to significantly reduce the risk 
of transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Any 
decisions about updates to the mask 
mandate — or any other interven -
tions that are being used to protect the 
campus community — are driven by 
data and the expertise of UC San Di -
ego’s public health researchers.“
Although UCSD has no plans to 
enforce a similar mandate, Dr. Robert 
Schooley, one of the professors head -
ing the Return to Learn program, re -
iterated that UCSD students, faculty 
and staff were highly encouraged to 
use surgical or N-95 grade masks. In an email to The Guardian, Schooley 
explained how the various masks 
vary in their effectiveness and advo -
cated for the use of N95 or N95-grade 
masks.  
“The N95 (or N95-grade masks 
including KN95, KF94, and KN94 
masks) are much more effective than 
surgical masks, ” Schooley said. “Cloth 
masks are better than a bare face but 
substantially less protective than 
surgical or N95 masks and I would 
discourage people from using them. 
They can provide a bit of additional 
protection when worn over a surgical 
mask to keep the surgical mask edges 
closer to the face but this is still not as 
effective as a N95-grade mask. ”
However, some UCSD students 
have said that they feel that a more 
stringent mask mandate is unneces -
sary. John Muir College junior Ste -
fanie Dao, expressed her reservations 
about the practicality of a stricter 
mask mandate. Dao was also con -
cerned that such a mandate might 
cause needless confusion. 
“I think so far, [UCSD’s current 
masking policies are] enough, given that not everyone can afford those 
kinds of masks. ” Dao said. “I think we 
should focus more on other effective 
solutions, instead of complicating the 
mask mandate. ”
UCSD offers several options for 
students who have limited access to 
surgical or KN95 masks. Free KN95 
masks are currently available to 
UCSD students at the Basic Needs 
Hub on Mondays, Wednesdays and 
Fridays from noon to 3 p.m., and on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. Vice Chancellor for Student 
Affairs Alysson Satterlund invites stu -
dents who cannot obtain a mask by 
these approaches to email the Office 
of the Vice Chancellor - Student Af -
fairs
(VCSA), and arrangements will 
be made for masks to be provided. 
Triton Health Ambassadors will also 
have masks available as they roam 
throughout campus, and will be sta -
tioned at test kit Vending Machines 
in residential areas on Saturdays and 
Sundays. 
systemic issues related to menstru -
al products. These issues are com -
monly referred to as the Tampon 
Tax, or the sale of pads, tampons, 
and other menstrual products with 
an extra sales tax. Critics note that, 
in contrast,  products primarily 
used by men such as hair growth 
products and Viagra are usually ex -
cluded from these extra sales taxes. 
This isn’t the first law pushing 
for more menstrual equality in Cal -
ifornia; SB 92, a law put into effect 
Jan. 1, 2020, exempted menstrual 
Image courtesy of Althea Tien for the UCSD Guardian.
products from sales and use taxes. 
In an email, University of Cali -
fornia Office of the President Me -
dia Relations Associate Director 
Ryan King said that the UC system 
is now taking the new bill into ac -
count and plans to follow along 
with its recommendations. 
“UC believes it is well-suited to 
comply with this law and looks for -
ward to continuing to offer access 
to menstrual products on our cam -
puses, furthering gender-equity ef -
forts and supporting student atten -dance,” King said. 
Although the bill does not in -
clude University of California col -
leges in its jurisdiction, many UC 
campuses have already taken ini -
tiatives to provide affordable or free 
menstrual products. These range 
from student-run projects — such 
as the Free Menstrual Product Ini -
tiative at UC Berkeley — to admin -
istrative choices, such as the pro -
vision of free menstrual products 
inselect residence halls at UC Santa 
Barbara. Associate Director of Universi -
ty Communications Leslie Sepuka 
confirmed with The UCSD Guard -
ian via email that UC San Diego 
provides free menstrual products 
in several restrooms on campus. 
“UC San Diego provides free 
tampons and has feminine nap -
kin dispensers in all the women’s 
restrooms at the Price Center and 
Student Center, which are centrally 
located on campus,” Sepuka ex -
plained in her email. There are several resources 
available at UCSD that provide 
free sanitary products. The Basic 
Needs Center provides students 
with personal menstrual products 
such as tampons, pads, menstrual 
underwear, and menstrual cups. 
Additionally, the student-run Gen -
eral Store Co-op provides pads at 
low costs. If you need access to free 
menstrual products from the Basic 
Needs Center, fill out this form. 
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
The Attack On The Right To Vote
Outlawing handing out food 
and water to people waiting to 
vote, preventing election officials 
from supporting the request 
for mail-in ballots, limiting 
what election officials can do to 
prevent voter intimidation from 
poll watchers, cutting back on 
the amount of time to cast a vote, 
and banning drive-thru voting, 
the political environment does 
not seem friendly nor conducive 
to the fundamental right to 
participate in a democracy: the 
right to vote. However, these are 
actual laws that are in the books 
today in Texas, Georgia, and 
seven other Republican states, 
actively seeking to undermine 
the right of their residents and 
BIPOC voters to take part in 
this nation’s democratic system. 
With these laws recently enacted 
and more “copycat” laws being 
discussed in at least 19 other 
states, the Democratic Party 
must use its majority in both the 
House and Senate to carve out 
an exemption to the filibuster 
and pass legislation that will 
safeguard the right of Americans 
to make their voice heard in local 
and national elections — a right 
that the Framers held dear. The 
remaining stability and security 
of our democratic system is in 
jeopardy and the responsibility 
to protect our democracy is in the hands of the Democrats.
After former President 
Donald Trump repeatedly 
pushed the conspiracy that the 
2020 election was “stolen” and 
therefore illegitimate, many 
Republican states introduced 
legislation that would restrict 
the legal parameters in which 
an American can cast a vote 
under the guise that they were 
promoting the “security” and 
“legitimacy” of their elections. 
After all, enough of the 
Republican base believed Biden’s 
victory was illegitimate — only 
27% of Republicans believe it 
was a fair election — so much 
so that a tenacious group of 
far-right, Trumpist supporters 
launched an insurrection on the 
Capitol Building — a hallmark 
of American democracy. Even 
after such an egregious attack on 
the Capitol Building, the sheer 
percent of Republicans that 
believed the outcome of the 2020 
election was corrupted and the 
overriding belief among GOP 
lawmakers that future elections 
must be “protected” from 
voter fraud, set up the perfect 
environment for numerous 
Republican states across the 
country to pass laws suppressing 
the right to vote. 
Of course, it would be 
irresponsible to say that the right 
to vote hasn’t been under attack 
for at least the past decade. The 
Supreme Court struck down key 
portions of the Voting Rights 
Act in 2013, which in essence gutted the core of the law. It’s 
no secret that Southern states 
during and after the Civil 
Rights Movement in the 1960s 
attempted to undermine the vote 
of Black people. As a result, the 
Voting Rights Act had required 
Southern states to submit any 
proposed changes to their voting 
laws to the Department of Justice 
for review before they could 
proceed. In 2013, tThe Supreme 
Court took this out: removing 
another law that protected the 
vote of BIPOC citizens  removed 
from the books. 
Amid the undermining of the 
right to vote and the calamity that 
characterizes American politics 
today is a Democratic Party 
that holds a majority in both 
the Senate and the House and 
is led by a President who makes 
big promises yet no promised 
results. Biden promised to 
protect the right to vote even 
after his campaign ended upon 
his victory, but has not really 
mobilized his influence as 
President to give hope or action 
to the American people and voting rights activists. Biden and 
Vice President Kamala Harris 
visited Atlanta, Georgia, on 
Jan. 11 to publicize the need 
for Congress to pass legislation 
protecting the right to vote. 
However, some notable groups 
that helped the Biden/Harris 
ticket win Georgia, namely the 
Black Voters Matter Fund, the 
Asian American Advocacy Fund, 
and the family of Martin Luther 
King Jr., refused to attend their 
visit, claiming that Biden has 
failed his campaign promise to 
deliver on protecting the right to 
vote, replacing any meaningful 
action with “political platitudes 
and repetitious, bland promises.” 
The time is no more perfect 
than now, with two major bills 
on federal voting laws, for the 
Democratic Party to finally act 
on its majority in the House and 
Senate to pass these bills and 
safeguard a fundamental right 
under attack. The Democrats 
should make it known that there 
is no such thing as “compromise” 
on the issue of the right to vote. 
There are only those who want to expand voting access and those 
who want to limit or constrict it. 
There are two bills regarding 
voting rights on the floor of the 
Senate: Freedom To Vote Act and 
the John Lewis Voting Rights 
Advancement Act, as illustrated 
in the table below. 
With the remains of American 
democracy hanging in the 
balance, it is the responsibility 
of the Democratic Party and 
Biden to fulfill their promise 
not only to their base but to 
the American people to deliver 
on their campaign promise and 
fulfill their duty to the U.S. 
Constitution: protect the right 
to vote. Over time, our country 
has become characterized by 
two very different political 
environments: one in which 
voting is ameliorated and easier 
and one where the right to 
vote is considered a privilege. 
What will the path forward be 
for the American people and 
government to be united once 
again in a mutual understanding 
for what our nation was founded 
on? The Democratic Party’s Duty To Protect It
By Nicholas Tappin
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Tony Anguiano.
John Lewis V oting Rights Advancement Act Freedom To V ote Act
• Expand early voting access 
• Establish automatic voter registration 
(you have to opt-out rather than opt-in)
• Grant the right to vote to formerly 
incarcerated people after their 
sentences end (including felons)
• Make Election Day a federal holiday• Restore/reform the provisions struck down in 
the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme CourtOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
In recent years, we have 
seen many beneficiaries of 
generations of economic and 
demographic oppression attempt 
to learn about and right some 
of the wrongs of the past. In 
America, this has included, for 
example, descendants of slave-
owners confronting atrocious 
histories which were largely 
painted over with a rose-tinted 
tale of southern heritage. 
Research and even meeting with 
descendents of their families’ 
slaves have helped bring to light 
the past and present states of 
a systemically unequal system. 
These reckonings in America 
and around the world in 
various contexts have led to a 
new sense of transparency and 
acknowledgement of privilege 
among many. But the revelations 
that these people have must be 
in a state where history and the 
truth are one, where nothing 
remains hidden and where they 
maintain no semblance of the 
power their ancestors once 
had through these hierarchies. 
Condemning the idea of 
exploitation is much easier when 
we abstract ourselves into a 
vague reason for that oppression. 
It is time to critique oppression 
through an eye for how each of our individual actions helps or 
hurts the anguished.
Until a couple weeks ago, 
Dr. Saiba Varma seemed to be 
an academic 
who embraced 
such a reckoning 
of her own as 
an upper-caste 
Hindu woman, 
standing against 
India’s constant 
militarization  
in Kashmir 
against Kashmiri 
Muslims. Varma 
however failed to 
acknowledge her 
biggest source 
of privilege 
with regards 
to the Kashmir 
conflict: her 
father was part 
of RAW, India’s 
intelligence  
agency, and 
was stationed 
in Kashmir 
carrying out 
the very duties 
she had spoken 
out against in 
her research. It 
is conceivable 
that Varma 
gained access to 
the region through her father’s 
connections. The unveiling of 
these truths led to her being 
dropped by UC San Diego.By Sparky Mitra
Staff WriterMaybe it was a vain interest 
to preserve the hero she believed 
her father to be that led to Varma 
hiding his background. Maybe the general, vague, upper-caste 
privileges Varma has referred 
to in her research. But that is 
the most immediate source 
of her power 
and Kashmiri 
oppression in the 
very dynamic 
she claims to 
investigate as 
someone opposing 
t he India n 
occupation of 
Kashmir.
UCSD‘s firing 
of Dr. Verma was 
justified. Varma’s 
firing however, 
and the explicit 
reasons behind 
it according to 
students and 
the university, 
n e c e s s i t a t e 
further discussion 
on privilege-
aided research 
within academia. 
Disclosure and 
transparency  
are important, 
which are some 
of what Varma 
failed to provide. 
But arguably 
more critically 
for Kashmiris, 
some claims even point to her 
abusing the very power structure 
she has spoken out against as 
she allegedly “demanded that Kashmiris discuss their trauma.” 
Forcing trauma-ridden 
stories out of anyone is 
unacceptable, no nuance needed. 
By doing this she just fed into 
the very cycles of trauma she 
wanted others to believe she was 
opposing. But the privileged 
entry points into Kashmir, like 
those held by Varma’s father, 
have a compelling story that 
merits exploration had Varma 
remained true to her research 
and positioning. Her father’s 
prior deeds are not her fault 
after all. Rather than exploiting 
entry points to investigate 
trauma, she could have easily 
investigated entry points to 
monitor academic, political and 
economic exploitation.
It is much easier for us to 
see ourselves as part of a system 
where injustice looms rather 
than as individuals whose 
specific histories and actions 
directly contribute to suffering 
and healing. Most of us are 
aware of the vague notion of 
being privileged or oppressed 
in a hierarchy because of race, 
caste or creed,but each of our 
actions are the nuts and bolts of 
how oppression cycles through 
generations regardless of how 
aware and how progressive they 
claim to be.Opaque Transparency
Admitting individual privilege is as important 
as recognizing abstract systemic privileges
the reality of him drafting plans 
against occupied Kashmiris, 
which included sexual violence, 
was too brutal compared to 
Image courtesy of UCSD.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
 Counseling and Psychological Services, or CAPS, plays a key part in addressing 
mental health at UC San Diego dating back to the 1960s. Their central mission is 
to guide students through mental health struggles using a variety of preventative 
measures and treatments. CAPS’ new preventative practice revolves around several 
workshops called “Tritons Rise Together.” The Rise Workshop Series takes student 
data to develop programs which help students with the most relevant barriers to 
academic success. 
 Utilizing both their own data and information from the National College 
Health Assessment, CAPS emphasizes the importance of consistent sleep habits 
and teaches techniques to avoid procrastination. The goal of these workshops is to 
prevent stress and overwhelming emotion before they develop to a stage where a 
student needs treatment. Tiffany O’Meara, CAPS’ Director of Outreach, describes 
the workshops as tools to help students “manage their stress, build resiliency and 
cope with emotions.” These workshops offer a variety of methods, such as sunrise 
yoga, guided meditation and instructional advice based on scientific foundations. 
 CAPS established a new workshop for the Winter Quarter called “Social Justice 
Self-Compassion Mindfulness Hour,” where they teach self-patience, love and 
acceptance in the face of overwhelming social issues. These workshops are open for 
all students, regardless of their past experience with CAPS services. 
 In  addition  to  their  new  workshops,  CAPS offers forums for students to 
discuss their struggles or achievements through forums, such as the Coming Out 
Forum or the Latinx Cafecito Hour. These offer a sense of community and place of 
belonging for students. A similarly interpersonal-focused program CAPS offers is 
group therapy, a system in which students facing the same struggles work together 
to build bonds and develop healthy coping strategies. “It can be so affirming for 
students. Sometimes that’s the most helpful thing about being in a group. They meet 
other students so that they feel like they’re not alone,” O’Meara said. CAPS offers 
group therapy for Taming Anxiety, Building Social Confidence, and Body Positivity. 
In these groups, students discuss their own experiences, learn to recognize their 
feelings and build confidence in the area of focus. The exact discussions for each 
session are tailor-made to fit the students in the given group. Unlike the Tritons Rise 
Workshops, group therapy is a form of actual treatment. As such, it has an endpoint. 
O’Meara remembers some of her students “tearing up at the end of Spring” when 
they had to bid their newfound friends goodbye. 
 To top it all off, CAPS offers a variety of wellness apps through its “iFlourish” 
program. The university currently offers three primary apps for anonymous and 
effective self help. The popular wellness app Headspace is fully unlocked for all 
UCSD students. It promotes meditation and stress reduction, providing students 
with techniques to effectively manage their mental health. WellTrack is another 
app used to track one’s emotional states and use evidence to provide personalized 
recommendations. Therapy Assistance Online, or TAO, is an interactive workbook 
which teaches students similar coping strategies that a therapist would. This 
provides access to strategies to students who may not yet feel ready to meet a therapist in person or take the first step towards face to face treatment. 
 CAPS is also working on a new app called “Shine,” an app promoting 
mindfulness and wellbeing. Its focus will be on reaching out to students from 
underrepresented communities who tend to suffer from greater anxieties than their 
counterparts. Though the apps are great tools for those who may not feel prepared 
to reach out for individualized support, CAPS still urges students to call in when in 
need.Assistant Clinical Director of CAPS Sarah Clavell Storer explains the process 
of how a student is screened for therapy using a “brief telephone assessment.”
“It’s usually a 15 to 20 minute conversation with one of our licensed providers, and 
they talk with the student, get a sense of their needs, and then provide them with 
the next best steps for care,” Storer told The UCSD Guardian. “And then of course, 
we just want to make sure that students are conveying their needs clearly when they 
call in. So if the student is having an urgent need, they of course would be scheduled 
for a same-day appointment.”
 CAPS is a frequently used service among both undergraduate and graduate 
students. Storer notes that, at certain points in the quarter, as many as 50 or 60 
appointments may be scheduled each day. 
“There’s constantly students calling in to schedule appointments,” Storer comments.
The pandemic has, of course, increased the stress levels of students across the 
country. According to a study by Texas A&M University, 71% of students indicated 
that they felt their stress levels rise due to the spread of COVID-19.
Though at times CAPS is overloaded with students, they endeavor to prioritize 
their cases. They also offer off-campus referrals to students looking for counseling 
elsewhere. 
 Nationwide, however, the country’s healthcare system is being put to the test 
by increased anxiety due to both the pandemic and an overall increase of major 
natural disasters. Mental health hotlines have seen increased calls across the board, 
some reaching highs of 23% increased monthly calls in the past year . According to a 
survey by Healthy Minds, 60% of students across several universities reported that 
it was harder to access mental healthcare post-pandemic.  CAPS attempts to navigate 
the pandemic through the Telehealth system, creating an entirely virtual way for 
students to access treatment. Fortunately for students and staff alike, CAPS was 
already developing an online version of its offerings when the pandemic hit. 
“I do have to say, looking at my colleagues across the country,” O’Meara recounted, 
“UCSD moved so quickly.” 
 An article by EdSource reports widespread college concern about the potential 
that, in shifts of in person to online, counseling programs could fail to meet student 
demand. In light of the circumstances, CAPS has been highly successful in the 
past year. Storer notes that UCSD plans to keep both online and in person options, 
even after the university fully reopens. “There are some students who, for whatever 
reason really, like the Telehealth more,” Storer claims, “and will even choose to 
continue in that modality when we return to campus, and that’s fine.”
 CAPS’ expansion into the online world mirrors their goals on campus: to 
“meet students where they are,” as Storer puts it. Whether it be in the seven colleges, 
at their main office or on screens in students’ homes, CAPS strives to be available 
and present for students who may want to reach out for support. UCSD responds to mental health in all CAPS
Image by Chetraruc of Pixelbay. As the stresses and challenges of the worldwide pandemic carry on, UCSD’s Counseling and Psychological 
Services (CAPS) program seeks new ways to connect with students and teach good mental health habits. 
By Miriya Huie
Staff Writerpodcast, “Welcome to Our 
Show.”   The show, which 
will be available starting 
Jan. 24, will feature the 
trio rewatching all seven 
seasons of New Girl. And 
so, here are some things 
that “New Girl” needs to 
address, more than ten 
years after it originally 
aired. Major spoilers 
ahead!
1. Winston’s father
This is pretty self-
explanatory, but who is 
Winston’s father? Winston 
finding out that his father 
was a policeman and then 
deciding to track him 
down was a huge part of 
his emotional growth in Season 6. When Jess steps in to help in Season 7, she 
accidentally ends up “reuniting” Winston with a complete stranger. Jess made a 
genuine mistake, but it’s a mistake that could be easily rectified, especially since 
Winston’s wife, Aly, has already put her detective skills to use to find his name 
and address. So what exactly is going on with Winston’s real father? Why didn’t  After being 
bugged by my friends 
for years, I finally caved 
and watched “New 
Girl.” Some part of my 
brain really thought 
that a seven season long 
show about a woman 
moving into a loft with 
three men would be the 
perfect addition to my 
first in-person quarter 
at UC San Diego. And 
honestly? It was. “New 
Girl” is full of hilarious 
one-liners, soothingly 
stupid plot lines, and lovable characters. It’s a comfortable show that I was able to slip 
into between classes, or as a quick study break whenever I felt a little overwhelmed. 
brand new podcast
 Just days after finishing the series, I was greeted by the news that Zooey 
Deschanel, Hannah Simone, and Lamorne Morris are launching a brand new ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ELIAS ROMAN
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 In the musical anime “Belle,” Mamoru Hosoda builds a “Beauty and the 
Beast” adaptation through a whimsical melding of technological, natural, and 
fantasy elements. When awkward and introverted high schooler, Suzu, signs up for 
online platform “U” to escape the way her classmates perceive her, her life is drama -
tically changed as she becomes the beautiful, overnight pop sensation Bell. Howe -
ver, a mysterious beast named Dragon interrupts one of her virtual performances 
and Bell embarks on a journey to help this brooding avatar escape the vigilantes 
clamoring to unmask his true identity.
 What can one more retelling have to add to a tale as old as time? Technolo -
gy. Assoon as the film begins, U is introduced. The explanation of this world feels 
almost superfluous — a modern audience will have no problem understanding a 
virtual integration platform, because this setting has been presented time and time 
again with only slight variations. Nearly as derivative as a “Beauty and the Beast” 
retelling is the storyline where an online platform overtakes the world’s attention, 
tempting the everyday citizen to sign-up with promises of who they can be and 
what they can do. “Belle” adds little to this familiar plot, barely even touching on 
the logistics of U or how its existence has affected society at large. Instead, the 
filmmakers focus on imagery. Even if the idea of an online platform is hackneyed, 
the animation of this one is magnificent. The world is colorful, dynamic, carefully 
constructed, and filled with clean, vibrant details. U’s incredible animation is vi -
sible from the first scenes of this film, when Bell rides into frame on a whale saddled 
with hundreds of speakers, singing a musical number with a voice as ethereal as the 
pretty animation surrounding it.
 The other half of this character, the quiet teenager Suzu, lives a simple life 
constantly overlooked by her classmates. She faces real problems in painfully 
awkward and relatable ways. Depending on whether she is in or out of U, Suzu 
is a completely different person, and the animation reflects this change. When 
New Girl, Old Questions
Staff writer Medha Upadhyay shares her predictions 
for the new New Girl podcast.
By Kaley Chun
Staff Writergrounded in reality, shots are created with less defined strokes, closer to a pain -
ting than a perfect computer image. Scenes of nature and slower city streets are 
particularly idyllic, and they show a stark contradiction to the carefully construc -
ted, constantly stimulating U. Despite the variation in settings, which range 
from online panoramic landscapes to otherworldly castles to picturesque rivers, 
what connects these two worlds is the beauty captured within them. Both worlds 
are gorgeous, but “Belle” suffers in the development of its setting and plot. The 
world-building is brushed over, which is a shame. Based on what we did get to see, 
U could have been an even more fantastically full, flourishing environment.
 As sparkling as the setting is, “Belle” relies just as much on the characters 
within the story. Suzu’s friends in the real world are some of the best parts of this 
film, even though they do not exist within the flashy U. Specifically, popular girl 
Ruka, childhood friend Shinobu, and tech best friend Hiroka work well because 
they have hobbies, interests, and personalities. The people that exist within U, 
on the other hand, have detailed character designs but are unable to exert their 
personality through dialogue. One of the main flaws of this film is that the virtual 
avatar Dragon is not allowed enough screen time to explore the complexities of his 
character. The “Beauty and the Beast” structure works effectively within “Belle” 
because its romanticism matches the film’s tone, but the beast is underwhelming. 
His mystifying, dark nature offers a solid foundation for dramatic and full cha -
racter-building, but he is barely offered the chance to progress past the brooding 
antihero. Instead, most of the runtime is concerned with building Suzu and Bell’s 
personalities. Luckily, she is the most effective part of this film. Bell’s voice is 
equally exquisite in Japanese and English, her character design is stunning, and 
most importantly, she radiates heart as both her online avatar and real life perso -
nality. “Belle” is a film that draws crowds in by being larger than life, but will keep 
their attention through the groundedness of its characters.Film Review: “Belle”
By Medha upadhyay
Staff WriterGrade:  B
Directed by:  Maromu Hosoda
Starring:  Kaho Nakamura, Takeru SatohRelease Date:  Jan. 16, 2022
Rated:  PGDespite a 
convoluted synopsis, 
technological 
fantasy anime 
“Belle” succeeds 
as a magnificently 
animated film with 
a unique spin on the 
classic “Beauty and 
the Beast.”8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
 Influencers are a sort of morbid fascination for me, particularly the way in 
which they revel in almost-celebrity lifestyles without quite ever reaching the 
pantheon of A-Listers. They dance, they sing, they act, and they’re almost always 
incredibly mediocre at it. So, when I saw that Netflix’s show “Hype House” — a 
show about, well, Hype House — came out, I was curious; what is it about these 
people that enamors hordes of teenagers to watch every ten-second video that they 
produce? What started out as a guilty indulgence very quickly became a bleak 
insight into the influencer industry, and the pitfalls of modern self-commodification.
 In a piece for The Atlantic , writer Rachel Monroe writes that Charli D’Amelio’s 
success is in large part due to her relatability and attainability, managing “to telegraph 
an ordinary kind of specialness,” an attribute which can be applied to D’Amelio’s 
fellow Hype House members. These people are all conventionally attractive (and for 
the most part, White), though never overwhelmingly so. They’re not supermodels, 
they’re the popular kids from high school, which is what these people reminded 
me of as I watched the show: suburbanites with too much energy who love doing 
s— to impress their friends and girlfriends. (Coincidentally, Jack Wright, one-
half of a TikTok duo made up of him and his twin brother, and a member of the 
Hype House, began attending the same high school as me during my senior year.)
 Take Alex Warren for example, a member of Hype House who got his start on 
YouTube,  making controversially David Dobrik-esque vlogs,  but was shot into the 
spotlight upon joining Hype House on TikTok. His old vlogs, or at least the ones 
still up on his YouTube page, consist of him and his two buddies Patrick and Calvin 
making d— jokes and screaming at the camera for four minutes straight. Watching 
these videos is like being dropped in a middle-of-nowhere suburb; it reminds you of 
high school, of that one group of boys that were too loud and too annoying, but just 
charismatic enough to get away with it. They’re relatable, but most importantly, the 
image they’re selling is attainable. Any teen with an iPhone and an internet connection 
could be these guys, and that’s probably why they blew up. And so emerges what my 
girlfriend has dubbed The Plight of the Influencer: what do you do when the most 
special thing about you — the only reason you’re famous — is that you’re not special?
 Well, if you’re Warren, you exploit the dreams and aspirations of your 
significant other in a futile attempt to combat dwindling viewership. In the show, 
he makes a point of how his videos have been receiving less and less engagement 
from audiences, something that worries him quite a lot — especially because he
What looked like a funny-in-a-bad-way, watered-down 
version of “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” turned out 
to be a sad-in-an-awfully-depressing-way show about the 
culture and industries that have been built by the Internet.
By ELIAS Roman
A&E Editor
Image courtesy of Netflix.we get to see him? I’m banking on the hope that this wasn’t just all orchestrated 
for the sake of comedy, but if it was, I’m going to need somebody to point out the 
deeper meaning to me. Also, why did everyone in the loft have daddy issues? In 
hindsight, this seems super odd and maybe something we need to unpack.
2. Political correctness
Yes, “New Girl” isn’t that old, but I will be floored if they somehow make it through 
a rewatch without at least addressing all the problematic jokes. A lot of the jokes 
centered around Cece, Jess’s Indian best friend. I cannot really see Deschanel, 
Simone, and Morris laughing off lines like “I’ll convert to Indianism,” in 2022. 
What makes it even worse is that the majority of these offensive lines are 
delivered by Schmidt, who ends up marrying Cece. Schmidt also ends up being 
the butt of countless questionable jokes, most of which center on him being 
Jewish or his penchant for fancy clothes and grooming. Complicating matters 
further are the many scenes in which actor Max Greenfield dons a fat suit to play 
college-aged Schmidt, even though “fat Schmidt” was an important part of his 
character development. Sprinkle in some casual misogyny from Nick and you’ve 
got yourself a recipe for disaster. While some of these jokes could have been for 
character development, most of them were poorly executed. The writers never 
fully condemned these “jokes” and left the interpretation up to the audience. These 
throwaway moments are the biggest flaw in New Girl and one of the main reasons 
that I struggle to recommend this show to anyone. It’ll be interesting to see how 
the podcast handles this, but I’m definitely expecting a response of some sort.
3. Cameos
Switching to a more behind-the-scenes approach, I am definitely expecting plenty of 
stories about the numerous cameos on “New Girl.” From Taylor Swift to Prince 
to Gordon Ramsey, “New Girl” had an impressive amount of celebrity cameos. 
My personal prediction is a podcast cameo from Olivia Rodrigo discussing her 
scenes on the show. I don’t know if she was more of a celebrity or just an extra 
back in 2016, but when I watched it in 2022, it definitely counted as a cameo. 
Odds are slim to none, but if it happens, just know you heard it here first.   
4. Engram Pattersky  
Circling back to Winston, I need answers about the Engram Pattersky prank. 
In the show’s final episode, Jess and Nick are forced to empty the loft when 
they receive an eviction notice. The finale serves as a fitting end to the series 
spends up to seven times my yearly rent on his videos in any given month. The
formula of his videos hasn’t changed, it’s still just a group of bros being dudes in 
front of Warren’s camera — except now they live in a big mansion and drive around 
in G-Wagons. The relatability — and the attainability — of his videos have been 
lost, most likely a contributing factor to his loss in viewership. This pushes Warren 
to stage a fake wedding with his girlfriend and fellow Hype House member Kouvr 
Annon. It’s painful to watch as Kouvr confesses to the camera and to her friends 
that getting married is something she’s wanted for a while, and something she’s
talked to Warren about, only for the latter to turn around and exploit their relationship 
in the name of content creation. And while Warren is certainly not free of any criticism 
when it comes to the ethics of this content creation, his ludicrous spending and the 
extremes to which his job pushes his personal life should be seen as a symptom of 
the system. YouTube and TikTok pay their creators based on engagement; a sort of 
sliding scale rather than a fixed regular salary, the nature of which makes it difficult 
for any of these kids to feel comfortable taking a break, and which often pushes 
content creators to things like, say, swinging their friends around from an excavator. 
 In episode six of the show, Thomas Petrou, a founding member of Hype House, 
pays for a retreat to Joshua Tree which he hopes will jumpstart content creation among 
the stagnating members of the collective. This is a hot-button topic for Petrou, who 
throughout the show is asking members of the collective to post more content, only 
to be ignored. It’s hard not to feel bad for the guy — though not because his teenage 
employees are being teenagers. It’s mostly because Petrou has convinced himself that 
he and his gang of industry disruptors have gamed the system, that social media 
works for them, and that that’s what’s made them so successful. He’s proselytized 
himself into the cult of The Hustler Mentality™. But as the show continues, it becomes 
painfully obvious that this is not the case. Petrou’s constant breakdowns and consistent 
anxieties about losing everything he’s worked for betray the idea that he’s in control. 
Just as Warren’s exploitation of his relationship is a red flag about the influencer 
machine, so is Petrou’s inability to step away from work. These kids are not hustling. 
They’re burnt out and driving themselves into the ground. This isn’t to say that posting 
a couple of ten-second videos a day is hard work, but rather that the economic model 
that this form of entertainment operates on is unsustainable. These pseudocelebrities 
and their careers are not built for longevity; they exist on platforms that encourage 
users to move on to the next interesting thing as soon as the current trend becomes 
boring. The influencer industry creates pressures that are detrimental to those who 
exist in it, and it should concern us that more and more people are aspiring to it.
 In his piece for Harper’s Magazine , writer and university professor Barrett 
Swanson catches TikTok star Baronscho during a refreshing moment of self-awareness: 
“The scary thing is you never know how long this is going to last, and I think that’s what 
eats a lot of us at night. It’s like, what’s next? How long can we entertain everyone for? 
How long before no one cares…?” The quote speaks to the hyper-consumerist nature 
of the internet, and the ways in which it has exacerbated the pre-existing anxieties 
and worries surrounding child stars within the traditional entertainment industry. 
The Hype House is a show about our generation’s child stars, one that set out to give 
us an inside look into the decadence and possibilities that this new industry brings; 
instead asserting that this show, and the industry it provides insight into should not 
exist. It’s a bleak image, one of teenagers and twenty-somethings playing at being 
celebrities, the ever-tightening grip of the algorithm wrapped around their necks.that began with Jess moving into the loft. However, at the very end of the 
episode, the whole thing is revealed to be an elaborate prank orchestrated by 
Winston. It’s never explained why Winston would do this and I just need them 
to confirm that it was because he knew that Jess and Nick needed to settle 
into a home of their own and not because he was just messing around. Please. 
5. The Pepperwood Chronicles 
“The Pepperwood Chronicles” is the book series that launched Nick’s writing 
career; in the three year break Seasons 6 and 7, his work sells thousands of 
copies, and he even embarks on a world tour to meet his adoring fans. This is 
all well and good, but the real question is: where can I hear more about “The 
Pepperwood Chronicles?” This ones a bit odd, but hear me out. We know 
that the characters in the book are all based on Nick’s friends and we’ve seen 
him go through all the ups and downs to get these books out into the world. 
So how fun would it be to hear Julius Pepperwood and Jessica Night’s story?
6. True American
And finally, we need to learn how to play True American. The podcast promo 
material has already teased this, and I need them to come through on this one. 
True American is a piece of the show that can be shared easily even with people 
who aren’t familiar with the show, and it looks like so much fun! Essentially, 
it is an insanely complicated game that the gang plays — the joke is how 
difficult the game is to explain; every time someone new is invited to the loft, 
they inevitably feel left out when the gang starts playing it. The complications 
in all the rules gives it a great gatekeeping vibe, and it seems like the perfect 
bonding activity for a tight knit group of friends. I can easily imagine True 
American becoming a huge hit if they play their cards right. To be completely 
honest, this will probably be the single biggest reason why people tune in to 
the podcast so I’m really hoping that they don’t drop the ball on this one.  
 
Although “New Girl” was a great show, there are definitely still many unanswered 
questions. This new podcast will hopefully give fans the answers to some of these while 
also giving them a new way to slip back into a show that they love dearly. I’m excited 
to see what Deschanel, Simone, and Morris come up with, and I’m looking forward 
to an engaging and entertaining show that recaptures the chemistry of “New Girl.” 
“I Wish the Hype House Show Wasn’t Real.”
Release Date:  Jan. 16, 2022
Rated:  PGLIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
Roger Revelle College: Maddy Perez
Maddy would love Revelle because it was the first college to be founded at UCSD. 
She loves to be the best of the best, and what better represents that than Revelle’s 
extensive history? Though Revelle isn’t known to be the most social college, 
Maddy would have made a group of close-knit friends within the first week. 
Those girls would be her ride-or-die ‘till she graduated. She would definitely 
spend time standing on the balconies in the Breezeway,looking down on her peers. 
John Muir College:  Rue Bennett
I feel like Rue would absolutely love the vibe of Muir. She would definitely sit in 
the courtyard, beneath all of the giant trees and vine-covered buildings, and 
do whatever she loves to do. I also think she would love the central location 
because it would allow her to explore the campus without going too far from 
home. Muir would give Rue a great space to start fresh and find her community. 
Thurgood Marshall College: Kat Hernandez
Kat probably sorted the colleges semi-randomly during her application process 
because she was very busy during her junior and senior years of high 
school. However, she ended up liking Marshall more than she thought she 
would. The lighter GE load let her focus on making even more money 
than she did in season one of Euphoria. However, I do worry that her 
roommate would be weirded out by the way she makes her passive income. 
Earl Warren College: Nate Jacobs
Sorry, Warren students. Nate probably would’ve been drawn to Warren due to its 
prestigious reputation and impressive list of alumni. However, his impression of 
the college would quickly fade once he realizes how far away he is from Maddy.  Now that Euphoria season two is being released, it’s time for us all to reflect 
on what is really important: discussing which Euphoria characters would be in 
which UC San Diego colleges. Unfortunately, I’ve never seen any Euphoria character 
actually study, so them going to UCSD is just a fun way to use your imagination. That 
being said, which characters will be competing alongside you at Unolympics next What UCSD Colleges Would Euphoria Characters Be In?
Warning: This article contains spoilers for Euphoria season one and episodes one and two of season two  
By Samantha Phan
Contributing Lifestyle Writer
Photo by Peter Bucks from Unsplash
This man is super possessive, and would not be able to handle having to walk 10 
minutes to see his on-again, off-again girlfriend. Honestly, I think being in Warren 
would help Nate a lot, seeing that one of the college’s goals is “striving towards a life 
in balance.” From what we saw in season one, Nate could do with a bit of balance. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College:  Cassie Howard
I feel like Cassie would have applied to UCSD with Revelle or Marshall as her first 
choice because she wanted to stick with Maddy or Kat. After ending up in ERC, 
she probably would have been a bit sad due to separating from her friends, 
especially Maddy (because Maddy is “her best friend”). However, given some 
time, she would learn to love ERC. She wouldn’t even mind being far away from 
her friends because, honestly, it doesn’t look like their friendship means that much 
to her anyways. 
Sixth College:  Fezco
I feel like this one is kind of self-explanatory. Fez knows everyone and everyone 
knows Fez, so it would make sense that he is in one of the most social colleges on 
campus. Fez loves to have fun, so he would definitely enjoy hanging out with Sixth 
students. If he went to UCSD, he would probably have to stop being a drug dealer, 
but honestly, that’s for the best. 
Seventh College: Jules Vaughn
And finally, my favorite character. We all know that Jules wanted to go to 
fashion school at Parsons, but if she didn’t, she would (obviously) be in 
Seventh College at UCSD. Since Jules loves being in the city, she would 
probably appreciate that Seventh is on the edge of campus, making it easy 
for her to come and go. She probably wouldn’t mind that Seventh is so far 
from everything because she rides her bike everywhere anyways. Let’s just 
hope she doesn’t take the trolley to Mexico and leave Rue behind again. Save y our mo ney fo r 
the weekend.
Get exclusive d eals 
with P rime S tudent.
Food delivery, travel, and other cool deals. 
Start your 6-month trial.
amazon.com/student10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs Cal Poly
at Cal Poly
at NJIT
vs Biola Lancer Joust
vs St. KatherineUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W Basketball
M Volleyball
W Waterpolo
M Tennis7PM
7PM
3PM
9:15AM
11AM1/27
1/27
1/28
1/29
1/29
UC San Diego’s 8th-ranked 
men’s volleyball team faced 
their toughest test of the season 
so far, as they hosted No. 6 
Grand Canyon University, on 
Friday, Jan. 21. But the Tritons 
(2–1) couldn’t stay undefeated 
on the season, suffering a close 
defeat to the GCU Antelopes in 
four sets, 25–21, 25–19, 24–26, 
25–20.
The Tritons entered Friday’s 
game having won both of their 
contests the week prior, a 3–1 
victory over Harvard in the season opener and a straight-
sets defeat of No. 12 Stanford. 
Meanwhile, the Antelopes 
came into the game after two 
3–1 victories against No. 14 
McKendree University and two 
0–3 losses to No. 4 Pennsylvania 
State University.
UCSD started off the 
scoring, as their star senior, 
outside hitter Kyle McCauley, 
drove a kill deftly to the back 
corner to go up 1–0. Both teams 
traded small runs early on in the 
set, but a 7–2 run that started 
with a missed serve from senior 
middle blocker Logan Clark, put 
the Antelopes in the lead, 10–7. 
Down 13–9, however, Clark got 
a kill in the middle off the GCU block, McCauley got an ace, 
and then followed it up with a 
well-placed strike to the back 
line to bring the Tritons within 
one; after a subsequent GCU 
kill, UCSD rattled off 4 more 
points to take a 16–14 lead. But 
the Antelopes got on another 
7–1 run late in the set to take a 
23–19 lead, and they closed out 
the set on a spike to the center 
of the court, 25–21.
GCU kept up their 
momentum in the second set, 
scoring the first three points, 
but two straight Antelope attack 
errors tied the set up at 5 soon 
after. The Tritons got a spark 
midway through the set, down 
10–8, as they scored 4 in a row, capped off by a block by senior 
outside hitter Charlie Siragusa 
that bounced out of bounds off 
a GCU player’s head. But the 
Antelopes responded with 4 
consecutive points of their own, 
and they stayed in the lead for 
the remainder of the set, taking 
the 2–0 lead, 25–19.
Grand Canyon again came 
into the set strong, going up 
5–1 on three consecutive attack 
errors from UCSD, putting the 
Tritons against the wall in a 
must-win set. But two GCU 
errors and a McCauley ace 
put UCSD back into striking 
distance, and they would take 
an 8–7 lead on a towering block 
by senior middle blocker Shane 
Benetz and redshirt junior 
outside hitter Ryan Ka. Both 
teams would battle back and 
forth down the stretch in the 
third set, with neither team 
taking a lead of even 2 points 
until a 3–0 run from GCU put 
them in the lead at 22–20.
But a powerful kill from 
sophomore middle blocker Nick 
Rigo followed by a deft poke 
over the net by Ka, tied the set 
up at 22. The Antelopes, looking 
to put the Tritons away, scored 
a quick kill, and McCauley 
sent the next point flying past 
the end line to set up a match 
point for GCU, giving them two 
opportunities to end the match 
and sweep UCSD. The Tritons 
wouldn’t go away so easily, 
though, with a kill from senior 
outside hitter Wyatt Harrison 
and a block on the next play 
tying the set up at 24. On the 
next point, McCauley made a 
great dig to keep the ball in play, 
and Harrison scored the point 
to give UCSD a set point. On the 
next play, they converted that 
chance as Benetz made a block on the GCU return to hand the 
Tritons set four, 26–24.
With their first set in hand, 
UCSD looked good to open the 
fourth set, going up 4–1 quickly. 
But the Antelopes blitzed the 
Tritons with five consecutive 
points, including three straight 
service aces by their Camden 
Gianni, to make it 6–4. The 
Antelopes extended their lead 
to 4, 11–7, soon after on a 3–0 
run capped off by a kill from 
Gianni. Grand Canyon and 
UCSD traded points down the 
stretch, but the Tritons couldn’t 
equalize as they stayed on the 
back foot. UCSD narrowed the 
lead to 20–18 on an ace from 
freshman setter Gabriel Dyer, 
but they failed to get any closer 
as Gianni closed out the match 
for the Antelopes, 25–20.
McCauley led the Tritons 
with 16 kills in the loss, followed 
by Harrison with 11, and  senior 
setter Blake Crisp had 37 assists. 
Overall, the Tritons out-killed 
the Antelopes 49–45, but they 
were outhit by GCU, .267 to 
.184, making eight more errors.
“I thought we had moments, 
but we just didn’t string enough 
of those together,” said UCSD 
Head Coach Kevin Ring. “I 
think they were the aggressors 
in a variety of different areas, 
from serving to attacking.”
Following the loss to Grand 
Canyon, UCSD will take a two-
game New Jersey road trip to 
take on the New Jersey Institute 
of Technology on Friday, Jan. 
28, and Princeton University 
on Saturday, Jan. 29 on ESPN+, 
before playing the University 
of Southern California in Los 
Angeles on Wednesday, Feb. 2.Triton Volleyball Falls to Grand 
Canyon in Top-10 Battle
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team (6–8, 3–2 Big 
West) lost to California State 
University, Long Beach (11–2, 
4,1 Big West) this past Thursday 
away at the Walter Pyramid in 
their seventh conference game 
of the season. It was a tough 
match-up for the Tritons, who 
struggled against the intense 
CSULBpress. Despite a few 
bright moments and individual 
performances, UCSD was 
frustrated by CSULB’s on-form 
offense and determined defense. 
They were unable to retake the 
lead after losing it at the end 
of the first period; the final 
score was 62–44, the visiting 
side ultimately coming up short 
at full time.
UCSD won first possession 
and began the game with 
real promise. A jumper from 
redshirt senior guard Emily 
Cangelosi kicked off the scoring 
for the Tritons within the first 
minute of play to put the Beach 
on the defensive. The visitors 
added another 12 points to 
their tally before the end of the 
quarter, which included a pair 
of 3-pointers from Cangelosi 
and sophomore guard Parker 
Montgomery. However, despite 
their encouraging start, UCSD 
lost the lead at the tail-end 
of the quarter after CSULB’s 
Justina King netted a successive 
3-pointer and bucket to tie the 
scoreline at 14–14 just before 
the break.
The rest of the game saw the Tritons continue to push, but 
never succeed in catching up 
to the home side. The second 
quarter began with the Beach 
scoring 9 points in a row, pushing 
UCSD into a five-minute spell 
in which they were unable to 
put points on the board. It 
was a smooth 3-pointer from 
senior guard Madison Baxter 
that finally broke the pattern 
with 5:20 left on the clock, but 
CSULBresponded with another 
5 points to again add to their 
lead. Despite another pair of 
jumpers from Emily Cangelosi 
and one from senior guard Julia 
Macabuhay, the half ended with 
the Tritons 10 points down at 
33–23.
The second half saw more 
of the same form from both 
teams: CSULBscored another 
5 points to further increase 
their lead before a three-minute 
period without either team 
scoring went by, book-ended 
by a pair of UCSD 3-pointers 
by Emily Cangelosi and Parker 
Montgomery. However, despite 
lessening the point-differential 
to single digits at one point 
near the end of the quarter, the 
visiting side conceded 14 points 
throughout and only scored 10 
of their own, going into the 
final break down 47–33.
CSULB’s lead never dropped 
below double digits in the final 
quarter, despite freshman guard 
Izzy Forsyth’s 3-pointer and 
senior guard Sydney Brown’s 
bucket, as well as a pair of 
successful free throws from 
both. The Beach maintained 
their definitive lead, scoring 15 
points of their own across the 
period, so with 39 seconds left on the clock, UCSD freshman 
guard Courtni Thompson’s 
jumper for the last points on the 
board wasn’t enough to deny the 
victory to the home side. The 
final buzzer sounded with the 
score 62–44 to CSULB. In the 
end, UCSD was disappointed to 
not build on their emphatic win 
over the University of Hawai’i a 
week prior, but ultimately they 
fell short against a dogged all-
around effort by the Beach.
Despite the scoreline 
throughout, UCSD fought hard 
all evening and produced an 
admirable performance when 
their backs were against the 
wall, but in the end it wasn’t 
enough to catch up to the 
hosts. Emily Cangelosi put 
in an impressive shift for the 
Tritons, scoring a game-high 14 points and earning a team-
high 8 rebounds, with Parker 
Montgomery contributing her 
own 10 points to the scoresheet 
for the visitors. 
It was telling that the lead 
was only relinquished once by 
either team, with CSULBfirmly 
ahead for the majority of the 
game, but the most revealing 
statistics of the night might just 
be those regarding the teams’ 
turnover conversions: CSULB 
scored 24 points off turnovers 
while UCSD scored none. The 
Tritons surrendered possession 
too easily at times and were 
unable to capitalize on several 
moments when the opposition’s 
momentum faltered, a 
combination that created a gap 
too wide to bridge before the 
clock hit full time. However, despite the 
unfortunate outcome on 
Thursday, UCSD channeled 
their frustration into a gritty 
victory just two days later. 
The Tritons’ next tie was a 
spectatorless event the following 
Saturday at home against 
California State University, 
Fullerton, in which they added 
another win to their conference 
record in a tight game that 
ended 64–61 to the home side. 
Senior guard Sydney Brown and 
Julia Macabuhay each put on 
impressive scoring displays for 
UCSD, scoring 18 and 17 points 
on the night, respectively. The 
Tritons are next scheduled to 
play California Polytechnic 
University San Luis Obispo 
away on Thursday, Jan. 27.By Emer Nolan
Staff WriterWomen’s Basketball Struggles Down the Stretch in Long Beach
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego. 
Image courtesy of UC San Diego Athletics. By Praveen Nair
Sports EditorSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 24, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11