THE MARIAS 
ERA
Sometimes we stop and think, 
is this artist even real? The 
Marias surely are, and A&E 
reviews their most recent 
concert. Come check it out and 
see for yourself what the hype 
is about!
“DON’T SAY GAY” BILL
WORDLE OBSESSIONFLORIDA’S ‘DON’T SAY GAY’ BILL IS A 
DIRECT INSULT TO PROGRESSION
I DID WORDLE EVERY MORNING FOR A WEEKOPINION,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE““I am one of those 
students. I’m a first-
generation American, the 
child of immigrants who 
came to the U.S. with 
limited financial resources, 
and I know how the SAT 
Suite of Assessments 
opened doors to colleges, 
scholarships, and 
educational opportunities 
that I otherwise never 
would have known about 
or had access to.”
- PRISCILLA RODRIGUEZ
NEWS, PAGE 3A & E,   PAGE  7
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF RAYAIMAGE COURTESY OF RAYA
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
ONLINE SAT...................3
TREATING PATIENTS... .5
ADHD & OSD.................6
MOONFALL...................8
UCSD VS. USC...........11VOLUME 55, ISSUE 16   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 7, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
The director of Chabad at UC San Diego, 
a Jewish Student Center, pled guilty to 
wire fraud charges on January 26th. 
Rabbi Yehuda Hadjadj admitted to conspiring 
with Rabbi Yisroel Goldstein, former director of 
Chabad at Poway, in a wire fraud scheme. 
“The defendant abused his status and connec -
tions to help facilitate a years-long fraud scheme,” 
FBI Special Agent Suzanne Turner said in a press 
release by the United States Attorney's Office of 
California’s Southern District, which is currently 
prosecuting the case. 
According to the press release, the scheme ex -
ploited a corporate matching program by Qual -
comm, where the company would match dona -
tions made by conspirators to Goldstien’s charity, 
Friendship Circle.
“Shortly after the donor wrote the check, Had -
jadj returned all or most of the donation in cash,” 
the statement explained.  “The donors would […] 
request that Qualcomm match the sham donation.  
After Qualcomm matched the sham donations to 
Friendship Circle, Rabbi Goldstein funneled [..] 
two- thirds of the matched funds back to Hadjadj, 
keeping one third for himself.”
Hadjadj helped operate the scheme between 
2010 and 2017, according to the official plea agree -
ment. During this time period Hadjadj recruited 
up to three donors and used the cash from the 
scheme to help fund Chabad at UCSD. 
“To conceal the true recipient of the matched 
funds, Hadjadj told the donors to write checks to 
Friendship Circle [...]  Hadjadj fraudulently ob -
tained approximately $40,000 for Chabad at UCSDover the course of the scheme,” the press release con -
tinued.
When contacted by /T_he UCSD Guardian for fur -
ther comment, an oﬃcial representative from the 
U.S. Attorney’s Oﬃce oﬀered no further information 
outside of the public record.
Chabad at UCSD has operated since 1993 as a 
Jewish campus organization that “provides an excit -
ing variety of social, educational, and cultural pro -
gramming for students.” /T_he organization is aﬃliat -
ed with the greater Chabad, an international Hasidic 
Jewish religious movement, but establishes itself as 
open to Jewish students of all aﬃliations. 
According to Assistant Director of University Com -
munications Erika Johnson, Chabad at UCSD is not 
currently registered with the Center for Student In -
volvement. 
“Many of our spiritual groups have a community 
advisor aﬃliated with an oﬀ-campus organization or 
congregation; however, [...] Hadjadj is not currently 
listed as the student organization’s community advi -
sor,” Johnson said. “[Chabad at UCSD] has not host -
ed any Center for Student Involvement-approved 
events on campus since Fall of 2018,”
“We are not aware of the relationship between 
Rabbi Yehuda Hadjadj and the organization and we 
do not know the impact on the future operations of 
the organization,” Johnson continued.
Chabad at UCSD did not reply when reached for 
comment. As of the time this article was written, no 
one else involved with Chabad at UCSD is believed 
to be connected to the scheme. Hadjadj is awaiting 
sentencing and will be arraigned on April 18, 2022.CAMPUS RESEARCH
By Isaiah Irizarry  /gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Director of Chabad at UCSD Pleads Guilty to 
Fraud Charges
CALIFORNIA POLITICSUCSD Health Studies 
Cannabis 
Consumption on 
Driving Ability
By KAITLIN LEE
/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00015/gid00006/gid00024/gid00020/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
A two-year study found that at 
least 50% of subjects who smoked 
cannabis with THC in a random -
ized clinical trial had a signi/f_i -
cantly diminished ability to drive 
compared to subjects who took a 
placebo cigarette. /T_his study was 
conducted at the UC San Diego 
Center for Medical Cannabis Re -
search (CMCR) and was published 
in the Jan. 26 online issue of JAMA 
Psychiatry. 
Before this study, there were a 
number of small studies that exam -
ined learning, attention, and speed 
of processing under the in/f_luence 
of cannabis. Several studies before 
this one that focused on driving 
ability looked at how drivers swerve 
or adapt to a car in front of them.
“/T_his groundbreaking research 
indicates that cannabis use does 
impair driving ability, but factors 
diﬀer from alcohol,” said Califor -
nia State Assemblymember Tom 
Lackey said. “It also underscores 
the need for further research on 
this topic. Policymakers still need 
a better understanding of the ef -
fects of diﬀerent ways of consum -
ing higher concentration products 
to charter a path forward.”
However, CMCR co-director 
and Professor /T_homas Marcotte 
explained that the studies were 
limited in their ability to represent 
accurate real-world cannabis usage. 
“Many of those studies were 
done with occasional users,” Mar -
cotte noted. “So one of the goals of 
our study was to really approximate 
real-world circumstances where 
someone who is a regular user will 
smoke to a desired highness and 
we wanted to see how does being 
acutely high will aﬀect their perfor -
mance.” Furthermore, co-author 
Professor Robert Fitzgerald noted 
that the percentage of cannabis in 
the cigarettes used was higher than 
the amount of cannabis used in 
previous studies. 
“Most previous studies used 
marijuana that was typically 3 or 
6% THC by content,” Fitzgerald ex -
plained. “We were using a [5.9] and 
a 13.4% cannabis, which is closer 
to what’s available in the dispensa -
ries.”
Researchers recruited 191 regu -
lar cannabis users, ages 21 to 55 
years old, to smoke a cannabis ciga -
rette a/f_ter abstaining for 48 hours. 
/T_he percent concentration of can -
nabis in the cigarette varied in three 
amounts: 13.4%, 5.9%, and a place -
bo of 0.02% THC. A/f_ter smoking, 
subjects went through a simulation 
presented on a Driving Simulator Single Payer Healthcare Bill Stalls in California State Assembly
By JOSE CHAVEZ
/gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
/T_he California State Assembly stalled action on 
a bill that would have guaranteed medical coverage 
to every state resident via a single payer healthcare 
system a few days before the deadline on Jan.uary 
31st. In light of this, public health experts expect that 
national debate on healthcare reform could lead to 
the development of similar bills that close the gap 
between Californians without insurance.
Assembly Bill 1400 (AB 1400), also known as the “California Guaranteed Health Care for All Act, ” 
would have created a publicly -/f_inanced healthcare 
system called “CalCare. ” /T_he system would be run by 
nine voting members appointed by the Secretary of 
California Health and Human Services that are well 
-established in state health care and the medical /f_ield. 
California State Assemblyman (D-San Jose) Ash 
Kalra, decided to revoke the bill’s /f_loor vote a/f_ter he pre -
dicted it was “double-digits” below the 41 vote threshold 
necessary for it to pass. Kalra declined several requests 
to elaborate upon his decision and whether or not...
See CALIFORNIA POLITICS , page 2 See RESEARCH , page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  System (Systems Technology, 
Inc) for approximately 25 minutes. 
/T_he simulation required partici -
pants to maintain their lane posi -
tion and speed in a straight roadway 
while responding to a divided atten -
tion task on an iPad on the dash -
board. /T_hroughout the day, a/f_ter 
diﬀerent intervals of time, subjects 
would go through the simulation 
again, doing so multiple times. 
/T_heir performance was mea -
sured by several diﬀerent variables, 
such as the measures of variation of 
lateral position and speed, and the 
number of correct divided attention 
stimuli identi/f_ied while driving. All 
of these were calculated into a score 
to encompass the driving perfor -
mance; the higher the score, the 
worse the performance. 
/T_here were several main take -
aways from this study. One was that 
impairment is present even in indi -
viduals who are regular users, yet 
not all of those who were high were 
signi/f_icantly impaired: 57 out of the 
125 individuals who smoked THC 
would be classi/f_ied as impaired at 30 
minutes a/f_ter inhalation. 
Additionally, many people at the 
beginning reported they were hesi -
tant to drive, Marcotte noted. 
“Roughly 50% of the people 
would not go on the road a/f_ter 
smoking and felt they were too im -
paired,” Marcotte said.  “However, 
at 90 minutes a/f_ter smoking, they 
started feeling the impairment was 
wearing oﬀ.” 
However, the performance in 
the simulator did not change from 
the 30-minute and the one1 hour 
and 30-minute marks, despite what 
subjects claimed. Both groups of 
smokers with cannabis in the ciga -
rette performed signi/f_icantly worse 
than the placebo group at 30 min -
utes. Additionally, performance 
didn’t diﬀer between the two diﬀer -
ent levels of cannabis content, sug -
gesting that the levels of cannabis 
intake resulted in comparable levels 
of highness. 
/T_he impairment lasted until 
about four and a half hours for the 
entire group, with some individu -
als feeling less impaired a/f_ter three 
and a half hours. However, the paper 
notes that at three and a half hours, 
the THC groups’ driving was no 
longer signi/f_icantly diﬀerent from 
the placebo group’s driving.
Generally, the paper noted 
there was no relationship between 
THC blood concentration and im -
pairment. For instance, those who 
smoked the 5.9% concentration 
had a higher blood concentration 
than those who smoked the higher 
dose, showing that THC content in 
cigarettes does not yield an expected 
higher blood concentration. 
Furthermore, the group with the 
highest cannabis usage in the past 
six months had signi/f_icantly higher 
THC blood concentrations a/f_ter 
smoking but didn’t perform worse 
than those with lower THC blood 
concentrations; this suggests behav -
ioral tolerance. However, those in 
this group compensated by ingest -
ing more THC, and thus were still as 
debilitated as other users. 
“People who are regular users 
believe that because they use all of 
the time, they don’t get as stoned 
with the same amount of THC as 
someone who’s an infrequent user, 
and we actually found that is true,” 
Marcotte explained. “But then they 
ingested more THC to get that level 
of highness. So in the end, they’re 
just as impaired as the other group 
even though they have developed 
this tolerance.” 
/T_his /f_inding is signi/f_icant be -
cause this acts as evidence against 
“per se” laws. Per se laws establish a statutory violation if a legal standard is 
breached, such as blood-alcohol concen -
tration in driving under the influence 
laws. This finding shows that when it 
comes to policing cannabis intake and 
driving, different laws may have to be 
made since impairment can’tcouldn’t 
be deduced by cannabis content in 
cigarettes, behavioral tolerance, or THC 
blood concentrations.  
When asked how to police driving 
under the influence, Fitzgerald stated 
that he thinks that it comes down to 
both officer observations of driving per -
formance as well as toxicology testing. 
“Having a set cut point and you’ re 
above this level you’ re impaired, you’ re 
below this level you’ re not impaired –  
— is not scientifically valid,” Fitzgerald 
stated. “That comes down to a combina -
tion of officer observations along with 
toxicology testing.”
Marcotte added that the study pro -
vides valuable information to users, 
warning them that they are not always 
the best judges of their ability to drive. 
He also noted users should know that 
a couple of hours after smoking may be 
the riskiest time to drive. 
“ An important thing for users to 
know is [that] because you’re an expe -
rienced user does not necessarily mean 
you’ re going to be less impaired. If you 
smoke to a level of highness, you still can 
be a danger ,” Marcotte saidstated. 
The paper notes there were several 
limitations with the study . Despite the 
sample’ s range of how often subjects 
used cannabis, it didn’t include infre -
quent users, those who smoke medici -
nally , and nonusers. Subjects were told to 
get to a level of highness as they would casually at home, meaning that the  
study didn’t address controlled dos -
ing or very elevated levels of highness. 
Additionally, effects on vision and 
cognition were not measured, and no 
measurements were taken between an 
hour and 30 minutes to three3 hours 
and 30 minutes after smoking. 
Marcotte stated that there will be 
an additional study looking into the 
combined effects of alcohol and can -
nabis on drivers. 
“Quite often, you do not find can -
nabis alone in impaired drivers on the 
road. It’s usually a combination of al -
cohol or some other substance,” Mar -
cotte explained. “W e have a new study 
starting up to look at the combination 
of alcohol and cannabis, and seeing 
whether you can be an alcohol level be -
low the legal limit and officially, you’re 
fine at least in terms of the blood lev -
els. But what happens when you have 
some THC onboard as well?” 
In the future, the paper notes that 
research should look into different fac -
tors relating to driving behavior such 
as biological differences, personal ex -
perience with cannabis, and cannabis 
intake methods. 
In terms of biological differences, 
Marcotte noted that there may be ge -
netic, metabolic, or sex-based differ -
ences in how people process THC, but 
there have been few studies investigat -
ing this. 
Fitzgerald elaborated that they’re 
interested in studying other methods 
of ingesting cannabis, such as oral 
routes like gummies and edibles in 
addition to highly concentrated forms 
like vapes and concentrated butane 
hash oil (also known as dabs). Howev -
er, he and Marcotte noted that study -
ing vapes and dabs would be difficult 
on a federal level. 
 “We cannot touch those products 
because they are federally illegal, but as 
you know vaping, dabbing gives you 
a concentrated THC, and there are 
many edibles that have yet to be inves -
tigated,” Marcotte clarified. 
T o see more of the research done 
by the CMCR, you can find their web -
site here. For more information on 
the effects of cannabis on users, you 
can refer to this list by UC San Diego 
Health. 
he would seek another path forward 
for his proposal.
“Despite heavy opposition and 
substantial misinformation from 
those that stand to pro/f_it from our 
current healthcare system, we were 
able to ignite a realistic and achiev -
able path toward single payer and 
bring AB 1400 to the /f_loor of the 
Assembly,” Kalra said in a statement 
reported by the Los AngelesA Times. 
“However, it became clear that we did 
not have the votes necessary for pas -
sage and I decided the best course of 
action is to not put AB 1400 for a vote 
today.”
/T_he bill’s passing would have set 
California on the path to establish 
the /f_irst single payer health care sys -
tem in the United States. Unlike uni -
versal health care, health coverage 
claims under single payer systems are 
covered by a single entity —– under 
AB 1400, theyit would have ’ve been 
covered by the California State Gov -
ernment.
CalCare would have provided 
a wide range of bene/f_its that merge 
current federal and state provisions 
into one program, including but 
not limited to the federal Children’s 
Health Insurance Program, Medi-
Cal. Under current circumstances, 
an estimated 2.5 million of Califor -
nia residents don’t have coverage due 
to high costs of insurance. All resi -
dents in California are entitled to the 
bene/f_its of CalCare, regardless of any 
pre-existing conditions or their cur -
rent immigration status.
While single payer systems are 
o/f_ten /f_inanced through income tax 
receipts, most countries have uti -
lized a mixed model where the gov -
ernment pays some of the nation’s 
claims. Only Canada, South Korea, 
and Taiwan have true single payer 
systems, while other countries like 
Germany, Spain, and other Europe -
an countries have a mixed system of 
public and private /f_inancing. 
/T_he bill was struck down in the 
State Assembly primarily on the basis 
of higher taxes. /T_he Tax Foundation, 
an independent tax policy nonpro/f_it, 
found that AB 1400 taxes would in -
crease taxes by $12,250 statewide, 
nearly doubling California’s tax col -
lections. /T_he taxes imposed would 
also have required voter approval.
Although there is no direct study 
of the tax impact of single payer on 
Americans, the Fraser Institute in 
Canada performs an annual esti -
mate of the cost of its single payer 
system. /T_he reported cost of public 
/f_inancing widely ranges from $3,789 
for a single individual up to $12,055 
for a two parent household with one 
dependent. A family of four pays, on 
average, $11,735 in taxes for health care in Canada.
/T_he bill also became a hot-but -
ton issue among powerful interests 
and partisan -circles. /T_he California 
Chamber of Commerce labeled AB 
1400 a “job killer” shortly a/f_ter it was 
introduced earlier last month, signal -
ing it would be a top priority to defeat. 
/T_he lobbying campaign was led by 
dozens of insurers, industry groups, 
and associations representing doctors 
actively denouncing the “crippling tax 
increases” necessary to /f_inance the 
system.
Some medical groups such as the 
California Nurses Association sup -
ported the bill and condemned the 
motives of representatives who voted 
against it.
“ Assembly Member Ash Kalra, 
the main author of the bill, chose not 
to hold a vote on this bill at all, provid -
ing cover for those who would have 
been forced to go on the record about 
where they stand,” the union wrote 
in a statement reported by the Sac -
ramento Bee. “Nurses condemn this 
failure by elected representatives to 
put patients above pro/f_its.”
Republicans like Assembly Re -
publican Leader Marie Waldron of 
Escondido constructed AB 1400 to 
become a major issue for the midterm 
elections this year. Embodying an 
anti-tax-hike message, Assembly Re -
publicans brought a 4,000-page peti -ition signed by voters who opposed AB 
1400 to the chamber for the Assembly 
Republican Leader to use as a prop 
during the /f_loor debate.
“Even though this plan is dead for 
now , every Democrat who supported 
it will have to answer for their eﬀort to 
end Medicare, kick 20 million Califor -
nians oﬀ their existing plans, require 
the largest tax increase in state history 
and put bureaucrats in charge of health 
care, ” W aldron said in a statement. 
“/T_hank you to the 4,900 hardworking 
Californians who signed our petition 
to stop this bill. Y our voices were heard 
and made a diﬀerence. ”
Researchers from UC San Fran -
cisco, UCLA, and UC Berkeley ex -
amined 22 economic analyses by 
various organizations evaluating 
national and state-level single payer 
plans, including proposals in Califor -nia, Maryland, Vermont, Minne -
sota, Pennsylvania, New York, and 
Oregon. /T_he researchers ultimately 
found that 19 of the 22 models pre -
dicted net savings a/f_ter single payer 
plans were enacted, averaging 3.5 
percent of total healthcare spending 
annually.
“Even though they start with 
diﬀerent single designs and model -
ing assumptions, the vast majority 
of these studies all come to the same 
conclusion,” said James G. Kahn, 
M.D., MPH, a professor in the UCSF 
dDepartment of eEpidemiology and 
bBiostatistics, and a member of the 
Philip R. Lee Health Policy Insti -
tute. “/T_his suggests that fears that a 
single-payer system would increase 
costs are likely misplaced.”
Although Assemblyman Kalra is 
uncertain of the future of AB 1400, /uni25B6 CALIFORNIA POLITICS , from page 1/uni25B6 RESEARCH , from page 1NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Californian Governor Gavin 
Newsom is committed to imple -
menting a single payer healthcare 
system and is waiting on a report“/T_he facts are on our side that 
a single-payer system will save 
money and lives — and the people 
are on our side that meaningful“California’s Health California 
for All Commission” detailing 
diﬀerent health care models the 
state could pursue in the future. healthcare reform is urgently 
needed, ” Kalra reassured. “Espe -
cially with four democratic va -
cancies in the Assembly, the votes were not there today, but we will 
not give up. ”
COLLEGE ADMISSIONS
SAT Goes Digital 
By JOSE CHAVEZ
/gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
On Jan. 25, the College Board 
announced that the SAT Suite of 
Assessments will  soon be going 
online. Starting in 2023 for in -
ternational students  and in 2024 
for domestic students , the digital 
SAT will have a shorter duration 
of two hours, abridged reading 
passages with only one ques -
tion per passage, and a built-in 
Desmos calculator for the math 
section. Educators and students 
will also see reduced turnaround 
time, receiving their scores in a 
matter of days rather than weeks. 
Despite the  digital transfor -
mation, the SAT will still have 
to be taken at a school or testing 
center. Students will be given the 
option to test on a school-issued 
device, a personal laptop, or a 
personal computer. /T_his choice 
is in response to concerns about 
students having varying abilities 
to access three hours of high-
quality Internet and power.
/T_his decision follows students’ 
and educators’ positive response 
to the digital SAT the College 
Board piloted globally in Novem -
ber last year. According to the 
College Board, students reported 
/f_inding the digital SAT less stress -
ful than the traditional physical 
format, and educators responded 
that the tests were more conve -
nient to administer. 
In a Jan. 25 press release, Pris -
cilla Rodriguez, vice president of 
College Readiness Assessments 
at College Board, lauded the new 
SAT’s relevance and improved 
test-taking experience. 
“We’re not simply putting the 
current SAT on a digital platform 
— we’re taking full advantage of what delivering an assessment 
digitally makes possible,” Rodri -
guez said. “With input from edu -
cators and students, we are adapt -
ing to ensure we continue to meet 
their evolving needs.” 
However, the bene/f_its Rodri -
guez touted do not seem to be 
distributed equally amongst all 
students. According to the Col -
lege Board’s 2019 report compar -
ing students’ performance on the 
SAT® Suite of Assessments across 
pencil-and-paper and computer-
based modes of administration, 
Hispanic students tended to per -
form better on the pencil-and-
paper test than they did on the 
computerized version. Students 
whose /f_irst language was not 
English also scored better on the 
physical reading tests.
/T_he College Board’s shi/f_t on -
line arrives in time with a grow -
ing discussion among educators 
and students alike about equity 
in and access to higher education, 
as the COVID-19 pandemic con -
tinues to spotlight higher educa -
tion’s entrenched inequities. 
During the COVID-19 pan -
demic, the widespread cancella -
tions of standardized tests have 
in/f_luenced colleges to re-evaluate 
their admissions processes and 
prompted more colleges to aban -
don standardized testing. Ac -
cording to the National Center 
for Fair & Open Testing, more 
than 1,800 colleges have decided 
to forgo mandatory standardized 
testing.
More recently, the UC Board 
of Regents’ unanimously decided 
to halt the use of SAT and ACT for admissions decisions 
within the University of Califor -
nia. /T_his is due to evidence that 
such testing has led the UC sys -
tem to further marginalize stu -
dents of color and low-income 
students during the admissions 
process. Given that the UC sys -
tem received around 250,000 ap -
plications last year, this decision 
will likely lead to a large reduc -
tion in demand for standardized 
testing. 
/T_he impact of eliminating the 
examination requirement can al -
ready be seen at UC San Diego: 
the Fall 2021 cycle marked the 
highest number of applications 
in UCSD’s history, and more than 
one-third of /f_irst-year and over 
half of transfer students admitted 
for Fall 2021 were /f_irst-generation 
students.
However, Rodriguez believes 
the College Board still has a role 
to play in improving access to 
higher education, and said they 
are committed  to serving stu -
dents from all socioeconomic 
backgrounds. 
“/T_he SAT allows every student 
— regardless of where they go 
to high school — to be seen and 
to access opportunities that will 
shape their lives and careers,” Ro -
driguez said. “I am one of those 
students. I’m a /f_irst-generation 
American, the child of immi -
grants who came to the U.S. with 
limited /f_inancial resources, and 
I know how the SAT Suite of As -
sessments opened doors to colleg -
es, scholarships, and educational 
opportunities that I otherwise 
never would have known about or 
had access to. We want to keep those same doors of opportunity open 
for all students.”
Y et, when speaking to The UCSD 
Guardian, Sixth College freshman 
Hieu Pham explained that there were 
numerous factors beyond students’ 
control that could influence their SA T 
scores. 
“There were people who were 
put at a disadvantage because of their 
school’s academic fundings, [their] fo -
cus on extracurriculars, and even finan -
cial needs[,] which is just disappointing 
to think about…[The SATs] don’t en -
tirely measure the determination and 
individuality of each student, [so] I don ’t 
find them relevant, ” Pham said.
Pham also spoke on their experi -
ence taking the SAT, and asserted that 
they believed it didn ’t accurately reflect 
one ’ s character and individuality . 
“[I] spent most of my time studying 
for my AP classes and working[,] so I 
never really set time apart to study for 
the SA T …I definitely felt like I was put 
at a disadvantage, ” Pham said.  “Stan -
dardized tests like the SA T/ACT are 
designed in a way that if you study how 
to take it, you’ll get better scores. I didn ’t 
get the time to really study any online 
material or go to any boot camps…
Once I heard that the UCs were drop -
ping/ making admissions SAT/ACT 
optional, I felt completely relieved. The 
SA T never tested what I knew and was 
passionate about as a unique individual, 
but rather, [whether I was] a good test-
taker. ”
T o find out more information 
about the dDigital SAT Suite of Assess -
ments, students can visit the College 
Board’ s website.
Students can also find out more 
about the UC System’s admission pro -
cess by visiting the University of Califor -
nia ’ s website to learn more. 
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
Censorship within public 
education has been a repetitive 
issue. It seems like every year, 
a school board or federal 
entity takes it upon themselves 
to dictate what educational 
materials belong in classrooms 
and which ones do not. However, 
Florida’s legislators have recently 
crossed the line with the creation 
of a new proposed bill designed 
to completely silence any 
discussions of sexuality or gender 
identity in primary schools at the 
expense of students’ education 
and society’s social progression. 
Despite being rooted in 
homophobia and unacceptable 
levels of censorship, the bill, 
known as the “Don’t Say Gay” 
bill, has continually moved 
forward within the legal process. 
After passing through multiple 
committees that deemed the 
bill acceptable, it was handed 
off to the Judiciary Committee 
for review, which places it 
dangerously close to passing. Joe 
Harding, member of the Florida 
House of Representatives, is the primary sponsor of the 
legislation. According to the 
bill’s text, written by Harding, its 
main intention is to strengthen 
parents’ control over their 
children’s education and return 
the parental right to make 
decisions on what material is 
reviewed in schools. Thus, the 
bill encourages parents to take 
serious legal action against 
school districts that violate 
the rules of the proposed bill, 
adding a significant monetary 
consequence to already 
underfunded public schools to 
ensure complete compliance 
from teachers and staff. 
However, parents are not 
the most reliable sources, and 
personal biases may prevent 
them from discontinuing a 
generational cycle of ignorance. 
The purpose of education has 
always been about ensuring 
the development of a person 
by supplying them with the 
necessary information and 
resources to properly grow 
and mature into a functioning 
member of society, and sexuality 
and gender identity are a natural 
part of development. A child 
normally enters the first stage 
of gender identity development around the age of two as they 
begin to notice the physical 
differences between sexes. By the 
age of three, they are starting 
to become familiar with their 
own sex label, and, by the age 
of four, they have a general 
sense of their gender identity. 
These are crucial learning years 
for children and they should 
be given a reliable, unbiased, 
and fully informed space to 
learn about and safely discuss 
sexuality and gender identity. 
Choosing to ignore and silence 
these discussions surrounding 
a critical portion of a child’s 
forming identity is harmful to 
the education system as a whole 
and directly goes against what 
schools were designed to do by 
breeding ignorance and stunting 
students’ development. 
Historically, implementing 
measures to prevent dialogue 
regarding sexuality and gender 
identity has not delivered 
favorable outcomes. Take, for 
example, the “Don’t Ask, Don’t 
Tell” bill created by President 
Bill Clinton in 1993. The bill 
ended the ban on members of 
the LGBTQ+ serving in the 
American military by creating 
a “compromise” where these individuals were welcomed into 
the services at the expense of 
hiding their identity. If they were 
discovered to be gay by collegues 
or administrators, they were 
immediately discharged, which 
created a sense of fearfulness 
and shame in soldiers who 
were forced to hide their 
identity. Similar to the “Don’t 
Say Gay” bill, this legislation 
ultimately reinforced the stigma 
surrounding homosexuality 
by supporting silence and 
intensifying the preconception 
that being gay is something to 
be ashamed of and kept hidden. 
While the bill was repealed 
by President Barack Obama 
in 2010, it seems reactionary 
politics have now come full 
circle with the “Don’t Say Gay” 
bill, and its reversion to previous 
discriminations. 
Furthermore, the bill makes 
the argument that sexuality 
and gender identity are 
“inappropriate” topics to discuss 
in primary school. However, there 
are various ways to introduce 
complex topics like sexuality 
and gender identity to children 
in an age appropriate manner 
that is conducive to learning 
and development. Silence is the opposite approach. Dr. Wanjiku 
Njoroge, an adjunct professor 
at Yale and program director 
of the Department of Child 
and Adolescent Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences at Children’s 
Hospital of Philadelphia, said 
the following in response to 
the question of discussing race 
with children, “In the absence 
of these conversations, silence is 
powerful: If they hear nothing 
about race, they figure out that 
there’s something different 
about that topic. And that 
difference can become imbued 
with negativity.” Similar logic 
can be applied to sexuality and 
gender identity. Children should 
feel supported in their identity, 
not apologetic for it.  
Overall, censorship in 
public schools would do a great 
disservice to future generations 
and the education of these 
children. School is designed to 
be a place of learning; discourse 
and discussion are vital to 
development. Ultimately, no 
government official or otherwise 
should be able to stand in the 
way of a child’s education and 
the production of well-educated 
individuals. By Marcella Barncelo 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Florida’s ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Bill is a 
Direct Insult to ProgressionOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
A common phrase you hear 
surrounding mental health is 
“don’t be afraid to ask for help.” 
Yet, why is help that isn’t scary so 
hard to find? In this generation, 
mental health has definitely 
become easier to talk about. 
Both through social media 
and in real life, more people 
are willing to open up and talk 
about the commonalities and 
struggles mental health has 
brought upon  them. However, it 
seems as though intense mental 
health treatment hasn’t caught 
up to current times. Why is it 
that suicidal indivduals are still 
being sent to the emergency 
room by police when they 
should be treated with a different 
approach? This needs to change.
First of all, the process of 
even getting to the emergency 
room to get evaluated can be 
traumatizing, especially if the 
person has made a suicide 
attempt or has suicidal ideations. 
Often times the first point of 
contact for a suicidal patient is 
the police. Even at UC San Diego, 
when mental health services find 
out that a student is suicidal, 
they will automatically call the 
police to access the situation and typically take the student to the 
emergency room to get evaluated. 
Someone who is clearly not in a 
good mindset is likely not going 
to want to get bombarded by 
people in police uniforms with 
loaded guns. This gives the 
indication that the person who 
is suffering is a criminal instead 
of a person and is being treated 
as such, like they have done 
something wrong. Police officers 
do not know how to handle 
these situations well in the first 
place because their purpose 
is inherently to reprimand 
criminals and encompassing 
situations. They add nothing 
to the situation other than fear 
placed upon the suicidal person. 
Not only is their presence scary 
for the individuals, but getting 
driven to the ER in a police 
car with bars is not a good 
message to send to someone who 
is struggling. If one is feeling 
suicidal, wouldn’t it be a good 
idea to escort the person to the 
evaluation in comfort? Bars and 
plastic seat backs in a police car 
don’t exactly scream “comfort”. 
In some cases of suicide attempts 
or ideation, the individuals are 
even handcuffed on their way to 
the ER. 
The next step of getting 
help in this path is going to the 
emergency room to get evaluated; 
the emergency room where every By Catalina Fogg
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045other kind of physical trauma or 
injury goes to get evaluated. This 
is inherently overwhelming, 
being in a fast paced and high 
stress environment where 
others around you are clearly 
in pain or in distress. There 
is clearly a reason people tend 
to be scared of the doctor’s 
office. The environment of a 
hospital is cold and harsh, with 
uncomfortable hospital beds, 
intense waiting rooms, and a 
sterile smell lingering in the air. 
This is not an ideal environment 
for anyone, let alone someone 
struggling from mental health. 
In this day and age of 
COVID-19, the emergency 
rooms can be more crowded and 
overfilled, with an increasing 
danger of exposure to patients 
and loved ones. Sometimes there 
can even be a lack of rooms with 
patients having to wait out in the 
hall or even get their care and 
evaluation out in the hall. It is 
unnecessary that mental health 
patients be evaluated in these 
circumstances, witnessing and 
hearing the stressful physical 
situations happening around 
them. This is why the ER is 
not an ideal place for a suicidal 
individual to go. There should 
be certain designated centers 
which are specifically made for 
suicidal individuals or those in 
mental crisis. In these centers, the surroundings should be 
comforting and cozy to allow 
the individual to relax and feel 
comfortable opening up and 
receiving help. Being in an 
environment where everyone 
is there for the same reason 
as you could be comforting to 
individuals who feel like they 
are alone, as well as being in a 
safe place that isn’t as traumatic 
or scary as going to the ER. The 
care needed for mental health 
patients is drastically different 
than care needed for normal 
patients and should be treated as such. The same evaluations 
could occur but just in a more 
comfortable and appropriate 
setting for the situation that isn’t 
as stress inducing. If this was the 
case, maybe so many individuals 
wouldn’t be as scared to ask for 
help when they really do need it. 
Mental health patients are not 
criminals and it’s time they stop 
being treated as such. Mental 
health should be handled with 
care and sensitivity, something 
a busy emergency room is not 
bound to provide. Change Needed for Treating 
Suicidal Patients 
Image courtesy of Martha Dominguez / Unsplash.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
When current sophomore UC 
San Diego student Nicole Muir 
was six years old, her first grade 
teacher suspected Muir had 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD). After relaying 
this to Muir’s mom, Muir ended 
up getting tested and was officially 
diagnosed with ADHD and has 
been living with it ever since.
Her ADHD and medication 
impacts her life in a myriad 
of ways; – the medication 
makes her fidgety, she tends 
to be hyperactive, and without 
medication, she has trouble 
paying attention. Her ADHD also 
increases the likelihood of having 
anxiety and depression, both of 
which she has dealt with in her life. 
Prior to college, Muir did not 
ask for or receive accommodations 
for her ADHD. She felt bad that her 
mom would have to go through 
a lot of administrative work, 
including dealing with forms 
from the doctor and her school, 
and it felt like too much of a hassle. 
“I could have done it for 
the SAT or the ACT , but it’s 
just a lot of paperwork and 
it’s such a process to get those 
accommodations,” Muir told The 
UCSD Guardian. “I had friends 
who took advantage of those 
accommodations and I’m glad 
that they did, but it just seemed 
like such a process that I didn’t 
feel like I could deal with it and 
have enough control over making 
sure I could get it, so I didn’t.”
After starting at UCSD, 
Muir emailed The Office of 
Students with Disabilities (OSD)  
to ask for accommodations 
due to her ADHD. 
OSD said, in an email to 
The UCSD Guardian, that they 
work “with students who have 
documented disabilities by 
reviewing documentation and, 
through an interactive process 
with the student, [determine] 
reasonable accommodations.”
In line with this protocol, Muir was interviewed by an 
OSD counselor, which took 
approximately an hour. She 
then got paperwork filled out 
by the therapist she sees for 
her anxiety and the psychiatrist 
she sees for her ADHD. 
Muir’s accommodations 
include extended time on tests, 
extensions on assignments when 
necessary, bathroom breaks, a 
separate room to take exams 
in and requesting note-takers. 
In the case of the note-
taking accommodation, Muir 
notes that the OSD expects 
students to find their own 
notetaker at the beginning 
of the quarter. If the student 
can’t find one, they can ask the 
OSD to help —  – this is why 
the emails requesting students 
to be note-takers are sent out 
as late as week four or five. 
An email from the 
OSD stated that students 
with disabilities in areas 
ranging from “psychological, 
psychiatric, learning, attention, 
chronic health, physical, 
vision, hearing, acquired 
brain injuries, and autism are 
eligible for accomodations” 
may request accommodations.  
OSD also cites that the 
accommodations they offer 
include adaptive technology 
(such as screen reading or 
speech recognition software), 
alternative formats (such as 
electronic text, Braille and 
large print), captioning and 
sign language interpreting 
services, note-taking services, 
and exam accommodations.
After Muir first got her 
accommodations during her 
fall quarter of freshman year, 
she received an email asking 
her to get interviewed again. 
She was confused by this, so 
she emailed her counselor 
and was told to ignore it. 
Things went smoothly 
during the winter quarter. Since students have to reapply 
for accommodations every 
quarter, Muir had to ask 
for them again during the 
subsequent spring quarter. 
“You have to reapply for 
your accommodations … that 
frustrates me the most, like I 
have really severe ADHD, my 
condition isn’t really going to 
change, it doesn’t fluctuate 
at all,” Muir told The UCSD 
Guardian. “This is really the 
state that I’m going to be in for a 
long time. I know people usually 
say that ADHD goes away when 
you become an adult, but I 
think, it’s more so that you’ve 
learned to mask the symptoms.” 
Muir emailed the OSD 
asking for accomodations the 
Saturday before spring quarter 
started. Generally, the OSD 
sends students a portal where 
they can fill out their classes 
and desired accommodations. 
Muir anticipated this 
email as a response.
Instead, she received an email 
that told her to redo her forms 
and prove she had ADHD again. 
Since it had been less than 
a year since she had asked 
for accommodations, Muir 
felt like it didn’t make sense, 
especially since her ADHD 
does not change over time.
She emailed her doctor for 
forms, and they were finally 
completed two weeks later, 
which was stressful for her. 
After sending these new forms 
to the OSD, her counselor told 
her that they were incorrect 
because they didn’t have dates on 
them, which was another hassle. 
“I don’t know if it’s like 
bureaucracy or something, but 
there’s something fundamentally 
wrong with the OSD Office,” 
Muir told The UCSD Guardian. 
The inefficiencies of the OSD 
is not just a UCSD phenomenon;, 
it is a problem across all the UC 
campuses. In fact, in order to address these issues, a non-profit 
coalition called UC Access Now 
was founded by Megan Lynch  
(a UCLA alumna and UC Davis 
graduate student) on July 26, 2020 
—  – the 30th anniversary of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act 
—  – to promote “accessibility 
and inclusion for all disabled 
people in the University of 
California community (as 
well as disabled visitors to UC 
locations).” UC Access Now  
continues to advocate for change 
and dismantle bureaucratic 
barriers to accommodations for 
students, staff and faculty that 
are impacted by disabilities.
The OSD stated, in an email 
to The Guardian, that “students 
need to request accommodations 
each quarter;  however, in many 
cases, updated documentation 
is not required,” and also that 
“current students may request 
accommodations for the 
subsequent quarter as soon as 
they register for that quarter.”
Muir feels that the OSD is 
not consistent about emailing 
students about things. 
“I know I’m an adult and I’m 
supposed to be responsible for 
myself, but like, I forget things 
sometimes,” Muir told The UCSD 
Guardian. “I think there’s just 
a little too much responsibility 
put on us as students with 
disabilities than there should be.”
Initially, Muir tried to 
navigate the problem by asking 
why she needed to provide new 
forms in the first place. However, 
she didn’t receive any conclusive 
answers and was scared to 
question authority further.
Muir remembers freaking 
out because she had assessments 
starting as early as Week 3 
in her classes, and wasn’t 
sure if she would receive her 
accommodations by then. 
“I was told by a few people, 
when it was happening, they were 
like maybe you should report your counselor to the OSD office 
or talk to someone higher up,” 
Muir told The UCSD Guardian. 
“I was like I don’t know, I’m just 
a student, I’m just trying to make 
sure I have my accommodations, 
I don’t have the time to be 
dismantling OSD right now. 
I’m just trying to do math.” 
Muir notes that perhaps 
the OSD struggles to operate 
smoothly because they are 
poorly funded. She adds that 
if she were asked to give more 
money to the school in order 
to better fund the OSD and 
ensure everyone has access to an 
equitable education, she would. 
When The UCSD Guardian 
asked OSD about the funding 
they receive, the OSD said that 
there was information available. 
At the end of the day, 
though, Muir is grateful for 
her accommodations because 
it made her “college experience 
a lot easier and her education 
a lot more traversable.” 
However, the number of things 
sitting in the way of receiving 
t hose accommodations 
is of ten daunting. 
“A big thing that I see a lot 
is people finding out that they 
have ADHD or thinking that 
they might have it, and I see a lot 
of students that do have ADHD 
and have had experiences with 
OSD typically caution them and 
be like ‘you need to vouch for 
yourself, you can’t expect them to 
do things for you, or to do things 
that I think most OSD offices at 
other colleges would do,’” Muir 
told the UCSD Guardian. “‘You 
need to make sure you get the 
paperwork even though it might 
not be necessary, you might need 
to do tests.’ People generally say 
‘be prepared, buckle up, it’s not 
gonna be good,’ and it’s really sad 
that these people have to think —  
– is it going to be hard to get these 
accommodations that I deserve?”
Photo courtesy of UCSD.  Navigating ADHD and the OSD
Second year student shares her experiences with the Oﬃce of Disabilities (OSD) at UCSD.Oishee Misra /gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
ELIAS ROMAN
The Marías Concert Review
Do you ever go to a concert and have this thought in mind: they could 
not possibly sound like their recordings. That voice isn’t something you 
could reasonably hear on a live stage. It’s too melodic, too unique. Con -
certs for better or worse seemingly expose an artist’s real vocal dynamic 
behind the veil of production. A good difference sometimes, while oth -
ers… We don't talk about the others. It’s almost as if I were subconsciously 
tempering my expectations. 
When Puerto Rican indie singer María Zardoya stepped to the stage, 
I was afraid that her soft and rich voice would be drowned out by the 
heavy instrumentation. This was a similar concern I had when listening to 
Chvrches and an issue that actually rang true for Clairo. Yet here I stood, 
surrounded by enthusiastic fans hearing The Marías perform a set that re -
minded me of all the reasons why I missed going to concerts throughout 
this pandemic. Her energy, like her genre-defying music, meanders from 
the provocative to the whimsical — swaying everyone in the hall with a 
marriage of Latin pop and psychedelic rock. 
Her command of the stage coupled with the band’s apt setlist made me 
become immediately engrossed with the performance. Choosing “Just a 
Feeling” for their opening song felt absolutely right. Lyricless, the song is 
slow and endearing; it builds a sort of excitement while making you have 
a sense of comfort. The lively resonance of the string instruments elevates 
your body as the guitar interludes ground you again. Paired with “Calling 
You Back,” The Marías prepare the audience for a night of beautiful para -
doxes — the gentle allure of her voice and hard hitting beats that encom -
passes your senses. 
The warm red hues from many of the band’s songs provides a seductive 
charm that draws you in to focus on Zardoya, who dressed and surrounded 
LQUHGEXWWHUÁLHVLVWKHIRFDOSRLQWRIWKHFRQFHUW:LWKKHUGHOLFDWHVPLOH
you feel like she genuinely means it when she says “I wanna make you 
feel alright.” Little by little, The Marías took their time creating a calming 
ambience for the audience and before I even realized, I felt surrounded in 
a tender embrace. 
The atmosphere, lights and her voice blended into a beautiful display of 
what music should always be: an amazing sensory experience that capti -
YDWHV\RXZLWKHYHU\PRPHQW$VÁXLGDVHDFKVRQJIROORZHGLQWRWKHQH[W
The Marías continued to surprise with a trumpet solo that honestly took me 
aback. The brass melody infused a jazz vibe into the soundstage and made 
it all the more entertaining to listen to. From “Un Millón” to her cover of 
Britney Spears’ “Baby One More Time,” I found each song more enjoyable 
than the last. They left the stage leaving me wanting more.
:LWKWKHVXEEDVVUHYHUEHUDWLQJWKHVPRNHÀOOHGVWDJHZKLWHEHDPVRI
light turned into red strobes and The Marías returned for their encore. And 
if not for the technical hiccup between transitions, it would have been a 
perfect rendition of “Hush.” Perhaps I am a bit biased because it’s my fa -
vorite song, but “Hush” felt as though it tied the perfect knot on an already 
amazing set. Mesmerizing us with her seductive voice, Zardoya made cer -
tain that it would be a memorable concert experience.
It’s here that I must also give notable mention to the openers, Rosie 
Tucker and maye, who both had great performances to lead up to The 
Marías. Tucker, whose music is much more pop and rock oriented, led their 
band through a medley of songs that, although unknown to me, were all 
wonderful to listen to. Their relatable interludes while tuning their guitar 
between songs provided the audience with a sense of familiarity. A gentle 
voice that can grow more powerful with the strength of the bass guitar, 
Tucker  sang to her heart’s content. After listening to “Ambrosia” once 
more on the car ride home, I felt as though Tucker is one of those artists 
that has an incredible potential to grow big in the future. 
Following them was maye, who, with her blend of latin and bedroom 
pop, had an eclectic set of songs. While I really wanted to enjoy her set, two 
WKLQJVKHOGPHEDFN7KHÀUVWZDVDURFN\WHFKQLFDOVWDUWDVWKHYROXPHRI
her microphone was too quiet followed by a slightly obnoxious buzz from 
KHUJXLWDULVW·VPLF:KLOHKHUPRUHXSEHDWVRQJVÁRZHGSHUIHFWO\ZHOOKHU
two slower ones — which started and ended the performance — highlight -
ed how her voice struggled to hold a consistent tone. I really enjoy maye’s 
discography but these particular renditions left me disappointed. The cho -
rus felt disjuncted and took away from the overall experience. That being 
said, everything else in her performance was incredibly fun. Mixing Span -
ish and English seamlessly, maye knew how to intertwine the languages 
with the melody. Her band played well with these changes and even had 
their moments to shine — the pianist in particular blew me away.The Marías, coupled with maye and Rosie Tucker, had an awesome per -
formance that highlighted how soft and gentle voices can still carry so 
much sway over an audience. I am excited to see how their music will 
evolve in the coming years. 
/T_he Marías: A
maye: B
Rosie Tucker: A--ANDREW HA /gid00008/gid00022/gid00006/gid00020/gid00021/gid00001/gid00002/gid00129/gid00006/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019/gid00193/gid00015/gid00006/gid00024/gid00020/gid00001/gid00006/gid00005/gid00010/gid00021/gid00016/gid00019
Image courtesy of Raya. 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
As “Spiderman: No Way Home” makes its way towards a historic domestic box-oﬃce haul, 
critics are hailing the return of movie-going. Sitting in a dark room, munching on overpriced 
popcorn, and hearing strangers’ reactions to every slightly-funny joke are just a few joys of the 
experience that had long been halted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Another joy: watching sev -
eral minutes of movie trailers while you wait for the main event. One trailer that’s had vari -
ous /f_ilm-focused parts of the Internet abuzz is that for Roland Emmerich’s latest disaster /f_ilm, 
"Moonfall.”
/T_he director of classics like “Independence Day,” “Stargate,” and “/T_he Day A/f_ter Tomorrow” 
as well as the pop culture moment that was “2012” appears to have outdone himself in his latest 
work. Starring John Bradley (“Game of /T_hrones”), Halle Berry, and Patrick Wilson, "Moonfall" 
imagines this ragtag trio teaming up to stop a dire impending disaster: the moon falling out of 
orbit. Not only that, but there’s something intelligent and evil inside the moon. /T_he trailer has 
the heroes take a rocket to space to /f_ight the moon while Creedence Clearwater Revival’s “Bad 
Moon Rising” /f_ittingly plays in the background. It looks ridiculous — because it is ridiculous — 
and yet, it also looks enjoyable in the way that only a self-aware /f_ilm can be. 
Of course, “Moonfall” isn’t the only self-aware disaster /f_ilm to come out recently. Much was 
made of Net/f_lix’s star-studded “Don’t Look Up,” a 2021 climate-disaster /f_ilm meant to satirize 
humanity’s willingness to ignore impending disasters, and those trying to warn us of them, un -
til it’s far too late. Despite its impressive cast, the /f_ilm received mixed reviews, with many critics 
deriding the cynical tone of the /f_ilm as overbearing and depressing. /T_he general consensus: it hit 
too close to home. “Moonfall” sidesteps this pitfall by avoiding any serious parallels to the real 
world. /T_here is no statement to be made, no call to action. It’s a disaster movie that knows it’s a 
disaster movie and embraces its task of providing silly escapism.   “Moonfall" is the Silly , Self-Aware Disaster Film We Need
You can’t turn on the news without seeing a story about wild/f_ires, tsunamis, earthquakes, 
freak snowstorms, or unexpected heat waves. On a day-to-day basis, our lives feel like they 
take place in the very disaster /f_ilms we’ve entertained ourselves with over the past decade 
(“/T_he Impossible,” “San Andreas,” “Geostorm,” “Greenland.”) At the same time, there is a 
general fatigue of those serious entries in the disaster genre which recycle the same themes: 
who deserves to be saved? Why do we lose our common humanity in times of crisis? How can 
we avoid this /f_ictional future becoming our grim reality? "Moonfall" takes one small step for a 
blockbuster and one giant leap for the disaster genre. It asks: how epic would it be if we fought 
the moon? 
 With "Moonfall," Emmerich nods to his history of outsized disaster /f_ilms by making his 
most ambitious project to date. Not only is the moon out of orbit, but it’s also hiding lurking 
evil that could be a number of interesting twists: aliens, the government, an evil moon ghost. 
Moonfall comes at a moment when this kind of ridiculous disaster — one so improbable that 
Bradley’s character, KC Houseman, is rightfully branded a conspiracy theorist — is more 
welcome than ever.
In real life, disasters are something to be afraid of. In disaster movies, they’re something 
to be amazed by. When Houseman goes up into space, he’s wowed when his iPhone /f_loats by 
his face. Later, he snaps a picture of space with his phone camera while Berry and Wilson’s 
characters look on in annoyance. He has a childlike wonderment about the whole moon 
/f_iasco, something you cannot say about the stone-faced disaster heroes that preceded him. 
Houseman is us. He reacts like an audience member that’s been transported on-screen, excited 
to see if he’s going to save the world or die trying. /T_hat’s what makes “Moonfall” such a special 
entry in Emmerich’s canon and the disaster genre as a whole. Also, did I mention they /f_ight 
the moon?Roland Emmerich has made his most ridiculous disaster /f_ilm yet. It might just revitalize the genre.
-Bailey Bujnosek /gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019/gid00001
Image courtesy of Collider. LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
For me, this quarter has 
been the death of my morn -
ing routine.
Gone are the days when 
I wake up early, stretch, and 
eat a healthy breakfast. No 
more fun skincare routine, 
morning walks, or pick -
ing out a cute out/f_it. In all 
honesty, I don’t even get 
dressed anymore. /T_he long 
three-week winter break, 
combined with four more 
weeks of online school, has 
replaced my once relaxing 
habits with waking up at 
nine and going on my phone 
for an hour before class. My 
days are spent mostly the 
same: a foggy haze of home -
work, eating, and sleeping, 
all in my small UC San Di -
ego dorm room. 
But it was in this dorm 
room that I found a bea -
con of hope. I was in bed, 
scrolling through TikTok, 
as I seemed to be doing con -
stantly when I saw a video 
of someone playing an on -
I Did Wordle Every Morning For a Week
line game. It wasn’t super 
fancy with crazy graphics 
or anything like that. It just 
sort of looked like 2048 with 
letters. A/f_ter observing, I re -
alized that I had missed the 
punchline of the joke and 
had to rewatch the video to 
understand. 
/T_hat seemed to be my 
mistake. By the next day, my 
For Y ou page was covered in 
TikToks about this silly little 
word puzzle. It was called 
“Wordle” , and the rules were 
simple — you try to guess a 
/f_ive-letter word in six tries. 
Each attempt must be a real 
word, the result telling you 
whether the letters you used 
are in the /f_inal word and if 
they are in the right place. 
Because I was on Wordle 
TikTok, I /f_igured that I 
might as well try the game 
once. I put in my /f_irst word, 
and before I knew it I had 
guessed the answer in three 
tries. And even though this 
simple puzzle only took me 
a few minutes at most, I was 
/f_illed with an odd sense of 
pride. Pride that you usu -pride. Pride that you usually 
shouldn’t be able to have 
from guessing a /f_ive-letter 
word correctly. 
A/f_ter that /f_irst try, I be -
came addicted. /T_he /f_irst 
thing that I did every morn -
ing was a Wordle, and while 
looking at my phone so 
early in my day may cause 
some issues later in life/
down the road, I really was 
enjoying myself. Besides, it 
wasn’t as if I had spent the 
last four weeks doing any -
thing diﬀerent. I was having 
fun comparing my Wordle 
scores to my family, friends, 
and even random people on 
TikTok. Each correct guess 
gave me a /f_lash of enthusi -
asm and a strange sense of 
con/f_idence. /T_hat enthusi -
asm was what helped me 
get out of bed and eat some 
breakfast. /T_hat con/f_idence 
helped me get dressed in 
the morning. Easy, un -
complicated tasks that had 
somehow become more and 
more diﬃcult as the quarter 
went on. I suddenly saw the 
appeal of a daily crossword puzzle. 
I feel the need to put a 
disclaimer here: Wordle is 
probably not going to cure 
your depression. I still don’t 
leave my room super of -
ten and I spend more time 
looking at a screen than not. 
/T_here are still times when I 
just lay in bed staring at my 
phone. Playing this game 
for a week has not drasti -
cally changed my life.
And yet, every time I 
think about doing my dai -
ly Wordle, there's a feel -
ing that jumbles itself in 
my chest and absorbs it -
self in my cheeks, forcing 
me to smile. It may not be 
life-altering, but it is fun, 
challenging enough that in 
guessing the word you feel a 
sense of completion, but not 
so much that you fear that 
you’ll never guess the word. 
And, even if you don’t, 
there’s always tomorrow. I 
guess that’s why I’ve learned 
to love Wordle so much. It 
reminds me that even if to -
day sucks, tomorrow might 
be something diﬀerent. diﬀerent. 
/T_he return to online 
school has been hard for 
us all. And while last week 
was the /f_irst time some of 
us had classes in person, 
others are going to remain 
online for the rest of the 
quarter. I, personally, have 
only one class that is going 
back in person. So yeah, this 
small silly little word puzzle 
is the highlight of my day. I 
suggest you try it out. And 
even if you don’t like it, look 
for something else that you 
can do. Find that small little 
piece of joy in your life and 
experience it. 
Here are my Wordle stats 
for those interested:
P .S.: comment your Wordle stats 
below!By samantha phan
/gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00013/gid00010/gid00007/gid00006/gid00020/gid00026/gid00013/gid00006/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Image courtesy of Sincerely Media from Unsplash. 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
Calling all coﬀee connois -
seurs and tired college students! 
Just like everybody else, I’ve been 
quite burnt out and lacking mo -
tivation as we begin to approach 
the last few weeks of the quarter. 
And what’s one better way to /f_ix 
all your problems instead of im -
proving your work ethic and or -
ganizational skills? A good ole 
cup o’ joe.
I’m no diﬀerent from every 
other college student and have 
developed a severe caﬀeine ad -
diction. If you’re looking for some 
new cafes to try around San Di -
ego, you’re in luck because I’ve 
spent most of my free time driv -
ing around the city to ful/f_ill my 
desires. If you’re ever in these ar -
eas, check them out!
/T_he Forum
Starting with my favorite cafe 
I have ever stumbled upon, /T_he 
Forum. Located on Genesee Av -
enue, this quaint cafe has a large 
selection from cold brews, to 
lattes, to teas, to matcha. If you’re 
in the mood for something sweet 
or bitter, they got you covered. 
One sip of their coﬀee and you’ll 
be hooked. I recommend that you 
try “BB Code,” a cold brew made 
sweetened with their in-house 
banana milk. Also, grab a choco -
late croissant or cardamom while drinks to quench your thirst, 
but they have fresh pastries ev -
ery day. /T_hey also oﬀer a decent 
amount of space for people to 
study and work. And I know 
you’re probably in desperate need 
of studying for that chemistry 
midterm. Adorned with string 
lights and plush sofas, this com -
forting atmosphere might just 
help you get out of your mid-
quarter funk.
Shaka Coﬀee
Shaka Coﬀee is a small coﬀee 
shack chain located along Balboa 
Avenue and Mesa College Drive 
that you have probably driven 
past multiple times but didn’t 
blink an eye. /T_hey specialize in a 
wide variety of Hawaiian coﬀee, 
creating beverages reminiscent 
of popular /f_lavors in Hawaii. It’s 
a change of pace from the usual 
cinnamon and spice you may get 
with your coﬀee. I recommend 
the “Aloha White Mocha”, a 
sweetened white chocolate mocha 
with a kick of banana and coconut 
syrup — with oat milk, of course. 
/T_hey also oﬀer fruit smoothies 
and acai bowls if you’re not in 
the mood for the usual fuel. Since 
these two locations are simply 
walk-up stands, they oﬀer a lim -
ited amount of seating if you wish 
to study here, so plan accordingly!Communal Coﬀee
Located near the heart of 
North Park, Communal Cof -
fee is sure to catch your eye. 
Situated right next to a luscious 
plant shop, this is by far one of 
the largest coﬀee shops I have 
stepped foot in. Embellished 
with plants and modern archi -
tecture, you might /f_ind yourself 
wanting to stay and possibly 
chat with the stranger next to 
you. But beware, located on a 
busy street, parking is diﬃcult 
and all tables, seats, and even 
the coﬀee bar are congested with 
college students “studying. ” De -
spite this mild setback, I highly 
recommend you try their or -
ange cardamom latte, a citrusy 
spiced latte that is sure to make 
you reminisce on cold weather 
and sweaters. Some may say it’s 
overrated, but I believe it’s a San 
Diego classic.
With that being said, I leave 
you with my top three favor -
ite cafes around the city. If you 
have other cafe recommenda -
tions, feel free to send them in 
the comments!5a<WX.I^WZQ\M+WٺMM;PWX[QV
;IV,QMOW
By Priscilla Anne Puno
/gid00013/gid00010/gid00007/gid00006/gid00020/gid00021/gid00013/gid00026/gid00006/gid00001/gid00004/gid00016/gid00183/gid00006/gid00005/gid00010/gid00021/gid00016/gid00019
Photo by Keghan Crossland on Unsplash. SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs UCLA
vs UC Davis
vs Cal Poly
vs SDSU
at UC RiversideUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
M Basketball
W Tennis
W Water Polo
W Basketball7PM
7PM
1PM
9:50 AM
5PM2/9
2/10
2/11
2/12
2/12
UC San Diego’s men’s 
volleyball team (3–3) took on 
the University of Southern 
California (8–1) on Wednesday, 
and with each of the teams being 
ranked in the top fifteen, this 
marquee match-up assuredly 
turned some heads. Ultimately, 
the seventh-ranked Trojans 
defeated the Tritons, who 
ranked number 13 in the nation, 
in straight sets. Although it was a deceivingly competitive 
match, the Trojans controlled 
the game with their superior 
athleticism and dominated 
most of the statistical categories. 
Still, after defeating some of 
the better teams in the country 
and hanging tough with an 
obviously talented USC squad, 
UCSD has a lot to look forward 
to with this year’s team. 
The first set started neck and 
neck with each team trading 
blows. Two consecutive sets by 
senior setter Blake Crisp set up 
the Tritons to go up 8–6, with 
the second of two coming on a second-touch kill by senior 
outside hitter Kyle McCauley. 
UCSD and USC then traded 
runs of three points each, 
with UCSD’s run including 
an impressive combined block 
from McCauley and senior 
Middle Blocker Logan Clark. 
USC again responded, this time 
with three straight again to put 
the Tritons down one, 18–17. 
Each team continued to go back 
and forth in this extremely 
competitive match until a USC 
service error tied it at 23. 
With two points left to 
go, the indispensable first set 
would soon be decided. Each 
team was struggling to make 
headway, but steadfast with 
stout defense which created 
some impressive rallies. USC 
once again prevented UCSD 
from going on any significant 
run and went up by one. UCSD 
was calm in setting up their 
attack, but off the rebound the 
dependable star McCauley’s ball 
was just too wide and awarded 
USC their first set. 
UCSD started a little more 
lethargically as USC’s offense 
started to pick up the pace 
and went down 7–4. Crisp 
responded by setting up senior 
outside hitter Wyatt Harrison 
and Logan Clark to cut the 
lead to one, and a quick outside 
block knotted this one at seven. 
UCSD took their first lead off of 
a McCauley kill to put the team 
up 10–9, and this one seemed to 
be shaping up similarly to the 
last set. 
The experienced UCSD team and the uber-talented Trojan 
squad were evenly balanced, 
making the match a tough 
battle for both teams. USC 
rattled off a five point run to go 
up 16–11. Putting in freshman 
setter Gabriel Dyer gave the 
Tritons a little jolt and put the 
team back in striking distance 
after a powerful fourth kill 
from McCauley, which was just 
the beginning of his huge night, 
resulted in a score of 17–14. USC 
soon regained control and put 
the Tritons down 23–16 with 
another big run. The Tritons 
made it a little interesting 
forcing a service error and 
with a McCauley ace. USC 
again killed the momentum by 
making McCauley get involved 
on defense, and a service ace 
took the Tritons out by a score 
of 25–18 heading into the 
potentially deciding set. 
With Dyer in the game, 
McCauley began to heat up 
and scored two of the first four 
Triton kills, the second of which 
tied the game at four. The two 
teams traded some small runs 
as the defenses seemed to adjust 
to the other team’s offensive 
strength, with hitting errors 
becoming frequent as angles 
were sealed off. Two consecutive 
USC errors gave the Tritons 
a 13–12 lead heading into the 
second half of the set, and the 
team still seemed to have plenty 
of fight left in them. 
USC began to put the 
pressure on the UCSD defense, 
but the team adjusted and an 
out of system Triton offense scored a crucial point set up by 
McCauley to Wyatt Harrison 
after a timely dig by Dyer. 
McCauley was on a tear, scoring 
or assisting on six of the last 
seven for the Tritons and tying 
the game at 21. The epic will of 
the Tritons on the shoulders of 
their senior leader was being 
tested by one of the best teams 
they’d seen all year as the game 
reached its end. 
The Tritons were pushed to 
the brink, ceding two straight 
to go down 24–22. A McCauley 
kill tied it at 24, but USC took 
the advantage at 25–24. The 
teams went back and forth until 
they were tied at 28, with each 
team refusing to budge as they 
returned serve at every junction. 
After a USC service error, 
McCauley scored his 15th kill in 
an epic third set performance to 
give the Tritons the advantage 
at 30–29. The match, however, 
was not destined to continue 
after UCSD’s herculean efforts 
were stymied by a 3–0 run by 
USC after an attack error by 
McCauley.
UCSD may have lost in 
straight sets, but the team never 
gave up and there are certainly 
markers of sustained success 
for this team. With a Big West 
title in the team’s aspirations, 
gut punches like this will be a 
great lesson before league play 
begins. Another tough match 
is soon to come with UCLA 
coming to town on Wednesday, 
Feb. 9 in what will surely be a 
fun, challenging matchup for 
both squads.Loss in Straight Sets for 
UCSD Volleyball 
Against USC
It’s been one of the most 
eventful weeks in the recent 
history of the NFL, and not just 
because of the tense football 
we saw in the conference 
championships. The greatest 
player in the history of the sport 
announced his retirement, 
a former coach made serious 
allegations about the league’s 
competitive integrity and racial 
inequalities, and we got a new 
team name in the nation’s 
capital. In case you’ve been too 
busy studying for midterms, 
here’s a rundown on the wild 
week in the NFL.
The GOAT Hangs Up His 
Cleats
After 22 legendary seasons in 
the NFL and 7 championships, 
Tom Brady has finally, and 
mercifully for the rest of the 
league, retired from football. 
As someone born after Brady 
was drafted, it’s certainly going 
to be bizarre to see a league 
without him. The 44-year-
old from San Mateo pushed 
the limits of every part of the 
game, setting career records for 
passing yards, touchdowns, and 
overall wins, and obliterating 
any measure of playoff success.
But perhaps what’s most 
impressive is that he has 
completely silenced the 
question of who the greatest 
NFL player of all time is, a feat 
matched perhaps only by Wayne 
Gretzky in North American 
sports. When I first started 
watching football just over a 
decade ago, the debate was 
Brady versus Peyton Manning. 
Then it became Brady versus 
Joe Montana and Jerry Rice for the title of greatest of all time. 
By the time Brady came back 
from a 28–3 deficit against the 
Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl 
LI, it wasn’t even a question 
anymore, and it can’t be 
overstated just how difficult it 
is to silence the critics like that.
Not only was Brady the 
greatest quarterback of all 
time, but he was still one of 
the best in the league — Brady 
will likely be the runner-up for 
MVP this season (personally, 
he has my vote for No. 1), he led 
the league in yards and TD’s, 
and he brought his Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers back to tie last 
week’s divisional playoff game 
from a 27–3 deficit before a last-
minute field goal won it for the 
Rams. Brady was by no means 
forced into retirement, and that 
will make his longevity even 
more legendary; he played until 
he was 44, and he wasn’t even 
done yet.
Last week, sportswriter Mina 
Kimes said that Brady’s defining 
trait was the inevitability of 
his success. Even when he was 
down by 25 points against the 
Falcons or 24 against the Rams, 
in the back of your mind, you 
still believed he was going to 
win — even when he didn’t. 
His greatness and penchant 
for comebacks was such that 
you could never, ever count out 
Touchdown Tom. Hell, even 
after Adam Schefter reported 
Brady’s retirement, it looked for 
a hot minute like Brady would 
come back from that too. For 
the first time in 22 years, Tom 
Brady isn’t going to be an NFL 
player. It’s going to be weird.
Brian Flores Sues the NFL
This week also saw a major 
set of allegations about the 
league’s hiring practices put 
forth in a lawsuit by former Miami Dolphins coach Brian 
Flores. The 58-page suit alleges, 
in short, two main points.
First, the suit argues that 
the league’s Rooney Rule, which 
requires teams to interview 
minority head coach and 
front office hires in an effort 
to balance existing disparities, 
causes teams to interview black 
coaches without ever really 
intending to hire them. Flores’ 
evidence for this claim comes 
from the fact that Patriots head 
coach Bill Belichick, in a pretty 
comical mistake, accidentally 
texted Flores congratulating 
him on landing the New York 
Giants’ head coach position 
three days before he even 
interviewed for that job. But 
Belichick had instead intended 
to text Brian Daboll (he got the 
wrong Brian), and Flores’ suit 
alleges that this indicates that 
the Giants had already settled 
on Daboll, and were therefore 
only interviewing Flores to 
comply with the Rooney Rule, 
undermining the entire point of 
the system.
Second, the suit claims that 
Dolphins owner Stephen Ross 
offered Flores $100,000 per 
game to lose and earn a higher 
draft pick in the 2019 season. 
In addition, Ross apparently 
sought to get Flores to skirt the 
league’s tampering rules and 
meet secretly with an unnamed 
quarterback on Ross’ yacht, and 
Flores’ refusal was apparently a 
factor in his ultimate dismissal, 
despite the fact that Flores had 
been widely lauded for leading 
the team to winning records 
and the edge of the playoffs for 
two straight seasons.
These allegations, especially 
those about Ross, are serious, 
and get to the core of the NFL ’s 
competitive integrity. If a team owner is trying to coerce his 
coach to throw games — and 
Flores has gone on to allege 
that other coaches have been 
offered similar bribes — fans 
could be forgiven for having 
less investment in the product 
on-field. If Ross truly did offer 
these bribes, nothing short of 
his expulsion from the league 
would be enough.
But as for the revelations 
about the perverse effects of the 
Rooney Rule on black coaches, 
it’s a much more complicated 
question. Flores is right that it’s 
demoralizing and embarrassing 
to have to interview for a 
job you know you won’t get. 
But that seems like a natural 
downstream effect of a rule that 
incentivizes teams to interview 
minority hires, but not actually 
hire them. That’s not to say 
that a racial hiring quota would 
be better, but rather that there 
isn’t a single, elegant top-down 
solution to coaching disparities. 
At the very least, Flores deserves 
the due diligence and respect 
owed to him as a winning 
football coach, a basic dignity 
denied to him by teams like the 
Giants and Denver Broncos who 
allegedly didn’t even consider 
him as a potential hire during 
his interviews.The Washington Commanders
Another bombshell dropped 
this week as we learned that the 
Washington Football Team — 
sorry, the Washington football 
team — will henceforth be 
known as the Washington 
Commanders. It’s certainly 
an underwhelming name, but 
hey, it’s an underwhelming 
team. (And if that feels like a 
low blow, the team’s on-field 
performance is probably the 
least bad thing about them.) 
First of all, the change comes 
two seasons after the temporary 
Washington Football Team 
moniker was put into place 
— long enough to build up 
unrealistic expectations and 
for fans to get attached to the 
brusque authenticity of the 
WFT name. What can I say? 
The idea of a team called “the 
Washington Football Team” 
was growing on me.
But as for the team’s actual 
name change, it was somewhat 
hampered by a perceived need 
to attach the team to the federal 
government or military, when 
Washington, D.C. is an actual 
city with residents, history, and 
traditions that a name could be 
drawn from. By Praveen Nair
/gid00020/gid00043/gid00042/gid00045/gid00047/gid00046/gid00001/gid00006/gid00031/gid00036/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045This Week in the NFL: Brady Retires, Flores Sues, 
Washington Gets a NameBy Donovan Perez-Schipper 
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego. 
Image courtesy of Jeﬀrey Beall and Washington Commanders. For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org