ALL HAIL
SOFTBALL
Starting off strong in their 
three day back-to-back series 
versus Hawaii, Women’s 
Softball is a sight to see. 
Come read more on their 
accomplishments in Sports 
Article.  
INCLUSION IN COMPANIES
UC SOCIALLY DEADDEAR COMPANIES, BE A BETTER ALLY
The UC Socially Dead StigmaOPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  Page  6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “UCSD attracts a lot of 
students who are super 
hard working and super 
academically driven,” he 
explained. “Maybe some 
people might not find the 
mental energy to even try 
to put themselves out there 
and be social.” 
- EMILY KARAPETIAN
FEATURES, PAGE 6SPORTS,   PAGE  12
MONDAY  
H 18 L 13
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 15
PHOTO COURTESY OF ERIK JEPSEN.PHOTO COURTESY OF ERIK JEPSEN.
TUESDAY  
H 20 L 14
THURSDAY
H 28 L 17
CAMPUS HOUSING......4
ESPRESSO ART............6
FUTURE FUNK..............7
CAMPUS CROWDS......8
CLASSIFIEDS..............11VOLUME 55, ISSUE 22  MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC San Diego Granted $38 Million 
for Global Health Equity ProjectHEALTH
By KALOHELANI DANBARA CONTRIBUTING WRITER
The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) 
awarded UC San Diego $38 million to fund ‘Agency for All,’ 
a global health equity project led by the Center on Gender 
Equity and Health. UCSD’s research will be conducted in partnership 
with local organizations in West Africa, East Africa, and South Asia 
with the goal of learning to better support lower income communities’ 
ability to act and generate change in regards to their health and well-
being.
The $38 million USAID grant is the largest award that has been 
given to UCSD by the federal program. The funding from this award, 
along with the assistance of numerous global organizations, allows 
UCSD to address areas of health such as maternal care, STDs, family 
planning, reproductive health, child care, and infectious diseases in 
lower and middle income countries. 
Within the course of the project, Agency for All seeks to develop a 
deeper understanding of how agency, meaning the ability to freely act 
or incite change, intersects with social and behavior programs to in -
fluence health. In addition to the research conducted throughout East 
Africa, West Africa, and South Asia, each region will also host a Hub 
that will serve to connect regional leaders in implementing locally-led 
learning agendas. 
Rather than focus on a quantified health target, Agency For All 
seeks to shift their efforts towards developing self-efficacy, active par -
ticipation, and empowering environments with the goal of working 
towards a more sustainable future for the health and well-being of re -
gions with which they work.
Members of the Agency for All team provided a document to The 
UCSD Guardian that responded to their inquiries about their long-
term goals and intentions for this international project.
“We aim to shift longstanding power differentials in global health 
research and programming by ensuring that local partners and popu -
lations drive their own health promotion activities and research agen -
das through active leadership and comprehensive engagement,” the 
statement read.By definition, agency is the capacity to act or exert power. When 
asked about the meaning of “agency” in the context of this project, the 
Agency for All team explained that agency can manifest in different 
ways across the world. The project will not seek to define agency for 
the partnered communities, but will instead assist the local people by 
their own definition.
“We intend to ask them directly, and use their responses to cre -
ate and validate ways of measuring agency,” the team added. “Our 
overall aim is to generate evidence and knowledge utilization strate -
gies to improve our understanding of the ways that agency influences 
social and behavior change programs, and ultimately health and well-
being.”
As the lead organization for this project, the Center on Gender Eq -
uity and Health at UCSD is responsible for joining global partners to -
gether to collaborate on Agency for All. Dr. Rebecka Lundgren (UCSD 
School of Medicine) will serve as Project Director with support from 
Deputy and Technical Director for Research Dr. Holly Shakya (Her -
bert Wertheim School of Public Health) and Technical Director for 
Measurement Dr. Lotus McDougal (UCSD School of Medicine). 
“We are fortunate to be working with an extraordinary group of 
experienced partners,” said the Agency for All team. The partnered 
organizations include the Centre for Catalyzing Change (India), 
CORE Group, Evidence for Sustainable Human Development Systems 
in Africa (Cameroon), International Planned Parenthood Federation, 
Makerere University (Uganda), Matchboxology (South Africa), Pro -
mundo-US, Sambodhi (India), Save the Children, Shujaaz Inc (Ke -
nya), University of the Witwatersrand (South Africa), and Viamo.
In a press release for the Center on Gender Equity and Health, UC 
San Diego Chancellor Khosla described this award to be “a spectacu -
lar moment” that will allow UCSD to “lead in using research to ad -
dress important important social and health issues that result in ben -
eficial change and new policies that make the world a better place.” 
The UCSD Center on Gender Equity and Health will be globally 
engaged in this research project over the course of the next five years.
Image courtesy of Angela Liang for UCSD Guardian.
@ucsdguardian FOLLOW  US!Interested in applying for
SCAN HERE
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.09722 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado 
Advertising Director  
Gregory Shen
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
Learn more
Vote!
Make your moove 
Questions? Email us at aselections@ucsd.edu or call (858) 822-3553
IN THE AS & COLLEGE COUNCIL ELECTION.
VOTE ON TRITONLINK APR. 4 — 8.
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     Raymond TranOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
On March 22, Walt Disney 
Co. employees participated in a 
nationwide walkout in protest 
of Disney CEO Bob Chapek’s 
response to, or lack of, Florida’s 
“Don’t Say Gay” bill. While 
advocacy such as the walkout 
and other protests sparked 
Disney and its leaders to publicly 
denounce the bill and encourage 
change within the company, one 
has to question whether or not 
these changes were due to their 
stance against the bill or just the 
fear induced by the public. 
Disney’s sudden vocal change 
can be compared to different 
companies calling themselves 
allies of the LGBTQ+ community, 
commercializing and profiting 
off of pride-themed products 
during Pride Month, but doing 
very little to actually support 
the community that they profit 
from. Companies must do more 
than reactionary or seasonal 
support for the communities 
that they claim to be allies for 
and show true allyship in all 
aspects of their businesses.
After the walkout, Disney executive Karey Burke has 
promised to make at least 50% 
of their regular characters 
part of a marginalized group, 
whether it’s from the BIPOC 
or queer communities, by the 
end of the year in an effort to 
increase representation in their 
media. However, this quota 
feels forced, a response to public 
scrutiny rather than a genuine 
attempt to help the marginalized 
communities they hope to 
represent. Additionally, Chapek 
said that Disney is “reassessing 
our approach to advocacy,” 
including their past donations 
to specific anti-LGBTQ+ 
politicians in Florida. 
Still, this begs the question: 
Would they have stayed silent 
if not forced to publicize their 
opinion? 
Organizers of the Disney 
Walkout have even claimed that 
Disneyland Cast Members who 
did not feel safe participating 
in the walkout were told they 
couldn’t wear pride/trans Mickey 
pins to show their support. 
Disney has yet to explain this 
allegation as well as its starking 
and homophobic contrasts to 
their statements of inclusion. 
In the same breath, 
companies such as FedEx, Comcast, and even Pfizer have 
identified themselves to be allies 
of the LGBTQ+ communities but 
have donated millions to anti-
gay politicians. This apparent 
marketing strategy seems to be 
a trend in an attempt to appeal 
to progressive audiences without 
enacting any significant changes 
to the company’s morals and 
policies. 
Selling pride-themed items, 
tweeting about Pride Month, or 
changing their profile picture 
on Instagram to a rainbow flag 
holds little significance unless 
that company actually does what 
they say. Words mean absolutely 
nothing if anti-gay legislature, 
such as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill in 
Florida, keeps being passed and 
queer individuals are constantly 
being targets. Actions do speak 
louder than words, and in this 
case, inaction speaks volumes. 
Let’s face it. On the same note, 
pride-themed merchandise does 
not only feel disingenuous but 
also looks horrific. Companies 
constantly produce horrible-
looking merchandise and pass 
them off as “Pride Merch,” but 
they also end up missing the 
whole point of allyship: being 
a supporter of the community. 
GLAAD President Sarah Kate Ellis said it best when she argued 
that companies should do more 
meaningful internal work before 
waving around a rainbow flag.
“You cannot just market to 
our community,” Ellis said. “You 
have to join the movement, and 
that’s a social justice movement. 
You need to speak out when there 
is bad legislation, especially when 
you have outsized influence.”
Disney, and companies like 
it, have such a powerful and 
influential platform on politics 
and social issues. As arguably 
the most well-known company 
on the planet, it is irresponsible 
of them to believe that taking 
a silent stance against the 
bill would be more beneficial 
than voicing their company’s 
stance publicly. They have the 
ears of parents, politicians, 
and even other companies and 
still chose to wait until public 
uproar to release any statements 
denouncing the bill. 
It should be noted that other 
companies such as Target, 
McDonald’s, and Nike have 
made donations to LGBTQ+ 
charities and organizations, 
not just selling pride-themed 
merchandise but also using their 
platform and power to support 
the community itself. Starbucks, Nordstrom, and Pinterest were 
also part of the 45 companies 
that signed a two-year petition 
condemning anti-LGBTQ+ 
legislation. While these 
companies are far from perfect, 
they have acted in the protection 
of the queer community instead 
of reacting to public outrage 
as Disney did, displaying more 
allyship than some businesses 
could say they do. 
Companies need to 
finally realize that the queer 
community is not a marketing 
strategy. No matter how much 
pride merchandise these 
companies produce, there is 
no meaning behind it if they 
do not live up to the morals 
that they imply that they do. 
The LGBTQ+ community isn’t 
a product that you can sell. 
The activism, the history, and 
the culture behind the queer 
community are constantly being 
attacked and by staying silent, or 
worse, by supporting anti-queer 
legislature, these companies are 
being complicit in the erasure 
and antagonization of the 
community that they oftentimes 
profit from. By Raymond Tran 
Opinion EditorDear Companies, 
Be a Better Ally
Image courtesy of NBC.4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
The UC San Diego housing 
crisis has caused a major 
uproar, leaving some students 
considering living in cars, which 
is ironic since public universities 
are supposed to be promoting 
upward mobility. Given the 
worsening housing situation, 
UCSD should prioritize housing 
the entire student population 
because it can potentially boost 
academic performance and save 
time, energy, and money.
Living on campus gives 
students easy access to 
extracurricular clubs and 
learning experiences. Also, 
living on campus may influence 
students’ attitudes to be more 
serious and academic oriented. 
This can encourage students to 
use the campus resources they 
already pay for to the fullest 
extent. Indeed, a variety of 
academic papers have found 
some benefits for college students 
when living on campus. 
Besides the benefits of 
on-campus housing, the lack 
of on-campus housing worsens 
the already strained financial 
situation of students. Students 
are very busy and want to make 
the most of their limited time at 
UCSD. Given the high tuition 
of college education, although 
students may not feel it, money is trickling away every minute of 
college life. Looking at the tuition 
alone, in-state students spend 
$0.05 and out-of-state students 
spend $0.14 for every minute 
over a school year.* Multiply this 
by how many minutes one would 
spend commuting from an off-
campus location, and the results 
can get unexpectedly high.
In addition to sucking away 
time and money, off-campus 
housing puts students at the 
mercy of ruthless business 
practices. Rental companies pit 
students against each other and 
collect application fees from the 
frenzied masses trying to secure 
a place to sleep. I personally 
remember spending hours on a 
rental company app, constantly 
refreshing every second to 
apply to an opening before my 
fellow students. While there 
was recently a push to redistrict 
UCSD to ease the pressure of 
finding affordable off-campus 
housing, doing so will not 
guarantee better conditions. 
Fundamentally, there is a 
difference between for-profit, 
off-campus rental companies and 
non-profit, on-campus housing, 
so in theory, on-campus housing 
will be more affordable. 
It is not impossible for UCSD 
to achieve housing for its entire 
student population. Compared 
to the materials needed to build 
housing, land is a much more 
limited resource. And UCSD 
already has an abundance By Benjamin Liou
Staff Writerof land in the prime location 
for students: right on campus. 
UCSD’s campus is huge, 
requiring many students to use 
bikes, scooters, and other means 
to get around, so there should be 
plenty of space to house students.
Not only does UCSD have 
an abundance of land, UCSD 
is fully capable of building new 
things. There always seems to be 
construction going on at UCSD; 
for example, the amphitheater 
near Camp Snoopy that is 
funded by a $10 million dollar 
gift. However, an amphitheater 
will only benefit those who can 
afford to go, which is likely to 
exclude busy students, or those 
with non-art majors. On the 
other hand, that same money 
and land can be reallocated to 
build more housing. With the 
increase in housing supply, the 
principles of economics state that 
housing prices should decrease. 
And because everyone clearly 
has the need for housing, unlike 
the need for an amphitheater, 
then using that $10 million 
dollars on housing will be 
guaranteed to benefit everyone, 
thus having more utility than an 
amphitheater.
Another construction project 
is the proposed new 8th college. 
While more housing is created, 
an additional college will mean 
more students, meaning there 
is not a net increase in available 
housing. In fact, net housing 
availability will decrease due to the high influx of students 
compared to housing. The 
proposed 8th college dorms 
will house up to 2,050 students. 
However, even according to 
UCSD’s official undergraduate 
enrollment statistics, outdated 
to 2016, every college had more 
than 2,050 students. And those 
enrollment numbers have only 
increased since. It is much easier 
for UCSD to stamp a seal of 
approval on digital applications 
to admit more students than 
physically building more 
housing, and it is disappointing 
that UCSD chooses the easy 
way over the interests of current 
students.
The UCSD housing crisis puts 
an unacceptable amount of stress 
on students, who are already 
under the burden of high tuition. 
What makes it more ridiculous, 
is that UCSD should already 
have the resources; land and money, to provide students with 
on-campus housing, yet chooses 
to accept more students before 
ensuring a quality experience 
for existing students. The 
housing crisis left many students 
disillusioned and painfully 
aware of the consequences of 
not having affordable housing: 
a problem that plagues not 
only UCSD, but the US and the 
world at large. However, what 
this article has shown is that 
upon further inspection, what 
is more problematic are the vast 
underlying administrative issues 
that led to bad decisions.
* $14199 / (3 quarters x 10 
weeks/quarter x 7 days/week x 
24 hours/day x 60 minutes/hour) 
= $0.05 / minute
($14199 + $28992) / (3 
quarters x 10 weeks/quarter x 7 
days/week x 24 hours/day x 60 
minutes/hour) = $0.14 / minuteUCSD Should Provide On-Campus 
Housing For All
Image courtesy of UC San Diego.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
NELSON  ESPINAL 
UCSD’s haunting nickname, 
“UC Socially Dead,” looms over 
incoming and current students, 
popping up within seconds of a 
simple google search about social 
life at UCSD. Though every myth 
is based in truth, this stigma is 
more complex than simple fact.
With an expansive ocean 
on one side and fancy La 
Jolla neighborhoods on the 
other, UCSD’s space differs 
from other UC campuses. 
Unlike Berkeley or Los 
Angeles, campus isn’t enclosed 
by the hustle and bustle of city 
life, nor in close proximity to 
another college campus. Rather 
than appearing lively and upbeat, 
La Jolla exudes a more relaxed 
atmosphere, catering to those 
who seek out a calm lifestyle. 
Fourth year Manu Agni, 
Associated Student President and 
Urban Studies and Planning major, 
spoke on another aspect of the city. 
“There’s no college town,” he 
said, emphasizing the dominance 
of UCSD’s older, richer La Jolla 
neighbors. “La Jolla is super 
privileged, very white, very old. 
That does create this environment 
where the residents of La Jolla 
are the first priority for the 
businesses, for the people here, 
so there are a lot of expensive 
restaurants and businesses catered 
toward wealthy white people.”
This unique environment 
can translate into the view of 
UCSD as less “alive” than other 
campuses. Some students may feel 
sepavrate from the La Jolla and 
San Diego residential community. 
New resources provide 
UCSD students easier access 
to the greater social sphere of 
San Diego, with trolleys and 
buses taking students to La Jolla 
Village or Square, downtown 
San Diego, or the nearby mall. 
In addition, many local 
restaurants do take advantage 
of and cater to the large student 
population at UCSD, providing 
student discounts or accepting 
forms of UCSD Dining Dollars. 
Patricia Mahaffey, Assistant 
Vice Chancellor of Student 
Life at UCSD, identified more 
ways to reach the resources 
available around UCSD.  
“[The new UC San Diego Blue 
Line trolley system] offers many 
opportunities to discover the rich 
culture and activities available 
across San Diego County,” 
Mahaffey said. “   UC San Diego is 
experiencing a transformation. It 
is unprecedented what the campus 
has undertaken these last several 
years and it’s really exciting.”
Another potential explanation 
for the stigma is the inevitable 
comparison between UCSD 
and its San Diego counterpart, 
San Diego State University 
(SDSU). Niche, an online 
student resource that provides information and rankings on 
universities, ranks SDSU as the 
#3 top “party school” in the US. 
In contrast, UCSD is ranked 
#23 on the same scale, while 
earning an “A+” in academics 
and value. UCSD’s prestige 
and STEM-heavy nature may 
push students toward a more 
academic-focused lifestyle.
“Because we have such a 
heavy party school right across 
town, I think that we look very 
dead in comparison,” said Agni. 
Students often characterize 
a lively social life according 
to the involvement and extent 
of its school spirit, something 
often defined by sports teams. 
Sports, namingly football, 
play a large role at all of the 
schools listed in Business 
Insider’s top 20 US colleges with 
the most school spirit.” UCSD 
doesn’t have a football team, so 
students may not feel the same 
sense of pride for their school 
teams as they would elsewhere. 
But even without a football 
team, UCSD has plenty of 
other sports that students 
can participate in or support, 
both on D1 competitive and 
intramural/casual levels. 
“Athletics play a large role 
in contributing to campus 
spirit and unity,” said Mahaffey. 
“[Sports games] help build that 
social life and give students 
something to do on campus.”
Though UCSD has nearly 
50 fraternities and sororities, 
UCSD’s campus isn’t home to 
a nearby “frat row,” an area 
or street concentrated with 
fraternities and sororities. 
As a result, students cannot 
take part in the same “party 
culture” so often associated 
with a lively college social life. 
“If we had a general place 
where most of the sorority and 
frat houses were, maybe it would 
amp up the socialness,” said 
fourth-year Resident Advisor 
Emily Karapetian. Students 
can’t simply walk around 
campus on the weekends to 
find a party, they must seek 
out houses off campus and 
make the trek to a new location. 
Though some students 
wish UCSD Greek life 
was more prominent on 
campus, Agni actually sees 
the value in the minimal 
role of Greek Life at UCSD. 
“You’re creating an in group 
of students who are “in”, they’re 
hip, they’re cool, and then 
you’ve created a big outgroup, 
students don’t feel like they’re 
included, and I don’t think 
that’s a good thing…. Greek life 
[also] has a lot of problems with 
sexual violence,” he explained. 
Outside of Greek life, UCSD 
students host a variety of other 
kinds of parties and events, including frequent bonfires 
at Black’s beach or La Jolla 
shores, college-specific events, 
fairs, and other celebrations. 
Through UCSD’s Center for 
Student Involvement, students 
can find even more social 
opportunities. Organizations 
can revolve around countless 
aspects of student life, 
including political, social, 
academic, and cultural spheres. 
Despite UCSD’s expansive 
grounds and efforts to expand, 
the campus actually only houses 
39% of its students. This classifies 
UCSD as a commuter-heavy 
institution, with the majority 
of students residing off campus 
after their first or second year. 
With the high cost of living in 
La Jolla and San Diego, students 
may struggle to find affordable 
yet close housing options. 
Agni wishes that more 
students could have the on-
campus living experience., 
“Housing growth has not kept up 
with enrollment growth, and that 
has pushed a lot of students to 
live off campus and live far from 
campus,” Agni explained. “It can 
be pretty hard to be connected to 
the community from so far away.” 
Agni explained that to some 
extent, the state of California 
is responsible for the fast-
growing student population 
without housing to keep up.
“[California] also needs to be 
more responsible, and give UCs 
the time and money to build 
the housing before they admit 
more students. And right now 
it’s kind of been the opposite- 
they’re admitting more students 
and then building the housing 
later. It needs to change.”
Alongside their efforts to 
accommodate off-campus 
students, UCSD is still building. 
New dorms and academic 
buildings are popping up all 
around campus. Chancellor 
Khosla explained UCSD’s 
goals in a 2017 statement: “...our visionary efforts to 
add more than 10,000 beds 
on campus will make UC San 
Diego one of the top primarily 
residential campuses in the 
University of California 
system, and will enable us to 
provide a four-year housing 
guarantee for undergraduates 
and Ph.D. students…”
UCSD is known for its 
college system, wherein 
students are divided into 
smaller communities based on 
graduation/course requirements 
and location on campus.
Dorms and individual 
college campuses are designed 
to promote engagement 
between students within their 
colleges, with central spaces, 
larger dorms, and dining 
halls within each campus. 
Agni recognized more 
benefits of the system. 
“You have shared identity, 
you live together, you have 
similar dining experiences, 
similar classes that you take.” 
Students’ experiences as 
part of their individual colleges 
differ based on the demands 
of their academic program, 
jobs, family, mental health, and 
living situation. Some students 
feel isolated to those in their 
enclosed college community. 
“[The system] kind of limits 
you to the people in your college, 
I’m not gonna care to branch 
out and meet other people,” said 
Karapetian. Karapetian lived in 
Seventh college as a freshman, 
which at the time housed the 
“overflow” of students from 
other colleges. This separation 
from her college was hard at first. 
She felt disconnected 
from the community she was 
supposed to be getting to know 
and love. In efforts to improve 
her connection to ERC, she 
joined the ERC Student Council, 
and is now the president.
In addition, Karapetian 
has made friends in ERC’s five quarter writing sequence. 
“When you have a tough 
writing sequence, it builds 
community,” she explained.
Agni also found connections 
within his college. “A lot of 
the friends I’ve made are also 
Marshall  students, and I do 
feel more connected to them 
and have a stronger sense of 
community with them,” he said.
Incoming students’ 
preconceived notions about 
their potential colleges are 
bound to affect their decisions. 
When considering what they 
want their college experience 
to look like, students may 
take into account UCSD’s 
“socially dead” reputation. 
“If people come to San Diego 
and want to go to a party school, 
they’re gonna go to SDSU,” said 
Agni. A Molecular Cell Biology 
major herself, Karapetian noted 
that UCSD is a very STEM heavy 
school, so its applicants may lean 
towards a focused and academic 
lifestyle. As a result, UCSD 
students may not be the ones 
who prioritize their social lives, 
or who really care to go out every 
weekend or party all the time. 
Agni doesn’t believe that 
UCSD students are inherently 
anti-social, but he also recognizes 
the reality of students’ priorities.
 “UCSD attracts a lot of 
students who are super hard 
working and super academically 
driven,” he explained. 
“Maybe some people might 
not find the mental energy 
to even try to put themselves 
out there and be social.” 
As UCSD leaves the 
pandemic behind and begins to 
re-enter the social world, UCSD 
students are changing. Mahaffey 
exemplifies UCSD’s desire for 
its students to be happy, both 
socially and academically. 
Read more at 
UCSDGuardian.orgThe UC Socially Dead Stigma
By Vivian Dueker
Staff WriterThe mainstream consensus is that UCSD is socially dead, especially compared to other schools nearby and in the UC system. Some students 
find that this stigma is starting to change. 
Image courtesy of HKS Society. 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
Highlighting a small business on the UCSD campus: 
Art of  Espresso
Co-founder of Art of Espresso, Sam Belfer, talks about founding it, challenges they have faced, and what he loves most about running a coffee 
shopfind that this stigma is starting to change. 
“Here’s your iced salted 
caramel latte.”
“Thank you!”
“You’re welcome, have a nice 
day my friend!”
UC San Diego’s Art of 
Espresso sits near Mandeville 
Loop, across from the colorful 
graffiti blocks and next to the 
cluster of brown buildings that 
make up the Old Student Center. 
Popular drinks are featured 
on a colorful chalkboard menu, 
and tables adorned with big 
green umbrellas surround the 
modest tent. In this lounging 
area, professors talk about their 
research, couples go on dates, 
and friends catch up. 
Sam Belfer and his 
business partner Patty Collins 
founded Art of Espresso, their 
independently owned coffee 
shop, in 1999. Belfer and Collins 
have sold their coffee at this 
same spot for the last 22 years. 
One of them is always there, 
alongside a number of employees 
and a manager to make sure 
everything is running smoothly.
Before becoming a coffee business owner, Sam Belfer shares 
that he grew up in Wisconsin, 
where his grandfather and 
then his father owned a bar. He 
grew up behind this bar and 
eventually found his way behind 
his own coffee bar. 
“My partner and I both love 
cafe life and we both wanted 
to try to create a space and a 
community here on campus, a 
sort of sticky spot where people 
would come together,” Belfer 
told Tthe UCSD Guardian. “Our 
goal was just to create a spot for 
everybody, whether it’s a student 
or a professor or a grad student 
or just a visitor, to all mingle 
together and feel organically 
what we think college is supposed 
to be about.”
When Belfer and Collins tried 
to set up their coffee business, 
they looked all over San Diego 
– Belfer remembers driving 
around the city and knocking 
on doors looking for a spot. They 
were open to any location in the 
San Diego and La Jolla area, but 
weren’t initially expecting to 
settle on a college campus.
They eventually ended up at 
UCSD due to coincidence: one 
of their friends was working here and looking for someone to start 
a concession stand outside the 
Mandeville Center buildings, 
since a lot of events take place 
there. 
In the past few years, Art 
of Espresso faced its biggest 
challenge so far: COVID. Like 
millions of other small businesses 
throughout the United States, 
Art of Espresso remained 
closed for approximately sixteen 
months. 
Even now, Belfer says 
business is not back to normal, 
presumably because of fewer 
students and staff on campus 
(since Fall Quarter 2021 and 
Winter Quarter 2022 were a mix 
of remote and in-person). He 
hopes that Spring Quarter will 
increase traffic, and as of now, he 
and Collins are taking it day by 
day and doing their best to keep 
going.
Belfer thinks it takes effort for 
people to “put their money where 
their mouth is” and support 
the small businesses that have 
endured during COVID. 
A survey of over 5,800 small 
businesses in the United States 
reported that the “median firm 
with monthly expenses over $10,000 had only enough cash 
on hand to last roughly 2 weeks.” 
Therefore, being open on-and-off  
for over a year took a toll on many 
small businesses, including Art 
of Espresso.
Belfer notes that in order 
to partially alleviate these 
challenges, individuals can 
choose to engage in small 
gestures like occasionally buying 
a coffee, or bringing a friend, or 
just spreading the word about 
Art of Espresso.
Aside from COVID-induced 
challenges, Belfer says that 
another challenge is people’s 
reliance on large chains as 
opposed to experimenting with 
small business goods.
“It’s been really tough, 
coming back,” Belfer told Tthe 
UCSD Guardian. “I would say 
that, the concern that generally 
people are turning away from 
the mom and pop businesses 
and going to corporate stuff, 
I would say that’s one of our 
challenges, to keep people 
coming and supporting small 
businesses instead of just going 
to what might be convenient or 
what they know or what they’re 
advertised to.”Despite these challenges, it 
brings Belfer and Collins a lot 
of joy to create the very space 
they set out to create back in 
1999: a place where the UCSD 
community can come together 
and connect.
“I think that’s my favorite 
part, seeing people come here 
and have some joy in their day,” 
Belfer said.
Belfer and Collins floated 
the idea of retirement and their 
tentative exit strategy, but as of 
now their main focus is getting 
business back to pre-COVID 
levels. Eventually, though, 
they hope to hand down Art of 
Espresso to someone that cares 
about it as much as they do.
“It would be our hope to hand 
it to somebody that believes 
in small businesses, privately 
owned and operated, and hope 
that they can take the torch and 
keep going with it,” Belfer said.
Image courtsey of Oishee Misra for the UCSD Guardian.By Oishee MIsra
Staff WriterARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
ELIAS ROMAN
Dear Future 
Funk
“Please stop using the term ‘future funk’ that’s not a real thing & you’re embarrassing 
yourself when you say that. Do a small amount of research and learn the history of disco 
house and funk music. ” – Saint Pepsi on his Discord server.
This message was sent by Saint Pepsi, one of the founding fathers of future funk who 
now goes by the stage name of Skylar Spence, on June 27, 2020. At the time, I couldn’t 
believe that someone I admired so much would show great disdain towards the genre and 
music that made his career – still having no idea that artists like Tyler, the Creator and Ra -
diohead disliked “Y onkers” and “Creep” , respectively. However, I soon brushed this message 
off as something of a joke considering it soon became a copypasta for the server, and Spence 
would go on to repress his most notable future funk album: “Hit Vibes” . My safe haven of 
future funk was still intact, until 2022, when I read an article entitled “The Fate of Future 
Funk” by Van Paugam, but I think I’m getting too far ahead of myself. Future funk, to me, 
has been a major part of my life, starting in high school and still going strong as I prepare to 
enter my final year of college. This piece is something I have been thinking about for a long 
time, arguably ever since I wrote one of my first articles, “ A Love Letter to Video Games, ” 
for The UCSD Guardian. This piece can be considered my love letter to future funk as I try 
to explain my relation to it, respond to articles like Paugam’s, and explain where I see future 
funk going in the journey that all niche genres go through.
But what even is future funk? Let’s begin with what future funk is on a technical level. 
Future funk is a subgenre of vaporwave that takes 70s and 80s songs, typically disco or Japa -
nese city pop, and increases their tempo and adds some drums and kicks. Usually, future 
funk producers take what’s referred to as the “butter notes'', the best portions of a song, and 
loop them for a stretch of usually two minutes, with some songs also splicing in the vocals of 
the sample. To accompany the music, the artist will pair the track with either a GIF of an an -
ime girl or with commercials from the 80s, and if they’re in Japanese then even better. And 
that’s it. That is future funk on a technical level at its most simplistic. My enchantment with 
future funk first began through vaporwave with Vektroid’s 2011 album, “Floral Shopppe” 
sometime in 2016, so I was very late to the party. Vaporwave, like future funk, takes samples 
of 80s music, but slows them down to the speed of molasses. “Floral Shoppe” eventually be -
came Saint Pepsi’s 2013 album “Hit Vibes” , speeding up the tempo, and I have been hooked 
ever since. My first exposure to the album was the sixth track: “ Around” . The beginning of 
the track makes the listener feel like they’re driving quickly through a dark tunnel with a 
light at the end of it, featuring a muffled sampling of Phil Fearon’s “Wait Until Tonight (My 
Love)” at the start, which then clears up and becomes louder, mimicking the listener exiting 
out to the light. It was like nothing I had ever listened to before, but more importantly: this 
song is what freedom and liberation felt like. Even now, when the constraints of young age 
have been replaced by the financial and political constraints of an ever-degrading world, 
this song still feels like freedom, like 5pm-on-a-summer-evening-driving-in-a-convertible-
with-the-wind-in-your-hair-type freedom.
While I enjoy the majority of future funk tracks because of this feeling, the simplicity 
of creating a future funk track eventually saturated the genre, making people either grow 
tired of it or become disillusioned with its future, one of these people who felt both was 
Van Paugam. Paugam is a DJ who specializes in mixing the original samples used to create 
future funk: 70s and 80s Japanese city pop. In his August 2020 article, which came well after 
the first heyday of future funk in the early to mid-2010s, he goes on to describe future funk 
as a “musical necromancy where the corpse of the original song is revived but the essence 
of what it truly was is absent, much like a dancey sonic zombie”; as a genre that would never 
be taken seriously; as a genre with a fan base who wouldn’t accept change and “wouldn’t 
accept [deviations] as real future funk”; as a genre “never destined to be greater than the 
sum of its parts. ” Having almost two years of hindsight since the article, it is safe to say that 
Paugam was wrong, as future funk has gone through a revival and has now reached one of 
its biggest crossroads ever. 
Y es, I must concede to Paugam that future funk, at one point, did become trite, despite 
how much I may enjoy it. However, this was simply an obstacle in the journey of the genre as within the span of 2 years, some of the original founding fathers of future funk – Yung 
Bae, Night Tempo, and Macross 82-99 – released a total of six albums, each artist demon -
strating a potential path for future funk. Let’s begin with Macross 82-99. His 2022 album 
“SAILORW AVE III” remains true to the roots of future funk featuring Sailor Moon on the 
cover, so anime girls can be checked off. In the audio department, Macross 82-99 also re -
mains loyal to the sound and feeling of future funk: a joy ride that loops the “butter notes” 
for the entirety of the song and features vocals, typically just repeating a chorus. Macross 
82-99 represents the mindset of “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” and proves the tried-and-true 
formula can produce an album that is sonically different. The sound of the album feels 
more like the listener is flying through the mystical transformation scene of Sailor Moon 
than a party or city nightlife scene from his previous discography.
       Moving to Night Tempo. In the span of two years, he released four albums that 
prove the range he has as a future funk artist. In his first 2021 album “Concentration, ” 
he shows that the formula of future funk can be used to make a more serene experience 
for the listeners, almost bordering on lo-fi at times. Then, in albums like 2020’s “Funk to 
the Future” and 2021’s “Night Tempo presents the Showa Idol’s Groove” he falls in line 
with Macross 82-99, using samples of former Japanese idols to make upbeat music, but 
rather than using a repeating chorus, Night Tempo makes it his mission to keep most of 
the vocals present for his tracks. In his most recent December 2021 album “Ladies in the 
City” , he takes an approach where he combines the future funk type beat of the track with 
original lyrics, boasting Japanese idols from both the previous generation of the 80s like 
Sayaka Y amamoto, to more recent idols like BONNIE PINK. This last approach is most 
similar to Yung Bae’s newest 2022 album. 
In his most recent album “Groove Continental: Side A ” , Yung Bae calls back to his 
disco-sampling roots throughout the album. He features several beats that contain brass 
instruments similar to those found in disco records of the 70s. However, unlike his previ -
ous discography, with the exception of songs like “Bad Boy” and “Holding Y our Hand'' 
featuring bbno$ and Atlas, respectively, from older works, almost the entire album fea -
tures original lyrics and vocals. It’s the selection of features on the album that compel 
me to feel like Yung Bae has taken future funk in a more pop, mainstream direction. The 
album boasts the presence of artists like Sam Fischer, Pink Sweat$, Jon Batiste, AWOLNA -
TON, and Marc E. Bassy, all amassing millions of monthly listeners on Spotify. This is the 
crossroad I believe future funk finds itself, the same crossroad that many niche genres 
have gone through.
Artists like Macross 82-99 are on the side of appealing to what made future funk a 
niche genre in the first place, while artists like Yung Bae appear to want to take the genre 
to a more mainstream audience, and Night Tempo finds himself somewhere in between. 
This is something I think a lot of niche subcultures are prone to go through. Take anime 
as an example, a key component of the roots of future funk. Anime was originally a niche 
subculture in the United States before becoming accepted by the mainstream, and those 
who were there from the beginning often hold rancor against those beginning to turn 
their attention to anime, creating a divide between anime enjoyers. However, I don’t think 
future funk will ever go through this scenario. Although all the artists are taking the 
genre in different directions, they all enjoy working with each other. Yung Bae organized 
a concert in November of 2021 where both Night Tempo and Macross 82-99 opened the 
show for him, and the same is set to happen again in September of 2022. Thus, I believe 
that even if Yung Bae were to go fully mainstream, I doubt he would ever forget his future 
funk roots and will continue to work alongside the other artists and support their vision 
for the future of future funk.
I think a portion of a comment from the Paugam article summarizes my sentiments 
towards future funk and where it’s heading:
“I know you [Paugam] probably won't read this as you are the writer, but if you are…
[or] if anyone is out there... this music is not dead it's just changing like every other genre 
out in the wasteland... don't lose hope and keep on funkin!”Hector Arrieta A&E EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
Future Funk: walking corpse or rising phoenix?
Image courtesy of Macross 82-99 on Bandcamp.LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
“Too    Many     People     on    My     Public   College    Campus”:  A    Poem
There are too many people on my public college campus.
the lines for food are too long,
the street outside is too noisy,
and the way to class is too crowded.
There are too many people on my public college campus.
There is nowhere to park my car. 
There is nowhere to sit in the library.
There is nowhere I can go where there are no people!
Why are there so many people on my public college campus?
Just yesterday there were too few.
Where did the peace and quiet go?
Where did all these people come from?
In fact, there are so many people on my public college campus
that I get mad.
I get sad.
I wish I could be glad.
But, how can I be glad when there are too many people on my public college campus?
There are too many people to make friends with.
There are too many parties and events to go to.
There are too many friendly faces walking around.
How can I be glad when there are too many people on my public college campus?
There are too many people going to my classes.
There are too many extracurriculars to be a part of.
There have never been so many people on my public college campus.
I guess I will have to stand in longer lines
and look harder for a seat in the library.
I guess I will have to wait for a parking spot
and walk to class early.
Art by Bradley Beggs for the UCSD Guardian.LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
LIST YOUR
AD HERE
MORE INFO AT
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Art by Bradley Beggs for the UCSD Guardian.MON4.4
9am
THE HUNT FOR KING 
TRITON'S CROWN /hyphen.case GEISEL 
LIBRARY
n the first event of College Clash, the 
colleges will compete in a scavenger 
hunt to find and return King Triton's 
crown to him.
12pm
REC THRIFT POP/hyphen.caseUP /hyphen.case MAIN 
GYM
Hey Students! Do you need workout 
clothes but you're on a tight budget? 
Come to the Rec Thrift Pop-up! - Free 
Athletic Apparel - April 4th & 5th, 
12-5pm @ Main Gym steps. DONATIONS 
NEEDED - Provide gently used athletic 
clothing and shoes for UC San Diego 
students in need. Donations accepted at 
the RIMAC lobby and Main Gym. 
Donation deadline: March 30th3:30pm-5:30pm
HEALING HANDS 
VOLUNTEERING EVENT: 
FEEDING SAN DIEGO /hyphen.case 9477 
WAPLES STREET 92121
Looking for a meaningful volunteer 
opportunity? Don’t worry, Healing Hands 
has got your back! Healing Hands will be 
volunteering with Feeding San Diego for 
their mid-afternoon Food Sorting 
Volunteer shift. We will be volunteering 
Tuesday, April 5th from 3:30-5:30 PM at 
their distribution center in Sorrento ValleyFRI4.8
TUE4.5
 Join us and a panel of student 
researchers as we discuss paths to 
research and what to look for!THU4.7
4pm-6pm
CHANGEMAKER SYMPOSIUM /hyphen.case 
ONLINE ZOOM
Join us and hear from inspiring student 
speakers about their Changemaking work. 
What is Changemaking? Changemaking is 
any intentional activity that moves us 
towards a more just, sustainable, and 
inclusive world 
https://ucsd.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIk
c--orT0jGdefoWVuucLEg8T3KDy7pR8f.SAT4.9
COME TO DE/hyphen.caseSTRESS AND 
MAKE NEW FRIENDS! /hyphen.case 
STUDENT LEADERSHIP 
CHAMBER, PRICE CENTER
Have you been feeling anxious about 
starting a new quarter? Come to our 
meeting to relax and socialize with people 
with similar concerns! We'll be doing 
creative ice-breaking activities and 
soothing breathing practice to help you 
de-stress!Tahrir WEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DI EGO
APR 4 - APR 102022
POWER ED B Y THE ST UDENT  EVENTS INSIDE R AND  THE UCSD GUARDIA N
WED4.6
as.ucsd.eduTHIS WEEK: AS ELECTION 2022
9am-4pm
THE HUNT FOR KING 
TRITON'S CROWN /hyphen.case GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Grab a paintbrush and help us liven up 
University Center's Rupertus Lane with 
fun and flair! We're banning the cars 
and painting street to create a safe and 
colorful place to walk, ride, and hangout.
All materials provided.
Please sign up at: 
https://go.ucsd.edu/3tL5N1o10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CALENDARCLASSIFIEDS, CROSSWORDS
 MORE FUN&
$
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Capone characteristic
5. Ways out
10. Came to rest
14. Absolutely detest
15. Word with brigade or 
bulb
16. ___ Ness
17. First name in courtroom 
fiction
18. Make noise in bed
19. Platform over the water
20. Start of a matriarch’s quip
23. Sault ___ Marie
24. Short-straw drawer
25. Funnyman Philips
26. Mauna ___
27. On target
28. More of the quip
33. Composer John Philip
34. Christmas carol trio
35. Colo. clock setting
37. Molten material
40. Brown or Baxter
41. Celestial ice ball
43. Make ___ at (get fresh 
with)
45. More of the quip
48. Kimono sash
51. “I tawt I taw a puddy ___”
52. Track-and-field org.
53. Needed liniment
55. “Whazzat?”
56. End of the quip
60. Hurler Hershiser
62. Fully counted
63. “I” in “The King and I”
64. Take a risk
65. View from Everest
66. Math course
67. Apart from this
68. Screen siren Garbo
69. Potato protrusionsDOWN
1. MacRae of “The Jackie Gleason 
Show”
2. Drive-in waitperson
3. After a long wait
4. Superman portrayer Christopher
5. Film feline
6. Marking through, with “out”
7. Fictional lab assistant
8. Like cardboard glasses at a 
movie
9. Prepares, as milk for cappuccino
10. Swiss peak
11. Teri Hatcher role
12. Cube grabbers
13. Clothing, in slang
21. Therefore
22. Left the ground, with “off”
29. Beverage made from molasses
30. Flat-pancake filler
31. Bother persistently
32. Guitarist Lofgren
33. Let it be, editorially
35. Like some old records
36. Brothers who popularized 
“Mom always liked you best!”
38. Speed limit meas.
39. Battery type
41. Cell terminal
42. Eastern cuisine
44. Dateless
46. Giving relief to
47. Where the sleigh meets the 
snow
48. Porter’s pen name
49. Freshman cap of old
50. Badges with names
54. Rattletrap
57. VCR insert
58. Venetian blind strip
59. Stewpot
61. Golfer Trevino
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeet
organization with Triton 
Outfitter’s Made TO 
Order program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
ucsdguardian
.
orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
LIST YOUR AD HERE
MORE INFO AT ads@ucsdguardian.orgCLASSIFIEDS & MORE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 12
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs San Diego
vs Arizona State
vs Long Beach State 
at UCSB
vs Long Beach State UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
M Tennis
Softball
W Water Polo
M Volleyball6PM
1PM
5PM
12PM
7PM4/5
4/7
4/8
4/9
4/9
The ninth-ranked UC San 
Diego men’s volleyball team 
suffered a disappointing loss 
to California State University, 
Northridge in a Big West 
matchup this past Thursday 
at home in RIMAC Arena. 
The Tritons were outplayed 
in the night by a determined 
and capable CSUN side, losing 
3–0 in straight sets to break 
the 3-game winning streak 
they had built over the past 
few weeks. The home side 
struggled throughout the match 
to make an impression, and 
their disorganization combined 
with an excellent defensive performance by the visitors 
prevented them from building 
much momentum.
The first set began with 
the Matadors putting down 
the first point, blocking senior 
outside hitter Kyle McCauley’s 
attempted kill. The Tritons 
responded with another kill, 
this one struck decisively from 
the right by senior outside hitter 
Wyatt Harrison to tie the score. 
The set remained competitive, 
with the teams trading points. 
The difference in scores stayed 
within 2 points for most of the 
set, with CSUN grabbing the 
win with a kill that the home 
side was unable to receive, the 
set ending 25–23. 
The tight score suggested 
UCSD could have gotten a hold 
of the match with a win in the second set, but it was not 
to be. Similar to the first set, 
the Matadors were first to have 
points on the board after a kill 
by senior middle blocker Shane 
Benetz was hit out of bounds. 
The Tritons equalized after one 
of CSUN’s kills was similarly 
hit wide, repeating the back-
and-forth scoring pattern of the 
first set. 
A little over halfway through 
the set, the visitors widened the 
gap with a 7–1 scoring streak, 
broken up only by a handling 
error on the part of their outside 
hitter, Kyle Hobus, that granted 
UCSD a point, putting them in 
the lead 17–11. UCSD fought to 
narrow that margin, but were 
chasing the lead for the rest of 
the set and unable to get closer 
than 2 points away from the visitors. The Matadors drove 
home the win in similar fashion 
to the first set with a kill from 
the right-hand side that evaded 
UCSD’s receiver; the set ended 
25–21 to the visitors.
The Tritons needed a set 
victory to stay in the game, 
so the beginning of the third 
set brought added pressure and 
tension to the court. In the 
mold of the first two sets, the 
third saw a tight scoreline for 
most of the game. McCauley, 
assisted by senior setter Blake 
Crisp, brought the teams level 
at 16–16 with a kill from the 
left that deflected off the block 
to land on the other side of the 
net. However, from that point 
on, CSUN gained the advantage 
and kept pushing, ultimately 
scoring 9 points to UCSD’s 3 
to see off the set, and the game, 
with a 6-point lead, 25–19.
Although the scoring pattern 
in each set suggested a relatively 
tight game, the home side was 
outplayed throughout. There 
were moments of brightness, 
but they were few and far 
between. Facing a scrappy but 
strong CSUN side, the Tritons 
looked disorganized, seemingly 
slightly out-of-sync with each 
other and unable to crack 
the dogged Matador defense. 
UCSD’s .141 hitting percentage 
on Thursday marked their 
second-lowest of the season, 
and they statistically trailed 
CSUN in all areas, including 
kills, blocks, and digs. 
On the night, redshirt junior 
outside hitter Ryan Ka led the 
Tritons with 8 kills, but his 
efforts were unable to salvage 
the game for the hosts. UCSD 
will be disappointed with this 
performance, as it is not an 
accurate representation of their 
quality throughout the season.Triton head coach Kevin 
Ring acknowledged his 
team’s struggles on the 
night, commending CSUN’s 
performance:  “They thoroughly 
outplayed us tonight and just 
kind of stepped on the gas…and 
we just didn’t.” 
However, Ring was certain 
that his team would bounce 
back in their next meeting with 
the Matadors.
“We’re fully capable, and for 
us to beat this team or beat 
any other team that we’re going 
to play the remainder of the 
season, we’re gonna have to 
bring it. We’re gonna have to 
have multiple guys playing high 
level volleyball at the same time. 
And when we do that, we’re a 
high level team,” Ring said.
His confidence was well 
placed, as when the Tritons faced 
off again with CSUN as visitors 
to the Matadome the following 
Saturday evening, they reversed 
Thursday’s scoreline to beat 
the hosts by the same margin 
in straight sets. McCauley and 
Crisp put up game-highs of 14 
kills and 44 assists, respectively, 
to seal the win in style.
UCSD will hope to build 
on their Saturday comeback 
win to see out the rest of their 
season on a high note. The 
Tritons now face a pair of Big 
West games against California 
State University, Long Beach 
this coming weekend. The 
Tritons will first head to the 
Walter Pyramid in Long Beach 
on Friday, April 8, before 
hightailing it back to RIMAC 
to host on April 9 in their 
penultimate conference game 
of the season before the Big 
West Tournament at the end of 
the month, where last year they 
were runners up.Tritons Swept at Home in Straight 
Sets against CSUN
The UC San Diego softball 
team took the field against the 
Rainbow Wahine of Hawaii 
in a home matchup on Friday, 
April 1, marking the start of 
a three-game back-to-back 
day series versus Hawaii. 
The Tritons began this Big 
West conference series strong 
following their 2–0 victory over 
Hawaii on Friday, and with that 
win, improved their overall 
record to 18–14 and their Big 
West conference record to 6–1. 
Following their impressive 
performances in their previous 
conference matchup series 
against CSU Bakersfield and 
UC Santa Barbara, in which the 
Tritons won both series 2–1 and 
3–0 respectively, the Tritons 
continued their good form with 
this first series matchup win 
against Hawaii. 
The start of this Game 1 
matchup between the Tritons 
and Hawaii was rather quiet, 
with neither team scoring a 
run in the first two innings. It 
wasn’t until the bottom of the 
third inning when the Tritons 
took a 1–0 lead, with a run 
scored by sophomore third 
basewoman Zoe Richards. 
Richards was able to initially 
reach first base following 
a Hawaii error committed 
by Hawaii starting pitcher 
Brianna Lopez. Richards was 
then able to advance to second 
base following a single down the left-field line from senior 
centerfielder Keila Bosinger. 
Richards and Bosinger 
impressively were able to then 
steal their respective bases, 
placing them on third and 
second base, with senior first 
basewoman Bobbi Aguirre 
at-bat. With a groundout to 
second base, Aguirre was able 
to bring Richards across home 
plate, giving the Tritons their 
first run of the night and a 1–0 
lead following three innings.
Both starting pitchers 
proceeded to perform highly 
in the 4th and 5th innings, 
with only one single in the 
fourth inning from UC San 
Diego freshman infielder 
Alexa Demarse. Entering the 
6th inning, the score stood at 
1–0, and the Rainbow Wahine 
aimed to come back from their 
deficit and potentially take a 
lead on the Tritons. However, 
Triton’s star freshman starting 
pitcher, Jada Cecil, would halt 
Hawaii’s hope to come back in 
the game, allowing no hits and 
only one walk in the 6th inning. 
The Tritons would then 
score their insurance run at the 
bottom of the sixth inning, with 
a statement solo home run over 
the left-field fence from senior 
second basewoman Isabel 
Lavrov. Coming into the game, 
Lavrov was averaging a team-
leading .379 average, with 33 hits 
and 3 home runs on the season, 
and with this commanding 
fourth home run of the season, 
she was able to give the Tritons 
a more comfortable 2-0 lead.
The Tritons turned to Cecil entering the seventh inning to 
close out the game, and close 
out she did, ending the inning 
and the game on a season-
high 16th strikeout, breaking 
her own UCSD single-game 
strikeout record of 15, which 
she achieved earlier this season. 
The Tritons took the win with 
a 2–0 victory and opened their 
series matchup against Hawaii 
with a 1–0 series lead.
After the game, Cecil spoke 
to The Guardian about her 
thoughts on her dominating 
performances this season, as 
well as the overall performance 
of the team.“It’s exciting to push myself, 
I can only keep going up 
from here and I have a really 
great team behind me… we’re 
working on our hitting, and 
this series is really important 
against Hawaii, so we’re just 
going to focus [on] one game at 
a time,” said Cecil.
“I was really proud of our 
team. It was a really good win 
against a very good Hawaii 
team, and to shut them out with 
Jada pitching a gem, she really 
kept them off balance and we 
came through with some really 
clutch hits helping us secure the 
win,” said Triton head coach Patti Gerckens after the game. 
“We still need to play a little 
more error-less and improve 
more at the plate, but overall 
it was a really good win… the 
team is motivated, they love to 
be playing at home, and overall 
I think they will come out 
tomorrow ready and aggressive 
to play.” 
The Tritons continue 
their series against Hawaii 
on Saturday, April 2, with a 
doubleheader that starts at 1 
pm. The Tritons hope to put a 
stamp on this series on Saturday 
and win their third conference 
series matchup of the season. By Miguel Carias
Staff WriterTritons’ Cecil Shuts Out Hawaii in Series-Opening WinBy Emer Nolan 
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Erik Jepsen / UC San Diego Athletics.
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics.