WOMEN’S 
RIGHTS
“Reproductive rights need 
bolder legislative support”. 
Come to Opinion’s Section 
this week to read more about 
how abortion laws and our 
judicial system is affecting 
everyone.
BIG WHO? BIG THIEF!
NEIL GAIMAN FAN CLUBCONCERT REVIEW: BIG THIEF
I Know More About Neil Gaiman Than You 
Do, GeniusA & E,  Page   6
LIFESTYLE,  Page  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“I really hope the school 
can open more positions 
for continuing students, 
because living off campus 
is, is much — I can’t say 
much more expensive, 
but it should be more 
expensive, and more time 
on transportation to go to 
school and go back to my 
apartment. ”
- MINKO MA
FEATURES, PAGE 8OPINION,   PAGE  5
MONDAY  
H 18 L 14
WEDNESDAY  
H 19 L 15
ILLUSTRATION BY ANGELA LIANGILLUSTRATION BY ANGELA LIANG
TUESDAY  
H 18 L 14
THURSDAY
H 19 L 15
HISTORY........................5
MOVIE REVIEW.............6
STREAMING..................7
HOUSING WAITLIST .....8
UCSD VS. HAWAII.......12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 29   MONDA Y , MA Y 23, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TKE Fraternity Suspends Social Events, Drops 
Chapter Member After Sexual Assault AllegationsFRATERNITY
CRIMES
By Brandon Mariano  /gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019Eight UC San Diego 
Students’ Identities Stolen 
in Unemployment Fraud 
Scheme
By ABBY LEE 
/gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
UC San Diego’s chapter of the Tau Kappa Epsilon 
(TKE) fraternity announced their decision to 
suspend all remaining social events for Spring 
Quarter 2022 in conjunction with their response to re -
cent sexual assault and misconduct allegations against a 
chapter member. TKE released their statement on May 
13 on Instagram informing the removal of a member af -
ter a pattern of sexual violence came to their attention, 
in addition to announcing their decision to suspend all 
social events for the rest of the quarter. 
In an email to /T_he UCSD Guardian, TKE’s vice presi -
dent Kassra Tehranchi o ﬀered further insight about the 
decision to remove the member.
“We received an allegation of sexual assault from a 
member of the Panhellenic community against one of 
our members,” Tehranchi said. “We received testimony 
from both members, met with the other member’s chap -
ter’s executive board, and mutually agreed to two con -
clusions. Firstly, we agreed that there was not enough 
evidence and information to terminate our member, and 
secondly, we agreed to meet again a /f_ter that weekend, 
which was Mother’s Day weekend. We received testimo -
ny from more members of the Panhellenic community 
that demonstrated an unacceptable pattern of sexual vio -
lence from our former member.” 
Tehranchi also apologized for the actions of their 
member and stated that his organization stands with 
sexual assault victims.
“ As a chapter, we are extremely disappointed that our 
former member committed this act against members of a 
community we stand to empower,” Tehranchi said.  
Earlier this year, numerous allegations of sexual as -
sault/harassment, drugging, and physical violence came 
across those involved in UCSD’s Sorority and Fraternity 
UCSD New Downtown Hub Park and Market OpensCAMPUS EXPANSION
By Kaitlin Lee 
/gid00015/gid00006/gid00024/gid00020/gid00001/gid00006/gid00005/gid00010/gid00021/gid00016/gid00019/gid00010/gid00002/gid00013/gid00001/gid00002/gid00020/gid00020/gid00010/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00015/gid00021
Located in East Village, on the corner of Park 
Boulevard and Market Street, UC San Diego’s long-
planned presence in Downtown San Diego opened 
on May 6. Located steps away from the Blue Line 
Trolley stop at Park & Market, the $75 million, four-
story, 66,760-square-foot building promises to serve 
the San Diego community as a hub for civic engage -
ment, learning, and collaboration. 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla spoke about Park & Market’s mission and goals to the UCSD News Cen -
ter. 
“Park & Market is an integral part of our mission 
to be a student-centered, research-focused and ser -
vice-oriented university community,” said Chancel -
lor Pradeep Khosla. “UC San Diego Park & Market 
is a rea ﬃrmation of our responsibility to nurture in -
clusiveness, create access to our world-class resourc -
es and build vital connections locally and globally.” 
On its website, Park & Market describes its vision 
in three words: connection, catalyst, and commit -
See CAMPUS EXPANSION , page 2A federal grand jury indicted 
a San Diego man for allegedly us -
ing the stolen personal informa -
tion of UC San Diego students 
to obtain more than $202,000 in 
fraudulent unemployment ben -
e/f_its during the COVID-19 pan -
demic. 36-year-old Nehemiah 
Joel Weaver, who was arrested on 
Monday, is charged with 60 felony 
counts, including 28 counts of ag -
gravated identity the /f_t, 15 counts 
of mail fraud, nine counts of wire 
fraud, /f_ive counts of bank fraud, 
two counts of obstructing justice, 
and one count of extortion. 
If convicted, he faces a manda -
tory 2-year prison minimum for 
identity the /f_t. Bank fraud charges 
are punishable by up to 30 years 
in prison, extortion charges carry 
maximum prison sentences of 3 
years, and obstruction of justice 
carry maximum prison sentences 
of 5 years, along with substantial 
/f_ines.
Weaver’s ex-girlfriend, co-
defendant, and former UCSD 
employee, Mia Nikole Bell, ad -
mitted to abusing her access as an 
employee in the human resources 
department to steal the identities 
of at least eight students. 
According to Bell’s plea agree -
ment, she stole the names, dates 
of birth, and social security num -
bers of several UCSD students, 
then gave the personal informa -
tion to Weaver in late 2019. He 
then used these stolen identities, 
as well as stolen identities from 
other sources, to open bank ac -
counts and obtain loans. Bell is set 
to be sentenced in August. 
When the pandemic hit in 
early 2020, Congress passed the 
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Eco -
nomic Security (CARES) Act, 
which boosted unemployment 
bene /f_its for those a ﬀected by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. During 
this time, Weaver continued to 
use the stolen identities to apply 
for these bene /f_its from the State 
of California’s Employment De -
velopment Department. State of -
/f_icials disbursed at least $202,682 
in such payments. He also de -
frauded the Arizona Department 
of Economic Security similarly, 
and obtained $27,230 in fraudu -
lent bene /f_its.
Weaver used the money to 
make numerous purchases at 
Nike, Gucci, Burberry, and Lou -
is Vuitton stores. He also paid 
$52,597 in cash for a BMW 740i. 
In addition, Weaver is charged 
with extortion. When he was un -
der investigation, Weaver sent a 
See CRIME , page 3
Image courtesy of Kevin Tran for the UCSD Guardian. 
Life. 
In February, the Collegiate Panhellenic Association 
decided to cancel all social events with the Interfraternity 
Council for the remainder of the Winter Quarter 2022 
for allegations of sexual misconduct and physical abuse. 
In 2019, UCSD implemented a multi-year suspension of 
the Sigma Chi chapter from campus due to being under 
investigation for allegations of sexual assault and drug -
ging.
In a follow-up email, Tehranchi stated his organiza -
tion’s intentions to re /f_lect on its culture to further prevent 
incidents of sexual misconduct and assault from occur -
ring. 
“/T_he fact of the matter is that these incidents occurred 
by one of our former members, at our social events, un -
der our roofs,” Tehranchi said. “Moving forward, our 
culture needs to look internally and pinpoint any and all 
weak spots that allowed such horri /f_ic behavior.” 
/T_he UC policies and codes of conduct explain the 
rights and responsibilities of students and employees in 
guaranteeing that the UC is a safe environment and how 
the UC addresses reports of sexual violence and sexual 
harassment.
UCSD encourages anyone with knowledge of events 
related to sexual misconduct to contact the O ﬃce for the 
Prevention of Harassment at (858) 534-8298 or online at 
OPHD@ucsd.edu.
CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center is UC -
SD’s con /f_idential advocacy and education o ﬃce for sex -
ual violence and gender-based violence (dating violence, 
domestic violence, stalking). Contact them at (858) 534-
5793 or email at careinfo@ucsd.edu /T_hey are located at 
the Student Services Center, 5th /f_loor, Suite 500.what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado 
Advertising Director  
Gregory Shen 
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
ment. /T_he mixed-use building 
seeks to form multidisciplinary 
connections between art, science, 
culture, technology, civil service, 
etc. To do so, the building plans to 
host cultural events through art, 
music, theater, /f_ilm, and food. 
/T_he building hosts several facili -
ties throughout the four stories. 
/T_his includes:
• /T_he Guggenheim /T_heatre, a 
black-box theater with 225 
seats
• A cinema with 58 seats 
• Four conference rooms
• /T_hree classrooms 
• A computer lab
• A civic collaboratory 
• Multiple gallery spaces
• A balcony stage with pocket 
theater seating
• A dance and wellness room
• And a cafe and bistro
Park & Market also o ﬀers spaces 
for events, ranging from private 
to full service, and boasts a ca -/uni25B6 CAMPUS EXPANSION , from page 1pacity of more than 1000. UCSD 
plans to engage more than 10,000 
people per year at Park & Mar -
ket and hopes that its programs 
will allow unemployed and un -
deremployed individuals to earn 
academic certi /f_icates and well-
paying jobs. 
Local businessman and phi -
lanthropist Malin Burnham and 
his wife, Roberta Burnham, do -
nated $3 million to the hub to 
support the partnership between 
the Burnham Center for Com -
munity Advancement and UCSD. 
/T_he center will serve as a think-
and-do tank where community 
stakeholders and partners will 
come together to identify regional 
needs, /f_ind innovative solutions, 
and tackle the binational region’s 
most pressing issues. 
Malin Burnham spoke about 
the goal of the Burnham Center 
and its location at Park & Market 
to UCSD News Center. 
“/T_he Burnham Center for Community Advancement is 
here to work with like-minded 
organizations to solve prob -
lems, create solutions and move 
our binational region forward,” 
Burnham said to the UCSD News 
Center. “UC San Diego Park & 
Market is an ideal hub for col -
laboration and problem-solving 
in downtown San Diego.”
Additionally, David and Clare 
Guggenheim donated $1 mil -
lion to the project. In honor of 
their donation, the black box 
theater will be named the David 
and Clare Guggenheim /T_heatre. 
David Guggenheim explained 
to UCSD News Center that the 
theater would serve as a multidis -
ciplinary space with many pur -
poses and services for those who 
visited Park & Market. 
“Claire and I feel the Guggen -
heim /T_heatre will provide a mod -
ern, con /f_igurable space for many 
of our local performing arts or -
ganizations, for in-person and Zoom classes, and many other 
uses,” said David Guggenheim. 
“We are excited that Park & Mar -
ket, with its downtown location, 
will help expose UC San Diego 
to a whole new audience, to many 
underserved individuals who 
might have felt a disconnect with 
the La Jolla campus.”
/T_he building will also include 
the collaboration of multiple 
partners, including: 
Resident Partners, including 
the Media Arts Center San Di -
ego’s Digital Gym Cinema, the 
Burnham Center, and the San 
Diego Regional Economic Devel -
opment Corporation (San Diego 
Regional EDC), Program Part -
ners such as Mainly Mozart, Ca -
marada, San Diego Jazz Ventures, 
and San Diego Opera, Local busi -
ness-focused partners including 
the  San Diego Workforce Part -
nership, CONNECT San Diego, 
Startup San Diego, and the Coun -
ty of San Diego Black Chamber of 
Image courtesy of Erik Jepsen for UC San Diego News Center. Spring Towards
the Stars
June 1st, 5 –8pm
Sun God Lawn
For more info, visit
asce.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Commerce, Cross-border partner -
ships through CETYS Universidad 
and UCSD’s Center for US-Mex -
ican Studies, /T_he Qualcomm In -
stitute, And the National Con /f_lict 
Resolution Center, /T_he Park & 
Market website has more informa -
tion on their building and events.
To become more involved with 
Park & Market, their Director of 
Asset Management and Commu -
nity Partnerships Todd Miller can 
be reached at (858) 534-7479 or at 
tjmiller@ucsd.edu./uni25B6 CRIME , from page 1
 text message to an acquaintance 
demanding money and threaten -
ing that they would be “charged 
with fraud.”  
Additionally, Weaver has been 
charged with two counts of ob -
struction of justice. He sent a co -
operating witness a photograph 
of the witness’ minor daughter, 
as well as a text message reading 
“Lol so dead you don’t even know 
it yet.” He also le /f_t a stu ﬀed ani -
mal rat on the car of the same co -
operating witness. 
In an email to /T_he UCSD 
Guardian, Associate Director 
of University Communications 
Leslie Sepuka reiterated UCSD’s commitment to maintaining the 
privacy and security of all stu -
dent data, as well as explained the 
measures UCSD takes to protect 
data entrusted to it. 
“UC San Diego is strongly 
committed to maintaining the 
privacy and security of all data 
that is entrusted to us, includ -
ing the personal information of 
students, consistent with appli -
cable laws and university poli -
cies,” Sepuka said. “In addition, 
all university faculty and sta ﬀ are 
required to take annual cyberse -
curity training and dedicated pri -
vacy workshops are available. /T_he 
university continuously seeks to 
improve, learning from incidents both here and at other universi -
ties.”
More information on the case 
against Weaver and Bell can be 
found on the Department of Jus -
tice’s website. Students can learn 
more about UCSD’s commitment 
to protect sensitive information 
on their Privacy portion of their 
website. 
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Image courtesy of Allen Chen for the UCSD Guardian. 
For more on the Park & Market 
   Theater, see page 6.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
In primary school, we 
are taught to honor the past, 
study it deeply, and learn from 
the successes and failures 
of those who came before 
us. Historical events aren’t 
just seen as happenings but 
moments worthy of examining 
and intellectually digesting on 
deeper levels. However, despite 
this admiration of bygone times, 
historical objects and relics of 
the past are not given nearly the 
same amount of respect. Instead, 
they have become objects to 
trade, buy, and sell at will with 
barely any regard to the history 
they hold and the past that they 
represent. 
Museums work to provide a 
safe place for historical objects to 
be displayed and preserved under 
the proper care of professionally-
trained individuals. However, 
not all historical objects have the 
privilege of being protected by 
museums. Auctions on a global 
scale offer wealthy collectors, 
private institutions, and 
individuals unaffiliated with 
museums or any professional 
establishments the opportunity 
to purchase these artifacts and claim them as their own. 
Exacerbating this issue is the 
creation of monetary valuation. 
The importance of a historical 
object is often communicated 
through its market-based 
value. Though, by putting a 
markedly-high price tag on these 
artifacts, these appraisals are 
also providing great motive for 
individuals to steal, barter, and 
trade these objects for their own 
personal gain – which is how the 
gray market came into existence. 
The gray market of antiquities 
is a complicated mixture of 
legal and ethical transactions 
combined with unlawful 
acquisition of objects that may 
have been stolen and handled 
illegally in the past. While the 
market itself contains its own 
fair share of corruption, theft, 
and individuals who are driven 
by greed, the true issue lies with 
the concept of placing prices on 
these objects and selling them 
off to the highest bidder. 
Many public institutions 
receive contributions that were 
obtained by individual collectors 
and parties from the gray market. 
It’s not uncommon for historical 
objects to be temporarily 
loaned to a public museum to 
display for the general public’s 
viewing, and these collectors are 
certainly doing the responsible thing by allowing the artifacts 
to be cared for in a professional 
and controlled environment. 
However, these items are still 
privately owned and unethically 
obtained. In addition, public 
museums don’t rightfully own 
these historic pieces; they are 
simply given permission to 
display them and that privilege 
can ultimately be revoked by 
the rightful “owner” who had 
the wealth and opportunity to 
purchase these objects. 
Private franchises and 
institutions can also participate 
in these auctions and contribute 
to the passing around of these 
items. This is a significant issue 
in the United States where a 
large majority of the estimated 
35,000 national museums are 
privately owned and operated. 
These institutes house the 
personal collections of one or 
more individuals, and they are 
not necessarily authorized by 
Congress or operated under 
the U.S. Government. Public 
museums are under government 
jurisdiction and have to follow 
legal and ethical standards 
that private museums may not 
necessarily feel the need to 
consistently follow. 
The private franchise 
Ripley’s Believe It or Not! 
recently took advantage of its ownership of one of Marilyn 
Monroe’s infamous gowns and 
loaned it to celebrity figure Kim 
Kardashian without an approval 
from an outside source. This 
unchecked loan gave Kardashian 
the inappropriate privilege of 
wearing the gown for her red 
carpet appearance at the Met 
Gala. This particular incident 
stands as a prominent example 
of how these privately-owned 
items can be put in vulnerable 
and potentially harmful 
situations under the holding of 
those who might not necessarily 
respect its conservation. In 
situations like these, historians 
and international heritage 
organizations are limited in 
their ability to protect these 
items. They can only watch 
from the sidelines and provide 
strong suggestions that advise 
those with private ownership to 
respect the objects in their care.  
Gray market auctions 
also allow historical items 
to be traded and transported 
miles away from their country 
of origin as opposed to being 
correctly protected in a public 
institution funded and ethically 
regulated by an established 
government. For example, the 
president of Hobby Lobby, Steve 
Green, opened his own private 
museum called the Museum of the Bible after he accumulated 
40,000 stolen artifacts from Iraq. 
Eventually, loose regulations 
were tightened and enforced, 
resulting in the objects in Green’s 
collection being returned to 
their country of origin. This 
enforcement of laws is certainly 
a positive sign and a productive 
step in the right direction, 
and some auction houses have 
created new ways to prove the 
ethicality and authenticity of 
artifacts before allowing them to 
be sold. However, these measures 
wouldn’t be needed as intensely 
if purchases and prices weren’t 
prioritized over preservation. 
Artifacts shouldn’t be given 
a price tag. These objects belong 
in public institutions that have 
the resources and the motivation 
to truly appreciate them for the 
history they represent. If private 
ownership of historical items 
were to be eliminated, the goal to 
preserve history in a respectful 
manner could easily be reached. 
But, until society can outgrow 
the mindset of consumerism 
and acknowledge that some 
items don’t rightfully belong in 
private collections, these items 
will continue to find themselves 
in the hands of those who can 
afford them, dispersed across the 
globe. By Marcella Barneclo 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid000456M_[ÆI[P"0Q[\WZaQ[5MIV\\WJM
:M[XMK\ML6W\+WUUWLQÅML
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.RAYMOND TRAN5
RIDES ON DEMANDA.S. Safe Rides X Lyft
A.S. Safe Rides is back for Spring Quarter*
VKěJOėRKFGS
*visit as.ucsd.edu/saferides for redemption details and restrictions.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
The allyship of pro-choice 
politicians is instrumental for 
the continued maintenance 
of reproductive rights for all. 
Though many in the movement 
are right to be thankful for the 
politicians’ allyship, there is also 
a large need for politicians to 
do better. It is time for life-long 
politicians to update their pro-
choice arguments with those of 
the movement. This includes 
abandoning language dedicated 
to supporting exceptions such 
as in cases of rape or incest and 
pivoting to language centered 
on people’s bodily autonomy. 
The exceptional argument 
is a decades-long one. It is an 
argument that allows liberal 
politicians to be lazy when 
advocating for abortion access. 
Bodily autonomy is a more 
comprehensive, contemporary, 
and developed argument that 
liberals should widely adopt. 
The pro-life party has stopped 
providing exceptions for these 
instances, so it is time for pro-
choice allied lawmakers to 
stop compromising at the bare 
minimum: exceptions for rape, 
incest, and the life and health of 
a mother.
The past month has seen 
the revival of many protests 
following the leaked court 
opinion of Justice Samuel 
Alito. The opinion has given 
many conservatives the fodder 
they needed to push more 
conservative anti-abortion 
legislation. Many lawmakers such as those in Oklahoma have 
utilized their allegiance to states’ 
rights over federal oversight 
to justify their increasingly 
stringent laws on abortion. This 
includes the bill passed by the 
Oklahoma legislature that bans, 
without exception, abortion 
from the moment of fertilization. 
Exception cases make up less 
than 1% of all abortions, yet 
the predominantly cis-het male 
legislatures have refused to give 
these cases any consideration 
within their proposals. 
Oklahoma is approximately 47% 
native land, which is not under 
Oklahoma state jurisdiction. 
These tribal states are legally 
allowed to set up abortion 
clinics and not face Oklahoman 
scrutiny because of their special 
status and state sovereignty. 
But conservatives including 
Governor Kevin Stitt (R) 
indicated that they are willing 
to subvert their allegiance to 
the very argument of states’ 
rights and sovereignty to assert 
their control over people’s 
bodies. The only exceptions that 
conservatives are now willing 
to consider are those to their 
own philosophies like strong 
states’ rights, like in the case for 
indigenous reproductive rights. 
These help them further oppress 
people and control their bodies 
with people like Stitt, “warn[ing] 
Native American tribes not to 
create abortion safe havens”. 
It’s as if they are using state 
sovereignty to deny Americans 
their individual sovereignty.
With conservatives playing 
hardball on an issue that is more 
about control and less about 
life, it is time to demand stricter By Sparky Mitra
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045advocacy from neoliberals such 
as Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) on 
abortion beyond the exceptional 
cases. Quiet stances are useless 
when facing a vocal and 
brutish authoritarian front like 
the conservative one against 
abortion access. Loud objections 
to all pro-life must become the 
expectation from public servants 
like Rep. Peters. In a rally on 
May 3, Rep. Peters called the 
“efforts that states might make 
to ban abortion after rape, incest 
or when the life of the mother 
is at stake ‘nothing short of 
barbaric,’” a statement that is 
true and yet does not go far 
enough to criticize restrictions 
on reproductive rights. 
Asserting that abortions are 
murder is barbaric. Reverting to the pre-1970’s where America 
was far from being the epitome 
of freedom is barbaric. Any 
assault on reproductive access is 
barbaric.
This view goes beyond 
stances on abortion rights. 
Demanding firm stances from 
lawmakers should become the 
norm for Democratic-leaning 
activists and citizens at large. 
The neoliberal compromise 
mentality is not working, as 
can be seen in a 2014 survey 
conducted by the Pew Research 
Center. In the survey, 64% of 
polled Democrats were seen to 
prefer compromising compared 
to only 49% of the Republicans 
surveyed. When 1/2 of a two-
party system is unwilling to work 
with the other half, effective progressive lawmakers must 
abandon the non-compromising 
party, and push for the liberty of 
the constituents they represent. 
As someone who is from 
Texas and was previously 
represented by the pro-life 
Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas), it 
is refreshing to see Rep. Peters 
do the bare minimum to help 
protect people’s right to choose. 
But Rep. Peters and others 
like him are far from being 
representatives that districts like 
the newly-drawn CA-50 should 
be proud advocating for. 
The abortion rights battle 
is not a lukewarm one. It is a 
matter of the rights to privacy, 
health and bodily autonomy. The 
tepid stances must be replaced 
with bold actions.Lukewarm Stances and Lazy Politicians
Reproductive rights need bolder legislative support.
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.“In Front of  Y our Face’s” Simplistic Mastery 
and the Park & Market TheaterARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELÍAS ROMAN
I had forgotten it was Friday the 13th until an eerie, high-pitched whine pierced 
through Big /T_hief’s opening song. It seemed as though bassist Max Oleartchik had made a 
similar realization as he circled the stage with a bundle of burning sage. While the sound 
technicians worked on the speakers, the band began harmonizing their instruments to 
the ringing, layering guitar vibratos to create a calming lo- /f_i type of melody. /T_heir quick 
improvisation and ability to draw energy from each other was the /f_irst hint of the band’s 
connection and love for music that became increasingly clear through the rest of the con -
cert. Despite the early malfunctions, Big /T_hief put on a show that truly felt like listening to 
live music rather than a practiced performance. 
Before the sound system debacle, Big /T_hief’s opener, Tucker Zimmerman, was able to 
play his entire acoustic set. As the house lights dimmed, two band members helped walk 
Zimmerman, an 81-year-old singer-songwriter from Belgium, onto stage. Zimmerman sat 
on a chair center stage and began strumming his guitar to a slow romantic folk tune. He 
started with a song dedicated to his wife, immediately creating an intimate setting for his 
performance. /T_he crowd stilled to take in Zimmerman’s straightforward but sweet senti -
ment of the strength of his aging love. I wondered if it was easy to write this song about 
her; to condense such vast emotions into four minutes. I’ve always wanted to write songs 
with easy guitar melodies, but o /f_ten end up overthinking lyrics and become discouraged 
before I even start. Listening to Zimmerman reminded me that a collection of small obser -
vations can come together to form immersive lyrics that resonate with a crowd. 
Zimmerman’s imprecise strumming and /f_ingerstyle picking made his performance 
seem casual, allowing me to see him as a person who loves music rather than an estab -
lished musician. For Zimmerman’s song “Backdoor Troubadour,” two members of Big 
/T_hief picked up their acoustic instruments and joined onstage. /T_he trio played two songs 
together while the rest of the band and other backstage crew danced around during the 
songs’ instrumental interludes. /T_he whole crowd could feel their joy. /T_hen, Zimmerman 
welcomed the entire band to accompany him for his last song, “ /T_he Season.” He passed 
his guitar to Big /T_hief’s lead singer Adrianne Lenker and picked up his harmonica and a 
small hand shaker. Lenker and Zimmerman’s dreamy vocal harmony made me truly be -
lieve their chorus: “It’s the season when all the dreams of your dreams come true.” I nearly 
cried. Typically, openers feel separate from the main act, but Zimmerman and Big /T_hief 
felt like one big family with a clear mutual admiration. Overall, Zimmerman’s opening act 
fostered a sense of community and gratitude that set the tone for Big /T_hief’s performance.  
Once Big /T_hief took the stage again, I was instantly hypnotized by their musical prow -
ess and folk rock arrangements. /T_he band played music from all /f_ive of their albums, be -
ginning with quieter songs and progressing into the heavier rock sound featured on their 
newer albums. Early in the set, lead singer Adrianne Lenker introduced two unreleased 
projects. She spoke so /f_tly about experiencing heartbreaks, which were not always neces -
sarily romantic, and her journey to understanding the prevalence of heartbreak in life. She 
paused frequently during her monologue, holding back tears and gripping the body of her 
guitar for support. I always appreciate learning about musicians’ thought processes and 
their approach to creating art; one of the best aspects of making art is that there is no sin -
gle way to do it. Lenker’s poetic candor made me want to give everyone a hug. Between the 
two unreleased tracks, “Sadness as a Gi /f_t” struck me most, and was perhaps my favorite 
song on their setlist. For the song, drummer James Krivchenia set aside his drumsticks for 
a two hand shakers, making for an airy melody that felt like a release of negative energy. 
I love when artists trust the crowd with unreleased music, like exchanging something 
sacred. It reminds me that artists are always creating, and that everyone is always moving 
forward, even while celebrating the past. 
/T_hroughout the performance, Lenker would tap and move her guitar to manipulate its 
tones, giving a more messy sound that felt cathartic. Most of Big /T_hief’s songs have an in -
strumental outro when the song would fade out one instrument at a time. O /f_tentimes, the 
crowd would applaud even as Lenker continued to play her guitar, drowning out the slow 
progression to the song’s end. Still, I loved how the band created space for each instrument 
to shine, either through the introduction of each instrument at the beginning or a slow 
fade out at the end. Even the bouncy frog-like noise featured in “Spud In /f_inity” was given 
its own spotlight when Big /T_hief welcomed Lenker’s brother to play the jaw harp, extend -
ing their onstage family. /T_he concert in total felt like an ode to the power of instruments, 
drawing attention to the importance of parts of a whole. 
I le/f_t the Big /T_hief concert feeling warm in my soul and excited about life. /T_he contrast 
between Lenker’s meditative voice and the band’s rock sound provided a sense of peace 
while simultaneously reenergizing me to return to the world.    
Grade: A-
Venue: North Park ObservatoryConcert Review: Big Thief  
UC San Diego recently opened a new building in downtown San Diego, simply called 
UC San Diego @ Park & Market. It is just across the street from the Park & Market stop 
on the Blue Line Trolley, perfect for those looking for a reason to use the recent Blue Line 
extension. Within this building, there is a new theater, “Digital Gym Cinema.” It’s small, 
housing only 58 seats, but it shows a wide variety of foreign /f_ilms, something desperately 
needed in the environment of our current cinema. /T_he tickets are also relatively cheap, $10 
for a UCSD student and $12 for general admission (both with a $1 service fee if ordered 
online) and there is no reserved seating. Unfortunately, the building is o /f_ten locked and 
you must dial the front desk number provided on a sign outside the entrance in order 
to enter. Regardless, a cinema that runs foreign and independent cinema should be wel -
comed, and there is no better way to welcome it than to attend. 
One of the /f_ilms shown recently was “In Front of Your Face.” Directed by Hong Sang-
soo, a proli /f_ic South Korean director, the /f_ilm subtly yet unabashedly touches on the small, 
imperfect beauties in our lives which should be cherished. /T_he /f_ilm follows Jeongok (Yun -
hee Cho) as she visits her sister Sangok (Lee Hye-yeong) in South Korea and reconnects 
with her childhood. 
As the /f_ilm opens, we see Jeongok clutch her stomach, an obvious — perhaps overly 
so — indication of illness. From this scene, the movie sways into her interactions with her 
sister; the illness is le /f_t undiscussed, yet it lingers in the back of your mind. “Is her illness  why she took this trip?” becomes the clear question, which slowly answers itself over the 
course of the /f_ilm. 
Jeongok explores the areas most sacred to her, remembering moments and adventures 
from her childhood. While on a walk with her sister, we discover she was a small actor 
many years ago. She visits her old house, which has been remodeled, and Sang-soo rests 
the camera on her standing in the garden, surrounded by foliage. Physically intertwined 
with the yard around her, the bittersweet remembrance of home and childhood emanate 
from the frame while she explores the greenery. Jeongok reminisces with the new resident, 
discussing how much has changed since she le /f_t for America. 
Jeongok eventually meets with a director, Jaewon (Kwon Hae-hyo), who has wanted to 
cast her in a future /f_ilm since seeing a clip of her which deeply a ﬀected him. /T_hroughout 
their meeting, they weave on and o ﬀ-topic, with Jaewon asking if she plays guitar; she 
studied for a short time years ago. He playfully demands she play. Sang-soo lingers on this 
setting, Jaewon listening wistfully while Jeongok imperfectly plays the guitar. /T_his beauti -
ful moment encapsulates the overarching theme of the /f_ilm; Jeongok frequently pauses, 
sures her hands, and continues — yet this magical tune rises above these imperfections, 
becoming more moving each time she errs, and picks up again. 
/T_he /f_ilm's simple cinematography lends itself well to the /f_low and tone of the /f_ilm. Shot 
with natural lighting and sparse camera movement, the lighting overexposed on a bright Xuan Ly /gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Matthew Risley /gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Image courtesy of NPR. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
day, the small mismatches of audio between cuts; it feels natural, as it should feel. /T_he in-
tentional imperfections highlight the beauty found within the imperfections in our own 
lives. Sang-soo’s use of slow zooms — o /f_ten /f_irst on Jeongok, then out to her surroundings 
— creates an intimate link between her and the world around her. /T_hese notions eek out 
of the /f_ilm; when /f_irst viewing, its lighthearted nature slowly warms you up to the com -
plex ideas expressed within. /T_hese di ﬃcult realities seem to lay undisturbed, then slowly 
it begins to connect, the loneliness of /f_inding that while you were away, your home has 
moved on; praying that you become the person that deserves the unexpected kindness of 
others; the immediate and terrifying confrontation with death. But ultimately, it melds 
into acceptance. /T_he absurdity that death is soon approaching is reconciled with the 
inelegant and beautiful connections Jeongok /f_inds between strangers and family alike. 
/T_his was my /f_irst /f_ilm from Hong Sang-soo and, although the magnitude of his /f_ilm-
ography intimidates me, “In Front of Your Face” certainly started out on the right foot. 
Simple, elegant, and moving, it charmingly navigated these complex topics as a most 
pure form of cinema. 
Future of Streaming Services
Is Net /f_lix’s recent subscriber loss the beginning of the downfall of streaming? 
I recall one time my friend and I were watching TV at my house, and we decided to 
watch “Everybody Hates Chris'' on Hulu. When I clicked it and an ad came up, she looked 
at me in bewilderment and asked why I had ads. I told her I had the student Spotify pre -
mium plan that comes with an ad supported Hulu plan, and Showtime, and I would rather 
have ads on Hulu. She then asked why I would keep ads on Hulu, and that I might as 
well watch cable. As someone who grew up watching cable television and liked it, I never 
understood why people didn’t like it. It wasn’t until streaming came along that I saw the 
potential in ad-free streaming; especially services that allow more creativity than a cable 
network. Although streaming has become a dominant /f_igure in /f_ilm and television, it has 
started to come down from its climax. Recently, Net /f_lix has reported a loss of 200,000 
subscribers in the /f_irst quarter of 2022, resulting in their stock plunging, and are expected 
to lose 2 million more subscribers. Net /f_lix is now o ﬀering a cheaper, ad-supported plan as 
a result. With Net /f_lix turning to ad-supported streaming, along with other services, what 
does that mean for the future of streaming? 
To understand the future of streaming, we have to look at how streaming began. Before 
streaming services were the norm, Net /f_lix and Hulu were the main players in the /f_ield. 
Net/f_lix and Hulu would pay studios to license their TV shows and movies to stream on 
their platforms. /T_his is how we were able to watch Marvel, Star Wars, DC, and a plethora 
of other shows and movies on one service. /T_his was the standard model until one company 
started to change the media industry forever. In 2009, Disney acquired Marvel Studios and 
Lucas /f_ilm in 2012, resulting in one of the biggest media monopolies. /T_hen, in 2019, Disney 
Studios bought 21st Century Fox for $71.3 billion dollars, making it one of the biggest me -
dia mergers ever. With Disney acquiring so many intellectual properties (IP), in addition 
to their already well- established library, they knew they could make their own streaming 
service and gain a lot of money from it; and they have since they are expected to begin 
turning a pro /f_it in /f_iscal 2024 according to the company’s quarterly earnings report. Many 
other channels and companies also saw the potential in taking back their IPs and creating 
their own services, thus spreading all the content we love across di ﬀerent platforms. But 
isn’t that just cable television? 
/T_he main appeal of streaming services when they /f_irst came out was that it was dif -
ferent and better than cable. Many people liked the idea of being able to watch what they 
wanted without ads. With the rise of popular television shows being available to binge 
all at once with no ads came the solution to many people’s problems with cable. How -
ever, with streaming services like Hulu, HBO Max, Peacock, and now Net /f_lix adding ad-
supported subscriptions, streaming is becoming the new cable. Streaming services still 
oﬀer many things that cable doesn’t that di ﬀerentiates it from that model. Although cable 
television still airs great shows like “Better Call Saul,” “Abbott Elementary,” and “Atlanta,” 
creators still have to follow heavy restrictions whereas creators that work with streaming 
platforms tend to have more creative freedom and bigger budgets than creators who make 
network television. According to /T_he Wall Street Journal, Net /f_lix spent $30 million on 
each episode of Stranger /T_hings’s upcoming season 4, which is much more than the aver -age cable show costs. Streaming services also have a plethora of options to choose from so 
that you always have something to watch, on the other hand with cable you are forced to 
watch whatever programming they have on. However, to be able to enjoy these services ad 
free, you have to pay a fee that’s not always feasible. 
Even though streaming platforms still have an edge over cable, the line separating the 
two becomes thinner and thinner as time goes on. However, it is not only the ads that are 
blurring the lines between cable and streaming. /T_he main issue is the fact that di ﬀerent 
companies and studios are creating their own streaming services, making it harder to 
house everything in one spot. A part of streaming services’ downfall is that the market 
is oversaturated with them. As of right now there are almost 50 streaming services avail -
able in North America, and many of our favorite shows and movies are spread out across 
these platforms. Before, if I wanted to watch one of my favorite comedy shows, I could 
head to Net /f_lix because they had shows such as “Friends,” “ /T_he Oﬃce,” “Parks and Rec -
reation,” “Brooklyn Nine-Nine,” and “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia.” Now, “Friends” 
is on HBO Max, “ /T_he Oﬃce” and “Parks and Recreation” are on Peacock, and “Brooklyn 
Nine-Nine” and “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” are on Hulu. Since more studios and 
companies are taking back the rights to their content to create their own platform, you 
have to pay for di ﬀerent services in order to access all the content you want. /T_he cost of 
multiple streaming services is about on par to the cost of cable, not making it any more 
cost e ﬀective. /T_he new model of how we watch TV on streaming is starting to change as 
well. Net /f_lix can be credited for starting the binge-watching model we all have been accus -
tomed to recently. Before, we would all binge watch the latest season of “Stranger /T_hings” 
in a day, but now with Disney+ and HBO Max, releasing their shows week by week, people 
tend to stay engaged longer and the popularity of their shows grows as the show premieres. 
So does this mean the end of Net /f_lix, and by extension streaming services? Not at all. 
Streaming is here to stay for the foreseeable future, due to their popularity and wide access 
to TV shows and movies we want to see. Disney+ is still seeing massive success due to their 
collection of Marvel, Star Wars, and Pixar content. Even though it doesn’t look like they 
are going anywhere, they will have to start implementing changes to their model and fees 
if they plan on keeping the subscribers they still have. Not evolving to keep up with their 
audience will result in the steady decline of the streaming model, and to ensure that won’t 
happen, they will have to listen and adapt accordingly. Although many are complaining 
about Net /f_lix’s tendency to cancel shows and then increase their price right a /f_ter, many 
still prefer Net /f_lix and streaming over cable TV. While Net /f_lix still arguably remains top 
of the game, if they don’t acclimate to this new playing /f_ield, it will only be a matter of time 
before they get le /f_t behind. 
Kamiah Johnson /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Image courtesy of IMDb. 
Image courtesy of Vox. FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
NELSON ESPINAL 
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
Waiting on a Place to Call Home
In the face of high prices of o ﬀ-campus housing near UCSD, many students aren’t 
oﬀered the option of living on-campus. For rising sophomores on the housing wait -
list, the uncertainty forces them to pay the price of certainty or live in limbo.
By Miriya Huie 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
As the 2021-2022 school year 
draws to a close, students across 
the UC San Diego campus are 
in the midst of finalizing their 
housing plans for the next year. 
However, with the competitive 
and expensive San Diego housing 
market, many students opt for 
on-campus housing for both 
convenience and savings.
For many rising sophomores, 
this leaves them in an uncertain 
position: the housing waitlist. 
While incoming freshmen are 
guaranteed housing — juniors 
and seniors are locked out of 
the process — the possibility of 
obtaining the generally more 
desirable on-campus housing is 
based on chance for sophomores. 
Rising sophomores seeking 
on-campus housing for the 2022-
2023 school year filled out an 
application for a housing contract 
in late February and received their 
results on March 8. 
For students who received on-campus housing (which was 
done on a lottery basis), this 
was a simple congratulations 
followed by instructions for 
the next steps. Students on 
the waitlist however, received 
much less information. 
Sixth College rising 
sophomore Kate Oltman 
discussed her experience with 
The UCSD Guardian.
“I got put on the housing 
waitlist, spot like 200 
something, I don’t even know 
how many people are on the 
waitlist, so I don’t know how 
far in I am,” Oltman said. 
“They say, ‘here’s a bunch of 
links for all the waitlist stuff, 
or if you don’t wanna be on 
the waitlist, here’s off-campus 
housing things!’ But they really 
didn’t have any information on 
the waitlist itself, it’s just like, 
‘yep, you’re on the waitlist! You 
gotta wait!’”
Information about the 
housing waitlist can be 
confusing for students to find. 
To answer their questions about 
the waitlist (not including the family housing or graduate 
student waitlists), students must 
go to the overall housing website 
and go to the “Waitlist” section 
of Frequently Asked Questions. 
“The way they have their 
websites set up are so terrible, 
cause there’s subpages for 
subpages and you have to go 
through the first one to get to the 
second one,” Oltman said. “It’s 
like they’re purposefully making 
this hard.” 
On that FAQ page, it says 
both “offers are made as space 
becomes available.” However, 
it also says, “The Fall 2022 
Undergraduate Housing Waitlist 
will open on July 7, 2022.” This 
inconsistency made it hard for 
waitlist students to figure out the 
exact terms of the waitlist.
Oltman explained her 
interactions with the housing 
department: 
“I had to go and email the 
people, asking them …‘has the 
waitlist moved? When will I 
be able to know? Will people 
who are currently looking for 
roommates be able to add me as a roommate?’” Oltman said. 
“And they straight-up said, ‘no, 
we’re not moving the housing 
waitlist queue until later this 
summer, and we won’t be able 
to get back to you until we know 
basically exactly how many spots 
we can give out to people.’” 
Because students don’t know 
whether or not they’ll be able to 
get on-campus housing for the 
next school year, it makes their 
plans uncertain. 
Oltman expressed some 
concern over the prospect of not 
getting off the waitlist. She lives 
approximately 30 to 40 minutes 
away from campus, which makes 
commuting possible but not 
ideal. 
Alternately, international 
student and rising sophomore 
in Seventh College Minko Ma 
decided to decline the waitlist 
in order to solidify her housing 
plans sooner. Ma plans to 
participate in the UCSD Summer 
Session. 
“I have to move out of this 
room by next month, so I think 
it’s impossible, cause if I wanna live on campus in summer, I have 
to live in Seventh College,” Ma 
said. “They only allow students 
to live there during summer 
sessions, so I think if I have to 
move twice, it’s a waste of time. 
So I decided, ‘okay, I just wanna 
move one time to off campus, 
so I can just stay there for one 
year and not need to move once 
again.’” 
Ma has planned out her off-
campus housing, and already 
has both a roommate and an 
apartment. 
Although the UCSD 
administration has created some 
triple rooms from doubles in 
order to create more housing 
for next year, the solution to the 
long-term housing problem is 
still unresolved. 
“I really hope the school 
can open more positions for 
continuing students,” Ma said. 
“Because living off campus is, is 
much — I can’t say much more 
expensive, but it should be more 
expensive, and more time on 
transportation to go to school 
and go back to my apartment.”
Image courtesy of Andrew Pan for the UCSD Guardian. FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Image courtesy of Andrew Pan from the UCSD Guardian. 
Behind the Scenes: UCSD’s 
COVID-19 Isolation Housing
A recent surge of COVID-19 positive cases among UCSD sta ﬀ 
and students has caused shortages in isolation housing. 
By Oishee Misra
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Even though the third year 
of the COVID-19 pandemic is 
underway, life at UC San Diego 
appears to be returning to the 
pre-COVID era of normalcy. 
Dining halls and lecture halls 
are packed, Ridge Walk is always 
teeming with people walking, 
biking or scootering and large 
events like the Sun God Festival 
are taking place. For a while, 
even the mask mandate had been 
lifted. 
However, just as the multiple 
COVID test vending machines 
on campus were starting to 
seem like relics of another 
time, cases began surging 
again. The surge has sent 
UCSD back to Phase 1, with 
masking required everywhere on 
campus. The UCSD COVID-19 
Daily Dashboard indicates that 
on April 28, positive cases — 
including students living both 
on and off-campus — spiked 
to 107. The spike appears to be 
receding, however, with May 12 
reporting 65 positive cases.
Since UCSD has been dealing with COVID for over two years 
now, the policies and processes 
pertaining to testing and isolating 
have become more streamlined. 
Although there is occasional 
chaos involving isolation housing, 
on-campus students with 
roommates are generally able to 
obtain isolation housing. 
Revelle College Freshman 
Natasha Jhalani, who lives 
on-campus with a roommate, 
received isolation housing when 
she contracted COVID-19 at the 
end of April. She was exposed 
to COVID-19 and thereafter 
took three vending machine 
PCR tests, which all returned 
negative. However, she had been 
experiencing symptoms, so she 
went to Student Health Services to 
get a rapid test done, which came 
back as negative. 
She was taken to the La Jolla 
Marriott Residence Inn later that 
day, on April 27, and was placed 
in a two-story suite with a kitchen, 
living area and two bedrooms 
with each having an attached 
bathroom. Jhalani got there in the 
late afternoon and settled in, and 
decided to go to bed early. 
Later that night, around 11:30 
p.m., Jhalani was woken up by 
knocking. It turned out that due to the surge in cases, the Marriott 
Residence Inn was at capacity. 
Since Jhalani had been placed 
in a larger room with an extra 
bed, she was being paired with 
a roommate. Although this 
felt abrupt and a little scary, 
she says that the spaciousness 
of the living space made it a 
comfortable arrangement. 
The next morning, other 
on-campus students who had 
tested positive had to be taken 
by bus to the Marriott Residence 
Inn in Oceanside, since the 
La Jolla one was completely 
full. UCSD booked the entire 
fourth floor of the hotel for 
COVID-positive students 
to increase isolation housing 
capacity. That day, students 
also received an email saying 
students living on-campus 
with roommates would be 
given priority for isolation 
housing (but, if students 
on-campus tested positive and 
their roommate was already in 
isolation housing, then those 
students would have to isolate 
in their on-campus dorms). 
Off-campus students with 
roommates would not be given 
priority isolation housing, 
regardless of roommates or apartment mates. 
Jhalani says that the food 
delivery service that UCSD 
provided for students could 
have been better. The process 
of ordering food was a little 
confusing and inconvenient 
because students had to order 
a day in advance, but they did 
not know how long they would 
be in isolation (if they tested 
negative after day six, they could 
leave early). She also feels that 
the delivery could have been 
more frequent (food was only 
delivered between 5 p.m. and 7 
p.m. daily). 
However, the woman in 
charge of food delivery was 
readily available by phone 
and was accommodating to 
late requests; she cared about 
students’ health and well-being. 
UCSD also delivered 
medicine and other groceries to 
rooms, and Jhalani used it as an 
opportunity to cook. 
Jhalani says that compared 
to how other schools deal with 
COVID-19 and isolation housing, 
UCSD does a significantly better 
job. For instance, in an opinion 
piece from the Daily Bruin, 
the writer criticizes UCLA’s 
disorganized COVID-19 policies and isolation procedures. 
While all universities 
presumably have their students’ 
safety and well-being as first 
priority, these past two years 
have exemplified flaws in 
their respective bureaucracies. 
Universities have adapted; 
yet, there remains chaos and 
confusion (to a lesser extent 
at UCSD, as Jhalani states) 
regarding COVID-19 policies 
and procedures. 
Although COVID-19 seems 
like a fading phenomenon, the 
recent surge is evidence that 
COVID is now a seemingly 
more permanent (but hopefully 
less daunting) part of our 
lives. Despite the loneliness 
and boredom that come with 
isolation housing, Jhalani says 
testing and isolating is important 
for keeping cases under control 
and limiting surges. 
“If you end up in isolation, 
just make sure to call your 
friends and family,” Jhalani told 
The UCSD Guardian. “Rest a 
lot, too.”
*Note: /T_his article is a 
reprint from last week 
to correct a printing error.*LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG L I F E S T Y L E
I Know More About Neil Gaiman Than You Do, Genius
Who out there watched Cor -
aline as a kid, or binged Good 
Omens too fast? I distinctly re -
member the first time I watched 
Stardust, with the goofy pro -
tagonist fitting the hero’s jour -
ney. These films (and TV show) 
are based on the works of Neil 
Gaiman, who came to San Diego 
May 5th at the Balboa Theater. 
I bought my ticket later than I 
should have because a class friend 
of mine asked me if I wanted to 
go. After deciding if I were to see 
Jericho Brown or Neil Gaiman, 
I inevitably chose Gaiman and 
quickly purchased my UC-dis -
counted ticket. Unfortunately, 
the human body cannot be in 
two places at once. The Blue Line 
takes you directly to the Balboa 
Theater, so right after our class 
we booked it to Warren so we 
could make it by 7:30, because it 
started at 8. Unfortunately, this 
meant they had to check our bags 
because they were too big for the 
venue, but also, that means we 
didn’t have to rummage our way 
to our randomized seats with 
Ochem and laptop heavy bags.
Which was great for me, be -
cause I was front and center by 
completely randomized odds. 
It was an amazing seat, but I 
couldn’t help but freeze at the 
end of the aisle, because even 
though I didn’t have my tote bag, 
I hate having to go into aisles at 
theaters. My heart thumped at 
the realization that neither side 
would take less steps to my seat, 
but I couldn’t explain to the mar -
quee what was going through my 
head. Someone on the end closest 
to me must’ve sensed my anxiety, 
urging their friends to stand with"You don’t get to choose what you’re 
remembered for. You don’t get to 
choose what’s important."
Neil Gaimanhim to give me more space to 
move. This caused everyone be -
tween me and my seat to rise, and 
the cloud of worry passed. I don’t 
know who they were, but thank 
you. It really added to the positive 
experience of the event.
Once I got to my seat, the guy 
to my left mentioned he didn’t 
think anyone would sit there, be -
cause he had only refunded it a 
couple days before. That’s when I 
realized how I got such an amaz 
ing seat in the first place — I 
mean, come on, I paid $25 and 
then got a seat that was worth 
over $100? My friend bought the 
tickets the same day just three 
minutes later, and got a row in the 
back. Thank you, too, I guess, to 
whatever in the universe had me 
pay for the ticket right then.
We probably sat for another 20 
or so minutes before he took the 
stage, which gave me time to look 
at the books I bought prior to sit -
ting down. There were hundreds 
of books, all hand signed by Neil 
Gaiman. I just spent a good por -
tion of money at Yallwest (a Y/A 
book festival) so I limited myself 
to three of his books, plus one 
for my mom for mother’s day. I 
ended up getting “Trigger Warn -
ing,” “The Neil Gaiman Reader,” 
and two copies of “Stardust” (one 
of them for my mom). If they had 
had it, I would have gotten “Cor -
aline,” but if they had had any 
copies, they sold out fast. It was 
so funny because the bookstore 
who hosted the sale (Mysterious 
Galaxy Bookstore in San Diego) 
also had a booth at Yallwest, so 
I spoke to them a little while my 
books were being checked out.
Anyways, I’m getting off  
track, back to Neil. He sounds 
exactly how you would expect 
him to, and if you’ve never heard 
him speak I recommend look -ing up one of his audio books or 
a video somewhere on Youtube. 
There is such an eloquence to his 
voice that comes with the mix of 
American English and British 
English. From the beginning he 
captured the audience, speaking 
softly into his microphone and 
silencing the small conversations. 
The structure of the reading fluc -
tuated between answering ques -
tions written on note cards and 
reading multiple of his works. I’m 
really bad at remembering titles 
that are read and even worse at 
writing them down to remem -
ber, but each story is still so vivid 
in my mind; that’s the magic of 
Gaiman. He first told a collection 
of European fairy tales like uni -
corns, pixies, fairies, and elves, all 
with his own little twist on what 
were usually tales of warning told 
instead with omniscient humor 
like it was a secret between me, 
the listener, and him, the story -
teller. 
My favorite reading of his 
that night was the longest one he 
read: a tiny script about 10 pages 
in length, written about an old 
woman who finds the holy grail 
at her local secondhand store and 
a hero who she refuses to give it 
to because it just looks too nice 
on her mantle. If you know any -
thing about Joseph Campbell’s 
“Hero’s Journey” theory, you’ll 
know Gaiman’s work utilizes this 
way of storytelling in a major way. 
The knight in shining armor is on 
a quest from Arthurian Camelot 
for this holy grail, trying every -
thing in his power to have her re -
linquish the cup. He tries to give 
her swords that fight the worst of 
foe, tries to give her his white, a 
shiny apple made of rubies, and 
at the end, the only thing that 
she will trade him for is the phi -
losopher’s stone and the egg of a phoenix — to replace the cup on 
her mantle, of course. There were 
times I wished he would speed 
up, not because he was talking so 
slow, but because for some reason 
Balboa Theater has air condition -
ing on every seat, and they had it 
on blast the whole time. I don’t 
think my legs thawed until we 
got back to Seventh College, to 
be honest. If there was anything 
I thought could be improved, it 
would probably be that.
But even without his prewrit -
ten stories, Gaiman is a story -
teller through and through. He 
answered a bunch of different 
questions and no matter how 
niche the question was, he didn’t 
need more than a second to delve 
into a world built around the 
answer. He answered the ques -
tion, “What is your favorite Pink 
Floyd song?” with a story about 
the first time he met the lead 
singer of the band and that while 
he didn’t have a favorite song, he 
remembered “being at the top of 
the Pink Floyd food chain” for a 
day. The quote I started this piece 
with had to be my favorite answer 
to a question though, and it was 
about what he believed his “Mag -
num Opus” to be. I thought it was 
a humble answer, and as a writer 
myself, I feel like I strive to have a 
work that will be remembered, so 
hearing Gaiman say it’s really not 
up to us as writers stuck with me, 
and will continue to stick with 
me.
(Also, it reminded me of Lin-
Manuel Miranda’s Hamilton’s 
“History has its Eyes on You,” but 
that's for another time.) 
FOLL OW US
@ucsdguar dian
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your studeet
organization with Triton 
Outfitter’s Made TO 
Order program!by Rosabella Debty LIFESTYLE CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Image courtesy of Rosabella Debty for the UCSD Guardian. MON 5.23
9am
LIBRARY DE /hyphen.caseSTRESS 
PUBLICATION /hyphen.case VIRTUAL
Check our webpage today a new 
e-publication featuring mindful and fun 
activities, such as original coloring pages, 
puzzles, wellness tips, simple recipes, 
de-stress tips, and more! New 
publications are posted every other 
Wednesday.
5pm
REC PRESENTS: TRIVIA NIGHTS 
/hyphen.case DIRTY BIRDS AT PRICE 
CENTER
Test your smarts and earn bragging rights 
at trivia night! Join us every Wednesday 
this quarter from 5-7pm for Trivia! 
Register yourself and/or a team of up to 6 
people for in-person Trivia at Dirty Birds in 
Price Center, hosted by your Recreation 
Department! Gift cards for will be given to 
the top 3 teams each week!FRI5.27
7pm
A PLACE CALLED CHIAPAS: AN 
EVENING OF FILM AND 
DISCUSSION WITH PROSPECT 
JOURNAL /hyphen.case ERC GREEN 
Prospect Journal of International Affairs 
will be screening "A Place Called 
Chiapas." An award-winning documentary 
about the Zapatista National Liberation 
Army and their takeover of several 
indigenous villages and ranches in Mexico 
in 1994 in the wake of Mexico's signing of 
the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
The film focuses on the area's 
impoverished citizens and their deplorable 
living conditions, and includes a rare 
interview with the separatists' reclusive 
leader, Marcos. A group Q&A will 
immediately follow the film to discuss the 
event's historical importance and lasting 
impact.WED 5.25
TUE 5.24
2pm
CRAFTER /hyphen.caseNOON /hyphen.case STAGE 
ROOM @ STUDENT CENTER
Weekly event! Take a break and see 
what you can make! Supplies provided. 
Sample projects: Friendship bracelets, 
color by number, crochet, DIY buttons, 
paper crafts & more!THU 5.26
12pm
SPIKE BALL SOCIAL /hyphen.case 
MATTHEWS QUAD 
Love playing spike ball? Bring your 
friends and join us in our Spike Ball 
Social from weeks 5 to 10 every 
Thursday at 12 PM at The Park @ 
Mathews Quad.SAT 5.28Tahrir WEE KTHISat UC SAN D IEGO
MAY 23 - MAY 292022
POWE RED BY THE S TUDEN T EVENTS INSID ER AN D THE U CSD  GUARDIAN
FRI, MAY 27 /bullet.case 8PM /bullet.case  MARSHALL FIELDBEAR GARDEN SENIOR SEND-OFF
12pm
EBE CLUB NATURE WALK: 
KWAAY PAAY PEAK TRAIL /hyphen.case 
KWAAY PAAY PEAK TRAIL
Join EBE Club for a nature walk with 
Principle Member, Bianca Jussen! We will 
be taking a nature walk at Kwaay Paay 
Peak Trail, Saturday, May 28th @10 am - 
12 pm. Please bring your own water 
bottle, closed toed shoes, long pants, and 
some snacks.RSVP here for more 
information: bit.ly/ebewalknCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  1112 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at CSU Northridge 
at CSU Northridge 
at CSU Northridge UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Baseball
Baseball3PM
2PM
1PM5/26
5/27
5/28
By Miguel Carias
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Entering their final home 
series matchup of the season, 
the UC San Diego Tritons (23–
27, 12–12 Big West) were set 
to face off against the Hawaii 
Rainbow Warriors (24–21, 
15–9 Big West). The first game 
displayed a strong performance 
by the away team, with Hawaii 
managing to never lose a lead in 
the game after their dominating 
4–0 start, and even with the 
Tritons making a valiant ninth-
inning comeback rally effort, 
Hawaii was able to come away 
with the opening game win in this series, winning 7–4.
The first two innings went 
entirely in Hawaii’s favor, as 
they established a very quick 
and commanding 4–0 lead. The 
first two runs at the top of 
the first inning were brought 
in by Hawaii centerfielder Cole 
Cabrera on a two-run homer 
deep into leftfield in just the 
second at-bat of the game. 
Hawaii carried this strong 
opening momentum into the 
top of the second inning, in 
which the Rainbow Warriors 
landed 4 hits against the 
freshman pitcher for UCSD, 
Austin Smith, and were able to 
bring in two more runs on those 
4 hits, increasing Hawaii’s early lead to 4–0 in the second inning. 
The junior starting pitcher for 
Hawaii, Blaze Koali’i Pontes, 
dominated at the mound for 
the Rainbow Warriors to start 
the game, having 2 strikeouts 
and allowing no hits by the 
Tritons throughout the first two 
innings.
At the top of the third, junior 
pitcher Aren Alvarez, in relief of 
Austin Smith, was able to keep 
the Hawaii batters in check, 
allowing only 1 hit and no runs 
for the Rainbow Warriors. The 
Tritons were then able to close 
the gap in the bottom of the 
third, scoring on a triple by 
sophomore right-fielder Luke 
Saunders, a double by junior 
third baseman Jalen Smith, and 
a single by junior left-fielder 
Marc Filia, all of which came 
in consecutive at-bats for the 
Tritons. The Rainbow Warriors 
then proceeded to get their 
third out of the inning after 
tagging out Filia at second base, 
but the Tritons had now made 
their first mark in the game 
with 5 hits and 3 runs in the 
inning, now only trailing 4–3.
The start of the fourth 
inning displayed some error-
filled play by the Tritons, as 
two players for Hawaii reached 
base on 2 wild throws to first 
base by Jalen Smith, with 1 
scoring on an Alvarez wild 
pitch. Following another wild 
pitch, the Tritons would bring 
in junior relief pitcher Izaak 
Martinez, who retired from the 
Rainbow Warriors side. 
In the top of the fifth inning, 
Hawaii brought in another run, 
this time on a single RBI hit by Scotty Scott, before a Martinez 
strikeout got the Tritons out of 
the inning. The sixth inning 
displayed good defensive 
showing from both teams, with 
the only real play at the plate 
being made by Jalen Smith, who 
nailed a leadoff solo home run 
down left field to open up the 
bottom of the sixth inning for 
the Tritons.
Entering the seventh, 
Hawaii still led 6–4, and in 
quick response to the solo home 
run hit by Smith in the previous 
inning, Hawaii catcher Nainoa 
Cardinez hit a solo home run 
of his own down left field to 
lead off the top of the seventh 
inning, which brought the lead 
immediately back up by 3, 7–4, 
for the Rainbow Warriors. In the 
bottom of the seventh, Hawaii 
brought in sophomore pitcher 
Tai Atkins. Atkins’ time at the 
mound would not last long as 
he would allow the Tritons to 
generate some quick offense, 
but the Rainbow Warriors 
would bring in Buddie Pindel 
in relief and strand two runners 
on base without a score.
Heading into the ninth 
inning, Hawaii still held onto 
their lead, 7–4, and appeared to 
be in the driver’s seat in this ball 
game. In the top of the ninth, 
UCSD was able to perform well 
defensively, allowing no hits 
and no errors, and so they now 
made their way to the bottom of 
the ninth, needing a miraculous 
showing at the plate to have a 
chance at coming back in the 
game.
The Tritons would in fact 
give their fans a beam of hope, as 3 consecutive single-base 
hits by Emiliano Gonzalez, 
Ryan McNally, and Michael 
Fuhrman loaded the bases with 
one out, bringing the Triton 
fans to their feet. Hawaii made 
a last-minute pitching change 
out of desperation, bringing in 
junior pitcher Dalton Renne. 
Up to the plate for the Tritons 
was sophomore shortstop Noah 
Sudyka, but Renne managed to 
strike out Sudyka, and now the 
Rainbow Warriors needed just 
one more out to come away 
with this opening game series 
victory.
Next at the plate for the 
Tritons came freshman Matt 
Halbach as a pinch hitter. After 
a few tension-filled pitches, 
Halbach hit a deep line drive 
down right field, but to the 
dismay of all the Triton players 
and fans, the umpires called it 
a foul ball. The umpires would 
then go to the monitor and view 
the replay footage, but after a 
few nerve-inducing minutes 
of awaiting the decision, the 
umpires would confirm the call. 
A fielder’s choice would then 
end the rally by the Tritons and 
secure the win for the Rainbow 
Warriors.  
With the loss, the Tritons 
would now have to bounce back 
in the next two days, as they 
continued to host their final 
home series of 2022 against 
Hawaii, following this overall 
strong performance by the 
Rainbow Warriors, who were 
able to respond to all of the 
Tritons’ comeback attempts 
throughout the ballgame.Triton Comeback Falls 
Short to Hawaii in Final 
Home Series Opener
Last week, Jake Daniels 
came out as gay. In doing so, 
he became one of the very 
few openly out, active male 
professional soccer players in 
the world, and the first one 
in the United Kingdom since 
Justin Fashanu in 1990. 
Daniels is a 17-year-old 
forward at Blackpool F.C. This 
season at the northwestern 
club has been full of milestones 
and accomplishments for the 
local lad. He signed his first 
professional contract with 
Blackpool, scored 30 goals, 
made his first team debut, and 
has now made this monumental 
personal step in deciding 
to come out, a decision that 
not only affects his life, but 
will certainly have ripples 
throughout the game. Daniels 
has received support across the 
sport, as well as from notable 
public figures such as British 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson 
and Olympic diver Tom Daley. 
The announcement is 
massive in the soccer world, 
its significance in the sport 
extending well beyond soccer 
in the UK. Professional soccer, 
like many popular sports 
such as American soccer, 
baseball, or basketball, is 
well-known and perhaps even 
infamous for its rarity of 
openly LGBTQ players. Despite 
soccer’s massive international 
popularity, and the diversity of 
its community, there exists a 
stigma around deviations from  
heteronormativity that remains 
a black spot on the sport as a 
whole. 
There are many factors to 
consider when someone decides 
to come out, and professional athletes are in perhaps an even 
more delicate situation. They 
contend with these factors as 
well as others unique to life as a 
public figure, like the pressure 
to use their status to be a role 
model to other LGBTQ people, 
the massively-wider audience 
their announcement will reach, 
and the greater number of people 
who could react negatively, 
all within the atmosphere of a 
sport that was practically built 
on toxic masculinity. 
Soccer is popularly 
considered to be a masculine 
sport, and there has long 
persisted an expectation of 
“manliness” in the soccer world, 
where to be gay was to not 
belong. To be considered a good 
player, rough tackles and other 
outward displays of “manliness” 
on the pitch were expected. In 
an interview with Sky Sports, 
Daniels himself addressed this 
topic. In the interview, Daniels 
saidg that the soccer atmosphere 
has long associated itself with 
masculinity such that being 
gay is placed in contrast with 
“being a man,” and that coming 
out brings with it the fear of 
being perceived as weak both 
by the opposition and the fans. 
In recent years, as the world 
has become a more welcoming 
place for LGBTQ people, so has 
the soccer world, evident in 
various club-driven efforts like 
the Rainbow Laces campaign 
run through British LGBTQ 
charity Stonewall. However, 
despite this progression, the 
homophobia that has been so 
present in soccer history has 
not gone away. 
Before Daniels, the most 
recent male player to come out 
was Adelaide United’s Josh 
Cavallo, who came out as gay 
seven months ago in October 
2021. The Australian, who turned 22 in November, received 
widespread international 
support and messages of 
solidarity from the public, as 
well as other clubs and players. 
However, in January of this year, 
he was subject to homophobic 
abuse by the crowd at an away 
match, and  online abuse on 
social media. While Cavallo 
has experienced an outpouring 
of support since he publicly 
came out, there remains a 
shockingly large number of 
people who refuse to adhere 
to basic principles of kindness, 
acceptance, and decency. The 
danger of experiencing this 
kind of abuse is a shadow that 
lingers over any LGBTQ player’s 
internal debate over whether or 
not to show who they really are 
to the world.
Among players as well, 
acceptance is far from 
universal. In the week following 
Daniels’ announcement, Idrissa 
Gueye, of Paris Saint-Germain, 
reportedly sat out of a match 
against Montpellier in response 
to his team’s decision to wear 
shirts with rainbow-patterned 
numbers. His decision has 
received support on social 
media from other players 
like Cheikhou Kouyate of 
Crystal Palace, Papy Mendy 
of Leicester City, and Ismaila 
Sarr of Watford, his national 
teammates for Senegal, as well 
as the President of Senegal, 
Macky Sall. Gueye’s protest has 
raised the issue of a culture war, 
as well as the tightrope soccer 
walks in practicing acceptance 
while trying to maintain the 
sport’s appeal to all of its very 
diverse fans.
It is a much different story 
in women’s soccer. There are 
several openly LGBTQ female 
players currently playing, the 
most recognizable probably being Chelsea F.C. Women’s 
couple Pernille Harder and 
Magda Eriksson, whose candid 
moment of celebratory affection 
was the subject of one of the 
most iconic soccer photos of 
2019. Perhaps it is due to the fact 
that the women’s game receives 
less attention than the men’s, 
and certainly the absence of 
such potent toxic masculinity 
has something to do with 
it. Whatever the case, the 
difference in stigma between 
men’s and women’s soccer is a 
gaping chasm that soccer needs 
to address. 
It is for this reason that 
Daniels’ coming out is so 
important. This stigma cannot 
be changed, much less done 
away with, if no player actually 
challenges it by coming out. 
Although it is somewhat 
unfortunate that almost all 
of the burden is carried by a 
17-year-old, Jake Daniels is 
embracing this task of helping other players who also want to 
finally reveal their whole self to 
the world. 
“No one’s done it, just no one 
has the confidence to do it yet, 
so I want to be that role model 
to do it, maybe push people to 
be able to come out,” Daniels 
said.
He wants to establish 
himself as a point of contact for 
players as well as a role model 
for LGBTQ fans who are also 
looking for someone like them 
in the sport they love. 
At the end of the day, 
Daniels’ decision to come out 
means everything, not just for 
himself to finally be able to be 
honest about who he is, but for 
the wider soccer community as 
a whole that has long needed 
this representation yet has been 
overwhelmingly lacking it until 
now. Hopefully, this is just the 
beginning.Jake Daniels and What it Means to Be Gay in Soccer
By Emer Nolan 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UCSD Guardian.
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis / UC San Diego Athletics.