FAST FASHION
IS CANCELLED
Shein package coming in the 
mail soon? Let’s learn how 
harmful fast fashion is to our 
environment, and how we can 
move forward in Opinion’s 
article this week. 
BOOK REVIEW
IMMIGRATION IN THE U.S.Book Retrospective: “Hunger” - A 
Novella and Short Stories
IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS RUN INTO A WALLA&E,  Page  6
FEATURES,  Page 8  
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Transnational criminal 
organizations continue 
to encourage people to 
climb that barrier. They 
use ladders to climb 
to the top and then 
they pull the ladder off, 
leaving the person stuck 
at the top of that barrier 
to figure out how they are 
going to descend.”
- AMY LIEPERT
FEATURES, PAGE 8OPINION,   PAGE  4
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
ILLUSTRATION BY ANGELA LIANGILLUSTRATION BY ANGELA LIANG
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
GAY BARS.....................5
QUEER TELEVISION.....6
TOYKO VICE.................7
VIOLENT PROTESTS. ...9
UCSD VS. SDSU.........12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 27  MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD 
Graduate 
Student Accused 
of  Shooting 
CHP Officer
Department of Education Plans to Retroactively 
Help Student Loan Borrowers STUDENT LOANS BREAKING NEWS
By Nikita Cardozo STAFF WRITER
The U.S. Department of Education recently an -
nounced their plan to retroactively help millions 
of federal student loan borrowers who are in large 
debt from the department’s troubled income-driven re -
payment (IDR) plans. 
The IDR are plans that base the borrower’s student 
loan payments on their monthly income and guarantee 
cancellation of any remaining debt after 20–25 years. 
The announcement comes after increased pressure from 
lawmakers after House and Senate education committee 
chairs strongly urged Education Secretary Miguel Car -
dona to take action to help these borrowers. 
In a 2021 report, the NCLC found that 45 million 
Americans have student loan debt, with more than eight 
million currently enrolled in the IDR plans. The report 
also revealed that there have only been 32 individuals 
who have received the loan cancellation that was sup -
posed to be guaranteed to them. 
These IDR plans have been in existence for more than 
25 years. Experts believe that this announcement seems 
to be taking a step in the right direction after years of 
lawsuits and complaints alleging mismanagement by the 
department. 
The department estimates that these changes will 
cancel out the debt for at least 40,000 students who now 
qualify for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness. More -
over, thousands of additional students will qualify for 
debt cancellation under IDR.
The Federal Student Aid (FSA) and the Department 
of Education promise to employ a “one-time account ad -
justment” to give these student borrowers credit for what 
they consider to be an unfairly long time paying back 
their loans: more than 12 consecutive months or more 
than 36 cumulative months. For example, a student 
that has spent 16 consecutive months paying back their 
loans would be given credit for 16 qualifying payments  towards cancellation. 
The department estimates that more than 3.5 mil -
lion students will receive at least three years of new 
credit towards cancellation. The plan also promises an 
account review for those that file a complaint with the 
FSA.
Roger Revelle College freshman Olivia Richardson 
discussed how overwhelming it is to worry about stu -
dent loans and financial aid. 
“I am constantly in fear about obtaining financial 
aid, which is especially necessary for me since I am an 
out-of-state student, ” Richardson said. 
According to NPR, there have been various issues 
regarding how loan servicers were counting or not even 
counting qualifying IDR payments, which is likely what 
prohibited borrowers from reaching their debt cancel -
lation point. They found that the $0 monthly payments 
were not being properly tracked, which hurt the lowest-
income borrowers. 
FSA claims that they will not issue new rules for 
servicers to guarantee the companies’ records are kept 
track of accurately. They will also start tracking IDR 
payments in their own system and display the progress 
at StudentAid.gov in 2023. 
Each borrower’s adjustment will happen automati -
cally after the department upgrades their National 
Student Loan Data System; therefore, the loan cancella -
tions will likely only begin fall of this year. 
While the department has taken action to help, they 
have fallen short in one prominent area. The top Demo -
crats in the House asked the department to give borrow -
ers credit toward loan cancellation for all past periods of 
paying back their debt, not just the long-term pauses. 
This plan especially has the potential to make a dif -
ference to the students at UCSD who have had to take 
out student loans to pay for their education. 
RESEARCH
By Tianrui Huang
Senior Staff WriterUCSD Research Argues Mass Education was Founded to Indoctrinate 
Students 
A recent study from UC San Diego suggests that 
the state-funded schools were originally founded to 
indoctrinate and suppress disobedience, with the pur -
pose of preventing mass violence. 
In the research paper titled “Education or Indoc -
trination? The Violent Origins of Public School Sys -
tems in an Era of State-Building, ” Agustina S. Paglay -
an, UCSD assistant professor under the Department of Political Science/School of Social Sciences and the 
School of Global Policy and Strategy, found a historic 
pattern in Europe and Latin America. From 1828 to 
2015, primary school expansion always followed civil 
wars, implying that the mass education system is a 
political tool to advocate obedience. 
“The key prediction of the research is that when 
there are periods of internal conflict, states will in -
troduce education reform that is designed to indoc -
trinate people to accept the status quo,” Paglayan By Brandon Mariano 
Contributing Writer
A UC San Diego graduate 
student working in the Fol -
ger’s Theoretical Physics Lab 
has been accused of shooting a 
California Highway Patrol of -
ficer on April 27. The San Di -
ego District Attorney has filed 
charges against Yuhao Du for 
attempted murder of an officer, 
assault of an officer, taking an 
officer’s firearm, and inflicting 
bodily harm.
According to authorities, 
Du attacked the officer abrupt -
ly after being stopped and as -
sisted by the officer after he 
had crashed into the center di -
vide on Interstate 8 in Mission 
Valley. It was stated that Du 
suddenly lunged toward Offi -
cer Tony Pacheco’s firearm, at -
tempting to gain control, and 
then fired the weapon into Pa -
checo’s right thigh. 
Good samaritans on the 
freeway passing by Pacheco 
and Du jumped out of their 
vehicles to assist Pacheco and 
collectively detained Du with 
Pacheco’s handcuffs until he 
was correctly identified. The 
events that took place were 
caught on video via cell phone.
Du was previously convict -
ed of a misdemeanor in 2018 
in National City for disturbing 
the peace; he is currently in 
custody with no bail until the 
next arraignment.
One of Du’s lawyers, Anna 
Demidchik, stated to the San 
Diego Union-Tribune that 
“there’s no video whatsoever 
showing what took place im -
mediately before and what ex -
actly unfolded.” 
The arrangement was 
scheduled to take place on 
Tuesday May 3 but has been 
postponed to Tuesday May 10 
due to his lawyers wishing to 
do more research to gain more 
knowledge and information 
on the case. 
The UCSD Guardian will 
provide more updates on the 
case as they come.
See BREAKING NEWS , page 3 See RESEARCH , page 2
Image courtesy of Nicholas Regli for the UCSD Guardian. what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado
 
Advertising Director  
Gregory Shen
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
 said to the UCSD News Center.
Paglayan believes that violence 
would likely trigger societal elites’ 
anxiety about potential social un -
rest and their doubts about the 
state’s ability in maintaining social 
orders. In this scenario, the public 
education system was introduced 
to oppress dissent.
Paglayan’s study lasted seven 
years. During the research period, 
Paglayan gathered quantitative 
data, including enrollment num -
bers and level of education expen -
diture, from 40 distinct countries. 
The gathered data were analyzed 
together with language found in 
textbooks, parliamentary debates, 
politicians’ speeches, and more.
Paglayan has applied the case 
to the current public discussion 
regarding teaching of critical race 
theory. One example that she 
brought up was the 1776 Com -
mission, the advisory committee 
former president Donald J. Trump 
created after the Black Lives Mat -ter movement. The 1776 Com -
mission was later pressed into 
charge with its baseless historic 
report and “patriotic education.” 
Despite the end of Trump’s presi -
dential term, the Commission 
continues to shape the United 
States education system, an ex -
ample of which being different 
states’ issued bills that ban the 
teaching of systematic racism. 
“The school contains students 
in certain environments, which 
in turn would shape students’ 
personalities and social values,” 
Jane Qin, an Eleanor Roosevelt 
College sophomore, said. “From 
classrooms to dining halls, stu -
dents are exposed to particular 
settings provided under cam -
pus, and all their encountered 
elements would exert a certain 
influence over students — that’s 
for sure.”
Not all students are con -
cerned about the purpose of edu -
cation being a disciplinary tool, 
though. Junior John Muir Col -lege junior, holds a different opin -
ion.
“For me personally, the pur -
pose of education is straightfor -
ward. Primary school prepares 
students for middle school, and 
the middle school prepares stu -
dents for high school. I was taught 
more how to think instead of 
what to think,” Hicks said.
Oana Tocoian, a lecturer in 
the Department of Economics, 
shared a relatively similar opin -
ion. 
“Beyond molding young 
people into acquiescent citizens 
of nation-states, public primary 
education was also key in train -
ing the industrial workforce: the 
children of farmers and trades -
people had to become literate and 
fluent in the factory lingo,” To -
coian said. “They were primed to 
be obedient not only to the exist -
ing political order, but also to the 
factory foreman.”
Nevertheless, Tocoian saw a 
throughline from early public schools to today's universities and 
voiced her concern about higher 
education. 
“As access to higher educa -
tion has expanded, the apparent 
scope of universities seems to 
have narrowed, and students are 
encouraged, through rhetoric 
and incentives alike, to think of 
their college years as little more 
than job training,” Tocoian said. 
“There is certainly no more space 
in today's classroom to challenge 
the primacy of the shareholder in 
corporate hierarchy than there 
was in Prussia to challenge the 
authority of the king.”
Paglayan’s research was pub -
lished in the journal American 
Political Science Review. The full 
paper can be found here. 
To keep up to date, read 
more @ucsdguardian.org!▶ RESEARCH , from page 1
Image courtesy of Allen Chen for the UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
▶ BREAKING NEWS , from page 1
Image courtesy of K.C. Alfred for the San Diego Union Tribune. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
Fashion is More Than Consuming
Fast fashion is a wasteful 
and polluting non-essential 
that is nevertheless fun and 
empowering. To preserve 
both the environment and 
positive aspects of fashion, we 
need to slow down the rate of 
consumption by shifting to a 
culture that emphasizes quality 
over quantity with the help of 
technology.
Numerous sources point 
to the fashion industry as a 
major polluter that produces 
wastewater, carbon emissions, 
and plastic microfibers. 
According to a United Nations 
news article, the “fashion 
industry produces 20% of 
global wastewater / Clothing 
and footwear production is 
responsible for 8% of global 
greenhouse gas emissions / 
Every second, the equivalent 
of one garbage truck of textiles 
is landfilled or burned.” While 
clothing is essential for survival, 
fashion is not. Many people 
have moved beyond basic 
survival needs to the realm of 
fashion. However, many less-
fortunate individuals have 
not. Fashion is already a major 
pollutant, but to make it worse, 
this negative impact of fashion 
reaches everyone, even those 
who cannot afford fashion or 
those who are already exploited 
by the industry. Damaging the 
environment, and therefore the 
welfare of the general public, 
for something only affordable 
to relatively well-off people is 
disturbing.On the other hand, fashion 
is necessary for enriching 
many people’s  lives. As shown 
by debate.org “Yes” responses 
for Is fashion important? 
Why? and “No” responses for 
Is fashion harmful to society? 
Fashion allows people to express 
themselves, as well as their 
political views, such as wearing 
a BLM shirt. Activists use the 
clothes they wear to spread their 
message at all times because their 
clothes are able to draw people’s 
attention. Fashion can represent 
one’s cultural heritage, such as 
wearing traditional attire at a 
cultural festival. Fashion helps 
you make a good impression on 
others, such as dressing smart for 
an interview. Fashion is also an 
artform that people practice and 
appreciate. However, a common 
critique of fashion is that chasing 
the latest trends is superficial. 
Clearly, fashion has its 
benefits. But despite these 
positives, fast fashion remains 
a major polluter and symbol of 
inequality and superficiality. 
The UN article concisely sums 
up what we need to do: “both 
retailers and consumers will 
have to reject the ‘take, make 
and dispose’ model and agree 
that, for the sake of the planet, 
when it comes to fashion, less is 
more.” The question is how can 
we save both the environment 
and further enhance fashion’s 
positive roles? To find out, 
we trace a brief history of the 
clothing industry.
Fashion was not always fast. A 
hundred years ago, it was a slow 
but personalized experience. 
According to Bellatory, “Even after the Industrial Revolution, 
up into the early part of the 20th 
century a dress, for example, was 
made for the person who would 
wear it. People in the lower 
classes, servants, and laborers 
often wore hand-me-downs 
or purchased used clothing … 
In the not-too-distant past, a 
garment would last for a very 
long time.” The process of 
buying new clothes by itself 
was a big event that occurred 
perhaps only once a year, akin 
to a holiday. Back then, people 
were much more invested in 
their clothing, in terms of time, 
money, and emotion. If you are 
buying something you know you 
will likely be wearing for at least 
an entire year, naturally, you 
will spend more time finding 
something that resonates with 
you and be willing to pay more 
money for it. In addition, as you 
wear the same clothing over time, 
you become familiar with it and 
may develop personal wearing 
habits or experiment with 
unique ways to wear it. Thus, 
in a sense, the buyers of clothes 
were not merely consuming, but 
were more involved in the life 
cycle of clothing.
Fashion nowadays is fast 
and emphasizes consumption. 
Fast fashion brands produce 
52 “micro-seasons” a year, and 
according to Investopedia, 
“Zara’s designers can sketch 
a garment … and have the 
finished piece appear on store 
racks in as little as four weeks” 
as part of its strategy to “stuff the 
stores with more goods, offering 
the consumer an unparalleled 
amount of choice.” In contrast By Benjamin Liou
Staff Writer
to the past, consumers of fast 
fashion simply browse for 
something that catches their 
eye, wear it once or twice, and 
move on. While there might be 
enjoyment in this, it pollutes the 
environment and exploits the 
less fortunate. 
Currently, slow fashion has 
experienced renewed interest in 
reaction to fast fashion. There 
are also challenges to abstain 
from buying clothes. However, 
the fact that fast fashion remains 
shows that willpower alone is not 
enough to reduce rapid turnover. 
With the internet, people’s 
habits seem to have shifted 
towards browsing and instant 
gratification, which fast fashion 
caters to and slow fashion does 
not. Thus, slow fashion models 
emulating the past will not work 
today without modification.
Instead, consumers should 
slow down by adopting a culture 
that values involving themselves 
in the design process rather than 
being the passive consumer. 
Here is a proposed alternative 
business model: instead of mass 
producing physical clothing, 
artists can try to come up 
with as many creative designs 
as possible. These designs will 
be represented as drawings or 
3D models: virtual products to 
satisfy the browsing and trend-
chasing habits of the internet age. 
Customers can scroll through 
designs and try them out using 
emerging VR/AR technology. 
Perhaps this future form of 
virtual fast fashion, akin to the 
current trend of buying skins 
in video games, will be enough 
to satisfy many. However, for those serious, physically 
realizing the design will be a 
slow but satisfying process. 
After choosing to sponsor a few, 
customers can collaborate with 
skilled artisans to physically 
realize the clothing. Finally, the 
products will ship according 
to a seasonal schedule. Thus, 
procuring physical fashion will 
not be as simple as clicking “buy,” 
slowing the rate of consumption 
and reducing pollution. Also, if 
someone says “I like your shirt,” 
rather than simply saying “I 
bought it from this online store,” 
one can proudly tell a story 
about the process of discovering 
a design, physically realizing 
the clothing, and the deeper 
meanings it holds.
Today, fashion is stuck 
in a polluting business model 
because of the difficulties in 
switching to a slower model 
due to the behavioral trends 
brought by the internet. Previous 
conceptions of slow fashion 
will not be economically viable 
unless consumers change their 
values, which involves making 
a tradeoff between instant 
gratification and clothing with 
deeper meaning. However, by 
introducing VR/AR technology, 
the tradeoff may be eliminated, 
allowing the best of both fast 
and slow worlds, virtual and 
physical.
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian. 5
RIDES ON DEMANDA.S. Safe Rides X Lyft
A.S. Safe Rides is back for Spring Quarter*
with $12 oﬀ 2 rides.
*visit as.ucsd.edu/saferides for redemption details and restrictions.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Dear Straight People, Respect Gay Bars
Although society has more or 
less progressed in becoming an 
increasingly open space for the 
LGBTQ+ community, the world 
still remains an unreliable place 
for LGBTQ+ safety. Although 
others may seem more accepting 
than in the past, the same 
weird looks that other straight 
couples don’t get while holding 
hands, ill-thought out comments 
regarding sexuality, and the 
exoticism and commoditization 
of the queer community persists. 
Gay bars exist as a haven and 
100% safe space for queer 
individuals, where the pressures 
and microaggressions of other 
“straight” bars do not exist. It 
is unacceptable that it comes 
to the point where safe spaces 
are needed in the first place, 
but nevertheless they have 
become a positive environment 
where the queer community 
can hang out judgment-free. If 
cishet individuals can already 
enjoy typically any bar of thier 
choosing judement-free, why 
do they feel the need to take 
over and infiltrate gay bars? 
Gay bars are a safe space, and 
the increased participation of 
straight people in these safe 
spaces defeats their purpose 
while promoting scrutiny of 
LGBTQ+ individuals. 
First things first, there are 
multiple problematic ways to 
view gay bars. This is not the 
place for an “exotic experience” 
or for you to hold your 
bachelorette party. The point 
of gay bars is to create a safe space. If a straight individual is 
making inappropriate comments 
or using the space for something 
that it’s not intended for, the 
space becomes less safe. Many 
people view gay bars as an 
added experience or bucket 
list item for them to try which 
may not seem problematic but 
can be fundamentally harmful. 
This mindset implies that gay 
bars are almost like a tourist 
attraction or commodity for 
solely entertainment purposes, 
which diminishes the validity of 
them and the community they 
house. 
The reality is that they 
were created as a response 
to homophobia in other 
establishments, and viewing 
them as another “product” for 
straight consumers is downright 
disrespectful. This includes 
bringing the entire bridal party 
to the gay bar just to sexualize 
the men. The space is not for 
you, and you should respect 
it as such. Additionally, this 
leads into the other frequent 
view of gay bars as overly 
sexual and experimental places. 
The LGBTQ+ community is 
frequently sexualized and their 
relationships are not taken as 
seriously as straight relationships. 
When straight women come 
into gay bars to adopt, use gay 
slang, and constantly make 
suggestive comments about the 
gay men there, it threatens the 
validity of queerness in the first 
place, because it implies that 
being queer is yet again about 
the services it provides to the 
straight community. Generally 
speaking, if you are indeed going 
to a gay bar, do not go into it with the mindset that it stands as 
entertainment for you and your 
friends.
Furthermore, in the case 
that straight people do decide to 
attend gay bars, they need to do 
so with their gay friends or be 
invited by their gay friends. It is 
in fact, the space of the LGBTQ+ 
community, so it should be 
their choice whether they are 
comfortable with you attending 
or not. If they are not comfortable 
with you attending, understand 
that it is their decision and their 
safe space and move on. If they 
do decide you can come with 
them, ask and listen to them 
about what to say and to not say. It is important that you make 
it clear you are supportive and 
want to make the community 
feel safe. As explained previously, 
prepare yourself by going into 
the experience with the mindset 
of taking a part in your friend’s 
community, and that it is not 
yours to seize or control. If 
these tasks seem too hard to do, 
then it’s as simple as not going. 
Moreover, if you do not have gay 
friends that are going or inviting 
you to the gay bars, it is simply 
disrespectful to attend. 
To all of the straight 
community, next time you 
want to go to the gay bar for an 
exotic, entertaining experience, By Catalina fogg
Staff Writerskip it and go to another one 
of the infinite amounts of bars. 
Chances are, with the amount 
of safe spaces and bars there are 
for the straight community, it 
shouldn’t be hard to find one.
Art by Michelle Deng for the UCSD Guardian. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
Since it’s on Netflix, “Heartstopper” has been an instant obsession for me. Based on the 
webcomics of the same name, “Heartstopper” follows Nick (Kit Connor) and Charlie (Joe 
Locke) as they fall in love. Obviously, it is a bit more layered than just that, but that is the 
basic plotline of the story. While binging the first season of the series, I came to realize that 
there was a quality about “Heartstopper” that made it an absolute pleasure to watch: its 
simplicity. That’s not to say the show is boring. In fact, I’ d say it’s the opposite; it forces audi -
ences to the edge of their seats. Y et, it is simple. It’s a love story at its core. It’s easy — easy 
to watch and easy to love. It is a casual depiction of teenagers in high school. Audiences of 
all ages can relate to the nail-biting anxiety of an overwhelming crush. However, this series 
is uniquely special for queer audiences. We get to watch from a first-hand perspective and 
witness the affection that emanates through the screen. These are the type of queer stories 
that we need more of. 
One of the reasons I think “Heartstopper” is a wonderful model for shows we should 
be making is because it’s unapologetically queer. It is full of moments where queer people 
merely exist. One of the main characters is out to his community. The other main character 
comes out with no horrific repercussions and his journey isn’t traumatic. We also see other 
out characters throughout the show. Additionally, there are different facets of LGBTQ rep -
resentation. Most shows have this false notion that if one character is gay then that is the 
limit; the community can be represented, or one character fulfills the queer representation 
quota. This is not the case for “Heartstopper, ” as it is full of LGBTQ characters all under the 
rainbow. Charlie is gay. Nick is bisexual. Tara (Corinna Brown) and Darcy (Kizzy Edgdell) 
are lesbians. And it doesn’t stop there, Elle (Y asmine Finney) is a transgender character 
played by a transgender actress. Continually, the main cast isn’t completely white. Tara and 
Elle are both Black while Tao, Charlie’s best friend, is Asian. The intersectionality through -
out the show is a major positive point and something to celebrate. Additionally, the acting 
in “Heartstopper” is fantastic. Connor delivers a performance that is heartbreaking, both as 
he works through his feelings for Charlie and as he comes out to his mom (Olivia Coleman). 
Charlie’s turmoil at being outed and finding his place in the world is brilliantly displayed by 
Locke. The cast’s chemistry as a group of friends and as couples is incredible. It also helps 
bring this realism to the story that contributes to the atmosphere the show provides. The 
ingenuity of this show is two-pronged: those within the queer community can empathize 
with and connect to the characters on the screen, but those on the outside gain a window 
into the queer community. It’s an opportunity for sympathy and compassion. The way the 
actors depict these critical queer experiences helps audiences comprehend how difficult this 
can be. Audiences can both understand and relate to Nick working through his sexuality, 
Charlie’s uncertainty of his place in the world, and to the classic teenage excitement over 
liking someone.
So, not only is “Heartstopper” just a lovely show filled with representation in general, but 
it is also incredibly important as a series in its own regard. This is a show on a major stream -
ing service about the LGBTQ community. It’s written and worked on by people within the 
community. It’s acted by people who can relate (and these actors aren’t 30 years old). It’s a 
heartfelt love letter to the queer community. I think it’s obvious how important this show 
is. For me, it created this epic feeling of warmth and acceptance. Watching Nick do all this 
research about his sexuality and eventually come to terms with who he was felt so satisfying. 
Almost every single character had a trait that I could relate to, whether it was an all-around 
teenage experience or one that felt just like my own. It felt real, like all these moments that 
my friends and I have experienced. It is incredibly validating. There are people all over the 
world being touched and moved by something that is wholeheartedly for them. 
Another example of a show that reminds me of “Heartstopper” is “Y oung Royals. ” 
“Y oung Royals” was released in 2021 and was another show I binged. It’s also on Netflix, but 
is in Swedish. Just like “Heartstopper, ” this show is a love story. It follows Prince Wilhelm 
(Edvin Ryding) and Simon (Omar Rudberg) after the former arrives at the boarding school 
Simon attends. While “Y oung Royals” is slightly less realistic, it still perfectly captures the 
comforting feeling of falling in love. there is an air of authenticity as we watch the little mo -
ments of adoration between the couple. These tender snapshots feel lifelike.  This authentic -
ity is mirrored in the rest of the show. The cast looks like real teenagers, who have exposed 
acne and aren’t stick thin. Just like “Heartstopper, ” “Y oung Royals” has a diverse cast with 
Hispanic actors like Omar Rudberg and Frida Argento (who plays Sara), and Black actresses 
like Nikita Uggla (who plays Felice). Additionally, Sara has Asperger’s Syndrome just like 
Argento does in real life, which is once again an example of positive representation. The 
journey of this story is just so gratifying because it mirrors the real world. It is touching to 
feel understood and seen by a piece of television, to find that bond in a different format. 
There are certain scenes that perfectly encapsulate what the characters are feeling, wrapping 
audiences in a blissful ambiance. Both shows do a wonderful job with cinematography and 
lighting, which contributes to how successful they are at portraying these stories.
It feels hard for me to verbalize why I think this is so important, but I do want to try. 
Living in a world where being queer is still not fully accepted is hard. There is always a fear 
that someone will react in a harmful way or will think differently of you, but shows like 
“Heartstopper” and “Y oung Royals” normalize what should be normal. It’s a casual repre -
sentation. Viewers don’t have to struggle through a show they aren’t interested in for five 
minutes of representation. There aren’t any painful tropes or unfair conclusions. There are 
a myriad of harmful, frustrating, and stereotypical tropes that have been circulated in the 
past. One of these is the Gay Best Friend, or “GBF, ” trope, an exaggerated and over-the-top 
version of a gay man. This is depicted in shows like “Glee” in Kurt Hummel and movies like 
“Mean Girls” in Damien. Further, there is the “Bury Y our Gays” trope, where an LGBTQ 
relationship often ends in the death of one or both of the characters, examples of this would 
be in “Brokeback Mountain” and “The 100. ” Continually, one of the worst trends of LGBTQ 
representation is fetishizing lesbian and gay relationships. This one has a ricocheting after 
effect for those within the community, due to the stereotypes it perpetuates. These tropes 
illustrate a warped version of the LGBTQ community, painting the picture that lesbian and 
gay relationships only exist to provide an idealistic object to serve those who find it appeal -
ing. It affects outward and inward perceptions of the queer community, as these relation -The Future of  Queer Television
ships are objectified to a vast degree. None of these are the case in “Heartstopper” or 
“Young Royals.” Instead, the characters are multi-dimensional. They have hearts and 
souls. Viewers can understand and feel acknowledged by these characters. “Heartstopper” 
and “Young Royals” both depict simple, lovely, queer joy. I think it is something incredibly 
special to see. 
As someone who did grapple with my sexuality growing up, I can’t explain the type 
of happiness it brings me to see these types of shows on my screen. The fact that kids will 
have these shows to look up to and use to help them understand themselves is ground -
breaking. These are the types of stories young LGBTQ kids deserve to see. It’s normal 
to be young and gay. It’s normal to question your sexuality. It’s realistic. It’s simple. It’s 
unapologetic. All of these things mean the world to this community. There is something 
indescribably happy about watching two boys fall in love. It’s the ability to offer a blessing, 
comprehension, and appreciation for everyone in the LGBTQ community. It is the same 
type of love story we see in fairytales but applied to everyone. The kids who get to grow up 
with series like these are so lucky. With these types of shows, the only way I can describe 
the way they make me feel is giddy. I can’t help but smile. I can only hope that the trend 
continues. I want to see more heartwarming, intersectional, and queer stories just like 
“Heartstopper.” 
We Need More Shows like Heartstopper and Young Royals to transform the representation and 
depiction of the queer community.
Kanopy and Jacques Demy’s Les 
Parapluies de Cherbourg (1964)
With the oversaturation of mediocre content on streaming services, it can be hard to find films of sub -
stance. Kanopy, which all UCSD students have access to for free through the library, relieves this issue. 
This week, we will look at  Jacques Demy’s Les Parapluies de Cherbourg (The Umbrellas of Cherbourg).
In “Les Parapluies de Cherbourg,” Demy gracefully paints a story of young love and 
loss through heartbreaking melodies and pastel backgrounds. The film follows Geneviève 
(Catherine Deneuve), a young woman working at her mother’s umbrella shop, as she en -
counters her first entanglement with love.
 The film opens with a melancholic theme composed by Michel Legrand while the 
residents of Cherbourg open their umbrellas to shield themselves from the downpour. The 
credits fade in and out until Demy’s name appears onscreen and the music quickly tran -
sitions to an upbeat and jazzy tune that introduces Geneviève’s love, Guy (Nino Castel -
nuovo), working in an auto shop. A customer asks — sings — if his car is finished and 
Guy responds — likewise in song. Demy establishes the crux of the film within this first 
scene — there is not a word of dialogue that is spoken, it is a film entirely composed of 
song. As Guy chats to his co-workers about his plans for the afternoon, one exclaims that 
he likes cinema better; “All that singing pains me!” With this self-referencing line, Demy 
has described the entwining of cinema and theater into one medium which is to be “Les 
Parapluies de Cherbourg.” 
After some lovely sequences of romance between Geneviève and Guy, the true sub -
stance of the film is presented. Geneviève’s mother (played by Anne Vernon), whose shop 
is doing poorly, disapproves of her infatuation with Guy, saying she is too young and Guy 
too poor. This conflict comes to a head when Guy must complete his mandatory military 
service in Algeria, meaning the pair will be apart for two years. They part in a particu -
larly devastating sequence, promising to wait for each other, while Geneviève’s mother is 
relieved. By chance, Geneviève and her mother encounter Roland Cassard (Marc Michel), 
a wealthy man who is enamored by Geneviève. The most powerful shot of the film occurs 
when they dine together, and after finding the lucky charm in her King’s cake Geneviève 
must, according to tradition, choose a king. She says she doesn’t have a choice, that Ro -
land is her king. She is given a crown to wear, and staring directly into the camera, where 
Roland would be sitting, forces a weak smile. In this scene, the profound themes of the 
film — those of young love, of separation, of class, of single-motherhood, are most clear. 
This film is clearly the work of an “auteur;” a director who takes full control of the film, 
often despite the constraints of production companies. Every minute detail of the film 
feels intentional. The singing dialogue, restrained by the necessity for rhyme and rhythm, 
is  deliberately written. The characters’ costumes match the wallpapers and backgrounds 
of the various locations. Roland Cassard references a romantic plight which is the subject 
of Demy’s earlier film “Lola.” His unique direction is not contained to “Les Parapluies,” he 
has created his own cinematic world of characters, who overlap through different films. 
Released during the era of, though not necessarily being in, the French New Wave of 
the 1960s, those who enjoy this film have an incredible selection of films to further delve 
into — a large number of which are on Kanopy. The most similar of course being Demy’s 
Image courtesy of Teaching LGBTQ History. 
Matthew Risley  CONTRIBUTING WRITERLaila Del Rio  CONTRIBUTING WRITERARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
“Lola” — which follows Roland Cassard — and “The Young Girls of Rochefort,” in 
which Catherine Deneuve again stars. A few others that seem particularly relevant are 
those directed by Demy’s wife, Agnes Varda, who was one of the most influential filmmak -
ers at the time. Many of her films are streaming on Kanopy, with the most notable being 
“Cleo From 5 to 7,” which features a score by Michel Legrand, and cameos by Jean-Luc 
Godard and Anna Karina. 
There are certainly parallels to be drawn between “Les Parapluies” and “La La Land” 
(2016), although to take this comparison too far would be a mistake. I link them to provide 
an avenue of comparison with a contemporary American film. Both follow the tale of two 
lovers and the heartbreak they endure while being separated, and both rely on musical 
numbers. Those who enjoyed “La La Land” will certainly enjoy “Les Parapluies,” and for 
those who didn’t enjoy “La La Land,” I implore you to give “Les Parapluies” a chance. As 
grand as “La La Land” is, it pales in comparison to “Les Parapluies.” While both share the 
depiction of love, “La La Land” restrains itself to an ode to Hollywood, while “Les Paraplu -
ies” allows itself to be an ode to love. 
TV Recap: “Tokyo Vice” Episode 8
Just when things seem to be coming together, the show’s finale throws another storyline into 
the already-crowded mix.
It feels like false advertising to refer to “Yoshino,” the eighth and final episode of Sea -
son 1 of “Tokyo Vice,” as a finale. Yes, it’s the last episode we’re getting for the foreseeable 
future, and yes, it attempts to capture some of the frantic escalation and big decisions a 
finale should have, but there’s nothing final about “Yoshino.” Last week, I closed out my 
recap of the penultimate episodes predicting that the show wouldn’t be able to resolve its 
many, many narrative threads. What I didn’t predict was that it would introduce even 
more mysteries at the last minute, ending on a cliffhanger that leaves the fate of a major 
character hanging in the balance. 
The episode opens with a rare moment of happiness for Detective Katagiri (Ken Wata -
nabe), who enjoys breakfast with his wife and daughters, and comments optimistically 
on catching one of the Yakuza’s bigger fish — secretly-ailing gang leader Tozawa (Ayumi 
Tanida). Tozawa’s operations range from protection fees to drug and human trafficking. 
Taking him off the street would be a boon for the city’s police department. Of course, a 
neo-noir crime show can’t let any of its characters be happy for too long. If anything, being 
shown to be happy, especially early in an episode, is a guarantee that serious misfortune 
is coming your way. 
In Katagiri’s case, he has to wrestle information out of Miyamoto (Hideaki Itō), a fellow 
cop who has spent most of his appearances on the show leching at women and minimally 
helping protagonist Jake Adelstein (Ansel Elgort). Episode seven revealed that Miyamoto 
is working with Tozawa, using the gang leader as a source of information in exchange for 
tipping him off about the occasional bust the cops are planning. Katagiri was suspicious 
of this, and his suspicions are confirmed. While Miyamoto insists he’s a good guy who has 
made bad decisions, his attempts to perpetuate a relationship with Tozawa show that he 
hasn’t learned his lesson. Things take a turn for the fatal — Miyamoto is taken out of the 
picture by Tozawa, and Katagiri loses his strongest lead. Worse still, Tozawa threatens to 
go after his family, leaving Katagiri shaken and paranoid.
The show’s expat characters, Jake and Samantha (Rachel Keller), are trying to uncover 
information about the disappearance of Samantha’s friend Polina, who was in debt to a 
Tozawa-backed host club. The only way to get this information out of a greasy, Yakuza-
obsessed writer is to smoke meth) with him. Samantha suffers the writer’s creepy advanc -
es long enough to learn that Polina has been put on Tozawa’s sex cruise on a boat called 
“Yoshino,” to earn money to pay back her debt. Jake promises to look into it and, still high, 
Samantha kisses him. 
Like her fling with Sato, the kiss lands ambiguously. Samantha’s primary character 
trait has been using people to get what she wants, so it’s hard to say which of her actions 
are genuine and which are calculated. You can’t blame her for wanting to find Polina — she 
even goes so far as to offer up the last of her savings for her new club in order to pay off a 
ransom. The ransom turns out to be fake, however, a scam by Polina’s ex who could care 
less about her disappearance. Samantha is pushed to get a loan for the money she lost from 
Chihara-Kai or lose her new hostess club. At the same time, Jake is beaten up by random 
Yakuza and debates going home to Missouri. A tape of Polina facing abuse at the hands of 
her captors reignites his desire for justice, and the episode closes with him showing up at 
Detective Katagiri’s house to plan Tozawa’s takedown.
It’s nice that the show places Tozawa as the primary antagonist for Katagiri, Jake, Sa -
mantha, and even Sato, since he belongs to a rival gang. Arguably, the show’s greatest 
weakness is the discontinuity brought on by the many threads it introduces and drops. 
Connecting the main storylines with Tozawa, even if only in the last episode, is a promis -
ing sign for a potential second season. His mysterious illness would seem to make him less 
intimidating, but he promises his mistress that he’ll be around for a long time, and there’s 
something about Tanida’s performance that makes you believe it. He shifts easily from 
ailing and depressed to performatively healthy, ready to take down anyone that stands in 
his way.
But as the show finally grounds itself with a singular antagonist and consolidates some 
of its storylines, it opens up a whole new avenue of mystery. Sato ends a conversation with 
Samantha and strolls down the street, only to be stabbed by a mysterious assailant. Multiple 
times. In the abdomen. Is he dead? Does “Tokyo Vice” dare to kill off one of its most in -
teresting characters? We don’t know. It’s a cliffhanger, just like when Tozawa flies off in his 
private plane, and whether Polina will be rescued, and what the flash-forward we saw at the 
beginning of episode one has to do with anything. I suppose a few loose ends are inevitable 
when your show’s first season is only eight episodes long. If there weren’t a dozen other 
storylines fighting for screen time, Sato’s stabbing would be an interesting way to complicate 
the show, but this is a show that doesn’t need more complication. It needs resolution — 
something the finale failed to offer. 
Grade: B-
Created by: J.T. Rogers 
Starring: Ansel Elgort, Ken Watanabe, Rachel Keller
Release date: April 28, 2022
Rated: TV-MA
Book Retrospective: Hunger, 
A Novella and Short Stories 
Lan Chang captures the Asian immigrant story and cultural experience with widely engaging and 
vivid prose as each page and every story contemplate why we are so desperate for love despite its 
destructive nature.
As a part of the generation who never knew the 
world without technology, my attention span never 
stood a chance during the pandemic. Long stagnant 
periods of time were stitched together with quick and 
immediate sources of entertainment like social media. 
I recognized the hours of screen time quickly accu -
mulating on my phone and immediately wanted to 
revert back to hobbies I once loved as a child. I wanted 
to start reading again. 
When stores began to open up again, I immedi -
ately found myself in the bookstore. I remember walk -
ing into Barnes and Nobles and being drawn to the 
pale blue-yellow cover of “Hunger” that bore a crane 
with a curved neck. Never before had I gravitated to -
ward short stories because they never seem to satiate 
me in the same way full novels do, but I bought “Hun -
ger” without much contemplation in the hopes that it 
would help reinvigorate my patience. I didn’t touch it for months. I eventually brought the 
novel to school in the hopes that I would find enough downtime to finish it, and when I fi -
nally picked it up I could hardly put it down. 
“Hunger” begins with the titular novella and is followed by a series of short stories. 
Through the lens of the Asian American immigrant experience, each story serves to com -
ment on the havoc unleashed on the body and mind as a result of the pursuit and desire of 
love. For Chang, love is a pit in the stomach. It is as malleable as youth. If it's nurtured and 
watered, a person’s relationship with love will grow healthily alongside them. If neglected, it 
will sit uncomfortably, painfully even. Neither pit stops craving, but those neglected can feel 
aches echoing through their bones as they cling to the closest thing that resembles it, even if 
it brings more hurt. 
The novella is told posthumously, from the perspective of a woman named Min whose 
promising marriage is eroded by the past and shapeless future. Min fell in love with Tian 
the moment she laid her eyes on him. Bound by their shared connection of immigrating to 
New York — from Taiwan and China respectively — the two of them quickly married, and 
Min settled into the role of the housewife as Tian struggled to make a name for himself as a 
musician. But it wasn’t until the birth of their daughters, specifically Ruth (their second), that 
mundane tasks seemed to cut into their skin like finely broken glass, tearing at the very fab -
ric of their family. It cut so deeply that it began to reconfigure and claw into their identities. 
The promise of love, of healing and approval, taunts both characters and the readers who tie 
themselves to this sinking ship.
Chang’s prose throughout the entirety of the work is brilliant in every sense of the word. 
There is richness in moments of simplicity, and instances with beautifully descriptive imag -
ery. Its dialogue is striking. No words are wasted. Nowhere is this more apparent than when 
characters react to the external forces pressuring them to become something they are not 
and never will be: fathers trying to sculpt daughters, spirits tempting mortals, and a prom -
ised land and its citizens unwilling to accommodate anything deemed foreign. These deli -
cate circumstances are accentuated by words simultaneously blunt and multi-layered that 
fuel already high-strung emotions. It’s heartbreak in its most digestible form, and... gives it 
Read more @ ucsdguardian.org!
Image courtesy of Looper. 
Image courtesy of An0thoer Magazine. 
Image courtesy of Lan Samantha Chang. Bailey Bujnosek  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
 
Jonathan Shlesinger  CONTRIBUTING WRITERFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
 Immigration Problems Run into a Wall
The upgrades to the border placed health risk for immigrants and those who need 
access to an urgent care center in San Diego. The continuing focus on deterrents 
to crossing allow for more dangers placed on immigrants.  
Image courtesy of Greg Bulla from Unsplash. 
By Nelson Espinal
Features Editor
The conversation around 
immigration in the United States 
focuses mainly on providing 
pathways for undocumented 
immigrants already in the country 
and the treatment of families 
crossing the US-Mexico border. 
During his presidency, Donald 
Trump placed his attention on 
amplifying border security and 
attempting to build a “wall” 
so less people could cross over 
(without much discussion on 
how to improve the legal crossing 
process). 
Throughout Donald Trump’s 
presidency, immigration and 
border reform were a clear staple 
of his platform. Trump’s goal 
was to limit the amount of illegal 
immigrants which cross over 
each year along with providing 
solutions for DACA (Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals) 
recipients. 
Much controversy surrounded 
“the wall,” a completely new border 
which was supposedly meant to 
surround the northern part of 
Mexico. Trump ultimately did not 
receive the funding needed for 
an entire reconstruction, but the 
border was upgraded in order to 
deter more people from crossing.  
Trump constructed a 
“secondary wall,” providing 
an additional layer of closure 
that was made completely of 
steel. Additionally, the border 
expansion included more cameras 
and surveillance systems. 
The height of “the wall” lies 
between 18-30 feet in the air, featuring metal plates on the 
top. The goal of the wall was 
centered around limiting 
illegal immigration, but a 
recent study published through 
UCSD Health reveals devasting 
results from the expansion. 
Amy Liepert, medical 
director of acute care surgery 
at UC San Diego Health, led a 
study about the safety of the 
wall and the overall injuries 
caused by the height increase 
and new materials. 
In the study, the findings 
indicate a lack of decrease in 
the amount of people who cross 
the border. 
“The height increase of 
the border wall along the San 
Ysidro and El Centro sectors 
was touted as making the 
barrier ‘unclimbable,’ but 
that has not stopped people 
from attempting to do so with 
consequential results,” Liepert 
told UCSD Health.  
1.6 million people attempted 
to cross the border last year, 
a record breaking figure. The 
number of people crossing did 
drop a few years prior, but the 
pandemic and other factors led 
to the figures all jumping up. 
While the attempts to 
cross the border rose, the 
number of individuals who 
were successful dropped by a 
significant amount. It appears 
as if the border upgrades has 
increased the difficulty for 
those attempting to cross. 
Liepert’s study concluded 
that along with increasing 
difficulty, the risk of injury has 
also increased. 
“Raising the US border wall to 30 ft is associated with 
increased deaths, increased 
ISS, and increased health care 
costs,” Liepert said. “It increased 
the burden of complex injured 
patients at a Level 1 trauma 
center already dealing with a 
trauma surge and respiratory 
surge during the COVID-19 
pandemic. Most of these patients 
had significant brain and facial 
injuries or complex fractures 
of the extremities or spine, 
with many requiring intensive 
care and staged operative 
reconstructions.”
In other words, the risk 
of falling from such heights, 
especially with plenty of steel 
metal around, creates plenty of 
room for danger and injuries.
The height now requires a 
ladder to go over, adding more 
risk than simply climbing a 
fence. People, in a panic from 
the incoming border patrol, can 
move the ladder or lose balance. 
“We have different types of 
border barriers in the 264 miles 
of border between El Paso, New 
Mexico and Juárez,” Liepert 
said to UCSD. “Transnational 
criminal organizations continue 
to encourage people to climb 
that barrier. They use ladders to 
climb to the top and then they 
pull the ladder off, leaving the 
person stuck at the top of that 
barrier to figure out how they 
are going to descend.”
The injuries are then the 
problem of medical centers south 
of the border, including UC San 
Diego Health. 
“Additional capacity and 
associated costs were not 
accounted for in the federally appropriated funds to reinforce 
and heighten the border barrier 
system,” Liepert said. “Hospital 
costs for border wall-injured 
immigrants at UC San Diego 
Health alone are estimated to 
be approximately $13 million 
between 2019 and 2021.”
While these local medical 
centers face an increase in people 
seeking medical attention, most 
of the immigrants taken to these 
centers lack health insurance. 
This limits their ability to receive 
adequate medical treatment 
and properly rehabilitate their 
injuries. 
557 people died crossing the 
border from October 2020 to 
September 2021, with the figures 
all remaining undercounts of the 
actual figures. Contributing to 
the death figure are the rising 
trafficking of migrants and the 
gang activity around the border.
Still, a trend of more trauma 
resulting from border crossing 
is hard to ignore. The San Diego 
health system is shouldering a lot 
of the burden while immigrants 
are left to face another risk of 
crossing the border. 
“The recent increase in 
water levels has led to numerous 
rescues and has already taken 
the lives of several migrants this 
year,” Border Patrol officer Gloria 
Chavez told El Paso Times. “The 
currents in the canal are very 
strong and pose a threat to even 
the most experienced swimmer.”
As migrants continue to face 
more challenges, the future of 
immigration reform remains 
unclear. More resources towards 
medical facilities are needed to 
deal with the increasing number of patients, according to Liepert. 
She also recommends further 
examination of how the border 
can become safer for those 
crossing, especially with the high 
volume trying to come across. 
Ideas of modernizing border 
security are being bounced 
around. Earlier this year, the U.S 
Customs and Border Protection 
released their idea of Robot Dogs 
patrolling the surrounding area 
around the border. 
With all-terrain legs and 
camera sensors, the dog is able 
to identify movement and people 
crossing over through all points 
of the day and night. The dog 
receives assistance from Military 
grade technology, providing 
a way to develop even more 
deterrents. 
Less human interaction 
among immigrants and border 
patrol allows for a potential 
room for error, but the trend 
remains of a focus on border 
control instead of its safety. 
Robot Dogs could bring a time of 
peace and less violence, but the 
underlying issue of the border’s 
new size remains unsolved. In an idealized society, 
citizens in a democracy employ 
their right to respond to an 
injustice or an unjust government 
by peacefully protesting for 
better policies, which they 
then receive. When protests in 
a democracy turn violent, the 
lines become blurred as to who 
is culpable and if violence truly 
is never warranted.
But peaceful and violent 
protests aren’t a black-and-white 
moral issue as much as they’re 
strategies and tools of solidarity 
utilized in different stages or 
times of the protest. 
Still, the avoidance of 
protests or demonstrations can 
oftentimes be appealing. 
For example, the multi-
college system in UC San Diego 
carried goals to develop more 
solidarity and close-knit bonds 
among students. 
But some remark that the 
spacing of the colleges helps 
disperse protests and maintain 
order amongst the student 
population. This is due to the 
perceived distance between each 
of the seven colleges from each 
other and lack of one localized 
area (though there is Geisel 
Library).
In fact, the multi-college 
system began expanding during 
the time of the Civil Rights 
movement where protests at 
other schools like UC Berkeley 
were taking place. UC Berkeley 
was a mecca of protests, starting 
from verbalized protests on free 
speech to some more hectic riots 
during the Vietnam War. 
The view that protests must 
stay unconditionally peaceful 
is often perceived as ignorance 
or loaded language today. This 
response echoes some who state 
that the violence of oppressed 
can never outweigh the violence 
of the oppressors. 
While protests are not 
forbidden in democratic 
governments, they can wade 
into tricky territory if they — on 
occasion — turn violent. 
Staff writer for The New 
Yorker, Isaac Chotiner, conducted 
an interview on protests 
surrounding police brutality in 
the U.S. with assistant professor 
Omar Wasow, who opts to use 
the terms “nonviolent protest” or 
“violent protest” over “riot.” 
Wasow, who teaches politics 
at Princeton University, 
examined the shift from civil 
rights victories to today’s law-
and-order politics for years.
Interestingly enough, Wasow 
said that a concerned public and 
media attention go hand in hand, 
which is effective for nonviolent 
protests. 
However, if protests turn 
violent, this is good material for 
the opposing side as well as for 
the issue to refocus as a crime 
problem above one on justice. He 
does say that violent protests also 
capture more media attention 
than peaceful protests.
In the interview that’s now 
almost two years old, Wasow goes 
on to state that the police force 
usually treats Black protestors 
— compared to white militias 
— with excessive force, which 
invokes the opposite response 
police want: more chaos. How Violent Protests Gain Traction
Ultimately, Wasow sees the 
ideal protest tactics as methods 
one can derive the most from. 
Though both nonviolent and 
violent protests can potentially 
advance activists’ interests, he 
states that nonviolent protests 
for police brutality can still 
achieve much without dividing 
political parties.
Outside of the U.S, in Sri 
Lanka, millions of people 
are currently dealing with 
power cuts and problems with 
expensive fuel and food. They 
began protesting in the streets 
around March, upset with the 
economic mismanagement they 
attribute to President Gotabaya 
Rajapaksa. 
He — once a popular 
candidate but now regarded as 
notorious — states that these 
crises are a problem. But rather 
than step down, he promised 
to address the problem that he 
attributes partly to the COVID-
19 pandemic.
In one protest miles from 
Colombo, Sri Lankan police 
employed live ammunition on 
some protestors for blocking a 
railway. In protests, they’ve used 
tear gas and water cannons, 
too. As of May 4, one person 
has died — most likely from 
the gunshot injuries — and 12 
others have been injured.
However, the protests have 
mostly been peaceful, with 
many individuals denouncing 
the police’s involvement. 
Though no video evidence 
indicates that the protestors 
were being violent, some police 
stated otherwise and that they 
had to step in. 
The big issue isn’t the overt 
violence of the government as 
much as it is the millions of 
lives that feel threatened by lack 
of effective action. Additionally, 
Rajapaksa implemented 
antiterror laws and jailed critics 
in response to criticism. 
However, this event calls to 
mind at what stage — if at all — 
individuals feel emboldened to 
utilize more physical methods 
to get their demands met. 
An event such as the 
shooting of protestors can be 
an ideal place for many to begin stoking the fire. On the same 
note, when Wasow brought up 
the Civil Rights protestors of the 
‘60s, he brought up the tragedy 
of the injuries (or deaths) at the 
hands of the state but also the 
effectiveness of the protestors 
then receiving more positive 
attention like sympathy.
This also calls to mind how 
successful peaceful protests 
have been in democracies, as 
Rajapaksa still has not stepped 
down from his position as 
president amidst the largely 
peaceful but critical protests 
thus far.
In his work “Revolution 
Against Non-Violent 
Oppression,” Zsolt Kapelner of 
Central European University 
addresses the argument of 
restrictive — but not physically 
violent — governments not 
being liable to a revolutionary 
attack or response. He doesn’t 
agree with it. 
In other words, the more 
responsible the government is, 
the more proportionate it can be 
to defensively harm it.
He believes that even a 
stifling government warrants 
a response from people such 
as a revolutionary attack; 
the response is sometimes 
proportional to the harm citizens 
feel. 
Zsolt explores how non-
violent governments, through 
methods like censorship or 
oppressive legislation — which 
Sri Lanka at times faced — can 
still invoke a violent reaction 
from the people.
Martin Luther King, one 
of the most important leaders 
of the Civil Rights Movement, 
represents a voice of peace with 
six key principles in his idea of 
nonviolence. Conversely to Zsolt, 
his principles include opposing 
the evil above the wrongdoer and 
never being physically violent or 
internally hateful.
Judith Butler, a professor on 
Comparative Literature at UC 
Berkeley, is known for their 
works on gender theory and 
philosophy.
In a similar vein, they 
are a strong proponent of 
nonviolence, as perhaps hinted Violent and peaceful protests against structures and policies can easily be seen as a black-
and-white moral issue, but they are both employed as strategies with varying consequences. 
Violent protests, also, do not necessarily stem from a will to be chaotic as much as they are 
dubbed a justified means for better policies or a method of self-defense.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian. By Yuyang Zhou
Staff Writerby their recent book “The Force 
of Non-Violence.” Despite seeing 
how many groups from antiwar 
or feminist movements are 
nonviolent, Butler recognizes 
how unrealistic many think 
nonviolence is.
But Butler stands by their 
viewpoint on radical equality 
and interdependence, in which 
they see the importance not just 
in themself but social relations 
with others as well. They connect 
social equality to the tool of 
nonviolence, which they call a 
political ethic. 
By acting violently, one 
breaks a relationship that defines 
oneself. Butler does not reject 
revolutionary violence, but they 
do note the importance of posing 
a question of if it will reproduce 
or if the action makes for a better 
world.
They also do not side with 
colonial powers or powerful 
structures that rely on 
impoverished people or violence 
amongst communities. 
In their book, they state that “to 
boycott a regime that continues 
colonial rule, intensifying 
dispossession, displacement, 
and disenfranchisement for an 
entire population, is to assert the 
injustice of the regime...”
Though they deem 
nonviolence a pathway to 
equality, some believe that 
Butler’s perspective is daunting 
or infeasible.
Barbara B. LaBossiere 
from Public Affairs Quarterly 
states that times have changed 
from King’s era of non-
violence and an acceptance of 
all legal consequences of civil 
disobedience. 
They state that civil 
disobedience — or the willful 
rejection of certain policies — 
does not have to be nonviolent. 
LaBossiere believes that if 
minority grievances are taken 
with a grain of salt, their violent 
acts may be “just as morally and 
politically defendable as those of 
our past revolutionary heroes,” 
referring to big U.S. events of the 
past centuries.
Like Zsolt, they consider 
the justifiability of harming the 
oppressor, stating that people FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
have the right to bring an issue 
to the attention of the nation 
with violence depending on how 
much those in power do not 
address the outraged. 
LaBoissiere also states that 
when the government used force 
to control disorder in the past, 
it created desperation and a 
violent, self-defense response. 
In a startling claim, they 
assert that “the whole point to 
civil disobedience is to defy 
the law in order to expose its 
injustice.” Because peaceful 
protests would not usually do 
this, this comment implies that 
violence may also serve as a 
symbolic or necessary means 
that outweighs lawfulness. 
David Hardiman wrote an 
article on non-violent resistance 
in “Economic and Political 
Weekly,” stating that violent 
revolutions must constantly be 
sustained and non-violent action 
encourages dialogue as well as 
more allies. 
Hardiman, who is an Emeritus 
professor at the University of 
Warwick, states that according 
to a recent survey of campaigns 
from 1993–2006, non-violent 
movements have increased over 
time, as have their success rates.
There is undoubtedly much 
merit in peaceful protests. For 
many individuals, though, this 
gets blurry when they don’t 
receive the justice they deem 
necessary and when governments 
start to engage in violence. 
Oftentimes the question can 
turn into a “who started it?” issue 
which pits protestors against the 
government and encourages 
picking sides. Some say that 
violence is absolutely never the 
response or an initiative to take. 
Others believe they act in self-
defense against an oppressor.
Perhaps peace is always the 
moral high ground, but some 
individuals won’t take it. This 
isn’t because they necessarily 
crave violence. Rather, violence 
has sometimes been the trigger 
behind change or as simple 
desperation to the lack of 
government change.LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
Met Gala Behavior: 
The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly
Priscilla Anne Puno  LIFESTYLE CO-EDITOR
The annual Met Gala was in full swing this past Monday on the 
steps of New York City’s own Metropolitan Museum of Art, serving 
as a night for fashion, fundraising, and fun.
This event is every fashion fanatic’s wet dream, where big-name 
designers can display their best work. I was personally ecstatic to see 
what celebrities were going to bring to the carpet. Gaining a wider au -
dience throughout the years, celebrities woo crowds with their outfits 
according to the theme of the night.
This year’s Met Gala theme was “Gilded Glamour,” which encap -
sulated the fashion of America’s Gilded Age, spanning the years 1870 
to 1900. When considering the Gilded era, think corsets, puffy skirts, 
centerpiece-like hats, and fabrics such as satin and velvet. Of course, 
this only represented America’s aristocratic class, defining a lifestyle 
full of opulence as the states began to rapidly expand economically 
and industrially.
Now, with an abundance of resources at stylists' and celebrities’ 
fingertips, you would think the theme of this year’s Met Gala wouldn’t 
be difficult to conceptualize, right? I was surprisingly proven wrong 
when many individuals hit the red carpet with designs that did not 
even scratch the surface of the Gilded Age.
Just like the other 30,000 viewers on the Vogue Livestream, I sat 
there watching in a club t-shirt paired with some cotton jersey shorts. 
I was, and am, in no position to be judging the work of stylists, but I 
think that is what makes the Met Gala such an interactive experience 
with live and virtual audiences.
This leads me to where we are now: reflecting on my favorite out -
fits of the night and, of course, the worst godforsaken designs I have 
seen. I must preface that some of the outfits were beautiful on their 
own, but did not follow or represent the Gala’s theme, throwing my -
self and others into a continuous loop of disappointment throughout 
the night. 
But alas, I present to you The 2022 Met Gala: The Good, The Bad, 
and The Ugly.
The Good
To start on a lighter note, some celebrities went with the theme 
and stuck the landing. Celebrities such as Billie Eilish, Normani, Lau -
ra Harrier, and Lizzo took their spin on the Gilded Age and altered 
glamorous silhouettes into modern versions of the era. Focusing 
upon the foundations that created the Gilded Age, they all went the 
safe route, displaying the works of Gucci, Christian Siriano, H&M, 
and Thom Browne.
On a subtler note, celebrities such as Blake Lively also took a mod -
ern spin displaying the Gilded Age, where the silhouettes didn’t come 
into play, but the conceptual design of their dresses still managed 
to fit into the category. For example, Lively’s Versace gown initially 
displayed a dazzling bronze color, then later transformed into a long 
train of seafoam green. According to Lively, this dress represented 
the transformation of the Statue of Liberty, leaving its bronze state 
to what it is seen as now. The monument itself was built during the 
Gilded Age, making her design fit the theme of the Met Gala to a T. 
The Bad
Reaching the “bad” portion of this article, some celebrities simply 
did not fit the theme of Gilded Glamour whatsoever. Individuals such 
as HoYeon Jung and Lori Harvey wore beautiful designs but did not 
conceptualize the Gilded Age’s focus on opulence and wealth. Their 
dresses instead displayed modern-day silhouettes, hugging the body 
with plain dark tones, representing almost ready-to-wear fashion 
pieces that could be found on a brand’s website.
Notably, one dress that particularly stood out to me was Kim Kar -
dashian’s. While viewing the live stream, it was noted that she chose 
to wear Marilyn Monroe’s former dress that she wore to John F. Ken -
nedy’s birthday. This dress received many mixed reviews, question -
ing whether or not it was ethical to wear a dress of someone who has 
passed and held a large amount of value. Regardless of this debate, 
the dress was created in the mid-1960s, nowhere near the Gilded Age. 
The shimmer of the dress may have caught people’s attention, but the 
design itself did not fit into the sleek and puffy silhouette of a usual 
Gilded Age dress, but rather a Hollywood Red Carpet premiere.
The Ugly
Celebrities categorized under “ugly” did not fit the theme, nor did 
their outfits stand out to me in any way, shape, or form. Individu -
als such as Amy Schumer wore what seemed to be an almost lifeless 
and shapeless trench coat-esque dress that was not pleasing to the 
eye. Similarly, outfits worn by Emily Ratajkowski and Cole Sprouse 
may have been a little too glamorous, displaying an override of rhine -
stones and jewels that didn’t resonate with the Gilded Age too well.
Lastly, the outfit that made me physically cringe at the sight was 
Kylie Jenner’s Off White ball gown with a sheer short sleeve top. 
Paired with a backward snapback and white veil draped over her 
face, the dress resembled too closely a tacky wedding gown. To put 
it simply, the dress itself screams streetwear meets wedding day. Jen -
ner’s appearance felt underwhelming despite her long history of set -
ting many fashion statements. This might just be a small bump in 
I Went to Yallwest For The First Time
While many of you experienced the first Sun God since the beginning of COVID, I was in Santa Monica 
at Yallwest, a Young Adult Book Festival. I missed a lot of good photo opportunities at Sun God, they outdid 
themselves with the photobooths, but if given the choice again, I would still go to Yallwest. The event itself 
was free, except for a couple events that you could pay $5 to attend. Some big names from the YA community 
were there, like Adam Silvera, Tahereh Mafi, and V.E Schwab, just to name a few. There were book signings, 
key notes, and a bunch of giveaways. Mysterious Galaxy Independant Bookstore was also there, which is based 
right here in San Diego!
I went with my friend who was not interested in going to Sun God, and after rushing out of my office we 
made a bee line to Santa Monica, traffic and all. The festival was Saturday, April 30th, but because it started at 
9 AM, we wanted to make sure we were there and on time. We were lucky that our hotel was close to the venue, 
which was at Santa Monica High School, but to get the best parking rates, we ended up parking further and 
taking the bus over to the event. Yallwest started at 9AM, so we got there around 8:40 to get in line.
 Because we got there early, we were able to snag wristbands for what was obviously the best event 
there– a Dippin’ Dots social– happening later in the day. From there we walked around collecting freebies on 
different tables from Novl, Riveted, and more. We stopped at a booth doing trivia on one of my favorite series 
so far (Kingdom of the Wicked by Kerri Maniscalco). The first ten to fill out the paper correctly got a prize, but 
knowing my memory, I did not think I was going to get all of the questions correct, I just wanted the book-
themed pin they were giving out. After turning in the pink slip with my answers, we went to lineup for one 
of two events that we paid to see– but come on, Tracy Deonn and Chloe Gong together speaking about their 
books? Take my money. The only downside to the keynote was that I remembered later in the day there were 
bookmarks based on their books These Violent Delights and Legendborn, but I can excuse it… maybe.
I want to give a shoutout to my friend who sat next to our bags while I waited in line for forty-five minutes 
to get a wristband so Stephanie Garber could sign my Caraval Trilogy copies. I specifically rebought them be -
cause I was not missing out on the opportunity to have them signed simply because they’re at home. I’m happy I 
did, too, because meeting her was the highlight of the trip, to be honest., so My friend wasn’t too upset to guard 
the crown jewels (unless she lied to me, which in that case, fair) because it meant a couple hours of unabridged 
reading in the sun with a book she won by correctly guessing which banned book they described. 
I met some cool people in those lines, and it was such an experience to connect with like-minded people, 
as going to a STEM heavy school limits the amount of people I know who like to read– or, frankly, have the 
time to. While we debated which character should end up with who, the two hours of waiting for Stephanie 
flew by and I was graced by her presence at last. When I said it was the highlight of my day, I wasn’t kidding. 
Not only did she compliment my outfit (she loves pink), she also took a photo of my name because she found 
it pretty. I will literally never forget that moment, or how she signed my books with quotes with her signature 
pink sharpie.
As I ran to find my friend because unfortunately, the Stephanie signing started at the same time as Dippin’ 
Dots so she had gone forward to pick up her free cup of frost bitten ice cream that’ll suck the moisture from 
your lips if you eat too much at once. After getting my own cup of dippin’ dots– rainbow because there was 
no strawberry– I decided to go back to the Kingdom of the Wicked table. Just because I didn’t think I won, I 
wanted to see if I could have my paper back to keep for memories. It’s a good thing that I’m a hoarder of paper 
items because lo’ and behold, I won! The prize came with a bookplate (a sticker with an author’s signature), two 
tarot card prints inspired by two main characters, and another pin. The cardboard sleeve it came in also came 
with a wicked wax seal on it that I’m currently trying to cut off to keep.
It was almost 3:00 PM then, and one of the talks we wanted to sit in on was Queer Blockbusters, with none 
other than Adam Silvera (They Both Die at the End), Aiden Thomas (Cemetery Boys) and Kacen Callender Rosabella Debty  LIFESTYLE WRITER
Image courtesy of NPR. the road, but this design epito -
mized ugly in my eyes.
Overall, the Met Gala will 
always have its good and bad 
moments making history in the 
world of fashion. The Gilded 
Age was a beautiful choice for 
designers and stylists to show -
case their talent, continuing to 
boost or ruin celebrities’ repu -
tations, and I cannot wait to see 
the comebacks for next year.LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
(Felix Ever After). My favorite part of this one was their discussion about queerness in 
general when talking about fiction. Callender made an amazing point that when people 
say their book is too cliche. They rebuttal with “If I haven’t seen a black, queer, transgender 
character have their happily ever after, then it is not a cliche. It can’t be cliche if it’s never 
been done before.” 
Silvera also had a good point, saying people will ask him when he is going to write a 
straight MC. “But a straight person is never asked when are they going to write a gay MC.” 
This talk was honestly so cool, and it felt more intimate because, unlike Gong and Deonn, 
it wasn’t a paid event, so there was a smaller crowd. I even learned of some new authors 
that I’d never heard of like Jason June (Jay’s Gay Agenda) and Laura Gao (Messy Roots).
We went to another couple of events but we were both kind of crashing, it was around 
4p.m. and besides the cheese danish I ate that morning, I forgot to eat the rest of the day 
because my ND brain was squirreling hardcore. The last event we went to was the other 
one we paid for, which was the “Yallwest Smackdown.” My friend gave me a lollipop she’d 
got along with sugared almonds, making sure I got something besides water into my sys -
tem because we were going to be there until 7 p.m. and it was currently 4:30 p.m. Even 
though my social battery started crashing, I’m so glad we went to this event. Melissa De La 
Cruz (Alex & Eliza)  and Abdi Nazemian (The Chandler Legacies) hosted it, jam-packed 
with fun bookish activities to end the night. The most impressive activity was “guess the 
book by the first line” and some people were SO quick with it, and on books I hadn’t read 
for years. It was crazy how they just knew. Smackdown ended with a group karaoke session 
of ‘80s and ‘90s girl ballads, where we could sing and be weird without it being an issue.
I do wish that Yallwest hadn’t been pushed back a week so that I could have experienced 
both Yallwest and Sun God, but there was not one part of this trip that I regretted. I had an 
amazing time with a friend, I went to a city that I’ve never been to, and finally, at twenty 
years old, got to finally experience a book festival after years of craving one —I blame 2013 
Booktube for my obsession. Unfortunately, I think it has only made me want to go to more, 
but we will deal with that when it comes.
AITA TikT oks: They Make Me 
Sick But I Can’t Stop Watching
SAMANTHA PHAN  LIFESTYLE WRITER
When I realized that I loved watching “am I the a--hole” TikToks, my life hit an all-
time low. There is nothing more embarrassing than finding out that videos of Reddit posts, 
mobile gameplay, and robotic voices can hold my attention for minutes at a time. It is one 
of the laziest, morally questionable, iPad-kid forms of content but has a grip on my life like 
nothing else. 
It started out small. I would go onto TikTok for my daily dose of social media when 
one of the videos would pop up. “AITA for snapping at my stepmom when she wouldn’t 
stop asking to be in the delivery room with me?” I would watch the video, curious about 
what events could lead to an escalation like that. If I were in that situation, would I be the 
a--hole? I found it fascinating, almost cathartic, to see these strangers on the internet spill 
their problems for the whole world to judge. 
(If you are wondering what happens at the end of that post, the comment section 
deemed this woman NTA — not the a--hole. The stepmother was overstepping her bound -
aries and no matter how good their relationship was before the pregnancy, no means no).
AITA TikToks are like books for short attention spans. The robot voice reads the text 
out loud and if you ever get bored you can watch the creator play “Subway Surfers” in the 
background like that one kid who was not allowed to bring their iPad to school. The titles 
always bring you in, making you think “well, surely that person is the a-hole.” But, low and 
behold, once you watch the video you realize, “oh, they actually were not.” It is the same 
twist every time but the drama is enough to make you keep watching on the small chance 
that the person who posted was actually in the wrong. 
But my biggest problem with AITA TikToks is not the fleeting interest followed by 
quick-to-come boredom that comes with all TikToks. Nor is it the clickbait video titles 
and repetition of plot twists. All of these are issues, obviously, but what I find to be the 
most concerning is the sheer narcissism and moral hypocrisy underlying the whole trend.
The people who write on these posts have complete control over the stories they tell. 
What we, the viewers, hear is one side of the story. And yet, we hold the details that the 
person tells us as truth. And, when the video is over, we flood the comments section with 
“Of course, you are not the a-hole. How could you ever think differently?” 
The people who make these posts vent about their problems and although it is healthy 
to share your feelings, you should not do it like this. They are sharing events that have hap -
pened in their personal lives, involving their close family and friends, with the anonymity 
of the internet behind them. They paint themselves as the heroes or victims, but never as 
the villain. They have the ability to twist their stories and watch as we validate their moral -
ity and tell them that they, of course, did nothing wrong, forgetting that relationships are 
a two-way street. 
I guess that is my real problem with AITA posts. Despite how terrible or awful the 
people the videos describe may be, I always get the feeling that the storyteller is leaving 
something out. That they are lying and twisting the narrative so that strangers on the in -
ternet can tell them how right they are. They do not make these videos because they want 
to get their problems off their chest or to see things from an outside perspective. They 
make these videos so that we can validate them. “You are a good person,” we will tell an 
anonymous Reddit user whom we know nothing about. And suddenly their need to reflect 
and take accountability for their real-life actions disappears because the giant mass that 
we call “the internet” collectively agrees that they did nothing wrong. 
However, despite how upsetting and twisted I find these videos to be, I cannot stop 
watching them. I love how over the top and dramatically these people are described, re -
gardless of the fact that this telling might be far from the truth. I relish in the way viewers 
say that these people are NTA because if anonymous, morally grey Reddit users are not 
a-holes then how can I be one? This is why I keep watching, why we keep watching. Our 
need to validate others on the internet stems from our desire to be told that we are good 
people. We want nothing more than for someone to tell us that our actions are virtuous 
because the alternative is facing that, deep down, we are immoral. But choosing to ignore 
self-reflection and responsibility in your personal life in favor of the validation of strang -
ers? Well, that makes you the a--hole. 
Image courtesy of Rosabella Debty for the UCSD Guardian. 
Image courtesy of Brent Jordan on Unsplash. 
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs Oregon
vs UC Davis 
vs Cal Poly
at Air ForceUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Baseball
Softball
Track6PM
2:30 PM
3PM
All Day5/10
5/13
5/13
5/13-5/14
By Emer Nolan 
Staff Writer
The roaring atmosphere at 
the Bernabéu on Wednesday 
evening was a heady cocktail 
of elation and disbelief. Real 
Madrid had just unexpectedly 
knocked out favorites 
Manchester City in the second 
leg of the Champions League 
semifinal. City had gone into 
the game with an aggregate 
lead of 4–3, only needing a tie 
to advance to the final against 
Liverpool on May 28. 
And for the first 90 minutes, 
it looked like they had the 
final in the palm of their hand; 
however, a brace of goals by 
Madrid’s Rodrygo in the span 
of two minutes snatched away 
the visitors’ security, sending 
the game to overtime, in which 
Karim Benzema, Los Blancos’ 
veteran standout of the season, 
netted a penalty to dash City’s 
hopes for Champions League 
redemption after tactical mistakes and key injuries cost 
them the cup last year. 7
Madrid were the underdogs 
in this pairing, a seemingly 
uncharacteristic position for 
one of the most historically 
successful and iconic football 
clubs in the world. This 
season, however, has been 
one of rebuilding for this 
football powerhouse, or at 
least a reconfiguration. After 
last summer’s enforced turn 
away from big spending on 
established big-names in favor 
of young talents in need of faith 
and nurturing, the makeup 
of Real’s squad is a bit of a 
mixed bag: promising youth 
like 21-year-olds Vinicius Jr. 
and Rodrygo line up next to 
experienced superstars Luka 
Modric and Toni Kroos. This 
squad has also been adapting to 
a new(ish) style under previous 
manager Carlo Ancelotti, 
one of the most prolific and 
legendary managers in history, 
who returned to the Bernabéu 
at the start of the season after six years away. 
The 2021–22 season has 
been good to Real Madrid, with 
the team claiming first place 
in La Liga just days before the 
semifinal on Wednesday. But 
in the Champions League, they 
have survived so far largely 
on moments of individual 
brilliance, most often coming 
from their captain, veteran 
striker Karim Benzema. It 
was his hat trick against Paris 
Saint-Germain in the second 
leg of the round of sixteen that 
pushed his team through to this 
matchup with City, and it was 
his successfully-taken penalty 
that knocked the Citizens out 
of the running for the trophy. 
Despite the fact that Manchester 
City had the deeper squad and 
better balance under manager 
Pep Guardiola’s fine-tuned 
playing philosophy, Los Blancos 
penned yet another underdog 
story in this Champions League 
run, cementing themselves as 
the tournament’s Comeback 
Kids.Set to face Real in the final 
is Liverpool FC, perhaps the 
best team in the world at this 
moment. Currently competing 
in a very close battle for top 
of the English Premier League 
with Manchester City, who 
have been undeniably dominant 
in English football for years, 
the Reds have solidified their 
reputation as one of the most 
well-organized and fluid teams 
playing the game. It’s hard 
to say what part of the field 
sports their greatest strength, 
as each position is staffed 
by a world-class player, with 
notable names including 
center back Virgil Van Dijk, 
right-back Trent Alexander-
Arnold, and, perhaps most 
famous, forward Mohamed 
Salah. At central command is 
famed manager Jürgen Klopp, 
whose introduction to Anfield 
has shepherded in a new era 
that brought the club out of its 
twenty-odd year drought back 
into its winning days of old, 
reigniting its legendary trophy- 
and championship-winning 
history.
On their way to the semis, 
Liverpool pushed aside reigning 
Italian Serie A champions 
Inter Milan and Portuguese 
threat Benfica in the round 
of sixteen and quarterfinals, 
respectively. In their own 
semifinal matchup, the 
Merseyside squad faced another 
Spanish team, Villarreal. Even 
more so than Real Madrid, 
Villarreal was undoubtedly the 
underdogs in the competition; 
that they progressed so far in 
the tournament was largely 
unexpected, and deserves 
commendation. Led by 
respected manager Unai Emery, 
the affectionately-named Yellow 
Submarine bested Italian 
giants Juventus in the round of 
sixteen before toppling German 
powerhouse Bayern Munich in 
the quarters.
Unfortunately, the fairytale 
ended in the semis when 
they fell to the Reds in a 2–5 
aggregate loss over two legs. It was a rather routine victory for 
Liverpool, for while Villarreal 
put up a good fight, the victors’ 
sheer talent and stability was 
too hard to get past or break 
down. Klopp runs his team like 
a well-oiled machine, but his 
players maintain a consistent 
capacity for creativity and 
innovation that makes them a 
constant threat. Their attack is 
relentless, their midfield dances 
across the pitch perfectly 
balanced, and the defense is 
one of the toughest walls in the 
Premier League, if not Europe. 
Liverpool are widely 
considered the favorites to hoist 
the trophy in Paris at the Stade 
de France at the end of it all, 
but they won’t trounce Madrid, 
nor will Los Blancos go down 
without a fight. In my opinion, 
Liverpool’s consistency and all-
around depth will manifest in a 
characteristically high-energy, 
dominant performance that will 
reward them with their seventh 
Champions League trophy. 
Despite his recent showing of 
those heart-stopping goals that 
pull Real back from the deep, 
banking on a flash of magic 
from Karim Benzema may not 
be enough to clinch the title. 
That’s not to say that the rest 
of them have no hope at all, 
but the team is relatively new 
and still unstable in many ways, 
and is set to face one of the 
most resilient teams in Europe 
in Liverpool. 
Now, I might be putting my 
money on the Reds, but no one 
can count Real Madrid out after 
their recent string of upsets. 
Regardless of where your 
loyalties lie, this final is sure 
to be one for the history books. 
Forgetting the final score for a 
moment — difficult, I know — 
the football itself promises to be 
technical, creative and beautiful 
from both sides, themselves two 
of the most legendary clubs in 
European, if not world football. 
Liverpool faces off against Real 
Madrid on May 28, in what will 
surely be a clash of titans for the 
football ages. Champions League Final: Madrid 
Upset or Liverpool Dominance?
In this final Trolley Series 
matchup, the UC San Diego 
men’s baseball team (19–23, 9–9 
Big West) faced off against their 
local rivals, the San Diego State 
University Aztecs (14–33, 6–15 
Big West) on Tuesday, May 3. The 
Tritons entered this match on a 
five-game win streak, following 
2 wins against California 
State University, Bakersfield, 
and their dominating three-
game series sweep versus UC 
Riverside the previous weekend. 
The Tritons won that sweep 
against UC Riverside by an 
average of 8.6 runs throughout 
the three-game series, and so 
the Tritons hoped to carry 
their outstanding performance 
into this game versus their 
crosstown foes, the San Diego 
State Aztecs. 
With yet another compelling 
performance, UCSD defeated 
San Diego State, 9–6, in the 
finale of the Trolley Series at 
Tony Gwynn Stadium. With the 
win, the Tritons improved to 
3–1 in their season series versus 
the Aztecs, marking the first 
season-series win in UCSD’s 
program history between the 
two opposing teams.
The Tritons got off to a 
sizzling start at the top of the 
first inning with a leadoff triple by sophomore outfielder Luke 
Saunders. The triple by Saunders 
was quickly followed up with an 
RBI single by junior infielder 
Jalen Smith, which brought in 
an early first run to put the 
Tritons up 1–0. Smith was then 
able to advance to third base 
on a failed pickoff attempt by 
the Aztecs, and junior catcher 
Marc Filia brought Smith across 
home plate with a sacrifice fly, 
giving the Tritons an early 2–0 
lead in the match. 
The first 3 defensive innings 
for the Tritons displayed an 
exemplary performance by 
junior left-handed pitcher Izaak 
Martinez. With this game 
marking Martinez’s first start 
of the season, the lefty pitcher 
performed very highly for the 
Tritons, retiring all 9 Aztec 
batters in order throughout the 
game’s first 3 innings, which 
included 3 strikeouts. While 
the Tritons were not able to 
capitalize on the strong output 
by Martinez, only having 
1 single-base hit by Luke 
Saunders and not bringing in 
any additional runs throughout 
the second and third innings, 
Martinez kept the Triton’s 
early 2–0 lead safe and secure, 
pitching three shutout innings 
without allowing a single hit by 
the Aztecs. 
The top of the fourth inning 
kicked off with a single to 
center field by freshman catcher Emiliano Gonzalez, who then 
was able to advance to second 
base on a wild pitch. Following 
a hit-by-pitch on senior infielder 
Michael Fuhrman, and a 
bunt single by senior infielder 
Ryan McNally, the bases were 
loaded for the Tritons. With 
bases loaded, junior infielder 
Crew Robinson came up to bat 
and doubled to left-center in 
tremendous fashion, bringing 
in all three players on the 
bases for the Tritons, and 
increasing their lead to 5–0. 
Following a sacrifice bunt by 
sophomore infielder Noah 
Sudyka, Robinson proceeded 
to advance to third base, and 
then came across home plate 
after a fielding error by the 
Aztecs, which gave the Tritons 
a commanding 6–0 lead in 
the game. The Tritons would 
finally be retired in the inning 
after a ground out by Emiliano 
Gonzalez, but not before the 
Tritons had built a secure lead 
against their rivals.
The Aztecs would finally 
break through in the bottom 
of the fifth inning, though, 
with a solo home run by their 
first baseman TJ Fondtain. The 
Tritons would immediately 
respond, as sophomore 
outfielder Brock Kleszcz, who 
came into the game as a pinch 
hitter for freshman pitcher 
Austin Smith, would land a 
two-run homer for the Tritons, and would give the Tritons an 
8–1 lead in the ballgame.
The game would stay 
relatively quiet for the 
following 2 innings, with both 
teams playing well defensively. 
However, the Aztecs would cut 
into the Triton deficit in the 
bottom of the eighth inning, 
capitalizing on 4 total hits and 
a couple of fielding errors to 
bring in 3 runs for San Diego 
State, slashing the UCSD lead 
to 8–4.
The Tritons would get a run 
back, however, at the top of the 
ninth inning, with an RBI single 
by Emiliano Gonzalez, which 
scored Jalen Smith from second 
base following Smith’s double 
to start off the inning. The 
Tritons would enter the bottom of the ninth inning leading 9–4, 
in hopes of closing out the game 
once and for all against SDSU. 
While the Aztecs did attempt a 
strong rally at the bottom of the 
ninth, scoring 2 runs on 2 hits 
to make the game closer at 9–6, 
the Tritons’ lead would prove 
to be too much to overcome, as 
they would end the inning on a 
strikeout by sophomore pitcher 
Joey Soberon, securing the first 
Trolley Series win for UCSD.
After publication of this 
article, the Tritons will head 
north for their next two series. 
UCSD will take on Pac-12 foe 
University of Oregon on May 
10 and 11, before three Big West 
contests at UC Davis on May 
13–15.
 Triton Baseball Caps Off  Trolley Series With Win Over SDSU
By Miguel Carias
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Fars Media Corporation and Real Madrid.
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis for UC San Diego Athletics. 