BLOOD 
DONATIONS  
 Blood donation 
discrimination runs rampid 
amidst Red Cross blood 
shortage.  
“THE WILDS”
FAMERS MARKET FUNSeason 2 Review
Explore San DiegoA & E, Page 5
LIFESTYLE, Page 11  
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“As the editor of a 
college newspaper 
sports section during 
most of a pandemic 
in which all collegiate 
sports ground to a halt, 
and in which my section 
went from having five 
writers down to two and 
back up to five, I’m not 
sure I’ve related more 
to anything I’ve read in 
a newspaper.”
-PRAVEEN NAIR 
SPORTS, PAGE 12OPINION, Page 3
MONDAY  
H 19 L 14
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 14
ART BY EMILY PIDGEON FOR TED. ART BY EMILY PIDGEON FOR TED. 
TUESDAY  
H 20 L 14
THURSDAY
H 25 L 15
COVID-19......................2
GAY MARRIAGE......... ...4
UNIONS.........................7 
SENIOR SENDOFFS.....8
ACES...........................12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 30   TUESDA Y , MA Y 31, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
New California Budget Proposes Funding Boost 
for UC, CSU, and California Community CollegesEDUCATION
COVID-19
By Nikita Cardozo  /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019COVID-19 Cases 
Rise in San Diego 
By ABBY LEE 
/gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
A revised budget proposal from Governor 
Gavin Newsom will grant the University 
of California, California State University, 
and California Community Colleges a big 
funding boost after they meet targets addressing 
affordability, access, and equity. The new targets 
will require UC campuses to add thousands of 
new seats for California students, while reducing 
the number of available seats for out-of-state and 
international students. 
The proposal requires many goals for 
California’s three university systems. Some 
include closing achievement gaps, adding more UC 
and CSU seats for California students, increasing 
graduation rates, lowering debts, boosting 
financial aid, and producing more graduates in 
high-demand fields, like technology, mathematics, 
and teaching. 
These three systems must submit reports to 
the governor and California legislature about 
their progress in meeting these goals, and they 
will determine whether they should receive the 
funding or not. If any of the systems do not reach 
their goal, their funding could be reduced for the 
next fiscal year, or the governor and legislature 
may step in to help them achieve the goals. 
The 10 UC campuses, which constitute more 
than 295,000 students, would receive an increase 
of $307.3 million for 2022-23, including $200.5 
million for the base general fund increase and $99 
million for enrollment growth and more space for 
California students. Additionally, the budget would 
allot $295 million for climate change and dyslexia 
research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. 
While the UCs are supposed to increase the 
number of California seats by 6,230 for Fall 2022, 
they are negotiating with Newsom. They have 
agreed to add 2,000 more California students each 
year from 2023-24 through 2026-27, with around 
15% of the growth at UC Berkeley, UC San Diego, 
and UCLA. The three UCs will reduce their number 
of out-of-state and international students by 900 
students each year. The UCs also would increase 
their four-year graduation rates from 72.6% to 76% 
by 2030 and also better track graduation rates for 
students with disabilities. COVID-19 cases are once 
again rising in San Diego, with 
the number of new cases increas -
ing drastically from 409 cases 
in the week of April 26 to 1,579 
new cases in the last week alone. 
As of May 18, this brings the 
total number of confirmed CO -
VID-19 cases to 775,369. Cor -
respondingly, the rolling 14-day 
average percentage of positive 
cases among tests are increas -
ing as well, jumping from 3% of 
tests reported through April 26 
to nearly 6% in the most recent 
two weeks. 
Furthermore, the actual 
number of positive cases is 
likely higher than reported, as 
at-home rapid antigen tests are 
more accessible, and becoming 
more common. 
The number of COVID-19 
hospitalizations has also been 
on the rise. As of May 24, 180 
patients were hospitalized for 
COVID-19, increasing 30.4% 
from 138 patients on May 19. 
According to the Patch, 21 of 
these hospitalized patients were 
being treated in intensive care. 
The number of available hospital 
beds has also decreased to 218. 
As of May 27, San 
Diego County’s COVID 
community transmission 
risk category has shifted to 
medium-risk, which means 
that immunocompromised 
individuals should consider 
further protective measures, 
including wearing a mask in 
public. Speaking to NBC San 
Diego, Cameron Kaiser, the 
county deputy public health 
officer, urged individuals to take 
further precautions. 
“Spread of the virus has 
increased in recent weeks and 
we should step up individual 
efforts to keep our community 
safe,” Kaiser said.
UC San Diego has also 
observed a slight rise in 
COVID-19 cases. In the week 
of May 9, there were 344 new 
student COVID-19 cases, 
including students living both 
on and off campus.The following 
week of May 16, this jumped by 
35.7%, leading to 467 new cases. 
This brings the total number of 
UCSD student COVID-19 cases 
to 8,980 since March 1, 2020. 
With 95% of UCSD classes 
remaining in-person, UC 
San Diego requires masking 
in all indoor classroom and 
instructional settings, clinical 
areas, and on university 
See COVID-19 , page 2
Image courtesy of the Public Policy Institute of California.  
University of California President Michael 
V. Drake said in his statement that he is grateful 
for Gov. Newsom’s efforts to help the UC system 
financially. He expressed his support for the 
goals set by the proposal. Moreover, UCSD has 
also expressed their support and gratitude for 
the proposal to further enhance their goals of 
teaching, research, and public service. 
Earl Warren College sophomore Jennifer 
Becerra, an in-state student, voiced her opinion 
that this proposal wouldn’t benefit students. 
“In theory, this seems like a good idea for 
California students,” Becerra said.“However, this 
could create a barrier for out-of-state students that 
wouldn’t be guaranteed a spot even if they have 
better applications than in-state students.” 
The 23 CSU campuses, which include more than 
485,550 students, would be granted an increase of 
$304.1 million in ongoing funding for 2022-23, 
including $211.1 million for the 5% base general 
funding increase and $81 million for enrollment 
growth. The proposed budget also allocates $233 
million to build the CSU Bakersfield Energy 
Innovation Center.
CSU campuses have agreed to increase the 
number of California students by 14,000 over four 
years and the four-year graduation rates by 30% by 
2025. Their goals include eliminating the gap in 
graduation rates among minority and low-income 
students, increasing the number of STEM enrolled 
students, and reducing the cost of instructional 
materials 50% by 2025, which would save students 
around $150 million annually. 
An estimated $1.6 billion will be allocated for 
California’s 116 community colleges. Community  
colleges experienced a big drop in enrollment 
during the pandemic when many students chose 
to enter the workforce instead of continuing 
their education. $150 million would be devoted 
to assisting with the colleges’ enrollment and 
recruitment efforts. 
The University of California, California State 
University, and California Community colleges 
have expressed their support for Newsom’s 
proposals. Lawmakers have until June 15 to pass 
a budget.Interested in applying for
SCAN HERE
@ucsdguardian FOLLOW US!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDA Y , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado 
Advertising Director  
Gregory Shen 
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
/uni25B6 COVID-19 , from page 1
transportation. In addition, 
students must still be masked 
in all areas of their residential 
unit, including common areas, 
elevators, and lobbies. While 
the guest policy for on-campus 
students was lifted temporarily, 
it was quickly reinstated upon 
the rise in cases. Students 
do not need to be masked in 
their personal bedrooms or 
in the shower. Masking is 
highly recommended, but not 
mandated, in other indoor areas 
on campus, such as the gyms or 
libraries. 
According to UCSD’s current 
Face Covering Policy, acceptable 
face coverings include fabric 
face masks of at least two layers, 
surgical masks, and N95 or 
KN95 masks. Unacceptable face 
coverings include scarves, ski 
masks, bandanas, balaclavas, 
gaiters, collars, turtlenecks, 
plastic face shields, or a single layer of fabric.
With the rising COVID-19 
cases in San Diego, the San 
Diego Unified School District 
has announced to parents 
that indoor masking may be 
reinstated in some schools, if 
certain COVID-19 thresholds 
are met. For instance, indoor 
masking will be required if 
10% or more of the student 
population is absent each day 
due to illness in the span of 
three consecutive days. 
Assistant Director of 
University Communications 
Erika Johnson wrote in an email 
to The UCSD Guardian that 
the university  has no plans at 
the moment to tighten masking 
regulations. Instead, UCSD 
will continue to monitor the 
situation. 
“At t h is t i me, t here a re 
no plans to re-establish more 
restrictive masking mandates for common areas on campus,” 
Johnson wrote. “As always, 
our medical and public health 
experts will continue to 
monitor campus, county and 
national public health trends 
and provide leading-edge data 
and analyses, all of which helps 
guide our decision-making. 
Our campus will also continue 
to rely on a variety of tools 
and mitigation strategies that 
will help us respond effectively 
and efficiently to real-time 
conditions. It is this informed, 
flexible approach that allows 
us to more swiftly respond to 
public health conditions, such 
as calling for increased masking 
and testing during viral surges, 
and has proven to be extremely 
effective throughout the 
pandemic.”
Johnson also explained that 
the university aims to keep 
students, faculty and staff informed of the COVID-19 
situation. 
“Our goals are to inform and 
educate the campus community 
on the current risk levels and 
provide recommendations on 
ways to help keep you and your 
loved ones healthy,” Johnson 
said.
For more information 
about how to stay safe during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, 
students can visit the Return 
to Learn website to learn more 
about the vaccine mandate, 
exposure and contact tracing, 
and COVID-19 testing and 
screening. UCSD continues to 
offer free COVID-19 testing 
and vaccination and provides 
supplies such as masks to 
individuals and departments 
who need them.
Image by Althea Tien for the UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
By Erik Wieboldt
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
The season 18 finale of 
“Grey’s Anatomy” tackles the 
issue of gay men not being 
able to give blood. For such a 
niche issue, why is this topic 
getting more and more national 
attention in America? Well first, 
it’s important to emphasize 
that we are in a national blood 
shortage due in part to the 
residual and ongoing impacts 
of COVID and the many mass 
shootings that have affected 
our country. According to US 
News, since March 2020 there 
has “been a 10 percent decrease 
in overall blood donations’’ 
alongside a “62% drop in college 
and high school blood drives’’ 
due to COVID. Because of this, 
there has been a drop in the 
percentage of student donors, 
down to “just 10%” from “25% 
of donors in 2019.” As blood 
is getting scarcer to come by 
and many factors make it more 
vital than ever, the Red Cross is 
reportedly “pleading for donors 
as it grapples with its worst 
blood shortage in more than a 
decade.” This shortage is in stark 
contrast to the discriminating 
palate of regulators in the 
United States who determine 
who can donate blood.
In 1985, at the height of 
the AIDS epidemic, the FDA 
established a lifetime ban from 
blood donation for MSM (men 
who have sex with men). This 
was later amended to a year long 
deferral in December 2015 for 
MSM who have sexual contact 
in the past 12 months. They 
believed that this pre-screening 
eliminates 90 percent of the risk 
for donors who may be carrying 
bloodborne diseases. This 
period was further shortened 
to 90 days in April 2020 at the 
start of the pandemic and will 
likely persist after it ends, as 
outlined in the FDA revised 
guidance. In the past decade, 
the policy has gone from an 
outright ban to a requirement 
of seasonal celibacy. This 
discrimination is an antiquated 
remnant of ‘80s homophobia. 
AIDS was originally termed 
GRID, or Gay-Related Immune 
Deficiency, even though the 
disease is not endemic to the 
population, just more common. 
There has been a long-standing 
legacy in medicine of avoiding, 
discounting, and alienating 
queer people. One step 
towards repairing that legacy 
is amending these unnecessary 
qualifications to better suit 
scientific standards and risk. 
Advocates like those in 
the Human Rights Campaign 
(HRC), find the FDA’s steps 
toward making it easier for MSM 
to give blood promising, but 
that they don’t go far enough. 
Due to the inconsistent weight 
and risk of sexual acts that are 
restricted in blood donation, the 
HRC has “strongly encouraged 
the FDA to revise the donor 
questionnaire based on an 
individual risk assessment of 
sexual behaviors upon which 
all donors are evaluated equally, 
without regard to sexual 
orientation or gender identity.” 
They point out that a single 
instance of protected oral sex 
betwee two men in the last three 
months is a disqualifier, but Discriminating Taste for 
Necessary Blood Donations
that a lesbian or heterosexual 
person could have many sexual 
partners in that period, while 
being unaware of their partners’ 
sexual histories, and still be 
able to give blood. This double 
standard highlights that the 
priority of the FDA is not in risk 
reduction. If they cared about 
minimizing the risk of blood 
related diseases, the standards 
would be better suited to fit 
outside of simply one’s sexual 
preference. Although blood 
testing is not 100 percent 
precise, many believe that 
there are better ways to 
screen donations that don’t 
arbitrarily disclude people, 
while simultaneously allowing 
for more blood donation to fill 
the growing need. According to 
the HRC, in the “approximately 
12 million units donated each 
year, 10 HIV-infected units 
have slipped through.” With 
better, more individualized 
screenings I believe that the 
number of these transmissions 
can be made negligible and 
the amount of units of blood 
donated greatly increased. 
Personally, I have donated 
blood since the day of my 16th 
birthday. Like many of my peers, 
I recognized the need in my 
community and in our country 
in general. I was happy going 
in every few months to give my 
blood. I felt like I was making 
a positive difference. But, as 
I simultaneously grappled 
for a better understanding of 
my sexuality, I found myself 
unable to participate in these 
blood drives. The required 
questionnaires they had me 
fill out put risk factors such 
as drug use, sharing needles, 
and prostitution alongside gay 
sex. This made me feel that my 
identity as a gay man was just 
as socially taboo and morally 
questionable as these other risk factors. It’s worth pointing 
out that the FDA’s definition 
of MSM does not change for 
monogamous and/or protected 
sex and has no consideration 
for PrEP (pre-exposure 
prophylaxis) use, which has 
been shown to greatly reduce 
the chances of a HIV infection. 
My parents have faced 
a similar ban from donating 
blood because they both lived 
in Ireland during the outbreak 
of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (or 
mad-cow disease) in Europe. 
This example is especially 
poignant because it represents 
a similar outbreak among a 
subpopulation with increased 
risk. However, as of May 2022, 
the FDA amended its guidelines 
on this particular disqualifier to 
“remove the recommendations 
to defer indefinitely blood 
donors” who were previously 
deferred due to their proximity 
to the outbreak. This is to say 
that the FDA is not unmalleable 
in their restrictions. They are, 
albeit slowly, able to change and 
correct their recommendations 
based on scientific consensus. 
Many people find the MSM 
ban to be redundant and 
unnecessary such as Dr. Gerald 
E. Harmon, president of the 
American Medical Association 
(AMA), who believes that “the 
lifetime ban was imposed in 
an era when HIV was poorly 
understood, and it persisted 
for decades even as blood-
screening technology improved 
dramatically.” He points to the 
fact that today, “every unit of 
donated blood is rigorously 
tested to detect any trace of 
HIV, syphilis, hepatitis, West 
Nile virus or other blood-borne 
diseases.” He argues that the 
goal of the FDA should be in 
“ensuring that blood donation 
criteria are applied equitably 
across all segments of our population, including the 
LGBTQ+ community, based on 
the latest scientific evidence.” 
As this issue gains more 
attention and the need for blood 
is ever present, more people are 
realizing that the FDA must 
change their guidance to better 
suit scientific basis. Personally, 
I think that barring MSM from 
blood donation is harmful 
both because it limits greater 
blood supply and exists as a 
memory of a time when we had 
much less knowledge and much less testing for blood related 
diseases. There are several 
countries around the world 
who are coming to realize this 
inequity, such as the United 
Kingdom who changed their 
policy in June of last year to 
remove the waiting period. My 
hope is that ours will be the 
next to come and will usher 
in worldwide progress on this 
issue.
Spring Towards
the Stars
June 1st, 5 –8pm
Sun God Lawn
For more info, visit
asce.ucsd.edu
Image courtesy of Emily Pidgeon from TED.RAYMOND TRAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDA Y , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
 
This piece was submitted by 
MaryAnne Pintar, Chief of Staff 
for Rep. Scott Peters.
Congressman Scott Peters 
has a long and proud record 
of being a forceful, pro-
choice advocate. The Planned 
Parenthood Action Fund 
has given him a 100 percent 
rating for his perfect pro-
choice voting record, and he 
recently voted in the House of 
Representatives to codify Roe 
v. Wade so right-wing Supreme 
Courts can’t take this long held 
privacy right away from women. 
Additionally, he and his wife 
have a long record of supporting 
Planned Parenthood. In fact, 
his wife served on the Board of 
Directors of the local chapter 
and personally escorted women 
seeking safe abortions from 
health care clinics in the 1990s.
Peters has strongly and 
unequivocally supported 
the rights of women to make 
their own reproductive 
health care decisions, always, 
under any circumstance. An 
opinion column written for Submission: In Response to “Lukewarm Stances and Lazy Politicians”
The Guardian that posted 
online yesterday suggested 
that Rep. Scott Peters only 
supported abortion rights in 
extreme or exceptional cases, 
calling his position “tepid” 
and “lukewarm” and “the bare 
minimum.” The writer of the 
column asserts this conclusion 
by taking one sentence from 
a 5-minute speech Peters 
delivered at a May 3 pro-choice 
rally organized in response to 
the leaked SCOTUS decision.
In his remarks at the rally, 
Rep. Peters stated that “efforts 
that states might make to ban 
abortion after rape, incest or 
when the life of the mother 
is at stake is nothing short 
of barbaric.” The writer of 
the column chose to focus 
solely on this one to accuse 
the Congressman of not going 
far enough in his advocacy 
of abortion rights. By taking 
this sentence out of context, 
the writer implies that Peters 
only supports abortion rights in 
certain circumstances. That is 
false and his record proves that untrue.
Here’s what else Peters said 
that evening:
“Republicans don’t only 
want to ban abortions. They 
want to criminalize abortion 
in a way that cruelly punishes 
women who seek them. They 
want to throw women in jail, 
arrest doctors, encourage 
bounties. They want neighbors 
to report neighbors to law 
enforcement like something out 
of some horrific sci fi movie. 
Republicans want to ban 
abortions before most women 
even know they’re pregnant. 
That’s not limiting abortion. 
That’s forced pregnancy. And 
the same people who want to 
force families to have babies 
they don’t feel equipped to 
care for want to cut off food 
assistance to the poor.
That’s not pro-life — it’s 
anti-family. And by the way it’s 
anti freedom….
As saddened and enraged as I 
am about this pending decision, 
I’m frankly not surprised. We 
knew the very day that Donald Trump was elected president, 
that this day was coming.
Now the only way to undo 
this tragic harm is to win 
elections. We need to win in 
Texas and Wisconsin, and 
Michigan and Ohio. We need 
to win federal elections because 
we don’t want Mitch McConnell 
to have veto power over our 
Supreme Court picks, and we 
need to win statewide elections 
to defeat the people who write 
and vote for these abominable 
laws. And we Democrats need to 
quit fighting among ourselves. 
We must be united. There’s too 
much at stake.
 Not just abortion rights. 
As drafted, Justice Alito’s 
argument lays out a perilous 
outline for future assaults on 
cherished rights that have long 
been rooted in the constitutional 
right to privacy.
The House of Representatives 
has passed the codification 
of Roe v. Wade and now we 
must put all the pressure we 
can muster on the Senate to 
enshrine into law women’s reproductive freedoms.
If this Court does indeed 
terminate Roe, Democrats will 
not relent. I will not relent. 
I’m proud to have a 100 
percent rating from Planned 
Parenthood and I thank 
them for their vigilance. My 
family and I have been long 
time supporters and donors 
to Planned Parenthood and I 
urge every single one of you 
do to whatever you can to 
support them, too. The Planned 
Parenthood Action Fund is 
their political arm, and I will be 
watching them for ideas about 
where to engage this fight. 
Thank you for being here 
tonight. Don’t lose faith. Don’t 
give up the fight. Please know 
that I’m with you every step of 
the way.”
Are these the words of 
someone taking a tepid stance? 
You be the judge.By Seamus McNulty
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
This past month the Supreme 
Court had a leak of a decision, 
which decisively overturned Roe 
v. Wade (1973) and the less well 
known Planned Parenthood v. 
Casey (1992). Shortly after the 
Roe overturning was leaked, 
there was a lot of speculation 
on social media about a part 
of the decision concerning a 
series of past LGBTQ rights 
decisions. These decisions were 
mentioned because they relied 
on the implicit implications of 
the 14th amendment just like 
Roe does. The Court states on 
page 32 of the leaked opinion 
called Dobbs v. Jackson, “None 
of these rights have any claim to 
being deeply rooted in history.” 
What seems to be implied here 
is that not only is Roe being 
overturned but so is everything 
related to it. 
So the question raised here 
is: Is the Court overturning not 
just Roe but dozens of decisions 
from the past 50 years? Analysis 
of the Court and the leaked 
opinions leads me to argue 
that the Court might overturn 
Roe and Casey, but for now 
the Court will keep the other 
rights based on privacy. This 
is because the Court states in 
the leaked opinion that the 
rights enshrined by Roe and 
Casey are different from the 
rights enshrined by the other 
cases. What’s most concerning 
about this leaked decision 
is not the aforementioned 
paragraph but the disregard 
for Court precedent, which 
in the future might endanger 
already protected LGBTQ 
rights. However, even if the 
Court really wanted to overturn 
everything based on Roe and 
leave it up to the states, doing 
so would probably result in a 
fiery congressional amendment 
neutering the Supreme Court. 
The argument that Roe 
makes is concerning the idea 
of a citizen’s right to liberty 
in the 14th Amendment. In 
Roe, the majority argues that a 
person’s right to an abortion is 
part of their liberty promised 
to her by the 14th amendment. Roe’s Gone. Is Gay 
Marriage Next?: A 
Legal Analysis
The majority Court opinion in 
this case argues that a birthing 
person has this liberty and a 
fetus does not. Roe argues that, 
despite the philosophical debate 
about when life begins, the law 
does not treat a fetus like a 
person and therefore a fetus does 
not have the right to life and 
liberty that a birthing person 
does. This is the person’s right 
to privacy. This is a reasonable 
opinion following the precedent 
of similar 14th amendment 
privacy cases, but considering 
its loose interpretation, it was 
likely to be overturned by 
conservative judges.
Following Roe was Planned 
Parenthood v. Casey (1992). 
This decision was interesting 
because despite the fact that the 
conservative judges didn’t agree 
with the reasoning in Roe, they 
still upheld it. The reason for 
this was the idea of stare decisis, 
which means that even if they 
think it’s poorly justified, it’s 
the law and they respect the 
precedent. This is usually the 
policy for conservative judges 
— which are notably different 
from conservative politicians. 
Conservative judges are 
constitutional originalists, 
which means they believe that 
the constitution should only 
be interpreted strictly and 
generally they adhere strongly 
to past decisions, even non-
originalist precedent. Their idea 
is to interpret the law strictly 
and keep things grounded. 
What’s significant about this 
decision was that it reaffirmed 
Roe and set a strong precedent 
that would be harder to 
overturn.  It set a groundwork 
for further privacy cases such 
as Lawrence v. Texas (2003), 
which enshrined the right to 
be gay without government 
interference, and the famous 
Obergefell v. Hodges (2015) 
which enshired the right to gay 
marriage under the argument 
of privacy. Casey set solid 
precedent for cases central to 
LGBTQ rights.
The leaked Roe decision, 
which is called Dobbs v. Jackson 
(2022), overturns both Roe and 
Casey. The opinion here is 
messy, but there are a few ideas 
that seem central. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito, who 
wrote the opinion, takes the 
position that a woman’s liberty 
exists but maybe the fetus’ 
liberty actually exists too. The 
Court doesn’t take a stance on 
if a fetus is a person or not, 
but rather takes a states’ rights 
approach to saying that if you 
believe that a fetus is a person 
you have the right in your 
state to regulate abortion (33). 
This states’ rights approach is 
a popular conservative view, 
and conservative courts will 
usually take from the federal 
government’s power and give 
back the states. Regarding the 
privacy argument, Alito says, 
“What sharply distinguishes 
the right to abortion from the 
rights recognized in the cases 
on which Roe and Casey rely 
is something that both those 
decisions acknowledged: 
Abortion destroys what those 
decisions call “potential life” 
and what the law at issue in 
this case regards as the life 
of an ‘unborn human being’” 
(32). Alito is saying here 
that Roe is different because 
theoretically the life of the fetus 
is endangered, which isn’t the 
case in cases giving rights to 
gay people or to interracial 
couples. In this paragraph, it 
seems Alito is implying that 
the right to privacy for these 
groups is protected and that 
the only exceptions to the rule 
are Roe and Casey.  This leads 
me to believe that although 
overturning Roe and Casey, 
the Court is not overturning anything but Roe and Casey. 
Alito’s logic isn’t necessarily 
coherent, but the Court 
makes a point to highlight the 
preservation of LGBTQ rights 
and other privacy based civil 
rights cases, demonstrating 
the Court’s awareness of the 
importance of these rights. 
Even if it’s not originalist, the 
Court is keeping these rights 
for now. This is good news for 
LGBTQ activists and signals a 
positive shift in the Court.
Although, an important 
question raised by this 
argument is, “What about 
stare decisis? If this Court is 
so conservative shouldn’t they 
follow their own rules and 
not make radical changes to 
precedent?” Alito addresses this 
argument by saying that the Roe 
argument and Casey arguments 
are so terrible that stare decisis 
just doesn’t count. More 
professionally, Alito argues that 
the Roe and Casey decisions do 
not meet the requirements for 
stare decisis to apply (62). This 
is the concerning part of this 
decision. Although Alito builds 
an argument for his disregard, it 
marks a change in the thinking 
of conservative judges and a 
move towards a more activist 
conservative courtship. This 
precedent is dangerous for those 
who care about LGBTQ rights, 
as now conservative courts have 
shifted to be more willing to 
overturn decisions which they 
previously would have held 
following stare decisis. This 
is a real concern, especially concerning conservative 
justices’ distaste for the legal 
basis of past LGBTQ decisions 
and LGBTQ decisions on the 
more modern side, as seen in 
Bostock v. Clayton County 
(2020), where the Court almost 
ruled against transgender rights 
but didn’t because of Gorsuch’s 
view of the particular document 
in question. Future cases or past 
cases might not be so lucky as 
Bostock. 
To ease anxiety, I would 
argue that an activist Court will 
not go around overturning every 
civil rights decision of the past 
century. The Supreme Court 
is limited, and decisions such 
as gay marriage and interracial 
marriage have entered the the 
realm of enormous support. 
According to a Gallup poll, 
70% of Americans support 
gay marriage. A decision 
to overturn gay marriage 
would illicit a response from 
Congress, the Supreme Court’s 
check. This would lead to an 
Amendment changing the 
power of the Supreme Court, 
possibly stripping all its power. 
This is the Supreme Court’s 
worst nightmare and is probably 
the reason that Alito drew a line 
between Roe and Obergefell. 
Even if the conservative judges 
want to take every right we 
have away, they care more about 
their own self-preservation of 
power.
Image courtesy of Fred Schilling from /T_he Washington Post.ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
ELIAS ROMAN
Album Review: “I Can’t Let Go”One of my most anticipated releases of 2022 was Season 2 of “/T_he Wilds.” Although 
originally released on Amazon Prime in December of 2020, I stumbled upon the show in 
early 2021 and watched all 10 episodes in a week. /T_he plot follows a group of eight girls 
who crash land on an island and must survive. I was quickly enamored by the writing as 
well as the acting. We discover that the plane crash was orchestrated and was actually a 
twisted science experiment conducted by a scientist by the name of Gretchen Klein (Ra -
chel Griﬃths). It le/f_t audiences with tons of questions and a burning desire for a continua -
tion of the story. /T_he show is delivered in a nonchronological order with scenes before the 
island, on the island, and a/f_ter the island. /T_his enticing plotline paired with strong women 
characters who were dynamic and complex made the show incredibly easy to enjoy. 
With the con/f_irmation of Season 2, the possibilities seemed endless. One of the biggest 
new plotlines within Season 2 was the addition of a “boys’ island.” /T_his included the addi -
tion of eight new male cast members. /T_his was controversial for a number of reasons. /T_he 
/f_irst season of “/T_he Wilds” was a very women-centric show. /T_he main cast members were 
women, the showrunner is a woman, and a lot of the writers are women. /T_his resonated 
very deeply with audiences so there was discourse about whether the inclusion of the boys 
would take time away from the girls. I tried to keep an open mind to the addition of the 
boys to the show and was fairly intrigued by the prospect. It worked well with the concept 
of a scienti/f_ic experiment: oﬀering the boys as a control group. To an extent, the juxtaposi -
tion of boys versus girls is a logical next step for the storyline and is very interesting. One 
thing I would agree with is that the addition of the boys does take time away from the girls. 
We enter Season 2 with a voiced-over montage, cycling through the events a/f_ter Ra -
chel’s (Reign Edwards) shark attack. /T_he beginning of Season 2 felt rushed, skipping 
through multiple scenes that could have been /f_leshed out, like the reveal of Shelby (Mia 
Healy) and Toni’s (Erana James) relationship. I hope that if we get a Season 3, they contin -
ue to utilize /f_lashbacks to show important moments we might have missed on the islands. 
However, I think that without the addition of new people to focus on, it’s possible seeing 
the same old stranded-on-an-island storyline could get stale. 
One of my favorite things about “/T_he Wilds” is that the characters are so complex. 
/T_hey feel like real people because they all have /f_laws and faults. /T_hey have imperfections 
that make them human. I think this trend continues with the boys as there isn’t a boy 
introduced that is perfect;  each one has his own quirk and arc. /T_his is very refreshing. It The Wilds 
Suki Waterhouse has been giving audiences small glimpses into her artistry as a musi -
cian with only a handful of singles over the past several years. Songs like “Brutally” and 
“Good Looking” achieved relatively decent buzz and critical appraisal, and le/f_t a growing 
fanbase craving for more of anything she had to oﬀer. While Waterhouse had already 
made a name for herself as an actress and model, music was an avenue that she was less 
con/f_ident in pursuing. She told Variety in an interview that the slow release of songs was 
a way of testing both her con/f_idence and the eagerness of the world’s ears, but music is 
something she has consistently been creating. Nearly six years a/f_ter the arrival of her /f_irst 
single — and having recently signed to record label Sub Pop — Waterhouse put out her 
highly-anticipated debut album “I Can’t Let Go.”
She turned to the Grammy-nominated Brad Cook for the album’s production, a pro -
ducer who is highly regarded within the indie music scene for his stylistic synths and 
drums seen with artists like Bon Iver and Snail Mail. Cook’s sonic choices blend beauti -
fully with Waterhouse’s sultry voice to create a haunting atmosphere that embellishes the 
blurring of her realities and /f_ictions. /T_he pair draws in/f_luence from contemporaries like 
Lana Del Rey and Mazzy Star, but manage to make a product uniquely their own, most 
distinguished by Waterhouse’s vocals. She breathes intoxication into every song, sound -
ing like an exhausted artist alluringly stringing together the chaos of her emotions in a 
burdensome process for others to vicariously live her experience. She shi/f_ts from feelings 
of frustration, heartache, and acceptance with nothing but an eﬀortless shi/f_t in volume. 
/T_he opener “Moves” sets the tone for the album’s /f_irst half, giving it a bold launching 
point with a wildly punchy chorus. Her voice /f_luctuates through self-assured claims as she 
sings “I’m a put some goddamn moves, babe, I know you need it.” “/T_he Devil I Know” fol -
lows suit in terms of the level of con/f_idence that Waterhouse imbues it with, but “Melrose 
Meltdown’” — a highlight of the album — marks a slow descent into a depressive state 
driven by exhaustive heartbreak. It begins with a rich contemplation of her own mental 
state as she croons “deep horrible blues, watching you work the room” in the opening line. Jonathan Shlesinger /gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Image courtesy of NBC News. feels as if male characters are o/f_ten pushed into boxes and this season didn’t shy away from 
letting the boys make mistakes. Too o/f_ten, male characters are reduced to stereotypes or 
tropes, like the dumb jock, the nerd, or the class clown. In “/T_he Wilds,” the boys feel more 
like real human beings instead of two-dimensional plot devices. To be completely honest, 
the boys were a lot less relatable than the girls were. I can’t tell if it’s just because it’s harder 
to connect to boys, we got less of their backstories, or they just weren’t likable people. My 
favorite male character was Kirin (Charles Alexander). I liked that his character subverted 
the mean jock stereotype as he authentically did come to care for the other boys on the 
island. It feels really nice to know that complex characters like this can be shown and writ -
ten in a way that doesn’t feel fake. I also appreciate that the writers didn’t shy away from the 
unpalatable aspects of life. Seth (Alex Fitzlan) was a character I thought I would like but 
the development — or better put, the regression — of his character through a distasteful 
invasion of privacy towards his girlfriend and another boy on the island was a he/f_ty plot 
twist. /T_he fact that “/T_he Wilds” can address taboo topics like abusive relationships and 
sexual assault in a way that isn’t necessarily oﬀensive is another brilliant writing aspect.  
/T_he acting in this show is incredible. Leah Rilke (Sarah Pidgeon) is incredibly suspi -
cious of the situation they are in. In Season 2, her paranoia and the internal battle of her 
sanity reach a peak. Sarah Pidgeon does a wonderful job at displaying the unhinged aspect 
of the character. Pidgeon doesn’t stray away from screaming or acting with her whole 
body, something that makes the emotion hit harder. I could probably write a paragraph 
for each of the girls and the brilliant life they bring to the characters. /T_his season felt a lot 
darker. I think it comes with the territory as they expand into the a/f_ter-eﬀects of the /f_irst 
season. Rachel deals with a shark attack and the loss of her hand. Shelby is still dealing 
with her internalized homophobia. /T_he girls do a wonderful job at depicting these heavy 
topics in a way that feels genuine. Continually, the bond that the girls have with each other 
remains strong. /T_he found family trope has always been a trope I’ve loved to watch. /T_he 
connection between Leah and Fatin (Sophia Ali) only strengthened this season, opening 
up exciting avenues. I think that the chemistry the main girls have with each other out -
shines the chemistry between the boys. 
Plotwise, this season was average for me. It feels as if they are laying down the frame -
work for an even bigger climax next season. We continue to learn more about the girls’ 
time on the island and simultaneously are introduced to the boys and their time on the is -
land. Now that we’ve been introduced to all of the players, the opportunity for interaction 
with everyone as they /f_ight for their lives is such a fascinating dynamic. I hope that we’ve 
gotten through most of the exposition and they start to focus on answering the questions 
that viewers have been le/f_t with. 
My review feels a little biased because the authenticity of the characters overpowers 
any big grievances I have with the show. It feels special to watch this show about being 
stranded on a deserted island and have it feel incredibly real. To relate to the way these 
characters are feeling, to the struggle and diﬃculty of being a teenage girl, all of it. I think 
the way that all the girls have something they want to run away from allows them to bond 
with each other in a way that feels like home. I am both disappointed and eager about the 
addition of the boys. I think this season only opened up more questions for the audience 
and that the next season will only be bigger and better. /T_he stakes are rising, which creates 
this tension-/f_illed watching experience. I’m really excited to see where it goes because it 
feels like the show is just getting started. Season 2 of “/T_he Wilds” gets deeper and darker on the island 
as we meet new characters and the girls endure more trauma.  
Laila Del-rio  /gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Grade: B-
Directed by: Sarah Striecher
Starring: Sarah Pidgeon, Mia Healy, Erana James, Sophia Ali, Reign Edwards, 
Shannon Berry, Jenna Clause, Kirin Alexander, Alex Fitzlan
Release Date: May 6, 2022
As she continues to ponder the emptiness and discontent that she feels, she /f_lips self-pity 
on its head with a loud declaration that begins the chorus: “Welcome to my Melrose Melt -
down.” It is a deglamorized version of herself that she is too frustrated to hide any longer. 
Cook laces the song with laidback synths that give way to this messy vulnerability. 
In the midst of this acute self-re/f_lection, “[B-------” on the Internet’ breaks the intro -
spection with surface-level observations that somewhat weakly encapsulate a critique of 
social media. Despite its upbeat construction and incredible vocals, Waterhouse’s lament -
ing about the shallowness of social media and the emptiness it feeds falls slightly /f_lat. She 
documents her experience with stalking someone she loves through the internet. She sings 
“I got caught up by your picture in a headline” and, shortly a/f_ter, “it looks like you love 
her online.” Lyrically, this song does little to invoke any emotion that beyond surface-
level confusion and frustration birthed out of social media. She is clearly capable of vivid 
imagery and encapsulating emotions in a less overt manner, which is why this song in 
particular feels disappointing. Production wise, the song is great. /T_he gripe I have with it 
lies within the obviousness of the lyrics that seem to stem from a lack of willingness to dive 
deeper internally, or perhaps simply the blander subject of the song.
As the album begins to slow down in its tempo and production, Waterhouse contem -
plates the past from the lens of present helplessness. In the later parts of the album, ex -
haustion seems to /f_inally take its toll. /T_here is no action in her words, no move to change 
her given situation. It is simply her recognizing the state she is in without the means, aid, 
or energy to do anything about it.   “Slip” — a personal favorite — delivers this message 
with blistering delicacy. She compares the broken state of her mind to “a season nature 
skipped” and “a dog that doesn’t eat” through the lightest and breathiest vocals on the 
album. 
/T_hroughout the songs she takes intense vivid imagery and coats them in a so/f_ter tone 
as she /f_inds power in holding back. Waterhouse stings sharpest at her most constrained. 
She retains rigid control of her delivery through topics that are painfully burdensome, Waterhouse’s highly anticipated debut album is torched with so/f_t 
rock in/f_luences and mellow production that accentuates her voice in 
a journey that peels back the boldness of love to /f_ind a delicate center. 
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
S+E Media Club 004: Childhood Favorites
In the /f_inal issue of S+E, A&E Senior Staﬀ Writer Sarah Delima and A&E Editor Elias Roman look 
back on the childhood favorite shows, books, games, and movies that have continued to comfort them 
throughout their college years.
Welcome to the fourth, and /f_inal, installment of S+E Media Club! Yes, you read that 
right. /T_his will be the last time we publish this column in /T_he UCSD Guardian, as Elias 
(the E half of the duo) will be graduating in only a couple of weeks. It’s bittersweet, but all 
good things must come to an end. So, as one chapter closes and the next one opens, we’ll 
be looking back on some of the things from our childhoods that have helped make this 
transition into full adulthood just a little easier.
/T_he Naked Brothers Band
You might recognize Nat and Alex Wolﬀ from their numerous indie /f_ilm appearances, 
but I /f_irst came to know them through a small indie group you’ve probably never heard 
of called “/T_he Naked Brothers Band.” While I haven’t actually watched the Nickelodeon 
show in years, I still /f_ind myself looking up their old music videos, reminiscing on the 
days when my second-grade group of friends and I were convinced we’d be rockstars, 
despite none of us knowing how to play any instruments. /T_he Naked Brothers Band was 
never going to win a Grammy (a Nickelodeon Kids Choice Award on the other hand…), 
but sometimes all you need to get through the drudge of early adult life is a song about 
making a banana smoothie.
-E
/T_he Mysterious Benedict Society
Equal parts charming and thrill inducing, Trenton Lee Stewart’s “/T_he Mysterious 
Benedict Society” is the pinnacle of middle grade literature. A quartet of gi/f_ted children 
— Reynie, Sticky, Constance, and Kate — are enlisted to help the titular Mr. Benedict 
subvert the plans of his nefarious twin brother Mr. Curtain. /T_he crisis they face is not to 
be underestimated; using the resources of his evil learning institute, Mr. Curtain broad -
casts subliminal messages to the public and exercises a form of mind control. Although 
it was initially created for an audience of children, Stewarts’ series echoes the concerns 
of contemporary adults: How does one /f_ind solace in a society destined for destruction? 
What happens when the world is ending, yet no one seems to believe it? “/T_he Mysterious 
Benedict Society” meets all of our apocalyptic fears with unbridled hope. In the face of in -
surmountable odds, Reynie, Sticky, Constance, and Kate discover the unequivocal power 
of courage, wit, and friendship.
-S
Cartoon Network City Era Bumpers
Streaming services have brought a lot of great things to the table — see convenience, 
fewer ads, etc. — but they’ve also brought a lot of bad things. Most notably, for me at least, 
watching most of my content on streaming services means no more bumpers. Yes, they 
were essentially highly-stylized commercials, but something about watching my favorite 
cartoon characters seemingly coexist with one another in the same universe captivated Elias Roman /gid00002/gid00129/gid00006/gid00001/gid00006/gid00005/gid00010/gid00021/gid00016/gid00019
Image courtesy of /T_he Line of Best Fit. and it is hard not to commend her bravery knowing how timid she was at the beginning 
of her career. 
“Blessed” serves as a beautiful conclusion to the album. Beginning with stripped-back 
production, it is a dedication to her inner child, and a recognition of her mistakes and 
the hurt she has in/f_licted on others. More importantly, though, she gives herself room for 
self-forgiveness. She understands her own perspective, her imperfections, and her own 
pain that she is still trying to work through. She pleads to be needed before dissolving into 
distorted synths. It’s a brilliant conclusion, signing oﬀ with an acceptance of heartache 
and what it means to be messily human. 
Waterhouse’s /f_irst full-length album meets all expectations, surpassing them even with 
one clear miss, as she temporarily satiates the world’s clamoring for more. “I Can’t Let Go” 
marks her fully-formed arrival onto the music scene with newfound con/f_idence and admi -
rable vulnerability, and if the future is anything like its foundation, she’s got a promising 
path ahead. 
Sarah Delima /gid00020/gid00006/gid00015/gid00010/gid00016/gid00019/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
my seven-year-old imagination. Don’t get the wrong idea, this wasn’t an MCU-type aﬀair; 
rather, it was characters like Ed, Edd, and Eddy doing the most mundane of tasks, like 
going to the corner store or crossing the street. But that’s precisely what made them so ap -
pealing; there were no high stakes, just the amusement, and frustrations, of everyday life.
-E
 Goodnight Moon
What does meaningful engagement with the world look like? According to author 
Margaret Wise Brown and illustrator Clement Hurd, meaning is derived from the ordi -
nary. /T_here is no plot in Qualley and Hurd’s “Goodnight Moon;” no princesses, dragons, 
or castles litter the book’s scant pages. Rather, a single sleepy bunny is faced with the 
daunting task of getting to bed. /T_he world of “Goodnight Moon” is one of simplistic bliss: 
bunnies become sleepy, moons disappear a/f_ter nighttime, and “goodnights” are issued 
in earnest. Qualley renders the ordinary as worthy of wonder, and by doing so, encour -
ages us to cultivate our childlike intuition and imbue our daily interactions with sincerity 
and aﬀection. /T_he picture book oﬀers a simple solution to combat the stressors of teenage 
milieu and existentialism: take pleasure in the ordinary. Despite countless political and 
social crises we declare, “Goodnight room / Goodnight moon / Goodnight cow jumping 
over the moon.”
-S
Image courtesy of Amazon. Grade: A-
Released: April 22, 2022
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Why is Amazon Anti-Union? 
Labor unionization seeks to level the inherent power imbalance between employer 
and employee. Companies like Amazon show their hand when they launch aggres -
sive anti-union campaigns, they understand the power the labor movement holds. 
By Katherine Getchell 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
The federal minimum wage 
in the United States of America is 
$7.25 an hour. Costs of living and 
state minimum wage laws vary 
across the country, but a study of 
the U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development Data 
demonstrated that the cost of 
living isn’t low enough anywhere. 
Rosenfel, for GoBankingRates, 
reported that nowhere in the U.S. 
can a minimum wage worker 
afford rent on their own single 
bedroom or studio apartment. 
Even if they share their space with 
a roommate - there are only 15 
states where two people making 
minimum wage can afford to live 
in a two bedroom apartment.  
A number of studies sought 
to understand and quantify the 
link between job satisfaction 
and life satisfaction. A study 
published to the National Library 
of Medicine explores many 
hypotheses that seek to explain 
the strong correlation between 
how satisfied individuals are with 
their employment and their lives 
overall. 
“  In job settings, a recent 
meta-analysis (Van den Broeck 
et al., 2016), reviewing 99 studies 
with 119 distinct samples, found 
that the satisfaction of basic 
psychological needs at work is 
significantly associated with 
higher well-being (e.g., life 
satisfaction)” 
Full time employment 
dominates at least forty waking 
hours each week. People 
clamor for basic respect at their 
workplaces and to make a wage 
that allows them to at least be 
housed and to eat. 
Labor laws exist to protect 
workers, but employers wield 
inordinate power. 
If any single employee 
attempts to negotiate something 
they need: less dangerous work, to 
receive more training, to receive 
better healthcare benefits, more 
paid sick leave, or a pay raise their 
employer can flat out refuse. 
Or, even worse, they can be 
fired for asking.  
Labor unions seek to mitigate 
the inherent power imbalance 
between the individual worker 
and their employer. 
This article from Teen Vogue 
succinctly describes a labor union 
as, “ an organization of workers 
dedicated to improving wages, 
hours, and working conditions 
within their workplace via 
collective bargaining to secure a 
union contract.” 
The work unions do is paid 
for by union member’s dues and 
they negotiate with employers 
on the union members’ behalf to 
reach legally binding contracts 
for terms of employment. Unions 
such as the Utility Workers 
Union of America argue that 
this collective bargaining yields 
results, citing the fact that:  “union 
workers’ wages are on average 
28% higher than their nonunion 
counterparts.”For example, the Walsh-
Healey Public Contracts Act 
and the Fair Labor Standards 
Acts passed in 1936 and 1938 
“which mandated a minimum 
wage, extra pay for overtime 
work, and basic child labor 
laws” was advanced by the 
Department of Labor, a branch 
of the federal government that 
was founded on the Federation 
of Oganized Trades and Labor 
Unions. 
The Clayton Antitrust Act 
passed in 1914 is the reason why 
employees can legally strike 
and boycott their employers. 
It’s difficult to truly fathom 
the number of people that have 
been involved in the U.S. labor 
movement and their lasting 
impact. 
For example, the Uprising 
of the 20,000 in 1909 involved 
women garment workers in 
the thousands demanding 
the dangers they faced in 
sweatshops be addressed. 
During the United Mine 
Workers of America strike 
of 1946, 400,000 coal miners 
orchestrated a strike to protest 
the safety and health risks of 
the mines and low wages. 
As recently as 1997, the 
Teamsters-led UPS Workers 
Strike, sought to establish 
greater pension benefits and 
job security. 
With all the benefits unions 
have secured, why are they 
controversial? 
Some features of unions 
can be a double-edged sword. 
People often point to union 
dues, for people who are already 
living paycheck to paycheck, 
and closed union cultures as 
drawbacks of unionization. 
Amelia Josephson for 
SmartAsset cites the most 
common reservation about 
unions:  “they can drive up 
costs and lead to an adversarial 
relationship between labor and 
management.” 
The argument has also 
been made that union dues 
are unfair - particularly for 
workers who are protected 
under union contract but are 
not members: 
“Unions in 22 states 
are allowed to collect fair-
share fees from public sector 
employees who have not joined 
their union to cover the costs 
of representation and collective 
bargaining in lieu of full union 
dues”
Fair share-fees are a flat rate 
fee that is deducted from non-
union members paychecks and 
is set by union leadership.  
At a fully unionized business, 
all workers are protected under 
union contract,but each person 
is allowed to choose if they 
want to join the union and pay 
membership dues. 
Kim Kelly for Teen Vogue 
argues that their right-to-work 
laws heavily weaken unions: 
“Right-to-work laws make it 
legal for workers at unionized 
shops to opt out of joining the 
union and paying union fees. However, they still benefit from 
the union’s collective bargaining 
agreement, without paying dues 
— thereby depriving the union 
of income and weakening their 
potential influence“
Labor unions are a common 
thread through the history of 
America’s capitalist economy; 
yet; their influence has ebbed and 
flowed, “In 1979, the number of 
union members reached a peak 
of 21 million.” 
But union membership has 
“fallen since 1983, when 20% of 
American workers were union 
members. In 2021 10.3% of U.S. 
workers were in a union.”
Unions are meant to protect 
and empower workers but union 
membership is less common than 
it was forty years ago. With data 
from the Pew Research Center 
Ted Van Green highlighted that  
the majority of the country does 
not view this decrease favorably: 
“In the survey, 58% of U.S. 
adults say the large reduction 
over the past several decades in 
the percentage of workers who 
are represented by unions has 
been somewhat or very bad 
for the country, while 61% say 
this has been bad for working 
people.”
At corporations that employ 
hundreds of thousands of 
workers, each individual worker 
is very small and often very 
replaceable. 
Many of these companies also 
continue to turn huge margins 
of profit, unperturbed by the 
countless proven instances 
of labor law violations and 
exploitation of workers. Amazon 
is a prime example of this abuse. Michael Sainato for The 
Guardian explained that at an 
Amazon warehouse in New York, 
employees drafted a petition to 
include working conditions. 
One issue they cited was 
that in their two allotted fifteen 
minute breaks there was barely 
enough time to walk from the 
warehouse to the break room 
and back.
CNBC reported that “Amazon 
warehouse workers in the U.S. 
suffered serious injuries at twice 
the rate of rival companies in 
2021, according to a new study.” 
A worker rights platform, 
Organize, also conducted a 
survey in 2019 that found of 
Amazon workers: “74 percent 
avoid using the toilet for fear of 
being warned they had missed 
their target numbers.”
If Amazon workers unionize 
— what does Amazon stand to 
lose? 
For one, if they negotiated 
safer working conditions which 
would include giving workers 
more time to fill packages, 
it would  result in higher 
operational costs. Even more 
expensive, if unions were able 
to negotiate higher wages for 
all their workers Amazon would 
lose a fortune in profits. 
Amazon employs 1.1 million 
people in the United States. If 
every single one of those people 
negotiated just a dollar raise, 
Amazon would lose 1.1 million 
dollars every single hour of every 
single day of business operations. 
Workers risk their jobs in 
unionizing, the life or death 
nature of that risk cannot be 
overstated but by the sheer numbers corporations and 
business owners stand to lose 
the most. 
From the Washington Post 
Nitasha Tiku highlights the 
lengths Amazon and other tech 
companies are willing to go.
“Tech companies have 
surveilled workers suspected of 
organizing, posted anti-union 
propaganda and hired anti-
union consultants, according 
to interviews with workers 
and organizers. They’ve 
also forced workers to attend 
“captive audience” meetings to 
undermine union talking points, 
lobbied for laws that will prevent 
workers from getting the right 
to unionize and fired employees 
who drew attention to these 
tactics.”
Companies that make 
billions of dollars in profits, and 
stand to lose a fraction of those 
profits have a lot of resources to 
undermine unionization. 
When powerful people have 
so much to lose in this fight, 
there is great risk to the worker. 
There are countless instances of 
retaliation and the laws that are 
meant to protect average people 
in theory do not always do so in 
practice. 
Change in any form carries 
risk. Workers who are skeptical 
or outright against unionization 
have very reasonable worries. 
What companies like Amazon 
stand to lose, workers have to 
gain. 
Image courtesy of Robert Anasch on Unsplash. 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
SENIOR SENDOFFS
It’s incredible to think that I’ve been with /T_he UCSD 
Guardian for 4 years now. I still remember how I was excit -
ed out of high school to continue news writing but deathly 
afraid of what “college” news writing would be like. It was 
daunting to consider how my writing carried weight and 
would reach a larger audience. /T_he cost of a mistake can 
become much more detrimental. Because while reporting 
can sound dry on many occasions, I still consider it an 
art: the ability to weave an unbiased narrative is a careful 
balance of each parties’ opinion. It is o/f_ten acknowledging 
diﬀerences and putting aside your own beliefs. /T_he thing 
is, here I am, and numerous articles in, still deathly afraid 
but — at least — much more capable than before. Being with the paper and all the amazing people in it, 
I’ve come to grow so much in my writing ability and ana -
lytical skills. And it brings me so much joy that I’ve been 
able to do all of this amazing work with my best friend and 
co-Editor Troy. Together with our news team, we’ve writ -
ten about so many hard hitting issues and controversies 
over the years. I feel at times almost like a co-parent with 
him guiding our writers and seeing them grow. Many 
have come and gone but I truly believe that each has been 
able to learn many valuable lessons. I’m so proud of the 
work we’ve achieved and I will truly miss being a part of 
/T_he UCSD Guardian. But I’m equally excited to see how 
our successors will take our team of writers to even greater 
heights. 
ANDREW HA: CO-NEWS EDITOR
My /f_irst year at UC San Diego was a diﬃcult one for 
me; there were many phone calls with my family and 
many trips home. I felt intimidated by all the big lecture 
halls and new material, but most of all, I felt alone. It 
took me a really long time to really /f_ind my stride here, 
even a/f_ter having made friends with my suitemates and 
some of the other Atlantis Hall residents. It wasn’t until 
Spring Quarter 2019, when I joined /T_he UCSD Guardian 
on a friend’s recommendation, that I truly began to feel 
at home at UCSD. Looking back at lonely freshman me, I 
never imagined that /T_he Guardian would lead to my pros -
elytization to the BTS ARMY, nor that it would become 
such an integral part of my college experience.
In my time at /T_he Guardian, I’ve been introduced to 
many extraordinary people who have all helped me grow 
in more ways than I can name. Some people I’d known 
before things got shut down in March of 2020: a time in 
which the paper was a lifeline for me, keeping me from 
rotting away sullenly in a dark corner of my bedroom as 
the world crumbled outside. I didn’t meet many of the 
people I’ve grown to consider some of my best friends un -til this past year, when things began to settle down and we 
were able to meet in person again. I’ll always be thank -
ful for me and Troy’s newsroom shenanigans in between 
classes in the oﬃce, as well as the many late nights hang -
ing out with A&E talking about Minecra/f_t clutch-ups and 
the unbelievable diﬃculty of our crosswords.
My time at /T_he UCSD Guardian has made me a much 
better writer, but more importantly, it’s connected me 
to some of the most important people in my college life. 
/T_hanks to Hemmy Chun and Deyshna Pai for believing in 
me enough to pass down the mantle of A&E Editor to me; 
thanks to Jahfreen Alam, Daisy Scott, and Chloe Esser for 
bringing my scrawny little freshman self onto the A&E 
team all those years ago; thank you to my partner, Sarah 
Delima, whom I never would’ve met if it wasn’t for /T_he 
Guardian, for being my personal hypeman and listening 
to my many, many rants; and thank you to the amazing 
Arts & Entertainment section for motivating me to do my 
best. I will truly miss my time at A&E, but I leave it in the 
capable hands of Hector Arrieta, whom I know will only 
continue to build it up.ELIAS ROMAN: A&E EDITOR
When I started as the Features Editor in 2020, the world 
literally shut down a/f_ter my amazing editor Lara told me 
I got the position. COVID hit right a/f_ter I got the news, so 
my training was done through Zoom and few people were 
interested in writing a feature article. I took over with one 
writer, Justin Cho, who would alternate with me as we 
both wrote articles to keep the section going. It was really 
hard and I thought it was over for the Features sections. 
/T_he Features section means the world to me, it changed 
the way I look at the world and blossomed my writing to 
the state it is now. I saw my editor Lara welcome writers of 
all backgrounds and take their writing to a new level and 
bring a level of professionalism to the section. Her motto 
was: to produce magazine style content, treat it like a pro -
fessional magazine job. Attend meetings, plan out content 
in a timely manner, and hold people to a high standard for 
a high level of work. Lara’s vision for what features should 
be is what I tried my best to execute as editor. I wanted 
to make Features not be just the other section, but as re -
spected and appreciated as News and Opinion. 
I’m glad I stuck with features and believed in the sec -
tion because it is in a great place now. Oishee and Eunice are going to take the section forward together and I’m so 
excited for the direction they are headed in. Katherine, 
Justin, Miriya, Vivian, and Amanda, it was an honor to 
edit your work and watch you guys develop. I hope I was 
able to play some sort of role in your development. /T_hank 
you to Zara and Jahfreen and Daisy, you guys were so awe -
some as Editor in Chief. Your leadership made my job so 
much easier. Hemmy and Jack were so awesome to work 
with. Sophia and the copy team, you will always be legends 
for your polishing of some of my rough dra/f_ts. /T_hank you 
Lara for believing in me when I didn’t believe in myself 
and pushing me to be the best editor and writer I can be. 
Finally, thank you to Alondra, my partner in crime. 
Without you, I wouldn’t be writing, editing, or even going 
to UC San Diego. You pushed me to keep writing and keep 
editing even when things looked grim. I love you. 
I love writing. It’s the most powerful form of expres -
sion and communication. Whether for /T_he UCSD Guard -
ian, a paper for school, or your personal journal, keep 
writing. Write for those you love, those you care about, 
and those who need you. /T_he world needs writers, without 
them, the alphabet is pointless. NELSON ESPINAL: FEATURES EDITOR
I kind of cheated — I basically wrote my own thou -
sand-word sendoﬀ in the sports section. Check that out. 
But I wanted to use this space here to express my grati -
tude for the opportunity to work alongside all the great 
people here at /T_he UCSD Guardian. I especially want to 
thank the people I shared the sports section with for the 
past three years — Jack, Wesley, Hayden, Donny, Emer, 
Miguel, Luke, it’s been a pleasure to write about sports 
with y’all. It’s never really felt like work. /T_hanks also to the 
editors who read our articles and made a physical newspa -
per out of them, and apologies to the copy section. I’ve put 
them through hell.
For anyone our age, the last three years have been de -
/f_ined by what we missed out on. It took me until halfway through my fourth year at UCSD to /f_inally feel like I was 
Going To College™, and physically meeting folks from the 
Guardian has been a big part of that. But it’s hard to meet 
people you might never see again when all you can think 
is “I should have met you two years ago.” I should have 
gone to 60 productions instead of 10. I should have been 
sitting in the same place on the couch in this oﬃce for 
two years. I’m not going anywhere physically — heck, I’m 
moving closer to campus for grad school — but I’m going 
to miss all the people I met here who care about this cam -
pus, about writing, and about each other.
Oh, and by the way, dear reader: did you know that T.S. 
Eliot basically wrote “Cats?” Look it up.PRAVEEN NAIR: SPORTS EDITOR
THANK YOU TO OUR SENIORS!
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
It was Winter Quarter of my freshman year when I 
decided to take the treacherous hike from Latin America 
Hall to the Old Student Center for /T_he UCSD Guardian’s 
recruitment. I still had the curious spark that every /f_irst-
year had and although I had never engaged in an estab -
lished newspaper before, I was still determined to explore 
my newfound passion. Slightly overwhelmed by the dif -
ferent sections and what they had to oﬀer, I found myself 
gravitating towards Lifestyle. From San Diego trip guides 
to restaurant reviews, I was intrigued by the possibilities 
this section would oﬀer me. Still hesitant to join extracur -
riculars in college, I refrained from applying that quarter.
Fast forward a couple of weeks and my /f_irst year of col -
lege was cut short — the sleepless nights, 30-minute walks 
to my 8 a.m. lecture, and never-ending visits to Ocean -
View Terrace’s salad bar, were all gone within a /f_lash. I 
was suddenly back in my childhood home, unsure of what I wanted to do throughout my college career. /T_he thought 
of joining /T_heGuardian continued to linger in the back 
of my head, so I grabbed my laptop, applied, and a couple 
days later scored an interview. And the rest was history!
Although I had an unconventional experience during 
my time with /T_he Guardian, it gave me a space to grow 
in my journalistic skills and also expanded my meaning 
of “lifestyle” as a whole. I was given a platform that al -
lowed me to step out of my comfort zone, exploring the 
people, events, and way of life that exists within San Di -
ego. My passion for journalism grew tenfold the more I 
experimented with my writing and I hope to continue this 
passion in the future. I will forever be grateful for the op -
portunity /T_he Guardian has given me and I look forward 
to seeing how Lifestyle grows in the next few years. Con -
gratulations class of 2022! PRISCILLA ANNE PUNO: LIFESTYLE CO-EDITOR
Sometime back in Winter 2020 I decided that I seriously want -
ed to join /T_he UCSD Guardian a/f_ter realizing how much I missed 
working for a college newspaper. I had been a staﬀ writer — and 
eventually the Opinions editor — at San Diego Mesa College, and 
it had been a wonderful experience that I still look back on fondly. 
I /f_igured working for a UCSD newspaper wouldn’t be all that dif -
ferent, and I wasn’t wrong.
Save for the pandemic seriously marring my college experi -
ence, I can safely say that I enjoyed working for /T_he Guardian 
immensely. I made some friends and managed to learn a lot about 
InDesign. While I’ve since decided that neither journalism nor 
design will be in my post employment career — at the present moment — I can say I still managed to acquire an invaluable ex -
perience. I learned how to manage a design team and delegate 
tasks. And I also realized the invaluable experience  of having su -
pervisors — Zara and Hemmy, in this case — that genuinely care 
about the work they put in and advocating on my behalf with the 
school. I didn’t interact enough with Daisy to say anything about 
working with her, but both Praveen and Jack had their hands full 
in helping me do my job during the worst of the pandemic. I wish 
I had been able to enjoy working with them more. /T_he only thing 
I really have to complain about is the school. I can de/f_initely say 
that working for the school has not been very fun. 
/T_hanks y’all. Congrats to the class of 2022! SAIDA HASSAN: DESIGN EDITOR
When I joined /T_he UCSD Guardian in my sophomore year 
of college, I thought that it’d be a simple and easy extracurric -
ular activity that would also satisfy my penchant for correct -
ing others’ grammar mistakes. Little did I know, this potential 
résumé-builder would go on to be one of the highlights of my 
college career. 
I quickly found solace in the routine of it all — the brisk 
morning walks to the oﬃce, the lively Sunday production meet -
ings, the skimming of each article, the consultation of the most 
sacred Guardian Style Guide (praise be the CTRL+F function). 
While copy work wasn’t an eﬀortless task, I appreciated being 
able to default to a set of rules and applying them to others’ 
works. It added some much-needed calmness amidst my days 
of juggling school, work and social obligations. However, the 
people at /T_he Guardian have been the constant throughout the uncertainty of college, especially during lockdown. 
To my stalwart team of copy editors, thank you for all of 
your dedication into making this paper into the polished pro -
duction that it is. /T_here aren’t enough pastries from 85°C Bak -
ery Cafe that I could bestow upon you to show my appreciation 
for you all. I leave the future of /T_he Guardian’s formatting in 
your capable hands. 
And to my fellow editorial board, thank you for respond -
ing to my frantic Slack DM’s and giving me a reason to look 
forward to Zoom meetings. It’s been an honor to work with the 
best staﬀ around.
 /T_he “Suggesting” feature in Google Docs is now forever 
changed for me, and I am grateful. Best of luck to all my fellow 
seniors!SOPHIA NGUYEN: CHIEF COPY EDITOR
Upon my friend Jacob’s recommendation, I absent -
mindedly applied to join /T_he UCSD Guardian during my 
freshman year. I did not have any prior experience in jour -
nalism, but I did know that I really wanted to build my 
writing skills and meet people with similar interests.
Fast forward to a few weeks later, it is a gloomy a/f_ter -
noon and I am trudging in the rain from my Roosevelt 
College dorm to /T_he Guardian oﬃce to interview for a 
news writing position. Because of the pouring rain and 
even poorer timing, I arrive 15 minutes late to my in -
terview with the News Editor, Tyler. By now, while Tyler 
has 100% forgotten about it, I will never because… yikes. 
Although I still o/f_ten cringe at the /f_irst impression that I 
probably le/f_t during that /f_irst interview, what I am more 
proud of is the impact that four wonderful years with /T_he 
Guardian has le/f_t me. 
For two years, I have had the distinct pleasure of be -
ing the co-News Editor. Putting together a weekly publi -
cation is incredibly diﬃcult — information on issues can 
be sparse and sources cancel or don’t reply to our emails. 
Hell, a writer once lost their laptop! Nevertheless, our 
writers have persisted through my torturous edits and have grown tremendously. I regret not getting to know 
some of you more this year but I sincerely hope you all 
know you will always have someone in your corner.
My favorite piece of writing with the organization 
will 100% be my Disreguardian piece on BTS coming to 
the 2022 Sun God festival. /T_he Instagram comments on 
that article really solidi/f_ied my place as the least popular 
ARMY on campus. May we someday get to see BTS per -
form at Geisel Library.
/T_he people in /T_he Guardian are now some of my closest 
friends and I wanted to take a quick moment to recognize 
a few of them. To my best friend and co-editor Andrew, 
thank you for always supporting me and feeding me weird 
vegan food. To Elias, I admire you because of how cool of 
a person you are and I appreciate it when you recommend 
music or shows. Hemmy and Zara, you are true models of 
what good leadership ought to look like.
/T_he future of /T_he Guardian looks incredibly bright, 
with people such as Jocelyn, Raymond, Nilou, Kaitlin, and 
others at the wheel. As for myself, I am excited to live my 
best life living as a gremlin in /T_he Guardian oﬃce in the 
next year. Please don’t lock me out; xoxo.TROY TUQUERO: CO-NEWS EDITOR
THANK YOU TO OUR SENIORS!
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  PHOTO
Photo 
EssayOn May 21st, 2022 Marshall College was graced 
with the 11th Annual Powwow, an event brought 
to our campus thanks to the collaborative efforts 
of Indegenous Staff, Community members, and 
Students here at UCSD. Powwows are sacred 
and integral to maintaining and sharing cultural 
traditions among first nation people. They are 
an expression of cultural sovereignty, something 
long fought for by First Nation folks. These photos 
serve as a gentle reminder to the non-native UCSD 
community that we are guests on this land and 
Indiegneous people and culture lives on, vibrantly. 
UCSD was built on the unceded territory of the 
Kumeyaay Nation. Today, we celebrate projects like the Native American Opportunity plan that 
serve as the right steps forward towards reparations 
for California’s First Nation students. The plan 
aims to offer free tuition and fees to students who 
are members of federally recognized tribes and 
California residents. We look eagerly to our leaders 
to create more policy and opportunities that can 
help restore right relationship between the land 
that our university occupies, its original stewards, 
and the diverse San Diego community today. A 
more safe and abundant future is contingent on our 
mutual respect and affinity for one another. The 
UC San Diego is a gift to our campus and was an 
honor to capture on behalf of the Guardian. Photos courtesy of Alycia Raya.LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDA Y , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
By Summer Noel 
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
With just two weeks left 
in the quarter, summer is 
practically just around the 
corner! If you’re anything like 
me, you probably can’t wait to 
have a little extra time to binge 
watch shows and movies but — 
as people are always telling me 
— it’s also good to get out of the 
house. Whether you’re new to 
San Diego or lived here all your 
life, you’re probably wondering 
what there is to do besides go to 
the beach, but there’s actually 
quite a lot. From thrifting to 
museums to hiking, San Diego 
has a lot to offer, but one of my 
favorite things to do is to visit 
the farmers’ markets.
Little Italy Mercato 
Farmers’ Market
My top favorite farmers’ 
market, the Little Italy Mercato 
Farmers’ Market, not only has 
rows and rows of tents lining 
the streets, but it’s also easily 
accessible when using the new 
blue line trolley. From 9:30 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m. on Wednesdays and 
8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Saturdays, 
this market is perfect for an 
early morning breakfast at one 
of the many cute restaurants 
located in the Little Italy area. 
You could even get lunch or just 
buy something from one of the 
many vendors in the market, 
but if you decide to drive down 
there, I recommend going early 
because, like many of the other 
farmers markets, it gets busy 
fast. 
As I already mentioned, 
this farmers market is packed 
with vendors and there’s a 
wide variety of unique jewelry, freshly cut flowers, clothes, 
fresh produce, and other 
healthy snacks. So if you’re 
looking for some fresh fruits 
and vegetables or even some 
delicious baked goods, this is 
the perfect farmers market to 
visit. Even after visiting a few 
others, this one continues to be 
my favorite because it has just a 
little bit of everything and it’s 
all so good. It’s also nice to be 
able to walk down the street and 
see the sun sparkling against 
the ocean in the distance. 
Hillcrest Farmers Market
As my second favorite 
farmers market, the Hillcrest 
Farmers Market is also pretty 
large and has a wide variety of 
vendors. Open only on Sundays 
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., this 
market was packed as soon as 
we arrived. We drove all around 
Hillcrest looking for parking. 
Once again, I would definitely 
recommend going early if you 
decide to drive to this one — 
and by early, I mean like right 
when it opens because we got 
there only a little over an hour 
after opening and almost didn’t 
find parking. But there was also 
a bus stop not too far from the 
farmers’ market.
This one is also perfect 
for fresh produce and other 
goodies. But I would have to 
say it might have an even wider 
variety of flowers compared 
to the Little Italy farmers’ 
market, and it’s practically 
a must to buy a bouquet of 
flowers to walk around with. 
I also stumbled upon a little 
jewelry vendor that enticed me 
to buy one of their handmade 
beaded chokers. Similar to the 
Little Italy farmers’ market, this 
market has a lot to offer, but it just wasn’t quite as big. Still, 
the Hillcrest farmers’ market is 
nearly equal to the one in Little 
Italy, but the biggest difference 
is the atmosphere. While I’m 
sure there may also be cute 
restaurants nearby this market 
as well, the Little Italy market is 
just a bit more convenient with 
the cute cafes and restaurants 
surrounding it. 
La Jolla Open Aire Farmers 
Market
Even though I enjoyed the 
other markets a little bit more, 
the La Jolla Open Aire Market 
has a lot to offer, just not quite 
as much variety. Located just 10 
minutes from UC San Diego at 
the La Jolla Elementary school, 
this market is open from 9 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. only on Sundays. I 
was able to get to this one an 
hour after it opened and even 
though we were able to find parking, it was already starting 
to get crowded. When it comes 
to farmers’ markets, you have to 
get up early if you plan to drive. 
Most farmers markets tend 
to have produce vendors, baked 
goods, flowers, clothes, and 
jewelry, and even though this 
market had all of that, there just 
wasn’t quite as much to choose 
from compared to the other 
two. It seemed to be dominated 
more by baked goods and other 
food vendors. As soon as you 
walk in, you’re greeted by the 
smell of butter melting on the 
grill as they prepare it for the 
grilled cheese followed by a sign 
for breakfast burritos that’ll 
make your stomach grumble 
even though you already ate. So 
if you’re looking for a farmers’ 
market that has more food 
vendors than anything else, 
making it easy to grab a snack 
Farmers Market Fun
as you shop around, this is the 
perfect place. Even though this 
market is definitely smaller 
compared to the Little Italy one, 
it still has everything you could 
ask for and you don’t even have 
to walk too much.
Whichever farmers’ market 
you choose, you’ll definitely 
enjoy it. The people are always 
nice, and no matter how many 
different farmers’ markets I go 
to, there are always tons of dogs 
that distract me from actually 
shopping. So if you have some 
extra time on your hands this 
summer or just need a break in 
between studying for finals, I 
recommend checking out one 
of these farmers’ markets. Or 
maybe even all of them!
Image courtesy of Somi Jaiswal on Unsplash.
My Sophomore Year: A Chronicle of  Growth and Learning
By Emily Ito
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
The end of the school year 
is a time that is almost always 
accompanied by complex 
emotions, unexpected changes, 
and lots of self-reflection. It is 
a period in which we are forced 
to look back at the events and 
experiences that defined this 
past year and consider how far 
we’ve come and how far we still 
have to go. It’s an opportunity for bittersweet nostalgia but 
also biting regret. It’s the time 
when we contemplate our 
feelings about the things in our 
lives and we reexamine their 
places in our future. 
Change can be painful, 
creeping up on you without 
warning. While initially there 
is panic as you try to pick up 
the pieces from the cataclysmic 
destruction that is change, you 
realize there is peace that can 
be found in the beauty hidden 
beneath perceived disaster. I have seen the rubble turn 
into rubies and death turn 
into rebirth. I have begun to 
understand that while change 
is a terrifying thing, one 
that is heart wrenching and 
devastating, it is also inevitable 
and necessary. It is what will 
lead you down the path of 
discovering who you are and 
what you want. 
Over the course of this year, 
I’ve experienced unexpected 
changes that I could not 
have foreseen. I have felt the 
profound impacts of loss, the 
painful feelings of rejection, 
and the devastating pangs of 
disappointment. But with all 
of these experiences, I have 
come to understand more about 
myself and the life I want to 
lead. As I look back on each 
quarter, I reflect on the events 
I experienced and the things I 
learned. 
Fall Quarter was one which 
I look back at with a fondness 
and appreciation that will 
never go away. Moving back 
to campus felt frightening and 
foreign, having to live with 
people I didn’t know and enter 
an environment that I was 
unfamiliar with. I worried 
about discovering my place and 
finding new friends. But despite 
those initial fears, I found solace 
and safety in the four girls I 
lived with. Together we built 
a home away from home. The 
fun we had, the memories we 
made, and the relationships we 
built were ones I knew I would 
carry with me for the rest of my 
life.  That quarter I learned that 
some people come into your life when you need them most, and 
that these people could help 
shape you into the person you 
were meant to be. It was the 
best way to start the new year. 
Everything felt right. Times 
were simple and things were 
good. 
During Winter Quarter, 
my best friend and one of my 
roommates decided to take a 
leave of absence from school. 
For selfish reasons, I wanted 
nothing more than for her to 
stay. I was devastated by her 
decision but also understanding 
of her reasoning. I watched her, 
one of the people I admire most 
in this world, take a risk I had 
never even considered. I saw 
a girl who always put others 
first, finally put herself first. 
The courage she had to pave 
her own path was something 
that had inspired me in such 
a profound way. As I have 
watched her grow and flourish 
during her time since then, I 
have never felt more proud. Her 
departure taught me so much 
about bravery, maturity, and 
hope. It taught me that change 
is not something to fear, but to 
embrace. 
This quarter was one filled 
with among the most difficult 
changes. It was during this 
time that I not only learned 
but practiced what it means 
to accept change and to put 
yourself first. It was crushing 
and difficult, but it made me 
realize how change doesn’t 
have to be bad. Change is a 
part of growing up and finding 
yourself. It’s painful and 
unbearable at the time, a reality 
that makes you want nothing 
more than to go back to how 
it was before. But I’ve come to 
discover a new perspective, one 
that looks at changes with hope 
and promise rather than shame 
and regret. 
While there were a number 
of lessons I took away from 
this year, the key realization 
I came to was reaching the 
understanding that you can’t 
stay stagnant in what is safe 
and good, sometimes it is the 
leap of faith or the acceptance 
of something new that is the 
path you are meant to take. To 
look at change through a new 
lens is to embrace your growth 
and harness your strength. I feel 
such gratitude for all the ups 
and downs that this year has 
brought and for the beautiful 
roommates that helped define 
my sophomore year and have 
impacted me in a way I would 
never have expected. 
Image courtesy of Markus Spiske on Unsplash.12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDA Y , MAY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     IRA National ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Rowing TBA 6/3-6/5
By Praveen nair 
/gid00020/gid00043/gid00042/gid00045/gid00047/gid00046/gid00001/gid00006/gid00031/gid00036/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045
To end his final article 
recapping the 1968–69 sports 
season at UCSD, the first full 
year of publication for the 
fledgling Triton Times that 
is today the UCSD Guardian, 
sports editor Bob Gorby wrote, 
“Sportswriting for the Triton 
Times has been a harrowing 
experience. When I have had 
what I considered an important 
sports story, I would find that 
there was no room for it. Then 
when my protests earned me 
plenty of room in the paper, the 
Triton sports world would hit a 
dead week and I would not have 
enough articles.”
As the editor of a college 
newspaper sports section 
during most of a pandemic 
in which all collegiate sports 
ground to a halt, and in which 
my section went from having 
five writers down to two and 
back up to five, I’m not sure I’ve 
related more to anything I’ve 
read in a newspaper.
Gorby wrote those words 
during a time of great transition 
in UCSD sports. Most on 
campus wanted to avoid big-
time athletics and focus on 
school, as was the vision of 
founder Roger Revelle. But 
demand for athletics on campus 
was growing, and 1968–69 
saw the sole, ill-fated winless 
season of the UCSD football 
team, which most notably gave 
Caltech its first win in four 
years.
Things are both similar and 
entirely different today, as UCSD 
has undergone the transition 
to Division I, beginning in 
2020 and still underway. (In 
this article’s sole piece of actual 
sports news, the Big West 
submitted a waiver to the NCAA 
this week requesting that the On Covering Sports at UC San Diego
Tritons be allowed to compete 
in NCAA championships next 
year instead of the typical four-
year reclassification stay on 
postseason competition.)
We no longer play schools 
like Sonoma State, CSU 
Monterey Bay, and Cal Poly 
Pomona, having moved up to 
now associate with the rest of 
the Socal UC campuses and 
(in an exciting but logistically 
nightmarish twist) the 
University of Hawaii. It seems 
that big-time athletics may 
indeed have arrived in La Jolla, 
but it certainly has not taken 
over the academic and research 
reputation of the school like 
some feared 50 years ago. Far 
from it.
Covering this transition has 
been the focus of the sports 
section ever since I began 
writing for it in April 2019, 
and the move to Division I was 
one of the most anticipated 
moments in campus history. 
This transition, like so much 
else, was entirely derailed by 
the COVID-19 pandemic. (The 
men’s basketball team had a 
particularly bitter end to the 
2020 season, as they racked 
up a historically great 30–1 
record and earned a top seed 
in their final Division II NCAA 
Tournament, only to have the 
entire tournament canceled 
the day before their opening 
match.)
I have often pitched as the 
appeal of the sports section 
that we don’t really need to 
come up with article ideas if we 
don’t want to — tons of Triton 
games happen every week, and 
we pick a couple to cover. This 
made for a pretty rough time 
over the pandemic when those 
sports stopped entirely, but for 
me, it offered a chance to think 
and write about the sociology 
and culture of sports in ways I 
never had before, whether it was what injuries say about fans’ 
relationships with athletes, the 
aftermath of the Jacob Blake 
sports strike, sportswashing, or 
a number of other topics. (I also 
got to make a pun about a Robert 
Burns poem in an article about 
the 2020 World Series. Being 
your own editor has its perks.) 
As someone who is generally 
pretty averse to looking at my 
past work, I’m surprised to find 
myself quite proud of nearly all 
those articles.
As far as I can tell, I’m 
the Guardian’s active leader 
in articles written by some 
distance — this one will be 
my 75th listed on the website. 
I’m not sure how many people 
have read any of them. But I’ve 
also learned that if I write for 
the sports section of a college 
newspaper in a notoriously 
sports-averse campus, which 
can sometimes feel like yelling 
my hot takes into a jar and 
throwing them off Scripps Pier, 
then my validation for what 
I write needs to come from 
within.
But I’m probably making this too much about me. If this 
section is meant for anything, 
it is to celebrate the athletes 
and coaches at UC San Diego, 
and I hope we’ve done a 
good job at that. This isn’t a 
campus where great players are 
household names (usually, the 
way I recognize athletes is by 
seeing their jersey numbers and 
sports on their school-issued 
backpacks), but I’ve constantly 
been astounded by the time and 
effort our athletes put in to not 
just compete at a Division I level, 
but also get a top university 
education — unlike some other 
schools, athletes sure aren’t 
getting an easy ride at UCSD.
I don’t know whether 
athletics should be a bigger part 
of life here, and I’m certainly 
biased. But I do hope that one 
day, when we do something like 
knock off an undefeated No. 1 
Hawaii volleyball team or defeat 
UCB in basketball, more people 
around campus are aware and 
excited about it.
Alas, dear reader, I have 
little more space to spare. It 
boggles the mind that I have been allowed this space, with 
color images, on the back of 
a real newspaper for so long. 
I’m a data science major, and I 
will probably do math and write 
code for a living for the rest 
of my life. Having this space 
to write and be creative has 
meant the world to me. I’m 
still going to be a UCSD grad 
student for the next two years, 
so you might see my byline on 
this page again. But only when 
I really feel like it.
In 1969, Bob Gorby ended 
his article with the following, 
and I will not pretend to have 
anything better to say: “Under 
the friendly, capable hands 
of the people in the UCSD 
Athletic Department I am sure 
the Triton athletics will always 
be a worthwhile experience and 
that the program will never far 
wrong.” If you’re the editor of 
the Guardian sports section 53 
years from now — the only 
person who will probably relate 
to any of this — I hope those 
words still ring true for you. 
I also hope the Padres have 
finally won that World Series.
Image courtesy of Steven Calista from UCSD Athletics. 
The Las Vegas Aces have 
been historically successful in 
their first few seasons as an NBA 
franchise under the tutelage of 
future WNBA Hall of Famer 
Bill Laimbeer. Franchise player 
A’ja Wilson is an impressive 
young star and the team has 
had enough of a collection of 
veterans to be competitive year 
in and year out. The franchise 
is entering a new era this season 
with Laimbeer retiring, and 
young members of the team 
will have to enter a bigger role.
Incoming head coach Becky 
Hammon has brought the Aces 
to an outstanding 8–1 record 
so far this season. One of the 
biggest stories of the season 
for the team so far has been 
the play of young guard Jackie 
Young. Young is a former 
number one overall pick in the 
2019 WNBA Draft out of Notre 
Dame. She was not necessarily 
considered a generational 
player out of college like young 
stars Sabrina Ionescu or her 
teammate A’ja Wilson, having 
been mostly serviceable in her 
career coming into this season, 
but she has surprisingly become 
a completely different player 
this year.
Young has taken on a 
starring role for the Aces nine 
games into the season and has truly elevated herself into 
the MVP conversation. In 
a league with twelve teams, 
superstar ascensions are a little 
more common, as Jonquel 
Jones last year won MVP for 
the Connecticut Sun with 
elite defense and a balanced 
offensive game that propelled 
the team to regular season 
success. This type of precedent 
makes it a little less surprising 
that a young player with so 
much potential in Jackie Young 
could have experienced such an 
astronomical leap early on this 
season. 
Young’s current average of 
19.3 points per game to go along 
with four rebounds, four assists, 
and two steals puts her among 
the statistical elite of basketball. 
She averaged a very serviceable 
12 points per game last year, 
but it seemed as though she 
was reaching her peak after 
losing efficiency and being 
overshadowed by other players 
on the team. That is where new 
coach Becky Hammon comes 
in.
Coach Hammon is widely 
regarded as one of the best 
basketball minds in the game. 
A WNBA Hall of Famer as a 
player, she was long rumored to 
be Gregg Popovich’s successor 
for the San Antonio Spurs, 
where she would have held 
the mantle of the first ever 
female head coach of a men’s 
basketball team. However, she took a different historic step 
this season by electing to step 
into the large shadow of coach 
Laimbeer and lead the Aces to 
prominence in the WNBA. 
As a longtime star guard 
in the league, Hammon is 
obviously a prime candidate 
to shepherd Jackie Young and 
fellow star Kelsey Plum to fully 
realize their large potential in 
the league, and it’s safe to say 
that has been done so far this 
season. To go along with Young’s 
outstanding season, Plum leads 
the league in three-pointers per 
game and is in the top five of 
assists per game. As a team, the 
Aces average a blistering 92.1 
points per game and Hammon 
has her fingerprints all over 
the transition to a modern fast-
paced offense. 
The Aces’ dominance has 
gone largely unchallenged this 
season, with only two of their 
wins being by a margin of less 
than ten points and having 
tallied only one loss. That 
one loss was to a Washington 
Mystics team with the return of 
the incomparable Elena Della 
Donne, who herself has returned 
to the MVP conversation 
after a few injury-riddled 
seasons. Hammon has used the 
aforementioned stars Young, 
Plum, and Wilson to dominate 
opponents offensively, but the 
importance of the other starters 
cannot be overstated. Veterans 
Dearica Hamby and Chelsea Gray both have been great on 
the defensive end, with Gray 
providing necessary shooting 
and Hamby giving the team an 
imposing interior presence on 
both sides of the court. 
In Hammon’s first tenure as 
a coach in the WNBA, she has 
presided over a well-constructed 
team that has provided great 
results. However, in such a 
small league with few teams 
the scouting report gets out 
quickly, and the Aces’ emphasis 
on shooting and getting their 
shooters and facilitators out 
in space could very well meet 
its match soon. Hammon’s 
challenge throughout this 
season will be to continue 
to find creative ways to find 
offense when defenses get 
tighter on these shooters. Look for A’ja Wilson to get 
a bigger role as the season goes 
on, as she is one of the league’s 
most talented one-on-one 
players who will surely benefit 
from more single coverage as 
defenders shift their focus to 
Jackie Young. The Aces have 
the unique benefit of multiple 
players who are top-level talents, 
and Hammon will surely be 
able to find the correct mix 
of scoring to keep the team’s 
momentum going. 
The question is, will it be 
enough for the Las Vegas Aces 
to win their first ever WNBA 
championship? Be sure to keep 
up with this exciting young 
team to find out how Young 
and company fare for the rest of 
the season. Impressive Early Season Returns for Becky Hammon’s Aces
By Donovan Perez-Schipper 
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00041/gid00036/gid00045/gid00042/gid00001/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Image courtesy of Lorie Shaull. 