REDEFINING
“QUEER”
Once holding a negative 
connotation, the word 
“queer” proposes a new, 
transformative identification 
for the LGBTQ+ community. 
Read more at Opinion’s 
Article this week!
AAPI HERITAGE MONTH
A24’S NEW FILMA&E’s Picks for AAPI Heritage Month
How Everything Everywhere All At Once 
Changed My Life A & E,  Page   6
lifestyle,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“I couldn’t do any work or 
anything, all I could do was 
care for my son and heal. 
All of that put work on the 
very furthest back burner... 
My work is way less 
important … It becomes 
less ego-driven, less about 
getting your self-worth from 
this job, more like, ‘oh, this 
is something I do to occupy 
my brain while I’m on this 
planet. ”
- CAROLYN KURLE
FEATURES, PAGE 5OPINION,   PAGE  4
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF RAPHEALR IMAGE COURTESY OF RAPHEALR 
ENTER ON UNSPLASH.ENTER ON UNSPLASH.
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
PLAYGROUNDS............5
VIDEO STORE............ ...7
SUN GOD......................9
PHOTO ESSAY ............11
BASEBALL...................12VOLUME 55, ISSUE 28  MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Students Hold Protests Against Leaked 
Anti-Abortion SCOTUS OpinionPROTEST
Hundreds of UC San Diego students and fac -
ulty gathered on Friday, May 6 and Tuesday, 
May 10, in front of Geisel Library in objec -
tion to the leaked draft of the Supreme Court opin -
ion overturning the landmark abortion case of Roe 
v. Wade. Protesters closed down the intersection on 
La Village Drive on Tuesday, after marching through 
Price Center and Target in a bid to bring attention to 
the importance of abortion and privacy rights.
The protests hosted a variety of speakers includ -
ing ethnic studies lecturer Dr. Karen Shelby, repre -
sentatives from Borderlands for Equity and Planned 
Parenthood, as well as undergrad and medical school 
students. While the focus of the speakers pertained 
to the dangers and implications of anti-abortion laws 
for women, various speakers condemned UCSD and 
UC Regents administrators for lacking to comment 
on the issue. Demonstrators also heard touching tes -
timonies by women who have or have considered un -
dergoing abortion procedures. 
Earl Warren College junior Damar Valentin, 
touched on the duality of laws regulating women’s 
bodies as opposed to male’s bodies. 
“There is a war being waged against women,” 
Valentin said. “The supreme court has ultimately 
decided that women should not be granted the same 
freedoms and liberties that men are. And that women 
should not have the right to be equal to men. They 
have decided that the question of abortion should be 
returned to the states to let them decide. A decision 
that is atrocious for the same reason that we do not 
allow states to decide whether or not slavery should 
continue to exist as we did for many years in this 
country.”
Earl Warren freshman Elizabeth Lopez, who is 
six months pregnant with a high-risk pregnancy, 
gave her testimony about considering abortion due to 
health and financial risks. Lopez discovered she was 
pregnant days before her husband was to be deployed 
by the navy. 
“I gave myself a week to make my decision [to 
abort],” Lopez said. “The decision of being alone with 
the psychological toll of going through an abortion 
alone. Or being alone with my husband’s deployment 
with a high-risk pregnancy. I cried. I cried and I hat -
ed myself for every decision I had made. I returned 
and I ultimately chose this pregnancy. I CHOSE.”
She continued on to state that without her hus -
band and her family’s support, she likely would have 
to terminate her pregnancy. 
“The sad reality is I was simply lucky enough to 
have the support of my husband and my family for whatever decision I chose. And I am grateful. But not 
every woman sadly has this opportunity. It was my 
choice to have my kid,” Lopez said.
Politicians and legal experts have expressed con -
cern over the potential end of Roe, which could set a 
precedent for other constitutional rights to be stripped. 
Seventh College sophomore Kida Bradley, who spoke 
at both protests, pointed to the precarious standing of 
the Fourteenth Amendment following the opinion.
“The people sitting there and getting rid of Roe 
v. Wade will sit there and dismantle the Fourteenth 
Amendment,” Bradley said. “The Fourteenth Amend -
ment is what allowed me, an African-American to be 
a citizen and it allowed gay marriage and it allowed 
all kinds of marriages. These kinds of things are im -
portant. They are what made our lives matter. These 
are the moments that define who we are and what we 
wanna do with ourselves.” 
The draft opinion, authored by Justice Samuel 
Alito asserts that, “ It is time to heed the Constitution 
and return the issue of abortion to the people’s elected 
representatives.” However, many across the country 
are worried that the overturning of the case will cast 
doubt on the use of contraceptives as well as other 
rights granted by the Fourteenth Amendment, which 
Roe largely relied upon. 
Bradley also touched on the importance of provid -
ing financial support to women in an effort to lower 
abortion rates. While the protests were not met with 
any opposition, Bradley encouraged pro-life support -
ers to focus their anti-abortion efforts on lowering 
abortion rates instead, by advocating for reform of 
the foster care system, pushing law-makers to write 
maternity leave laws, improving sexual education cur -
riculums accross the nation, as well as advocating for 
better maternal healthcare which tends to dispropor -
tionately affect women of color. 
According to the National Library of Medicine, 
Black women are two to six times more likely to die 
from pregnancy complications than white women, 
with many of the deaths thought to be preventable. 
World renowned tennis-player, Serena Williams re -
cently highlighted this issue as she almost joined the 
statistic herself. Williams escaped a near-death expe -
rience after child-birth, due to medical staff neglecting 
her needs. 
Many of the speakers as well as new ones returned 
on Tuesday for a second round of the protest, which 
had a larger turnout and concluded with a march en -
circling much of campus.
ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
By Niloufar Shahbandi  NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANTA.S. Council Brief:
Constitutional Reform, 
Environmental advocacy 
and Strengthening 
Faculty-Student 
Communication
By ABBY LEE 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Week 6
At the A.S. Council’s Week 6 
meeting on May 4, senators dis -
cussed A.S. constitution reform, 
upcoming speaker events, and en -
vironmental advocacy initiatives. 
Associate Vice President of 
Campus Affairs (VPCA) Isaac 
Lara began presenting an outline 
of Constitutional Overhaul. This 
follows from Lara’s presentation 
last quarter, when he first intro -
duced proposed changes to the 
A.S. Constitution. Since then, a 
number of these constitutional 
changes have been implemented. 
Major changes include the es -
tablishment of a New Executive 
Officer Structure, which splits 
Lara’s current role as VPCA into 
three separate roles, the establish -
ment of standardized hiring pro -
tocol, and the elimination of the 
quantitative two project require -
ment for A.S. senators.
Following these constitutional 
changes, Lara will shift his fo -
cus to revising the constitution’s 
standing rules and by-laws. Un -
like the constitution, which can -
not be suspended and provides 
a basic skeleton of the senate’s 
structure, standing rules and by-
laws can be suspended if needed 
and are much more detailed in 
their descriptions of A.S. policies 
and procedures.
Next, the A.S. moved to dis -
cuss updates on senator proj -
ects, as well as to provide senator 
reports. Arts and Humanities 
Academic Senator Rhianen Cal -
lahan spoke about their interest 
in implementing initiatives that 
facilitate conversations between 
faculty members and students 
on student experiences. They ex -
plained that such dialogue would 
allow faculty members and stu -
dents to jointly advocate against 
university-wide policies that are 
less accepting of student expe -
riences, as well as advocate for 
improved accommodations for 
students.
Callahan also promoted their 
upcoming May 9 event, Global 
Freedom Struggles in Kashmir 
and Palestine. The event has in -
vited speakers to discuss academ -
ic privilege and rights in research. 
Callahan has been a staunch 
advocate for transparency in re -
search, having highlighted a UC 
San Diego professor who has been 
accused of breaching research 
ethics in their thesis project on 
See PROTEST , page 2 See ASSOCIATED STUDENTS , page 2
Image courtesy of Mila Del La Torre for UCSD Guardian. XMay 27th | 4 - 8 PM
Marshall Fieldwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Sarah Almado
Advertising Director  
Gregory Shen
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  ▶ LABOR , from page 1
Sparky Mitra, an Earl War -
ren College sophomore, con -
demned UCSD and UC Regents 
for failing to issue a statement 
and take action against pro-life 
institutions.
“Today our job is to take ac -
tion, march with us to demand 
a statement from the chancel -
lor and the UC Regents,” Mi -
tra said. “Help us demand that 
the university divest from any 
medical providers who are pro-
life. What’s the point of working 
with providers who can’t give us 
medical care?”
Californians are granted the 
right to an abortion under state 
laws. Governor Gavin Newsom 
announced a new spending pro -
posal this week that will help 
pay for abortions for women 
unable to afford them. This is 
in preparation for a potential 
surge of women coming to Cali -
fornia from other states seeking 
reproductive care. If Roe is ter -
minated, there are 13 states that 
will ban abortion immediately.
Demonstrators also called 
on Congress to codify the right 
to abortion rather than relying 
on the court’s decision. Howev -
er, on Wednesday, May 11, the 
Senate failed to garner enough 
votes to pass The Women’s 
Health Protection Act which 
would have nullified six-week 
and 20-week abortion bans, 
in addition to other state-level 
provisions. The vote fell largely 
along party lines, with senator 
Joe Manchin of West Virginia 
being the only democrat to vote 
against the bill. 
Without the passing of the 
bill, the weight lies on the su -
preme court to decide if they 
will strike down Roe v. Wade, 
leaving abortion legislation up 
to the states. The leaked opin -
ion is not the final ruling of 
the court. Justices can and do 
change their votes and opinions 
up to the last days before the 
release of a ruling. The court 
generally unveils its decisions 
in mid-June. 
▶ ASSOCIATED STUDENTS , 
from page 1
Kashmiri clinics at previous A.S. 
meetings.
First-Year Senator Xavier Lo -
pez then provided updates on the 
Zero Waste Equitable Hygiene 
Project. Lopez plans to table on 
May 27 to educate and encourage 
students to use laundry detergent 
sheets in lieu of Tide Pods or oth -
er liquid detergents. Laundry de -
tergent sheets, Lopez explains, are 
more environmentally friendly as 
they result in less plastic waste 
and fewer carbon emissions.
A.S. continued to discuss the 
Constitutional Overhaul. Spe -
cifically, Lara invited senators to 
provide input on ways to enhance 
connection between A.S. and col -
lege councils, as well as discuss -
ing the number of senators each 
college council should have. Pre -
viously, Lara had proposed that 
the number of college council 
senators be reduced from two to 
one.
Week 7
At the A.S. Council’s Week 
7 meeting on May 11, senators 
continued to discuss constitu -tional reform. Additionally, they 
discussed the Global Freedom 
Struggles in Kashmir and Pales -
tine event held that Monday. 
Starting off the meeting, As -
sociate Vice President of Campus 
Affairs (VPCA) Isaac Lara con -
tinued his presentation on A.S. 
constitutional reform. Continu -
ing in the vein of his Week 7 pre -
sentation, Lara presented a final 
draft of the revised constitution, 
and invited A.S. members to pro -
vide their feedback. 
In addition to fleshing out 
specific details of the proposed 
changes from the week prior, 
Lara also introduced new amend -
ments in response to feedback 
from senators. One of the major 
amendments proposed this week 
was the reforming of A.S. terms 
to align with the UC San Diego 
fiscal calendar, as a means of fa -
cilitating processes with the cam -
pus. 
Transfer Senator Anna Zick 
reported that the training for 
transfer orientation leaders had 
been completed. Zick had also met 
with college council presidents to 
present Zick’s transfer committee 
charter, as well as invite college council transfer representatives 
to serve on the committee. All 
transfer representatives agreed to 
join the committee. 
Following that, Callahan up -
dated the council on the Global 
Freedom Struggles in Kashmir 
and Palestine event that had been 
held that Monday. The virtual 
panel had invited May Shigeno -
bu, a visiting scholar at the De -
partment of Media and Cultural 
Studies at UC Riverside; Huma 
Dar, an adjunct professor of Criti -
cal Studies at California College 
of the Arts; and Taher Herzallah, 
director of Outreach and Com -
munity Organizing of American 
Muslims for Palestine.
 A.S. Council meetings take 
place at 6 p.m. every Wednesday 
and are open to students. Students 
can participate in these meetings 
by joining their Zoom link or 
tuning in on Facebook Live. 
Read more @
ucsdguardian.org!
Image courtesy of Ava Bayley for UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
XMay 27th | 4 - 8 PM
Marshall FieldOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
Redefining the Word “Queer”
The word “queer” is 
complicated. According 
to Merill Perlman of the 
Columbia Journalism Review, 
“it first showed up in English 
about 1513” and it “has always 
meant something not normal, 
something peculiar, something 
odd.” This origin situates those 
labelled by it as alien from 
the norm, and in the late 19th 
century, the norms of the time 
led to it becoming a pejorative 
for those who felt same-
sex attraction. This term was 
reclaimed in the 1980s by groups 
like Queer Nation during the gay 
rights movement, spurred on by 
the AIDS epidemic, as a radical 
political statement to combat 
violence and has become an 
umbrella term for the LGBTQ+ 
community, representing those 
with non-normative gender 
and sexual identities. These 
normative biases are called 
cis-normative which is the 
normalization of being cisgender, 
and heteronormative which 
is the normalization of being 
heterosexual. However, some 
people are still uncomfortable 
with the popular, public usage 
of this word especially because 
it has its roots in a slur and 
was meant to “other” those who 
fall outside what was “normal.” 
There are many examples of 
words that are reclaimed by the 
communities most affected by 
them, but “queer” stands out in 
that it is often still used outside 
of the community affected by it 
and continues to describe that 
community by groups immune 
to its historical impact. Because of this word’s unusualness, I 
want to delve into who should be 
able to use “queer” and why the 
term has any use at all.
While the term is helpful, 
even despite its history, there 
are some aspects to its public 
usage that can rub people the 
wrong way. Like when in June, or 
Pride Month, many businesses 
take to what has been coined 
as “rainbow capitalism.” These 
companies release a line of 
something queer-adjacent often 
without any direct support to 
the community. Jackie Freund, 
a Sixth College freshman, feels 
that “this commercialization 
makes it feel less like a 
celebration of diverse sexual and 
gender identities and more like 
an opportunity to capitalize on 
those identities.” While that is 
only tangential to the issue of 
the term I’ve been discussing, it’s 
an important background into 
why some companies will use 
this term on their merchandise. 
Take for instance Target’s 
pride collection, which this 
year features a t-shirt that says 
“queer” and a pair of shorts that 
says “cheers queers,” or with any 
number of brands that have a 
pride collection with little to no 
attempts to promote queer causes. 
While many people understand 
this term has been reclaimed 
by the community, Freund feels 
that “the fact that the term and 
queerness in general is being 
capitalized off of at all makes 
me wonder why these companies 
should sell these products and 
use the word queer.” Because 
queer is a convenient catch-all 
term, it makes it hard to get 
to the bottom of the intention 
behind its usage. Even if we take 
for granted that term has been reclaimed, why do the people at 
the top of marketing and capital 
get to decide that queer is in, so 
long as the money is too?
Within the LGBTQ+ 
community, the term “queer” is 
useful for some people simply 
because it is so broad. While it 
has become an umbrella term to 
describe all of the community, 
it has also become a label 
unique to itself. Some people 
like Reagan Ivey, a Roger Revelle 
College sophomore, do not feel 
comfortable with a specific label 
on their sexuality or gender 
identify as queer or gender-
queer because for Ivey it “also 
indicates that I identify with the 
LGBTQ+ community while still 
broadly stating that I am not 
heterosexual”.
Additionally, some people 
identify as queer to save 
themselves from having to 
come out multiple times as 
they experiment with their 
identity. Ivey feels that “it’s a 
very comfortable word for me 
to use as someone who’s always 
questioning what their sexuality 
is” and that the term queer 
“shuts off the ability for people 
to pry, like if I identify as ‘not 
straight’ or ‘gay’ they have the 
opportunity to ask ‘what kind?’ 
or ‘how gay?’” For these people 
who choose to identify as queer, 
what they’re straight on is that 
they are not strictly heterosexual. 
Speaking of the heterosexuals, 
there has also been a 
controversial movement of queer 
cisgender heterosexuality, where 
people feel that they fall into 
a non-normative sexuality even 
while being straight. While this 
understanding lacks substantial 
popularity, it is interesting 
to juxtapose the idea of the By Erik Wieboldt
Staff Writermetrosexual person, or someone 
who acts “gay” but is “straight,” 
with the definition of queerness 
that is defined by anyone who is 
not heterosexual or cisgender. 
 With that being said, even 
some people, like a UC San 
Diego student who wished to 
remain anonymous, who fall 
outside of heteronormative and 
cisnormative standards feel 
uneasy calling themselves queer. 
This person said “Yes I am not 
straight, and I’m attracted to 
women and men, but for some 
reason I feel like it’s not enough 
when you look at the struggles 
of other communities within the 
LGBTQ.”  This student doesn’t 
think that the term descibes 
them because they feel that the 
problems they face “would never 
be equivalent” to those of trans 
or gay people and feels that the 
term is for “them to take back, 
not so much me”.
All these examples of specific 
understandings of the term 
queer help people within and 
outside of the queer community 
identify those who are apart of 
the queer community. Because 
of this, queerness has become a 
widespread term. While labels 
like gay, rainbow, or even alphabet 
mafia also seem to encompass 
the LGBTQ+ community, many 
feel that they don’t do enough 
to be wholly inclusive. The word 
queer, unlike many slurs and 
insults, has come to actually 
mean exactly what people within 
the community are comfortable 
identifying with. Queer in both 
senses means things that aren’t 
“normal” or what is normative 
in society. This is not to say that 
queer identities are not normal or 
that they are just in their nature 
separate from what is normative, it is instead a way to use simple 
labels to describe a complex 
and heterogenous community. 
Perlman argues that “while 
‘queer’ is acceptable by some 
people or groups, even preferred, 
it is by no means a blanket term,” 
which emphasizes the idea that 
what matters in how you identify 
people is their preference and 
your intent. Queer can still be 
used as a slur in a certain context 
of your intent and by some will 
always be considered an ill-
fitting phrase, but the journey 
the word has undertaken makes 
it an important touchstone for 
taking back power.
Personally I think the 
reclamation of the word queer 
reinterprets its meaning to be one 
of uniqueness. Its new meaning is 
as a descriptor not of something 
regarded as strange or other, but 
as something special that the 
outstanding people part of its 
community can take pride in. 
The strange part comes with its 
usage and appropriation outside 
of queer spaces, which is pretty 
suspect considering many of 
those same groups that strangely 
claim ownership of queerness 
were once the ones who also 
used it to insult and mock. 
Image courtesy of Raphael Renter on Unsplash. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Modular Playgrounds for Kids and Adults
I have a vision: modular 
playgrounds like giant lego sets, 
available to everyone regardless 
of age or socioeconomic 
background. Integrated with 
nature in the middle of the city, 
I see laughing figures exercising 
their creativity and dexterity to 
build the structures on which 
they will play tag, or maybe a 
secret fort. Look, here’s a group 
building a tall tower, challenging 
their engineering skills and 
courage. I wonder what the view 
is like on top…
UC San Diego does not have 
a playground. I haven’t had a 
proper recess in a playground 
since elementary school. Adults 
are expected not to need 
playgrounds. Even since high 
school, lunch has always been 
about work. Playgrounds are 
designed for kids, not adults. 
Search up YouTube videos 
of adults on playgrounds and 
many of them involve breaking 
equipment, getting stuck, or 
otherwise failing due to the size 
mismatch and the presumably 
many years since their last 
playground experience. But 
there’s something charming 
about watching adults on the 
playground. Adults need to 
play too. Sometimes when I’m 
walking around campus on a 
stressful day, I feel the urge to 
climb a tree, climb onto the roof, 
or dig a hole for fun. But that 
would be acting against social 
norms. Why do social norms 
restrict adults from playing? 
Why can’t adults laugh and 
giggle and run around shouting 
just like when they were once 
children?
Playgrounds for adults exist, 
but feel contrived. Google has 
playground-like offices for their 
adult employees: a “fireman 
pole, slide, videogame, and 
hammock-filled workspace.” 
But those are out-of-place, pasty colored structures doomed to 
never realize a true playground 
environment, since an office is 
still primarily geared for work.
On the other hand, many 
playgrounds designed for kids 
are also contrived, especially 
themed playgrounds like 
pirate ships or castles. Themed 
playgrounds kill imagination by 
confining children’s mindset to 
predefined settings. This strips 
the player of the opportunity 
to imagine infinite original 
scenarios, even though most 
researchers agree creative play 
to be beneficial, if not integral to 
development.
Today, not only are most 
adults not using playgrounds 
at all, but many kids are also 
neglecting these valuable public 
assets, ditching reality for video 
game “cyber playgrounds.” For 
example, Minecraft is popular 
because it allows the freedom to 
both build and explore. This is in 
contrast to current playgrounds, 
in which explorable structures 
are static, and in contrast to Lego, 
in which built structures are too 
small to delve into. However, 
Minecraft also has a tradeoff: 
both building and exploring are 
done virtually, which lacks the 
benefits of physical exercise, 
realism in construction, and 
face-to-face interactions.
Here is the problem: Adults 
and children are segregated. In 
addition to expecting adults to 
be stoically “mature” and play-
adverse, we also expect children 
to be incompetently “immature” 
to the point where they are 
incapable of creating their own 
games and equipment and adults 
need to help them by designing 
everything for them. For 
example, Lego sets for children 
designed by adults involves no 
creativity and is only a matter 
of shopping for something cool 
then following the assembly 
instructions, in contrast to 
starting from a heap of parts in 
which creativity reigns free.
My vision is that playgrounds are modular, like giant Lego 
sets, and are available to anyone, 
adults and children alike, to play 
both legally and socially. These 
can be cubes made of tubing that 
can be stacked on top of each 
other to resemble jungle gyms 
and secured using handcuff-like 
links or rope lashings. Thus, 
players build their own play 
structure while exercising their 
creativity and dexterity. There 
can also be additional parts like 
tarps, nets, ropes, poles, springs 
— maybe even motors! — to 
create interesting structures 
worthy of architectural merit. 
This not only boosts creativity, 
but is more realistic than 
traditional miniature Lego sets, 
exposing children with real-
world engineering concepts 
and offering challenging play 
for adults. The playground will 
incorporate nature like trees as 
part of play “equipment.” This 
brings us closer to nature in an 
age of the internet, urbanization, 
and synthetic materials. All the 
playgrounds are free-for-all. 
There is no manicured lawn nor 
concrete. Players are even free to 
excavate holes and trenches in 
the earth.
Perhaps my description 
has been too romantic. But 
there are practical motives 
behind these vivid descriptions. 
Simple modular playgrounds 
achieve several goals at once: 
(1) The simplicity gives ample 
opportunity for players to use 
their imagination. (2) Modularity 
allows for affordable parts, 
making playgrounds accessible 
to disadvantaged communities. 
(3) A modular construction that 
shares parts with real world 
industry applications such as 
scaffolding teaches more readily 
transferable skills. It’s one thing 
being able to put together a Lego 
house, and another to build a real 
structure. (4) More challenging 
play makes it more attractive and 
socially normative for adults to 
play, benefiting both adults and 
the children who interact and learn from them.
Despite the numerous 
potential benefits, there are 
glaring safety concerns. First is 
the seemingly free-for-all style. 
How can we make sure structures 
are safe? This concern may be 
addressed through engineering 
safety features such as intuitive 
fail-safe ways to stack blocks or 
rapidly deployable safety nets 
akin to airbags. Another is that 
with the inclusion of adults on the 
playground, they are presumably 
more experienced and should 
have the responsibility to look 
over and teach less experienced 
players. As for the concern 
of adults being in a different 
weight class than children and 
thus posing a danger, perhaps 
players will instinctively group 
themselves according to playstyle 
and adults will be mature 
enough to actively ensure the 
safety of younger individuals. 
Nevertheless, the playground 
will need to be big enough to 
accommodate a variety of play 
styles. Another concern is the 
broken windows theory. A 
free-for-all setting may quickly 
become messy, risking becoming 
rundown or being taken over by 
gangs and homeless. To solve 
this, a community attitude needs 
to be adopted: every player shares 
a responsibility for cleaning up 
after use. Another risk is unfixed 
building blocks being stolen, as 
metal can be attractive to sell. 
The list goes on…
However, maybe some risk 
is beneficial on the playground, 
allowing it to translate to other 
domains in which risk taking 
can be positive, such as in 
entrepreneurship. In “No Fear: 
Growing up in a risk averse 
society,” Tim Gill concludes 
that playgrounds today are 
excessively risk averse. In 
addition, even conventional 
playgrounds designed for safety 
can be “misused.” I personally 
remember emulating older kids 
by climbing onto the plastic roofs 
of play structures — equivalent By Benjamin Liou
Staff Writerto being three stories high — 
and jumping off rock climbing 
walls. Thus, no play structure 
is safe, and it would be better to 
acknowledge that children will 
take risks, allow them to learn 
to take calculated risks, and 
support them from behind by 
engineering less intrusive safety 
solutions.
However, safety is still 
number one, and it is necessary 
to test and assess the risk of 
playgrounds. First, prototypes 
may be iterated by “young adults” 
who are able to make the bridge 
between “child” and “adult”: 
high school and undergraduate 
students who still remember 
their playground experiences, 
have enough technical skills 
to design a product, and are 
responsible enough to take risks 
during testing. This project 
would provide ample learning 
opportunities ranging from 
structural engineering to user 
experience design and would 
be implementable in numerous 
educational institutions, 
including UCSD, as part of a 
global project to reinvigorate 
playgrounds.
Today’s playgrounds are age 
segregated and static. It is not 
socially normative for adults to 
use playgrounds and even many 
of their originally intended users, 
children, are opting for virtual 
alternatives despite the health, 
social, and learning benefits of 
physical play. We are moving 
further into the digital age, the 
trend of urbanization continues, 
mental health conditions are 
on the rise, and the drug and 
obesity epidemics rage on. There 
is a lot to be done, both work 
and play.
Art by Allen Chen for the UCSD Guardian. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
ELIAS ROMAN
Magical realism meets a harrowing reality in Sonny Calvento’s short film “Excuse Me, Miss, Miss, Miss.” 
Vangie, a dejected sales lady played by Phyllis Grae Grande, confronts her employer after being reprimand -
ed for her lackluster work performance. What follows is a deeply satirical critique of contractual labor in 
the Philippines and Western capitalist institutions. Vangie works at Trendysitas, a fictionalized Filipino 
department store whose company jingle — “dying to serve” — acts as both an earnest declaration of quality 
customer service and portentous warning for the contractual laborers it employs. When Vangie shows up 
on her boss Ma’am Charo’s (Angelina Kanapi) doorstep, the full extent of exploitation at Trendysitas is made 
clear: Ma’am Charo is not the inexhaustible and formidable boss Vangie once perceived, but an impossible, 
fantastical trinity of three identical Ma’am Charos. Chaos ensues as Vangie desperately attempts to convince 
her coworkers of their boss’ deceit and mystical background. 
As the Philippines reckons with the contentious results of its most recent presidential election, issues 
of exploitation are at the forefront of political discourse. Under outgoing president Rodrigo Duterete, con -
tractual laborers in the Philippines are offered a permanent position after six months of employment. This 
precarious policy, however, is conducive to unfair labor practices: even the most stellar employees are fired 
so that large corporations can avoid offering positions with higher pay. Despite its roots in the supernatural, 
“Excuse Me” is a universal tale for Filipino workers; corruption begets corruption, perpetuating an endless 
cycle of exploitation in the workplace.
As the first Filipino short film to compete at the Utah-based Sundance Film Festival, “Excuse Me” is 
placed directly at the convergence of American and Asian ideologies. Calvento’s work is in part dictated 
by the importation of Western economic and value systems, though “Excuse Me” offers a subversive lens 
through which to view capitalist development in Southeast Asia. “Excuse Me” is ultimately a short film 
composed of dichotomies: magic and realism, justice and injustice, East and West.
In a recent interview with celebrity music critic Anthony Fantano, Chaz Bear, also known as Toro y Moi, 
confessed that “Mahal” was his first attempt at a concept album. On first listen, listeners might not under -
stand exactly how this album is, well, conceptual. It’s not until one connects the staticky motif of station 
changes peppered throughout the album with the Jeepney on the cover of the album that one realizes what 
this project is: a journey through Bear’s Filipino heritage. The Jeepney depicted on the cover serves as both 
a physical and metaphorical vehicle, transporting listeners from the warm, fuzzy soundscape of the album 
to the highly stylized music videos for “Postman” and “The Loop,” in which Bear has managed to build his 
own little bubble universe. The video for “Postman” stands out in particular as a celebration of Filipino-
American culture, complete with balikbayan boxes and Filipino sun hoodies. 
“Mahal” sees Bear return to the guitar-centric rock sound fans were first introduced to in “What For.” In 
the same Fantano interview, the Filipino-American artist states that he was reluctant to return to the psych-
rock sound, given that fans had already heard it. 
“I just wanted to, like, show awareness that, yes, this is another guitar Toro record,” Bear said. “‘What 
For’ wasn’t a phase — and neither is ‘Mahal’ — but I do want them to sort of be connected … in the Toro 
storyline.” 
In other words, yes, it’s a familiar sound for Bear, but it’s not a retread. “Mahal” is not only an expres -
sion of Toro y Moi’s multifaceted identity; it’s a sonic and aesthetic exploration of the ways in which Bear’s 
experiences and personal histories all connect to form a uniquely personal cultural and artistic identity.
Our perceptions of reality can be shaped by the language we use to process, express, and share it with 
others. What happens when language is not enough to arrive at the exact emotion we hope to convey? Or, is 
language arbitrary if the meaning is generally understood? In “dust and conscience,” Truong Tran examines 
the role of language in rebuilding a sense of identity for Asian American immigrants, and for Vietnamese 
immigrants in particular. To explore identity, Tran magnifies the moments in between “life” and “living” 
when the body is still, and the mind retraces the body’s past and entertains what could have been. Through -
out the collection, Tran discusses how Asian American immigrants use stories and rituals to reestablish a 
sense of “home.” 
Each poem is short and devoid of any punctuation, creating an alluring one-sitting read. While some -
times frustrating, Tran’s lack of punctuation lends to his exploration of recreating language and meaning 
through personal experience. Tran seems to emphasize the weight of individual words and to encourage 
his readers to consider multiple interpretations of each poem. He provides the reader with space, as shown 
in the physical emptiness of each page, for the misconstruance of words that are recognizable to English 
speakers, but become foreign without expected indicators like punctuation. In doing so, Tran nods to the 
experience of many immigrants who work to untangle new rules that American-born citizens know as 
“common sense.” The contained block structure of Tran’s poems mimics the suffocating discomfort that 
many Asian immigrants experience in America. The sense of discomfort created by the structure and lack 
of punctuation simulates in the reader a yearning for the familiarity of “home” that is similar to that felt by 
Asian immigrants. With only page breaks to indicate the beginning of a new piece, the poems flows into one 
another, forming a collage of fragments of Tran’s ethnic, sexual, and religious identity, in congruence with 
his ancestral history. 
In his poetry collection, Tran dissects the practice of redefining language and its connection to an un -
derstanding of self and family in a way I am still working to comprehend. Perhaps that is why I feel com -
pelled to track Tran’s poetic structure in order to inform my understanding of his poetic content. On the 
whole, “Dust and Conscience” led me to search for the beginnings of integral fragments of my identity that 
exist within and beyond my lifetime, making me more empathetic to the generations before me.  
“ Afterparties” is a collection of short stories revolving around Cambodian-American characters living in Stock -
ton, California. Some of them are related, some are not, but there exists throughout the novel a feeling that all these 
stories and lives occupy the same universe. Its late author Anthony Veasna So loosely based some of the characters 
on his own experiences growing up in Stockton, giving the work a deeply intimate feeling, like watching a friend 
recall and ponder on past memories that you were not there for.
“ Afterparties” is a lot of things. It’s a love letter to Stockton, though at times also a rejection of the city. It’s a love 
letter to family and friends, but also a deep examination of generational trauma and the rift between first-gener -
ation kids and their immigrant parents. Above all though, it’s an honest and sincere collection of literature that is 
sure to leave readers with a deeper appreciation for the mundane — hometowns, family, and friends. I’ d previously 
written about “ Afterparties” for another column in The UCSD Guardian, which should tell you how much I think 
this book is worth reading. So, do yourself a favor and take a walk through Cambodian Stockton, California; Veasna 
So won’t disappoint you.There’s a lot to celebrate during AAPI Heritage Month, part of that being the art 
and media to come from Asian and API creators. Here are some of our picks.
Excuse Me, Miss, Miss, 
Miss
“Mahal” - Toro Y Moi
“Dust and Conscience”- Troung Tran
A&E’s Picks for AAPI Heritage Month
Sarah Delima  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Xuan Ly  CONTRIBUTING WRITERelias roman  EDITOR
“Afterparties” 
- Anthony Veasna So
elias roman  EDITOR
Image courtesy of San Diego Asian Film Festival. 
Image courtesy of NME. 
Image courtesy of Kearny Street Workshop and Amazon. 
Image courtesy of Los Angeles Times. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Audrey Nuna’s 2021 album, “a liquid breakfast,” begins with an assertive beat that calls attention to 
herself and her art. As the album progresses, Nuna continues to establish aspects of her identity as a Korean-
American woman within the R&B and hip hop genre. Nuna’s already vibrant energy is further fueled by the 
prominent heartbeat and sonic textures found in each song. Largely written during the pandemic, Nuna’s 
album reflects on isolation and letting go of societal expectations to find what truly matters to her. In doing 
so, she often returns to the idea of personal freedom which is intrinsically linked to self confidence. 
In tracks like “damn Right” and “Cool Kids,” Nuna focuses on the importance of self empowerment as 
an Asian woman in a predominantly male dominated genre. Despite the frequent stream of judgment and 
gossip, Nuna maintains a distinctive swagger that is evident throughout “a liquid breakfast.” Her satirical 
lyrics in “damn Right” comment on the skewed assessment of value during the creation of one’s public 
image; she openly admits the material counterfeits in her appearance, demonstrating an honesty that is 
consistent throughout the album. Nuna’s infectious sense of weightlessness is compounded by references to 
her childhood like Pokémon, fast food, pop culture, and even the inclusion of a voicemail from her grand -
mother. Korean tradition and family is also a large source of Nuna’s inspiration; this includes the stage name 
Audrey Nuna, which is the name her younger brother calls her, meaning “older sister Audrey.” 
In the second half of her album, Nuna reveals more intimate realities of her adolescence like past rela -
tionships, drugs, dropping out, and the role of religion in her life. Even with lighter overtones, Nuna is able 
to touch on the detrimental impacts of constant stimulation, whether from social media or her own ten -
dency to hyperfocus on creating art. Her songs “Space” and “Long Year” feature slower and more ethereal 
beats where Nuna repeats a few key phrases, then simply lets the music speak for her. 
Throughout the album, Nuna seamlessly transitions from fast-paced flows to a more melodic vocal range 
as she expresses her personal growth. Listening to “a liquid breakfast” encourages me to prioritize myself 
and the discovery of my own style, a practice that many Asian women are not given space to do. Audrey 
Nuna’s musical and visual manifestations of her thoughts are a source of empowerment for Asian women to 
break from the stereotypes that homogenize individuals. 
Cinematic universes have been a large part of the cultural zeitgeist for the better part of the last decade thanks 
to Marvel. Recently though, there appears to be a new hot trope in cinema: the multiverse. “Everything Every -
where All at Once” released March 30, 2022, just a week before “Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, ” 
and has managed to hold steady against the behemoth that is the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
The story follows Evelyn Wang (Michelle Y eoh) as she struggles to keep her failing laundromat business 
afloat and her family together. Simple, right? Well, in her journey to achieve these two things, Evelyn must 
also fight an interdimensional being, drawing skills and abilities from all the different versions of herself 
that exist throughout the multiverse. Watching the film, viewers will get the sense that the film is aware of 
how ridiculous its premise is, but it works. The juxtaposition of the surreal action and the heartfelt moments 
between characters makes the latter hit that much harder. It’s a film that doesn’t take itself too seriously, but 
knows when to pull back (most of the time). More importantly though, “Everything Everywhere All at Once” 
is a film about the immigrant experience, and the disorientation that comes with adapting to the laws of an 
unfamiliar and strange place.
Laufey modernizes fireside jazz in her EP “Typical of Me.” With just seven tracks, including a reimagin -
ing of the classic jazz ballad “I Wish You Love,” Laufey traverses through different processes of healing and 
the spiral of longing. Laufey’s warm voice and effortless vocal scatting layers to create a fairytale-esque space 
for Asian-American girls to feel wholly lovable in a way that American media often neglects. 
Her EP begins with “Street by Street,” a strong reclamation of self through the examination of emotions 
attached to physical location. Laufey’s voice floats over the brightly punctuated beat as she tours her home -
town, exploring the memories attached. “Street by Street” marks a shift in mindset that solidifies distance 
between herself and her past relationship that ultimately allows her to return to her past in order to heal. 
Even as Laufey dives into her darker mindspace, the entrancing piano, cello, and trumpet accompaniments 
maintain a whimsical air that keeps listeners at ease. Laufey captures her audience with lyrics that convey 
the all too familiar feelings of insecurity, desire, and a fragile sense of peace in the aftermath of love. In songs 
like “Like the Movies” and “Someone New,” she comments on the effect of media on perceptions of love that 
are simultaneously damaging and inspiring, in turn emphasizing the importance of Asian representation in 
media. Laufey paints a world out of her daydreams that is piercingly relatable, yet remains grounded in real -
ity through the inclusion of everyday sounds like chirping birds. She takes her time in each song, allowing 
each component to shine, and providing space for her art to sit with her listeners. 
“Typical of Me” ends with an ode to Laufey’s best friend and twin sister, Junia, reminding her listeners 
of the beauty of platonic and familial love. There is a clear sense of growth and movement across the seven 
songs that exude a happiness that is contagious. Laufey’s smooth alto tone and soulful instrumental makes 
for a meditative listen that serves as a perfect entrance into jazz. 
There is perhaps nothing more personal than the small idiosyncrasies we engage in while coping with 
heartbreak. These little rituals — if only for a moment — allow us to regain our past security. Wong Kar-Wai’s 
“Chungking Express” places these small acts centerstage. A film of unfitting emotions, grief, mourning, accep -
tance; it breaks its characters down to the most human level, each performing bizarre rituals that only make 
sense under the influence of love. 
 The film follows two heartbroken cops in Hong Kong, He Zhiwu — Cop 223 (Takeshi Kaneshiro), 
and Cop 663 (Tony Chiu-Wai Leung). Both of their lovers have left for other men and neither of them are able 
to reconcile their emotions. Both fall in love anew, He Zhiwu with a mysterious woman wearing a blonde wig 
(Brigitte Lin), and Cop 663 with Faye (Faye Wong), a worker at a restaurant he frequents. 
He Zhiwu jogs; he jogs hoping to sweat out any water left for tears — May, his lover, always thought of him 
as “Mr. Cool. ” He stares at her balcony, wondering if he will ever again climb out to avoid her parents. He buys 
a can of pineapples — her favorite food — each day of April with an expiration date of May 1st. He wonders 
if her love for him has already expired, if their memories could ever expire — after all, even plastic wrap has 
an expiration date. 
Cop 663 talks; he talks to everything. “Y ou’ve lost a lot of weight, you know, ” he tells his soap bar. “Y ou have 
to stop crying, you know, ” he tells his dripping dishrag. He talks to his stuffed animals, lulling them to sleep, 
telling them not to doubt her for leaving. His language is filled with allusions to airlines, his lover’s profession 
still on his mind. 
This movie is best explained in the emotions and relations of the characters. The plot unfolds from this 
— first telling the story of He Zhiwu and then of Cop 663, both loosely overlapping. Wong Kar-Wai perfectly 
connects his world to the city of Hong Kong — you feel the overwhelming bustle of the city — but you also 
feel the slowness and the ache of nights spent alone, separated from the millions of other residents. Hundreds 
of shots and glances portray the intimate feelings of the characters; Faye gazing longingly at No. 663 drinking 
black coffee while the Cocteau Twins plays in the background, He Zhiwu sprinting through the rain on his 
25th birthday, No. 663 staring out the window of a convenience store at his past lover after meeting her again 
by chance. 
Along with “Chungking Express, ” there are two other Wong Kar-Wai films on Kanopy, “In the Mood for 
Love” follows a slow burning romance between two neighbors, played by Tony Chiu-Wai Leung and Maggie 
Cheung, as they struggle with their respective disaffected spouses. 
“a liquid breakfast”
- Audrey Nuna
“Everything Everywhere All At Once”
“Typical of Me”- Laufey
Xuan Ly  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
elias roman  EDITOR
Xuan Ly  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
“Chungking Express” 
and Wong Kar-Wai’s 
Intimate Explorations 
of  Love
MATTHEW RISLEY CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Read more @ ucsdguardian.org!
Image courtesy of NME Nuna. 
Image courtesy of Creative Bloq. 
Image courtesy of Diandra Reviews It All. 
Image courtesy of Hector Arrieta. CONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Investigating Motherhood at UCSD
In the weeks following Mother’s Day, the Guardian explores the experiences of 
UCSD’s working moms. 
By Vivian Dueker 
Staff Writer
With Mother’s Day in 
the rearview mirror, many 
communities have been sharing 
gratitude and joy with their 
mothers. But parenting is an 
everyday activity, not just an 
occasional event. How do the 
faculty and graduate student 
moms at UC San Diego take on 
the demands of their families and 
their students?
Carolyn Kurle is an associate 
professor at UCSD in the 
department of ecology, behavior, 
and evolution. Kurle loves being 
a mom. She’s found the task of 
raising her 15-year-old son as 
rewarding as it is difficult. 
“It’s this really big task, but 
you’re naturally given exactly 
what you need to do the job: 
these massive tools of love and 
commitment,” Kurle said. 
Another mom at UCSD, 
Carrie Kilfoil, is a lecturer in the 
Analytical Writing Program. She 
has three kids: a 10-year-old son, a 
5-year-old daughter and a 2-year-
old son. She had her first son 
when she was in graduate school 
and working on her dissertation. 
Kilfoil said that her kids have 
given her a new perspective on 
the world, allowing her to look 
past the intellectual and cultural 
blinders that develop throughout 
life. She also said that she learns a 
lot from her kids.
Stephanie Nehasil, UCSD PhD 
candidate and Kurle’s Teaching 
Assistant, also has a son a little 
over a year old. She said that 
“there’s just so much joy involved” 
in being a mom.
Like Kilfoil and Nehasil, Kurle 
had her son while still getting her 
PhD, which posed its own unique 
challenges. After she gave birth, 
Kurle faced a life-threatening 
sickness that drastically hindered 
her capacity to work in the weeks 
following her pregnancy. 
“I couldn’t do any work or 
anything, all I could do was care 
for my son and heal. All of that 
put work on the very furthest 
back burner,” Kurle said. 
Nehasil also highlighted the 
physical toll of nursing. She said 
that it can sometimes take up to 8 
hours per day, which can feel like 
a full-time job. 
So with a full time job as both 
a mother and a scholar, Nehasil 
experienced a shift in thinking 
and priorities. Before becoming 
a mother, her graduate school 
project was like her baby, worthy 
of all her spare time. She had to 
learn to fit this new person in 
her life, her son who she loves so 
much, into the rigor of her work.
Kurle adds that for many 
moms, work almost becomes 
insignificant in comparison to 
family. 
“My work is way less important 
… It becomes less ego-driven, less 
about getting your self-worth 
from this job, more like, ‘oh, this 
is something I do to occupy my 
brain while I’m on this planet,’” 
Kurle said. 
Kurle arrived at UCSD in 2010, 
when her son was 3 years old. 
She’s happy with her experience as 
a mom here, highlighting UCSD’s flexibility and leniency. Kilfoil 
also expressed her gratitude for 
UCSD’s resources, such as the 
lactation room available in a 
Sixth College building. She’s 
happy to see UCSD taking steps 
towards a more supportive 
infrastructure for parents. 
Like Kurle, Kilfoil has found 
support in her department and 
community here. But UCSD 
has still been an adjustment for 
Kilfoil, having worked at other 
universities on the semester 
system. She’s had to adjust to 
the demands of the fast-paced 
quarter system. 
“The quarter schedule 
is pretty punishing, it’s 
unforgiving. That’s a challenge 
for me. You have to plan your 
days, your weeks, your months 
very carefully in order to get 
things done,” Kilfoil said. 
Kilfoil also mentions 
UCSD’s Early Child Education 
Center (ECEC) as one of the 
parent resources available. But 
because the ECEC would have 
been more expensive than the 
preschool program available 
in Kilfoil’s neighborhood, 
she chose not to use the 
on-campus resource.  Kilfoil 
said that she would like to see 
more subsidized child care, 
a sentiment echoed by many 
other working parents.
Nehasil’s experience as 
a UCSD grad student differs 
from that of a professor or 
lecturer. She notes the constant 
struggle between grad students 
and universities over pay. 
Although student parents are 
granted some money each 
quarter, it may not always be 
enough to cover the costs of 
raising a child.
In addition, it may be 
difficult for some to access as 
much time off as they want. 
Nehasil says that TAs receive 
“baby bonding time,” which is 
paid time off, which is not long 
but still helpful to a certain 
extent. 
Beside the limitations of 
school support for working 
moms, some face stigmas and 
stereotypes when they choose 
to have kids. Kilfoil describes 
how a colleague was upset with 
her when she got pregnant.
“[They] said I was ruining 
my career and my future. This 
person asked me to take a step 
back as assistant director of a 
conference because they said 
that they couldn’t rely on me,” 
Kilfoil said.
Kilfoil was even advised by 
some to not disclose the fact 
that she has kids in interviews. 
She attributes this advice to 
the “stigma that being a mom 
means that you’re a less serious 
scholar, less serious faculty 
member.”  
Yet she doesn’t think this 
stereotype holds any truth. 
“Being a mom has enriched 
my scholarship a lot. It’s given 
me lots of ways to connect with 
my students; it’s been a huge 
benefit to me as a teacher,” 
Kilfoil said.
Kilfoil’s stories exemplify 
the stigma that surrounds 
working mothers, and may 
be part of what contributes to the large number of women 
who leave their jobs to care 
for children. Erin A. Cech and 
Mary Blair-Loy’s 2019 research 
paper outlines the discrepancy 
between parents and non-parents 
in the STEM field in particular. 
43 percent of mothers leave full 
time STEM employment after 
their first child, while 23 percent 
of fathers do the same. 
Though both are issues, the 
nearly-doubled rate for women 
is a significant difference. Kilfoil 
has witnessed this phenomenon. 
“In academia specifically, I’ve 
seen a lot of people leave. The 
work life balance just isn’t there 
… You want to be a good parent. 
If you feel like your job is not 
putting you in a position to do 
that, it’s hard to justify staying,” 
Kilfoil said.
Kurle explains that the 
bulk of graduate students in 
her field — ecology, behavior, 
and evolution — are women, 
but those numbers drop at the 
professor level. 
In their paper, Cech and 
Blair-Loy argue that STEM fields 
should do more to retain parents 
in their fields. Kilfoil hopes that 
universities can “really recognize 
that [parents] are not a burden or 
a hindrance; they actually bring 
something to the table.” 
Kurle notes that a big part 
of her job as an ecologist is 
conducting field work, a task that 
becomes much more difficult 
when you have a child to care for. 
“When my son was really 
little, I was worried … I’m so 
used to going away to really far 
places for months at a time. I 
didn’t want to do that with a 
baby, and I didn’t want to leave 
my baby behind,” Kurle said. 
But Kurle was able to solve 
these conflicting feelings. As a 
professor, her grad students were able to do much of the field work 
necessary for research. And on 
a number of occasions, she was 
even able to take her son with 
her on road trips along the coast 
to collect data. 
Kurle found a way to make 
the best of a conflict, choosing 
to bridge her family and work 
lives to create an educational and 
enjoyable experience for both 
herself and her son. This is just 
one instance of the value that 
can arise from both teaching as a 
mom and parenting as a teacher. 
“Before I had a child, it was 
all about the job. Now there’s 
this element of this other human 
who can see what it means to 
pursue something meaningful,” 
Kurle said. 
It’s been exciting for Kurle to 
be able to show her son that he, 
too, can contribute to society in 
a fulfilling and exciting way. 
Similarly, Kilfoil enjoys 
sharing her work life with her 
family. 
“My son, who is 10 years old, 
loves talking to me about things 
at UCSD, my students, what 
they think, and the topics we’re 
exploring in my classes,” Kilfoil 
said.
Nehasil describes the focus 
that became essential in both 
home and work spheres. When 
she’s taking care of her child, 
Nehasil explained, she’s forced 
to let go of the worries that 
plague her work life. Nehasil and 
Kurle alike were forced to devote 
complete focus and attention 
to their work when actually at 
work. 
“All of a sudden I had to 
schedule everything and be 
cognizant of all my time … not 
waste any time because any extra 
time has to go to the kids,” Kurle 
said. 
Both Kilfoil and Nehasil mention that they have felt a 
new level of empathy towards 
their students since becoming 
parents. Nehasil has been able 
to carry over the patience that 
comes from mothering into 
her work with students and 
colleagues. Similarly, Kurle says 
she has adopted a more maternal 
mindset towards her students 
than she ever had before. 
“I look at all of you, and I 
think, ‘oh their mom is probably 
wondering how they’re doing 
today,’” Kurle said. “I’ve really 
loved that experience, I’ve 
welcomed it.”
Kilfoil feels more connected 
to her students through the 
generational knowledge that 
her son gives her, as well as an 
increased understanding of the 
K-12 school system.
Parenting is a job in itself, 
and every day, moms balance the 
care and time necessary for both 
their academics and families. 
Nehasil says that at some point, 
moms just have to “[accept] that 
you’re doing your best, and that’s 
enough.”
Image courtesy of Pexels.FEATURESFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Image courtesy of Pexels.
Behind the scenes: UCSD’s COVID-19 isolation 
A recent surge of COVID-19 positive cases among UCSD staff and students has 
caused shortages in isolation housing. 
By Oishee Misra
Staff Writer
With Mother’s Day in 
the rearview mirror, many 
communities have been sharing 
gratitude and joy with their 
mothers. But parenting is an 
everyday activity, not just an 
occasional event. How do the 
faculty and graduate student 
moms at UC San Diego take on 
the demands of their families and 
their students?
Carolyn Kurle is an associate 
professor at UCSD in the 
department of ecology, behavior, 
and evolution. Kurle loves being 
a mom. She’s found the task of 
raising her 15-year-old son as 
rewarding as it is difficult. 
“It’s this really big task, but 
you’re naturally given exactly 
what you need to do the job: 
these massive tools of love and 
commitment,” Kurle said. 
Another mom at UCSD, 
Carrie Kilfoil, is a lecturer in the 
Analytical Writing Program. She 
has three kids: a 10-year-old son, a 
5-year-old daughter and a 2-year-
old son. She had her first son 
when she was in graduate school 
and working on her dissertation. 
Kilfoil said that her kids have 
given her a new perspective on 
the world, allowing her to look 
past the intellectual and cultural 
blinders that develop throughout 
life. She also said that she learns a 
lot from her kids.
Stephanie Nehasil, UCSD PhD 
candidate and Kurle’s Teaching 
Assistant, also has a son a little 
over a year old. She said that 
“there’s just so much joy involved” 
in being a mom.
Like Kilfoil and Nehasil, Kurle 
had her son while still getting her PhD, which posed its 
own unique challenges. After 
she gave birth, Kurle faced 
a life-threatening sickness 
that drastically hindered her 
capacity to work in the weeks 
following her pregnancy. 
“I couldn’t do any work or 
anything, all I could do was 
care for my son and heal. All 
of that put work on the very 
furthest back burner,” Kurle 
said. 
Nehasil also highlighted the 
physical toll of nursing. She 
said that it can sometimes take 
up to 8 hours per day, which 
can feel like a full-time job. 
So with a full time job as 
both a mother and a scholar, 
Nehasil experienced a shift 
in thinking and priorities. 
Before becoming a mother, her 
graduate school project was 
like her baby, worthy of all her 
spare time. She had to learn to 
fit this new person in her life, 
her son who she loves so much, 
into the rigor of her work.
Kurle adds that for many 
moms, work almost becomes 
insignificant in comparison to 
family. 
“My work is way less 
important … It becomes less 
ego-driven, less about getting 
your self-worth from this job, 
more like, ‘oh, this is something 
I do to occupy my brain while 
I’m on this planet,’” Kurle said. 
Kurle arrived at UCSD 
in 2010, when her son was 3 
years old. She’s happy with 
her experience as a mom 
here, highlighting UCSD’s 
flexibility and leniency. Kilfoil 
also expressed her gratitude 
for UCSD’s resources, such as 
the lactation room available 
in a Sixth College building. She’s happy to see UCSD taking 
steps towards a more supportive 
infrastructure for parents. 
Like Kurle, Kilfoil has found 
support in her department and 
community here. But UCSD 
has still been an adjustment for 
Kilfoil, having worked at other 
universities on the semester 
system. She’s had to adjust to 
the demands of the fast-paced 
quarter system. 
“The quarter schedule 
is pretty punishing, it’s 
unforgiving. That’s a challenge 
for me. You have to plan your 
days, your weeks, your months 
very carefully in order to get 
things done,” Kilfoil said. 
Kilfoil also mentions UCSD’s 
Early Child Education Center 
(ECEC) as one of the parent 
resources available. But because 
the ECEC would have been more 
expensive than the preschool 
program available in Kilfoil’s 
neighborhood, she chose not 
to use the on-campus resource.  
Kilfoil said that she would like to 
see more subsidized child care, a 
sentiment echoed by many other 
working parents.
Nehasil’s experience as a 
UCSD grad student differs from 
that of a professor or lecturer. 
She notes the constant struggle 
between grad students and 
universities over pay. Although 
student parents are granted 
some money each quarter, it may 
not always be enough to cover 
the costs of raising a child.
In addition, it may be difficult 
for some to access as much time 
off as they want. Nehasil says 
that TAs receive “baby bonding 
time,” which is paid time off, 
which is not long but still helpful 
to a certain extent. 
Beside the limitations of school support for working 
moms, some face stigmas and 
stereotypes when they choose to 
have kids. Kilfoil describes how 
a colleague was upset with her 
when she got pregnant.
“[They] said I was ruining 
my career and my future. This 
person asked me to take a step 
back as assistant director of a 
conference because they said 
that they couldn’t rely on me,” 
Kilfoil said.
Kilfoil was even advised by 
some to not disclose the fact 
that she has kids in interviews. 
She attributes this advice to the 
“stigma that being a mom means 
that you’re a less serious scholar, 
less serious faculty member.”  
Yet she doesn’t think this 
stereotype holds any truth. 
“Being a mom has enriched 
my scholarship a lot. It’s given me 
lots of ways to connect with my 
students; it’s been a huge benefit 
to me as a teacher,” Kilfoil said.
Kilfoil’s stories exemplify the 
stigma that surrounds working 
mothers, and may be part of what 
contributes to the large number 
of women who leave their 
jobs to care for children. Erin 
A. Cech and Mary Blair-Loy’s 
2019 research paper outlines the 
discrepancy between parents 
and non-parents in the STEM 
field in particular. 43 percent of 
mothers leave full time STEM 
employment after their first 
child, while 23 percent of fathers 
do the same. 
Though both are issues, the 
nearly-doubled rate for women 
is a significant difference. Kilfoil 
has witnessed this phenomenon. 
“In academia specifically, I’ve 
seen a lot of people leave. The 
work life balance just isn’t there 
… You want to be a good parent. If you feel like your job is not 
putting you in a position to do 
that, it’s hard to justify staying,” 
Kilfoil said.
Kurle explains that the 
bulk of graduate students in 
her field — ecology, behavior, 
and evolution — are women, 
but those numbers drop at the 
professor level. 
In their paper, Cech and 
Blair-Loy argue that STEM fields 
should do more to retain parents 
in their fields. Kilfoil hopes that 
universities can “really recognize 
that [parents] are not a burden or 
a hindrance; they actually bring 
something to the table.” 
Kurle notes that a big part 
of her job as an ecologist is 
conducting field work, a task that 
becomes much more difficult 
when you have a child to care for. 
“When my son was really 
little, I was worried … I’m so 
used to going away to really far 
places for months at a time. I 
didn’t want to do that with a 
baby, and I didn’t want to leave 
my baby behind,” Kurle said. 
But Kurle was able to solve 
these conflicting feelings. As a 
professor, her grad students were LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG LIFESTYLE
It was one sunny afternoon 
when my friends and I decided 
to see a movie. Already running 
late, we rushed to the theater 
with our pre-purchased tickets 
to the latest movie “Everything 
Everywhere All at Once”… only 
to be turned away because I 
forgot my ID and they required 
them for this rated R film. It was 
nice to know I still passed as a 
plucky 16 year old, but annoying 
as it meant driving all the way 
back to my dorm and back. 
FInally, we arrived at the theater 
with Michelle Yeoh sitting in 
the IRS offices projected onto 
that silver screen. And within 
the next two hours, my friends 
and I’d experience the most 
confusing, convoluted, and 
mind-boggling film we had ever 
laid eyes on, and it is not because 
we missed the first 15 minutes 
(although that didn’t help).
If you’ve been on Tik Tok 
this past month you have 
probably heard about this new 
movie “Everything Everywhere 
All at Once” that has given so 
many people a new outlook on 
life. After seeing all the people 
crying on my for you page, I 
had the urge to go see if it was 
as groundbreaking as everyone 
made it seem. So, I went to the 
movies, cried my eyes out, and 
now I’m here writing about it to 
tell you it’s a must-watch movie.
Coming  from the 
independent film world, I was utterly flabbergasted at 
the production and story that 
this film told. Melding genres 
between science fiction, drama, 
comedy, and action is a difficult 
task in itself. But, creating 
a meaningful story within 
that is far more impressive. 
It follows a struggling Asian-
American family, with an 
emphasis on the mother, who 
owns a failing laundromat. The 
mother, Evelyn, is rigid in her 
traditional ways and struggles to 
accept her daughter, Joy, for her 
queer identity and relationship. 
Plus, she experiences her own 
relationship issues with her 
husband, who seeks divorce in 
the beginning of the film. It, at 
its heart, works to establish an 
environment we can all relate to. 
 Then, through parallel 
universes, wacky science fiction 
tropes, and a whole lot of kung-
fu action, Evelyn comes to the 
realization that in the vastness 
of the universe, nothing really 
matters. She sees her issues slip 
away into the bottomless sea of 
our living reality and accepts the 
chaos of the universe. 
I think most people can relate 
to the feeling that ‘nothing really 
matters,’ especially through 
the past couple of years. Even 
before COVID, most people 
searched for their purpose and 
deeper meaning, whether it be 
through volunteering, religion, 
philosophy, or anything that 
connects us to that higher 
feeling — that we do something 
meaningful with our lives. 
“Everything Everywhere All at Once” challenges this societal 
pressure to find your meaning by 
promoting the idea that nothing 
really matters … unless you 
want it to. 
In the end, Evelyn chooses 
to stay and fix her relationships; 
she chooses to stay with the 
family she had come to know, 
love, and rely on. By shutting 
out the madness and chaos of 
life, she is able to focus on what 
mattered most to her. That was 
what was so inspiring to watch: 
seeing this character bogged 
down by life only to choose to How Everything Everywhere All at Once Changed My Life  
By Bradley Beggs Lifestyle Co-Editor,
                    Celeste Walstrom-Vangor Staff Writer
stay in its horrible, unfortunate, 
tumultuous, and beautiful 
reality. This movie showcased 
strength to be ourselves, how 
to stick up for the ones we love, 
and fight for the relationships we 
cherish. And, those are choices 
we have to make everyday — 
choices that will inevitably 
change the course of our life 
forever. 
At the end of the movie, 
after being confused, laughing, 
and crying, I realized that this 
movie is a layered depiction of 
the struggle of being human. It provides a message that is 
beautiful and relevant to any 
viewer. So, I encourage you all to 
grab some popcorn, M&Ms, and 
your friends and watch as this 
movie potentially changes your 
perspective on life.
Image courtesy of  EEAAO. 
Sun God Festival 2022 has 
now come and gone. As my first 
and last Sun God, I truly didn’t 
know what to expect. Like many 
people, I had no idea who the 
performing artists were, but 
as one of my last chances to 
experience something outside of walking to and from classes at 
UC San Diego, I wanted to at 
least do this. While I can’t say 
it was the best festival I’ve ever 
been to, I can say that it has 
made a lasting impression on 
me — and that’s not just because 
I now have a tan on my chest in 
the shape of a cherry from where 
my glitter tattoo once was. 
“What even is Sun God?” is a 
question I found myself asking just a few weeks before the 
festival. If, like me, you came 
to UCSD as a transfer student 
at the beginning of COVID or 
possibly decided to live off-
campus rather than in the 
dorms, you probably often feel 
out of the loop. It’s hard to know 
what’s going on or what to get 
involved in, and I only found out 
about Sun God from overhearing 
another conversation. Actually, Sun God 2022: A Retrospective   
the answer to my question was 
probably buried somewhere in 
the overwhelming pile of emails 
sitting in my inbox but, let’s 
face it, there’s just too many to 
even know where to start. So 
how does someone who lives off 
campus get involved?
Well, not easily, and as a 
transfer student or freshman, 
you can often feel a sense of 
imposter syndrome. You can 
feel as though you don’t belong, 
especially when you’re already 
a senior and you walk into the 
library for the first time and can’t 
find the elevator. This feeling 
can make you want to seclude 
yourself even further into your 
off-campus life and shut yourself 
off even more. 
I almost didn’t go to Sun God. 
I didn’t see the point in driving 
20 minutes for artists and people 
I didn’t know. But a few friends 
convinced me, one of which I 
had never met in person before. 
So, as I stood in line waiting 
to go in, or to get food, or go 
on a ride, or get a glitter tattoo 
— seriously, there were way too 
many lines; they practically took 
up the entire field — I realized 
no one knows or cares that I’m 
a transfer student living off 
campus. So, I let myself fade into 
the crowds of other students.
It was exciting to see people 
I’ve only ever seen in the tiny 
boxes scattered across the screen 
in the zoom rooms and everyone’s 
individual styles. I mean, my jaw 
was practically dragging on the 
ground as I admired everyone’s 
fun and trendy outfits. So even 
though the setlist didn’t quite match up to past years and I got 
a major sunburn that still hasn’t 
fully healed, I still think it was 
worth it. I had fun going on 
rides, meeting a friend in person 
for the first time, and relaxing 
on the grass while listening to 
the music. Now, it wasn’t exactly 
my first choice in music, but I 
still found myself searching for 
songs by Peach Tree Rascals and 
keshi the next day because, for 
me, music is music (unless we’re 
talking about country, then that’s 
a whole different conversation). 
So if you’re an incoming 
freshman, transfer student, 
commuter, or current student 
who just feels left out, go to that 
event, join that club, or just meet 
up with a friend for some lunch 
on campus. We’re all students 
with the same goal. Even if 
the path you took to get here 
looks different from others, that 
doesn’t mean you don’t belong 
here. We’ve all worked hard to 
be where we are, and we deserve 
to have some fun along the way. 
And if I was going to be here next 
year, I’d go to Sun God again. I’d 
just be sure to pack some snacks 
and some sunscreen. 
 Image courtesy of Anthony DELANOIX on Unsplash.
By Summer Noel
Staff WriterPHOTO ESSAY  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Photo EssayProtests and vigils have been held all over California, from San Diego to 
San Francisco, since the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Hundreds march 
down streets in Santa Monica seeking support for Ukraine. They chanted 
and displayed signs to condemn Putin’s military actions, and to stand in 
solidarity with those who were victims of the Russia-Ukrainian crisis.
Images courtesy of Clarence Ip. 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs Hawaii
Collegiate Cup @ RIMAC
vs HawaiiUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Fencing 
Baseball6:30PM
All Day
2PM5/20
5/21-22
5/21
By Praveen nair 
Sports Editor
Last Saturday, I did 
something I’ve been meaning 
to do for years, but never got 
around to: I went to Petco 
Park to watch the Padres, San 
Diego’s only remaining major 
sports team. Overall, it was a 
bad night to support the home 
side — the Miami Marlins blew 
out the Padres 8–0, the last 
four runs coming on a ninth-
inning grand slam with many 
fans already filtering out.
But watching baseball at the 
ballpark has always been a pretty 
good experience. Stadiums 
usually give you a good range of 
things to watch, drink, and eat 
to keep you occupied between 
pitches — I often found myself 
mindlessly echoing the PA 
system clap clap clap-clap-
clap sound effects to entertain 
myself. (While sports fans in 
most countries come prepared 
with a dozen songs to sing about 
their team, I, apparently, need 
to be instructed on how to clap.)
But on television, watching 
regular-season baseball is a 
much different matter. It’s slow, 
long, filled with commercials, 
and proceeds inconsistently. 
The average length of a nine-
inning game of MLB action was 
3 hours and 10 minutes in 2021, 
more than half an hour more 
than the 2:33 average of games 
in 1981, and 52 minutes more 
than the average NBA game last 
season. Strikeouts are up nearly 
50 percent, balls are hit into 
play less often, and fans will 
wait on average four minutes to 
see a ball hit into play. The early 
20th century saw baseball’s low-
scoring “dead-ball era,” and it 
seems like on television, we’re 
entering a dead-air era.
And while there are dozens 
of other factors that have contributed to this decline, 
baseball ratings are not what 
they used to be, with the 
percentage of US TV-equipped 
households tuning into the 
World Series at 6.5 percent in 
2021, compared to a consistent 
25 to 30 percent in the 1970s 
and 1980s. A 2017 poll found 
that MLB fans averaged 57 
years old, 6 years older than 
the average for the NFL and 
15 years older than the average 
NBA fan.
And so, MLB has begun 
to take speed of play into 
consideration much more in 
recent years. An anonymous 
league executive told Sports 
Illustrated last year that game 
speed is “the greatest crisis the 
game faces… In the next five 
years we’ll either be the national 
pastime or a niche sport.” 
While I wouldn’t call things 
so dire, I can say that baseball 
is developing a reputation 
as a slow, archaic game that 
isn’t worth the time; even as 
a sports fan myself, I find it 
hard to justify fitting one of 
162 regular-season games into 
my schedule — we could just 
blame my inadequate Gen-Z 
attention span, but plenty of 
people feel the same way, and 
that’s a problem for baseball.
But most of the solutions 
to the speed-of-play crisis rub 
many fans the wrong way. The 
most common is the pitch 
clock, which gives batters and 
pitchers a limited amount of 
time in which to prepare for and 
deliver, respectively, the next 
pitch. This is probably a good 
idea. Both batters and pitchers 
have increased the amount 
of time they spend between 
pitches getting ready, wrapping 
the straps on their gloves on 
and off, stepping off the mound, 
playing timing games with each 
other.
A pitch clock has already been implemented in some 
minor leagues, with mixed 
results. A couple weeks ago, 
a video of a Double-A batter 
being assessed an automatic 
strike with a 2–2 count for a 
relatively routine batting 
sequence went viral, causing 
much consternation among 
baseball fans, oldheads and 
young fans alike. To detractors, 
a pitch clock — which by the 
latest MLB player agreement 
could be implemented as soon 
as next season in the majors 
— could lead to many similar 
controversial calls and a debate 
between following the letter 
or the spirit of the law. Some 
pitchers oppose the pitch clock 
as well, since it limits their 
freedom to use time to their 
advantage from the mound.
But empirically, there’s no 
denying the pitch clock is doing 
the job it was meant to do. Pitch 
clocks in minor-league ball 
saved an average of 20 whole 
minutes over non-clocked 
games to begin the 2022 season, 
with insignificant effects on the 
number of hits or runs scored. 
On average, umpires assessed 
just under 2 violations per 
game, 72 percent of which went 
to pitchers, and the remainder 
to hitters.
“It seemed like it 
accomplished exactly what MLB 
wants the game to look like in a 
few years… [Outside of] playing in the College World Series or 
unique games, it has been the 
most fun I’ve ever had playing,” 
said catcher Henry Davis, who 
the Pittsburgh Pirates selected 
first overall in the 2021 draft, 
to ESPN.
Another change being 
tested in the minors is a limit 
on pitchers’ pick-off throws 
and steps off the mound — 
two notorious baseball time-
wasters. Combined with pitch 
clocks, this has led to an 18 
percent increase in stealing 
bases, which have been on a 
precipitous decline in the 
majors for decades, but are an 
exciting part of the game.
Pace-of-play improvements 
are still in their infancy, 
though, and there will be a lot 
of growing pains in ironing out 
the issues. If the pitch clock 
arrives next season, we will 
probably see a violation called 
in a big moment in a pivotal 
game, and when that happens, 
all hell will break loose. But for 
the overall health of the game, 
these improvements could 
inject baseball with a sense of 
speed, excitement, and energy 
that it badly needs.
Baseball might have 
something to learn here from 
cricket. Cricket is maybe the 
most traditionalist sport there 
is, and you might be aware 
that in its most traditional 
form, Test matches, a match can take place over five days 
at a glacial pace. Cricket didn’t 
even begin to limit the number 
of overs (the total number of 
balls thrown) until the 1970s, 
and even this alteration only 
shortened the game to the One-
Day International format used 
at the World Cup that clocks in 
at around eight hours.
Looking to revitalize the 
game, the English cricket board 
started organizing 20-over 
matches known as Twenty20 
cricket in 2003, lasting around 
three hours total. Less than 
two decades later, the Indian 
Premier League, played in the 
Twenty20 format, is the largest 
cricket league in the world, and 
it’s lightyears more exciting 
than Test cricket.
I don’t think such drastic 
measures are at all necessary 
in the MLB. But changes that 
might seem like heresy today 
could be vital parts of an 
engaging game in the future, so 
don’t count them out.
By the way, the day after 
I watched the Padres get 
smacked 8-nil by the Marlins, 
Jorge Alfaro hit a three-run 
homer with two outs in the 
ninth for a Mother’s Day walk-
off victory, one of the biggest 
plays yet in this young MLB 
season. Baseball is still pretty 
darn good. You just have to get 
lucky enough to find it.Dead-Air Era: Does Baseball 
Need to be Sped Up?
Baseball fans might 
be witnessing the birth of 
something special. Last 
Monday, the Los Angeles Angels 
hosted the Tampa Bay Rays in 
what was the first of a 3-game 
series between two American 
League contenders. In the 
bottom of the sixth with the 
Angels leading 3–1, none other 
than their longtime superstar 
outfielder Mike Trout hit a 
2-run bomb while also setting 
a team record in the process. 
Trout’s homer was his 161st at 
Angel Stadium, surpassing Tim 
Salmon’s previous franchise 
record of 160. 
It was a special sight for 
Trout and Angels fans in 
attendance, but the party was 
just getting started. The very 
next at-bat, two-way phenom 
Shohei Ohtani hit a home run 
of his own, making the score 
6–1, and in the bottom of the 
seventh, Ohtani hit his first 
career grand slam, sending 
Angels fans and the baseball 
world into a frenzy. The Halos 
won Monday’s game 11–3. 
The fireworks did not stop 
there. On Tuesday, Trout kept 
his hot hitting streak alive by finishing the game 3 for 4, with 
two home runs, but that was 
not the story of the night. Later 
on in the bottom of the eighth 
with the Angels up 8–0, third 
baseman Anthony Rendon (a 
righty) jokingly went up to bat 
left-handed and hit a home 
run off of Rays outfielder Brett 
Phillips, yet that still wasn’t the 
story of the night. The biggest 
headline was rookie left-hander 
Reid Detmers, who went the 
distance pitching a no-hitter in 
only his eleventh major league 
start. The southpaw finished 
Tuesday’s contest with two 
strikeouts and just one walk, 
leading the Halos to a dominant 
12–0 victory and a series win 
against the Rays.
Following a close extra-
innings loss on Wednesday 
and a day off on Thursday, the 
Angels traveled up north to 
the Bay Area for the weekend 
where they were hosted by the 
struggling Oakland Athletics, 
setting the stage for a 4-game 
series between two AL West 
rivals. 
In Friday’s series opener, the 
Angels pulled out a low-scoring 
victory at 2–0. This win was 
largely attributed to a dominant 
pitching performance by their 
rookie right-hander Chase 
Silseth, who pitched six shutout innings with four strikeouts 
and earned his first career win 
in what was also his major 
league debut. On Saturday, the 
Athletics took the first game 
of a doubleheader on a 3-run 
walk-off homer off the bat of 
outfielder Luis Barrera with 2 
outs in the bottom of the ninth, 
which won the A’s the game 
4–3. 
However, the Angels 
quickly rebounded from the 
tough loss just a few hours 
later in the second game of 
the doubleheader, setting the 
tone in the top of the second 
with a grand slam by outfielder 
Taylor Ward, making the score 
5–1 after two. Then adding 
to the lead, in the top of the 
fifth inning Shohei Ohtani hit 
a 2-run bomb, which was his 
100th career home run, that 
made the score 8–1 after five. 
The Angels won the game 9–1, 
taking two out of the first three 
against the Athletics.         
The Halos currently 
own a 23–13 record and sit 
comfortably at second place in 
the AL West division, trailing 
only the Houston Astros by 
a slim margin. Although this 
current MLB season is fairly 
young, many baseball fans are 
already getting excited about 
the possibility of seeing the game’s top two players in Mike 
Trout and Shohei Ohtani as 
teammates in October. The 
Angels have missed every 
postseason since 2014, which 
has not only been crushing for 
fans of the team, but for all 
baseball fans. 
Many have wondered 
how an all-time great talent 
like Trout has seen so little 
October baseball, and since 
the acquisition of Ohtani in 
2018, there has been an even 
greater deal of speculation 
surrounding Los Angeles’ 
front office and what exactly 
they are doing to help their 
historically great superstars get into the postseason. However, 
the Angels appear to have 
made some strong moves this 
offseason and are off and 
running early, and thanks to 
MLB’s new expanded playoff 
format that consists of three 
division winners and three wild 
card teams, the Angels have a 
great chance of making it as 
long as they finish the regular 
season with one of the top 
three wild card records in the 
American League.Are the Angels Finally Beginning to Spread Their Wings? 
By LUKE REYES
Staff Writer
Art by Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian. 
Image courtesy of Scott U and Keith Allison. Read more @
ucsdguardian.org!