DRAKEO
THE RULER
Drakeo, a performer of a 
lifetime, passed away due to 
gang violence. Read more 
about him, his legacy, and 
what his death meant to the 
community in A & E’s piece.
AWKWARD FOR AWKWAFINA
HOUSELESS IN CALIFORNIAAWKWAFINA IS NOT SORRY
OPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  Page  6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Housing costs are the 
highest contributor to 
student debt and among 
the most significant 
contributing factors to 
students’ unstable and 
unhealthy basic needs 
experience. In general…
financial aid funding has 
not kept pace with the rise 
in both on-and off-campus 
housing.”
- UC  SYSTEM
FEATURES, PAGE  6A & E,   PAGE  7
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF COMPLEX.IMAGE COURTESY OF COMPLEX.
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
GENDER BIAS...............3
AWKWAFINA.................4
HOUSELESS.................6
LAUREL HELL...............7
WATER POLO................8VOLUME 55, ISSUE 17  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Governor’s Proposal Aims to Satisfy 
both UC and State’s Plans
By ANANYA NAG  CONTRIBUTING WRITERAS Council Brief: 
Weeks 5 and 6
By Nikita Cardozo
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
On Feb. 2, the Legislative Analyst’s Office of Cal -
ifornia published an analysis and summary of 
Governor Newsom’s proposals for the Uni -
versity of California 2022–2023 budget. The proposals 
aim to satisfy both the UC system and state legislatures 
as both parties face a disconnect in how they envision 
growth for the UC system in regards to the state budget. 
In the past, University of California has covered 
operation charges by using the state fund, increases to 
tuition, and increasing acceptance of out-of-state stu -
dents who pay an increased tuition to attend. The state 
sets enrollment targets and if they estimate enrollment 
growth, the fund provided to UC is increased. 
In the last two years however, the state has also im -
plemented setting an “outyear target” which estimates 
enrollment targets for the future year. Additionally, for 
the past seven years, the state has changed their target to 
reflect only projected enrollment growth. 
The UC system sets their own enrollment targets 
based on recommendation from the UC Office of Re -
gents and an analysis of the state funded budget they 
will receive. 
“In consultation with the UC chancellors, Presi -
dent Drake sets the enrollment targets for each campus 
[targets] are informed by input from the UC Regents, 
who approve UC’s operating budget, and that budget 
is informed by the total state-funded enrollment level 
for resident undergraduate students. After these enroll -
ment targets are set, there can be year-to-year fluctua -
tions in actual enrollment,” stated Ryan King, Associ -
ate Media Director of Relations at the UC office of The 
President.
In the 2021–2022 budget, the state made policies for 
the UC system to reduce the number of enrollment of 
non-residents of California. The 2020–21 plan imple -
mented a plan to reduce the population of non-resident 
undergraduate students from over 21 percent in 2021–
2022 to 18 percent by 2026.
However, in the past few years, non-resident enroll -
ment had increased significantly and the state argued 
that this could limit access of the schools to in-state 
residents. 
The plan to limit enrollment is supposed to start in 
2022 and the state has said that it will fund UC the loss 
of revenue they would incur from limiting out-of-state 
enrollment.
Although the state set enrollment targets, the Uni -
versity of California has not followed them and enrolled 
more than the state target for the past several years. The 
state has not increased the fund they provide UC to 
account for this over enrollment but instead used the 
numbers as a baseline when setting the target for the numbers as a baseline when setting the target for the 
next year. 
Governor Newsom’s proposal for the 2022–2023 
budget is a general fund of $99 million to be given to 
UC. Almost $68 million is to support the enrollment 
growth that is envisioned for UC and the rest is to ac -
count for the lost revenue from reducing out-of-state 
enrollment which would otherwise cause the UC to lose 
much of the revenue they bring in from out-of state resi -
dents’ increased tuition. 
The governor also proposes a multiyear enrollment 
plan, aimed to accommodate higher enrollment in the 
next few years. Per the plan, the governor’s adminis -
tration suggests the UC grow their enrollment by one 
percent each year until 2026–2027. The administration 
believes that an annual growth like this would bring in 
an additional 8000 students each year, over a four year 
period.
UC has agreed with the governor’s proposals and 
encouraged state legislators to follow through with the 
proposal as it is much needed to support growth on 
campus.
“In order for our growth to be successful, expansion 
requires reliable support and sustained funding. UC be -
lieves that many of the goals laid out by the governor in 
his proposed budget reflect these shared priorities. This 
is why we are encouraging state legislators to support 
his proposal and help us secure the necessary funding 
for expanding access to California undergraduates and 
improving graduation outcomes for underrepresented 
students,” stated King. 
He added that this proposal supports the growth 
they intend to see in the next couple of years. The Uni -
versity of California, Office of the President envisions 
adding 20,000 students over the next decade and the 
amount of funding in Newsom’s proposal will allow UC 
to create additional housing, add additional faculty, and 
support the arrival of more students.
In the past, the state has not provided additional 
funding to the UC system due to over enrollment but 
the governor’s proposal plans to do so. The UCOP be -
lieves this is a necessary accommodation as in the past, 
the over enrollment coupled with only a baseline fund 
has proved difficult for operations on campus.
“Between 2014–2015 and 2020–2021, California 
resident enrollment grew by about 24,100 students (in -
cluding summer enrollment). However, during this pe -
riod the state only provided support for about 14,400 of 
these students… this gap in state funding strains cam -
pus resources, leaving our campuses without roughly 
$100 million that should be available to support these 
See GOVERNMENT , page 2Week 5
During the A.S. Council’s 
Week 5 meeting on Feb. 2, the sen -
ators updated the council about 
their projects. They also provided 
information pertaining to the im -
pact of COVID-19 on the students 
of UC San Diego. 
First, Thurgood Marshall Col -
lege Senator Ashley Jones works 
for Marshall College Advising 
and noticed that a lot of students 
ask questions that college advis -
ing can't answer. Senator Jones 
expressed interest in doing a proj -
ect based on issues that students 
indicate they need assistance with 
through a survey or Webtool. Af -
ter answering the questions, they 
would be provided with a direct 
option of where to reach out and 
how to get the specific help they 
need immediately. 
Next, Seventh College Senator 
Ian Fosth discussed his project of 
drafting a committee that lets stu -
dents talk about how COVID-19 
changes things for them. He would 
like to hear more from student in -
put about how the committee can 
better help them transition and get 
the help they need in the midst of 
the pandemic. 
Furthermore, Senator Fosth 
discussed the discrepancy with 
the university’s COVID-19 dash -
board versus other campuses: 
UCSD’s dashboard doesn't include 
the number of vaccinated students 
and faculty but will begin add -
ing these numbers by the start of 
Spring Quarter.
Engineering Senator Samir 
Nomani underscored the need for 
funding mechanisms and grants 
for engineering organization proj -
ects. Moreover, he stated that dur -
ing the University Centers Advi -
sory Board (UCAB) meeting, they 
approved the renewal of the Price 
Center COVID vaccination site 
for Winter Quarter. It will now be 
open from Monday to Friday from 
7 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Saturday and 
Sunday from 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.. 
Price Center will also distribute 
one KN-95 mask per student per 
day at the moment. 
Freshman Senator Michelle 
Griffith mentioned that she is try -
ing to find more sustainable ways 
to get rid of single-use plastics, in -
cluding better packaging in Hous -
ing Dining Hospitality  markets 
and different bins for different 
recyclable materials (paper, plas -
tics, etc.). Arts and Humanities 
Senator Rhianen Callahan asked 
if Senator Griffith has reached out 
to the AVP Environmental Jus -
tice Affairs office and Griffith said 
they have reached out to Courtney 
See ASSOCIATED STUDENTS,  page 2
Art courtesy of Nicholas Regli for UCSD Guardian. 
How California’s Housing and 
Homelessness Problem Intertwine2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
Washington, the AVP, and are 
planning to work with them. 
Next, Arts and Humani -
ties Senator Callahan discussed 
her project of hosting a writing 
workshop, which will take place 
on Feb. 22. Callahan added that 
there will be a rally at the chan -
cellor's mansion on Feb. 16 for 
housing justice and stronger con -
tracts for students. 
John Muir College Senator 
Serena Zheng highlighted how 
hard it is for the students in Camp 
Snoopy to have access to food, 
since they are located far from 
the dining halls. Senator Zheng 
updated the council about the 
Camp Snoopy food project to in -
crease their access to food. She is 
working with the HDH director 
to install three vending machines 
(snacks, water, drinks) at Camp 
Snoopy. Moreover, the prices of 
items sold in these machines are 
cheaper than in markets. 
John Muir College Senator Daosiri Rattanamansuang in 
formed the council that her star -
ship robot delivery is not feasible 
because it will cost too much af -
ter she had a meeting with the 
HDH director. 
Lastly, VP Campus Affairs 
Isaac Lara called for the senators 
to update the student body of 
what projects everyone is work -
ing on and wants to summarize 
the work the council is doing to 
the senate. Moreover, the A.S. 
winter retreat is scheduled Week 
8 weekend and mandatory for 
assembly. The A.S. Council will 
start professional development 
workshops at the end of this 
quarter.
Week 6 
During the A.S. Council’s 
Week 6 meeting on Feb. 9, the 
senators discussed the recent up -
dates with Price Center and the 
alleged scandal with the Califor -
nia State University Chancellor. 
They also further discussed their updates about their current proj -
ects. 
First, Senator Lopez high -
lighted her project where students 
could use Minecraft to host a vir -
tual social platform to connect 
with students. Lopez hopes to 
provide students with a fun way to 
connect students, despite the pan -
demic. 
Next, Senator Samir Nomani’s 
group managed to increase the 
hours of Price Center. Starting Jan. 
14, Price Center will be open till 11 
p.m. on weekdays and weekends 
till 9 p.m.. The hope is that Price 
Center will be open until 2 a.m. 
in Spring Quarter. Furthermore, 
UCAB is looking for ideas of how 
to spend their special project fund.
Senator Eng was just appointed 
to Executive Director of Campus 
Performances and the Event Office 
Search Committee and is looking 
for an Executive Director for Per -
formance Arts to handle all things 
related to the amphitheater. ▶ ASSOCIATED STUDENTS , from page 1
▶ GOVERNMENT , from page 1Lastly, Arts and Humani -
ties Senator Callahan mentioned 
that the “CSU Chancellor, Joseph 
Castro, is under fire over his han -
dling of sexual harassment al -
legations.” He allegedly handled 
questionable behavior by the for -
mer president of student affairs 
by allowing him to quietly retire 
and providing him a glowing let -
ter of recommendation. There 
have been many sexual scandals, 
especially involving the sorority 
and fraternity life at CSU Fres -
no, but the Chancellor has done 
nothing about it. 
A.S. Council meetings take 
place at 6 p.m. every Wednes -
day and are open to students. 
Students can participate in these 
meetings by joining the Zoom 
link or joining on Facebook Live. 
However, the legislative report 
has made it a point to note that 
UC is in a unique position due to 
the pandemic so the state may
Art courtesy of Ava Bayley for UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
want to lean in their favor this 
year.
The state versus UC discon -
nect has affected students at 
UC San Diego as well. Around 
8 percent of the student body 
of undergraduates are non-res -
idents of California. Although 
the state wants UC to reduce 
the number of out-of-state stu -
dents and UC hasn’t followed 
through, Rachel Dotzler, a 
Roger Revelle College junior at 
UCSD from Texas, agrees with 
the state.
“My doctor actually told me 
about this plan that the state 
had and insisted that I must 
have been exceptionally smart 
because I enrolled in UCSD 
from Texas. I think that the 
state’s plan will make UC’s look 
more competitive, reduce the 
acceptance rate, and only take 
exceptional out-of-state stu -
dents which will enhance the 
student body of UCSD. I think 
UC’s should follow through 
with this plan,” Dotzler stated. 
Many students were unaware 
of the governor’s proposal but 
upon learning about it, were 
quickly in agreement. Con -
stance Wu, a Sixth College ju -
nior, believes that the addition -
al funding will help students on 
campus and provide them with 
many additional resources.
“I was almost unable to se -
cure on-campus housing this 
year because of the limited 
availability of housing but high 
number of incoming students. 
If the governor’s plan allows 
UCSD to improve that, then I’m 
all for it,” Wu stated. 
Gender Bias in the Workplace
A recent study conducted by 
the Rady School of Management 
at UC San Diego researched the 
prevalence of gender bias in the 
workplace regarding hiring prac -
tices in terms of being consid -
ered “overqualified.” The study, 
published by Elizabeth Lauren 
Campbell and Oliver Hahl, ex -
plored how women with high 
levels of experience and qualifica -
tions enter careers and positions 
where they often compete with 
men of lower qualifications.
The issue of overqualification 
is highlighted in the research, 
which demonstrates that a wom -
an’s achievements and successes 
are often diminished in compari -son to men. 
The gap between men and 
women in the workplace has been 
a recurring issue that the U.S. has 
faced for decades. A prominent is -
sue is the wage gap that continues 
to exist. In a 2020 study published 
by the Pew Research Center, it 
was found that women made 84 
percent of what men made.
The wage gap shows a lack of 
how women are being valued for 
their achievements and efforts. 
The education and experience 
that women acquire and hold are 
not being translated to a tangible 
salary that reflects their work.
Although women are more 
likely to be enrolled in college and graduate than men, the gap in 
the workplace persists. With 
more educated and qualified 
women entering the workforce 
every year, the gap threatens 
to ever slightly close. The is -
sue arises when stereotypes 
continue to influence hiring 
practices.
For students at UC San Di -
ego,
In 2016, The San Diego 
Union Tribune reported that 
UC San Diego enrolled more 
women in science, technology, 
engineering, and math than 
other prominent universities 
in the U.S. GENDER
By Rodrigo Gutierrez  STAFF WRITER
Art courtesy of Angela Liang for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Raymond Tran
On Feb. 5, Nora Lum, more 
famously known as Awkwafina, 
released four screenshots of her 
notes app on Twitter to address 
criticism surrounding her use 
of African-American Vernacular 
English (AAVE). Her written 
statement consisted of a total 
of 347 words and not one of 
them was “sorry.” Twitter user @
theNiaLangley summed it best 
when she tweeted: “You see no 
apology because Nora is not 
sorry.” 
This isn’t the first instance 
where Lum failed to adequately 
address her use of AAVE — in 
an interview with CinemaBlend 
during the “Shang-Chi” press 
tour, the actor was asked to 
address comments surrounding 
her mannerisms and vernacular. 
She struggled to formulate 
a coherent answer, telling 
Reuters that she’s “open to the 
conversation” and that the topic 
is “really something that is a bit 
multi-faceted and layered.” Her 
response can perhaps be best 
likened to the viral video of the 
“have you ever had a dream” kid 
— both child icon and comedian 
stammer their way through wisps 
of underdeveloped thought and 
emerge from their speech with a 
stifled pleased side grin, as if to 
say “yeah, I nailed that.” 
Her tweet (and the refusal 
to recognize her statement 
as an apology is deliberate) 
similarly follows this familiar 
vein of deflection. Within the 
first page of her statement, Lum 
immediately opens up on the 
defense and attempts to deflect 
accountability under the false 
premise that people of color 
are not capable of taking part 
in cultural appropriation — 
which is simply not true. She 
explicitly places an emphasis on 
“dominant” by placing asterisks 
on both ends of the word, writing 
that the African American 
community have “historically 
and routinely seen their culture stolen, exploited and 
appropriated by the *dominant* 
culture” (referring to white 
people) in a feeble pursuit to 
bypass her own appropriative 
behavior as an Asian American 
woman.  
Lum has an extensive 
documented history of donning 
Black culture to dress her 
comedic and acting roles, 
swathed tightly within the 
persona she constructed for 
herself as Awkwafina until that 
character no longer serves to 
benefit her professional career. 
Her appropriation of AAVE is 
evidently interwoven within 
the very fabric of her most 
prominent roles, with characters 
Peik Lin in “Crazy Rich Asians” 
and Constance in “Ocean’s 8” 
most famously epitomizing this 
phenomenon. 
“I’m not like her at all,” Lum 
said to The New Yorker’s Jiayang 
Fan in reference to her character 
Peik Lin, who can be observed 
adopting an exaggerated version 
of the “blaccent” throughout the 
film. “You gon’ roll up to that 
weddin’ and be like ‘bawk bawk, 
bitch,” Peik Lin advises Rachael 
in one particularly resonating 
scene, employing a loose wrist, 
and bobbing neck and index in 
order to cement her point. In the 
same interview, she compares 
both herself and her character 
Constance to be “scrappy, die-
hard hustler[s] from Queens.” 
And this is the bedrock upon 
which Lum was able to formulate 
a context that partially alleviated 
her from repercussions of her 
cultural exploitation: Awkwafina 
plays into the trope of a struggling 
immigrant who grew up in the 
“hood” in order to explain her 
inconsistent vernacular. In her 
Twitter statement, she repeats 
this excuse, writing, “My 
immigrant background allowed 
me to carve an American identity 
off the movies and tv shows I 
watched, the children I went 
to public school with, and my 
undying love and respect for hip 
hop.” Lum’s hometown of Stony 
Brooks boasts an impressive 
population statistic of 86.83% white, 9.41% Asian, and 2.25% 
Black. 
In her Vulture article “Who 
Really Owns the ‘Blaccent’?,” 
Lauren Michele Jackson 
succinctly explains how 
Lum is able to find success 
through her specific caricature 
of black culture: “certain 
profiles borderline fetishize 
the Awkwafina backstory, 
as if the idea that an Asian-
American woman who grew 
up in Forest Hills [...] loves 
rap is too absurd to be true.” 
There certainly exists a strange 
cultural sensation inevitably 
waiting to be had at the sight of 
an Asian American immigrant 
attempting to model a culture 
that is often perceived to be its 
direct antithesis in regards to the 
ethnic stereotypes (needless to 
say, both categorizations uphold 
white supremist values, and 
there are more nuances within 
this thread of conversation than 
the length of my rambling article 
allows). 
But unlike Lum, Black 
people cannot stop the way their 
physical appearance alters the 
way they are perceived, cannot 
stop being Black, when their next 
potential roles call for a more 
serious deposition — a coded 
and problematic association 
in itself. They must, for the 
reminder of their lives, exist 
under the ceaseless panopticon 
of social oppression that is 
signified by their skin tone. The 
hyperbolic exaggeration of black 
culture by non-black individuals 
relies on the premise that the 
very existence of Black people is 
the punchline. Their vernacular, 
body language, and culture, are 
made mockery of by those like 
Nora Lum who reap the benefits 
from this appropriation, whether 
or not the motive to imitate was 
set in malice. 
Richard Schur further 
explores the concept of cultural 
colonialism in Duke University 
Press’s journal in “Are You 
Entertained? Black Popular 
Culture in the Twenty-First 
Century,” where he writes 
that the “consumption [of African American culture] 
has not necessarily translated 
into either improved cross-
cultural communication or 
enhanced status or wealth for 
many African Americans.” 
Former “American Bandstand” 
(a teenage television program 
that aired from the 1950s to the 
1980s) dancer Jimmy Peatross 
recalls his own experience as a 
Black man in the entertainment 
industry. Peatross grappled 
with the disparities between 
the mainstream enjoyment of 
black culture from non-black 
communities and the effective 
erasure of the culture’s origins, 
stating “young America watched 
and danced with enthusiasm, 
oblivious to the debt of gratitude 
owed to the black community.” 
But the gravity of cultural 
appropriation, the magnitude 
of the racial effacement doesn’t 
stop there. Namely, this echoing 
historical pattern has, and 
continues to, actively exploit 
black cultural practices and 
labor for profit. In his song “The 
Anthem,” Eminem wrote “I 
am the worst thing since Elvis 
Presley / to do black music so 
selfishly / and used it to get 
myself wealthy / Hey, there’s a 
concept that works.” Here, he 
explicitly references  artists 
like Presley who regularly stole 
from black artists without 
facing retributions for his 
appropriation, and admits his 
own complacency within this 
long-standing dynamic.
It was actually “Big Mama” 
Thornton who first recorded 
the hit “Hound Dog” before it 
became popularized by Elvis. 
Bob Marley wrote “I Shot the 
Sheriff” in 1973, a full year 
before Eric Clapton re-recorded 
and garnered acclaim for the 
track. A fourteen-year-old 
African American dancer from 
Atlanta named Jalaiah Harmon 
is the original choreographer of 
the Renegade, one of the biggest 
dance trends ever created on the 
internet — but none of them 
received proper recognition in 
the public eye. And the list goes 
on and on and on.Lum had years to draft a 
decent apology and the best 
response she was able to give 
to the Black community was 
four screenshots of her iPhone 
notes app that failed to reach the 
actual thesis or touch productive 
discourse beyond the most 
basic surface level observations 
about the experiences of Black 
people living in America. Nora, 
yes, obviously the African 
American community is 
disproportionately affected by 
institutionalized policies — 
how have you, intentionally or 
not, upheld those standards? 
How does anti-blackness in 
the Asian community further 
contribute to this demonization 
and fetishization of black 
culture in America? How can 
you mention that the African 
American community has 
“historically and routinely seen 
their culture stolen, exploited 
and appropriated” while 
simultaneously omitting your 
own role within this dynamic? 
In what ways have you personally 
benefited from the very same 
appropriation you write so 
venemitely about? 
Ironically, Lum concluded 
her official statement with “And 
though I’m still learning and 
doing that personal work, I know 
for sure that I want to spend the 
rest of my career doing nothing 
but uplifting our communities. 
We do this first by failing, 
learning, acknowledging, 
hearing and empathizing… And 
I will continue, tirelessly, to do 
just that.” 
A few hours before Lum 
announced her retirement 
from the “ingrown toenail 
that is Twitter,” user named @
jonahsahn responded to Lum’s 
statement with a series of tweets 
that read: “why did it take so long 
to say this, especially when you 
knew the conversation on you 
existed [...] Thanks for talking 
about it now by posting these 
screens, but who [...]  are you 
going to have *the conversation* 
with? To process all of this?” 
Lum’s response was to block him. By Hemmy Chun 
Managing Editor
Image courtesy of Getty Images.Awkwafina is Not SorryFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     NELSON  ESPINAL 
How California’s Housing and Homelessness Problem Intertwine
The Omicron surge threw plans for reopening UC San Diego in a smooth manner into disarray. Now, the housing availability crisis which 
occurred during the fall and the big issue of housing insecurity is still in the picture
As many students returned 
to campus for the fall quarter, 
the issue of housing security 
and availability arose during 
the scramble to find housing. 
With the university’s need for 
housing to reflect the COVID-19 
infection rates and living costs in 
California still remaining high, 
housing insecurity and even 
homelessness are here to stay.
UCSD already promised 
to resume putting three 
students in a dorm and adding 
700 undergraduate beds for 
the upcoming fall quarter–
something they could 
not do before because of 
social distancing purposes. 
In fact, this winter quarter 
does not offer triple housing 
for residence halls and 
apartments. The main reason 
for the lack of triples is the 
rise of the highly infectious 
Omicron virus cases but with 
falling infection rates, the 
need for ample housing near 
campus is more vital than ever.
The hope for students 
is that with a complex of 
2,000 more beds coming 
onto campus in 2023, more 
relief can come for those who 
need on-campus housing–
although even these spaces 
don’t fully take into account 
the increasing enrollment 
into UC campuses.
As of Winter 2022, there 
are a total of 40,873 students, 
which is a rise of more than a 
couple thousand from Winter 
2020. This is unprecedented 
because the year 2035–not 
this one– had expected to 
see this amount of students.
The issue of homelessness 
also plays a role in the housing 
situation in California. The view 
on those who lack and or cannot 
afford proper housing may be 
through a more sympathetic 
lens than the perception of the 
homeless population. However, 
the issues can and do intertwine. 
After all, homelessness is 
related to very severe housing 
insecurity; the lack of affordable 
housing and other issues also 
fall under housing insecurity. 
Moreover, homelessness–
perhaps not commonly on UCSD 
campus but in general–  increased 
even before COVID-19 with 
California consistently being home 
to the most homeless individuals 
and the nation having more than 
580,000 homeless individuals 
in a single night of 2020.
Governor Gavin Newsom 
presented a plan that addresses 
vulnerable, homeless individuals, 
promising  an extra $2 billion 
to a plan for mental health 
housing and services and clearing 
encampments. This is on top of a 
$12 billion package for 55,000 new 
housing units and treatment slots. 
Due to COVID-19 and 
the concern of the unsheltered 
population, more attention 
focused on these financial 
packages. But much homeless 
assistance functions on the local 
level to accommodate the different 
communities’ needs and there is a risk of these investments 
not succeeding without 
strict goals of sheltering 
homeless individuals.
 Unsurprisingly, being of a 
low-income household is just 
one of the factors that can 
propel one to housing insecurity 
and homelessness. Low-income 
Californians for one can end 
up spending more than half 
their income on housing.
In UC’s booklet of 
improving student basic needs, 
the price of a California home is 
much higher than the national 
average and UC campuses are 
located in coastal areas where 
real estate prices are the priciest 
in California. There is also no 
new financial aid to help cover 
the cost increases of on-campus 
housing and the maintenance 
of a home such as amenities. 
Despite this aid, what 
is striking is how there can 
be different perceptions on 
homelessness and varying 
incomes based on those with 
different political leanings.
For instance, national 
correspondent Philip Bump 
of the Washington Post says 
that Trump connected issues 
like homelessness to his 
political opponents. Blue-state 
major cities did notably see 
the homeless population rise 
while in red states, major city 
numbers dropped–California, 
for example, possesses the 
largest homeless population. 
This, however, didn’t take 
into consideration how 
homelessness is more visible in 
big city states or how statistics 
of homelessness in rural 
states may not be represented 
as properly as urban states 
especially amidst COVID.
According to a 2017 Pew 
Research article, there are 
partisan differences in 
perceptions over what makes 
someone rich or poor. For 
example, Republicans are 
more likely to say that one is 
poor due to a lack of effort 
than circumstances they 
weren’t in control of while 
an immense majority of Democrats say that one being 
poor is tied to circumstances 
beyond their control; both 
groups also saw one being rich 
based on efforts versus having 
more advantages differently. 
In the 2018 findings, the 
results were similar as almost 
half of Republican groups 
dubbed those poor due to lack 
of effort than 31% who said 
that they were circumstances 
beyond control while in 2017, 
it was 56% to 32%. While 
these partisan differences are 
notable, there are also different 
perspectives based on gender, 
varying incomes, and more. 
This data is intriguing 
because it can explain how 
many attribute homelessness 
to one’s own personal 
shortcomings while others 
emphasize the effect factors 
like mental health or housing 
crises have on the homeless.
Interestingly enough, 
findings point to how housing 
availability was the primary 
predictor of the subsequent 
ability to avoid homelessness. 
Better services reduced the risk of 
homelessness if housing was also 
available, according to research 
and experiments done to test 
the effectiveness of housing 
and service interventions 
for the homeless with severe 
mental health problems.
 This is in contrast to 
many who solely attribute 
homelessness to substance abuse 
and mental health problems. 
When one views homelessness 
in terms of affordable housing, 
there can be a more sympathetic 
perspective that relieves 
some responsibility from the 
homeless individual’s character.
Because homelessness 
has a link to criminal justice 
involvement, substance abuse 
and mental health issues, the 
perception of them may not be as 
sympathetic as for a struggling 
student. However, it might be 
notable to see how the chances 
of chronic homelessness increase 
with vulnerable statuses such as 
poverty, former incarceration 
status, and housing issues as well.  According to UCLA Law 
Review, individuals need a safe 
and stable home first, then a 
focus on mental health services. 
For instance, as stated in the 
work, one who is “chronically 
homeless” or homeless for more 
than a year is more likely to 
experience mental health 
issues and involvement with 
the justice system than those 
who struggle with homelessness 
on an intermittent basis. 
Homelessness can wreak havoc 
on one’s feelings of stability.
The concept of not having 
physical stability can apply to 
students as well, with an improper 
living situation translating 
into a plethora of problems.
“Housing costs are the highest 
contributor to student debt and 
among the most significant 
contributing factors to students’ 
unstable and unhealthy basic 
needs experience,” the University 
of California’s booklet on 
improving student basic needs 
from 2020 goes. “In general…
financial aid funding has not 
kept pace with the rise in both 
on-and off-campus housing.”
Thus, housing and food 
insecurity–which go hand-
in-hand– affect individuals’ 
mental health among other 
things like student GPA. But 
getting to the root of the issue 
before homelessness enters 
can be life-changing and this 
includes confronting problems 
like limited kitchen access to 
unsafe or far housing conditions. 
However, once costs enter the 
picture, choices become limited 
as to what an individual can 
do to lessen the burdens of a 
far, taxing commute or a more 
roommate-packed environment 
when these options also help 
one save money or rent costs. 
If one is in dire need of 
emergency housing on campus 
at UCSD, they may rely on 
Basic Needs. The process begins 
when one fills out a Basic Needs 
Assistance form but they may 
also email basicneeds@ucsd.
edu for temporary housing.
In the less severe scenario, a 
student who needs housing could By Eunice Kim 
Contributing Writerfind some solace in affordable 
off-campus housing with the help 
of an overview presented by the 
San Diego Housing Commission 
(SDHC) and consultations.
But ultimately, these sources 
just don’t take away how San 
Diego rent and housing costs 
are known to be very high, 
especially in the La Jolla area. 
Housing close to campus is 
attractive and cuts on commute 
time, but it proves to be higher in 
costs than off-campus housing. 
Sean Read, a chief program 
officer at  a non-profit called 
Friendship Place that aids 
homeless individuals, states 
that homelessness is generally 
a delayed response to economic 
issues. Government aid 
for housing could still be 
insufficient for someone 
to have a home the next 
year or so. Similarly, a 
student who cannot afford 
housing may eventually 
find themselves living in 
their car for a bit or couch-
surfing before they are 
able to access Basic Needs.
Still, by June 2025, one of 
the goals for UC Basic Needs 
is to reduce the proportion 
of undergraduate students 
who have experienced 
housing insecurity or non-
permanent housing–in this 
case– by 50%. Another aim 
is to reduce the proportion of 
graduate students who have 
experienced homelessness 
by the same percentage. 
Factors like being a foster 
youth, LGBTQ+, or low-
income affect one’s chances 
of being homeless even more.
On another brighter 
note, according to UCSD 
Associated Students 
(ASUCSD), their Instagram 
states that the University 
Community Planning Group 
(UCPG) established authority 
over land use in University City. 
For instance, it has limited high-
density housing projects such 
as apartments near campus 
for the past few decades. 
The University Community 
Planning Group (UCPG) is an 
organization that represents 
North and South University in 
the City of San Diego’s planning 
process; they have been holding 
meetings every month, with 
UCSD also participating in 
their meetings that involve 
the area near campus.
Thus, if one lives off campus 
or lives in the University City, 
ASUCSD states that they could 
register to become a member of 
the UCPG by February 7th and 
vote for student representatives 
that can address the housing 
crisis so that they have more of 
a voice in the housing matter. 
The root causes of one’s 
predicament isn’t always clear. 
Being sympathetic about it isn’t 
a necessity, but seeing the real 
picture is. Housing insecurity 
such as bearing the weight of 
expensive housing isn’t mutually 
exclusive with homelessness. 
Ultimately, a lack of stability 
is impactful and cyclical as 
it leads to more issues for the 
individuals such as mental health 
problems and financial crises.
Image courtesy of Steven Wei on Unsplash.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ELIAS ROMAN
Once upon a Time in L.A.: 
a Nightmare 
These are the words exchanged between myself and a security guard with an empty look 
in her eyes. The crowd stands around me taking in the news, some oblivious and some de -
sensitized. Street politics, loud music, an overabundance of alcohol, and violence: these are 
scenes all too familiar to some in the crowd. Police helicopters use their searchlights to look 
for the suspect while the crowd dances and waits for Snoop to perform. I haven’t stopped 
thinking about whether that was normal. Slowly the air of a crime scene begins to set in as 
more and more people rush out through the gates. Slain was Darrell Caldwell — though 
many of us remember him as Drakeo The Ruler. 
Drakeo was LA ’s own, a one of one artist, engineering a new rap sound he called “nervous 
music. ” He maintained authenticity through his distinctive and stand-out sound, while still 
incorporating a West Coast rap flavor — if you know, you know. He was a trailblazer who, 
at the young age of 28, was setting the stage for a career as an underground legend. Drakeo 
never itched or feigned for the mainstream; the mainstream craved him. His discography 
is mixed with features from Drake to Saweetie. “I saved California Rap, you can thank me 
later, ” he rapped on his newest album, critically acclaimed for the cleverness of his cadence, 
a style which he called “Lingo Bingo. ” On Dec. 18, 2021, Drakeo was set to perform in front 
of a hometown crowd of thousands and declare himself as next-in-line for LA ’s rap throne. 
This moment of triumph would come just a few months after he sat in solitary confinement 
for faulty charges he was acquitted for.
It was supposed to be a good day. Gente, music, and cross-generational hip-hop legends 
on every stage. The ambience of the event was aligned with its name, “Once Upon a Time 
in LA, ” a Westside day dream. Pioneers in rap like E-40, Ice Cube, Warren G, and 2Short 
performed next to and in between legends like Brenton Wood, Delfonics, and Al Green. 
No doubt, the festival was culturally dedicated to bringing alive lowrider soundtracks that 
blasted out stereos from East L.A. to the Bay in the ‘70s, ‘80s, and ‘90s. This soundtrack is the 
synchronicity of gangster rap and soul. The event's attendees were likely the descendants of, 
or themselves members of these communities, the majority of whom would be Black and/
or Latinx. There was a particular comfort to be felt among those of us who have grown up 
attending car shows or big family barbecues at the park, just waiting for the sun to go down. 
And then the sun came down. In a matter of moments, our collective daydream turned 
into a horrible nightmare. Gang violence, a monster which transcends dreams and haunts 
our reality, terrorized our night once more. 
An article published online by Los Angeles Magazine, “The Assassination of Drakeo the 
Ruler, ” finally put an appropriate name to what happened to the young artist at the festival 
in December. The article was written by journalist-turned-friend and witness of Drakeo’s 
murder, Jeff Weiss. Weiss' work recounting Drakeo’s murder is a powerful yet painful piece 
that serves justice to Drakeo in ways that transcend the punitive carceral system, a system 
that took so much of Drakeo’s life away before his passing. Weiss tells Drakeo’s holistic life 
story as a resilient artist whose success couldn’t absolve him from the disease of gangs, both 
institutional and street. Drakeo mastered the complex art form of rapping but wouldn’t for -
mally declare a set in LA, painting a target on his back as a result — not just by street gangs 
but also by the Los Angeles Police Department.Drakeo was faced with adversity on both sides of the prison cell at the hands 
of street gangs, poverty, and cops, a trap that is much too common among our 
inner city youth. In an interview with Rolling Stone, Drakeo’s mother told the 
world that “he planned to do so much, ” as she recounts her son’s character as a 
provider. “He wanted to help the homeless and do something for children who 
were needy. And he wanted to take care of his family … Darrell wanted to help 
everybody. ” 
Drakeo the Ruler fell victim to a violent gang ambush as he was minutes away 
from performing his set. He was fatally assaulted, dying from a knife wound 
that night. The assaulters were young men, gang affiliates. I won’t get into why, 
because, as Weiss stated, ”no one is an expert on gangs but its members. ” Drakeo 
the Ruler’s life as a young icon was cut short, taking the breath of life out of a new 
uniquely-Cali style of rap, as well as a rapper who many from LA looked at with 
pride and respect. A father, a son, but most importantly, a precious human life 
taken senselessly and too soon in a place we expected to find refuge and safety. 
In present times, culture and community serve as a saving grace for those who 
find themselves most vulnerable to the implications of a global pandemic. Once 
Upon A Time music festival in 2021 transported attendees into the past, only to 
then snap them back to reality. 
Gang violence and other issues of poverty and disenfranchisement create a 
“dual pandemic” for Black, Indigineous, and other racialized people. The tragic 
loss of Drakeo the Ruler is a symptom of these conditions. We should treat gang 
violence like COVID-19, as a public threat destabilizing these communities. If 
we follow the thread from Drakeo’s murder to gang violence, it will only be a 
matter of time before we find root issues like poverty, lack of education, racism, 
and organized abandonment as fellow conspirators to the rapper’s murder. 
I write this as I reflect on beating the odds as a first-gen, Chicanx, poor 
daughter of two ex-gang affiliates. What did it take? Drakeo’s death is a painful 
reminder of how much work is left to do to solve these issues and other forms 
of intergenerational harm. I don’t intend to prescribe the solutions to stop this 
kind of tragedy from happening again or to suggest that there is even one single 
solution. I trust that I will not have to, given the growing nationwide movement 
to abolish the root causes of harm in order to achieve justice in society. I’m con -
fident such solutions must be holistic and span across disciplines, with the input 
and leadership of those most affected by the issues of intergenerational violence. 
So to you, UC student, the future engineers of complex solutions, what is your 
role? For our public institutions in Cali, what is their role? For the issues collec -
tively felt most among the most oppressed, it is becoming increasingly unlikely 
that money and success will absolve you. The future of community safety and 
serenity is contingent on our actions. Still then, our efforts will only bear fruit if 
institutional power structures shift to support them. 
Rest In Peace Drakeo the Ruler.“Is the concert over?” 
''Yeah, he’s just been killed. ”
THE GUARDIAN STAFF
Image courtesy of Complex. Streaming Services Ranked
Staff Writer Kamiah Johnson ranks the most popular streaming services from Netflix to Apple 
T V.   
I think it’s safe to say that everyone has at least one streaming service they are subscribed 
to. In this day and age, streaming services have become the new norm. When talking about the 
latest show or movie coming out, our first question after hearing about it is, “What is it on?” 
to which they will reply with one of the various streaming services out there. However,not all 
streaming services are created equally. Each of these platforms have their own unique features, 
quirks, and catalog that makes them different from one another, and makes some better than 
others. As someone who has way too many streaming services for one person, I feel qualified 
to rank each one from worst to best. 
8. Peacock  
Peacock came late in the game, premiering in 2020, and has not been a favorite of mine. 
While they have classic NBC comedy shows such as “The Office,” “Parks and Recreation,” “30 
Rock,” along with some hit movies, they don’t bring enough to the table to justify paying a 
monthly subscription (especially when some of their shows can be watched on other platforms 
you most likely already have). Although they have an option to subscribe for free, you have to 
endure ads, which no one likes. They offer a plan without ads for $4.99 a month, but that still 
won’t entice people to pay for a subpar service that is already available for free. 
7. Apple TV Plus  
When Apple TV+ was first announced, I knew it was either going to be the best streaming 
service ever, or the worst one. After using it for a year, I came to the conclusion that it was the 
most neutral service out there. In terms of their Apple TV+ originals, they have some heavy 
hitters with Emmy-winning shows like “Ted Lasso” and “The Morning Show,” as well as other 
shows with big name actors such as “Defending Jacob” starring Chris Evans, and “Dickinson” 
starring Hailee Steinfeld. Even with this star-studded catalog, Apple TV+ lacks popular shows 
and movies to generate a large audience. Another downfall of Apple TV+ is their extra chan -
nels that allow you to watch shows and movies from other services like Starz, Showtime, and 
HBO, but that require separate subscriptions. It can be very misleading to those who pay for 
Apple TV+ and expect to be able watch those other shows for free. I think Apple TV+ should 
be free for those who own Apple products and paying $4.99 a month is just another way for 
Apple to take our money. 
6. Paramount Plus  
I know that Paramount+ is not high on anyone’s list of best streaming services, but it has 
a few gems that make it worthy of the number six spot on my list. Paramount has the license 
to a lot of titles that give viewers enough reason to subscribe. If you loved older MTV reality 
shows like “The Real World'' and “The Challenge,”' or if you want to relive your childhood and 
rewatch “iCarly,” then Paramount+ is the service for you. They also have big movies like “A 
Quiet Place” (I and II) that make the $12 a month worth it. Along with their $12/month plan, 
they have a $6/month plan for those who don’t mind ads. Save for revival series like “iCarly” 
or reunion specials like “Real Word: Homecoming,” they don’t have any really exciting origi -
nalsWith more original content and a more user-friendly revamp to their app interface, 
Paramount+ could be great.  6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTWith more original content and a more user-friendly revamp to their app interface, 
Paramount+ could be great. 
5. Amazon Prime Video
Amazon Prime Video is the most “non-traditional” streaming service amongst them 
due to the fact that it didn’t start out as such. A lot of people subscribed to Amazon Prime 
for the free shipping when ordering from Amazon and the streaming service was just an 
added bonus. That added bonus however, does come with some enjoyable shows. While 
other services rely on shows and movies from other places, Prime’s biggest strength is 
their original shows. Prime original programming such as “Invincible,” “Good Omens,” 
and the upcoming Lord of the Rings series, and movies like “Being the Ricardos” are the 
attention grabbers that draw in audiences. The layout of both their app and the website are 
easy to navigate, although they make it a bit hard to tell what is free to watch with Prime 
and what isn’t. A number of other shows on Prime are only available to rent. This can be 
confusing for people who assume everything on there is free to watch with their subscrip -
tion; the little Prime banner in the corner of the title isn’t enough sometimes. Other than 
that, Amazon Prime Video is worth checking out if you already have Prime. 
4. Hulu
Hulu has been around since 2007, and with each year they continue to get better and 
better. Although I don’t like ads and will avoid them at all cost, Hulu makes their ad ex -
perience bearable with their ads being short. For $6 a month ($2 a month for students) 
you have access to thousands of TV shows and movies. Many will find ads during a movie 
annoying, but I will argue that Hulu is better for watching TV. You can watch popular 
sitcoms from networks like ABC, CBS, NBC, and FX or you can keep up with live shows 
like “The Bachelor.” With their range of old and new shows and their Hulu originals, you 
will never run out of things to watch. Hulu also has a great interface that allows users to 
easily navigate TV, movies, news, and individual categories that suit their interests. If you 
don’t mind paying extra, you can upgrade to their Hulu Live TV plan that allows you to 
watch TV shows, sports, and news when they air live. Hulu offers affordable plans that suit 
everyone so your whole family can enjoy all they have to offer. 
3. Disney+
I think Disney+ was the first streaming service I was genuinely excited about launch -
ing, and taking one look at their selection explains why. Disney+ has something for ev -
eryone, making it the ultimate family-friendly choice for streaming services. They split 
everything they own into five groups: Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, and National Geo -
graphic, giving you easy access to what you came there for. Marvel and Star Wars fans can 
watch all the movies plus the Disney+ original shows that go along with them, ‘90s and 
early 2000s kids can relive their childhood with Disney Channel original movies, and kids 
can enjoy all of the newer Disney and Pixar cartoons. With no ads, $8 a month is a great 
deal for all they offer. Although Disney+ seems to be the total package, they lack original 
content that isn’t connected to an existing franchise. They rely on Marvel and Star Wars 
for original shows and I think they could greatly benefit from a completely-original show 
on that scale. I only ask Disney to add a “start from beginning” button to make it easier to 
restart a movie. 
2. HBO Max
I believe that HBO Max has the best catalog of any streaming service, but its downfall 
is its interface. Let's start with the positives: they have an amazing catalog of movies and 
shows. All HBO series like “Game of Thrones,” “The Sopranos,” “Succession,” and “Eu -
phoria” are there for our viewing pleasure. Along with HBO shows, they have the majority 
of DC live-action and animated movies, Studio Ghibli movies, Adult Swim, and Cartoon 
Network shows. Not to mention the almost never-ending list of hit movies such as The 
Matrix trilogy, The Lord of the Rings franchise and the Harry Potter franchise. HBO Max 
was not only able to bring Zack Snyder’s true vision of “Justice League” to screens with 
“Zack Snyder’s Justice League,” but they also made me very happy by making all seasons 
of “Doctor Who” available for me to binge-watch again. I could go on and on about the 
amazing selection of TV and movies they have, but what needs to be addressed is their 
interface. Navigating HBO Max is difficult for no reason, making you take extra steps to 
watch what you want. For instance, say I wanted to watch “Insecure” and I clicked on an 
episode, it would take me to an entirely-different screen where the plot synopsis is instead 
of playing that episode. Now, say you were halfway through that episode and wanted to 
start it over again. There is no “play from the beginning” button for that, so you would 
have to manually rewind it. This wouldn’t be a problem if their rewinding feature wasn’t 
terrible, but it is super inconvenient and causes you to over-rewind or fast-forward, leaving 
you fighting with the app to just stop it. If HBO Max could fix these problems, they would 
be regarded as the best streaming service. 
1. Netflix
Netflix is the best streaming service for the simple fact that it was one of the first ones. 
Netflix has evolved and grown since its creation in 1997, and it has made a name for itself 
since. Although they keep raising their pricing (now $15.50 a month), their catalog of both 
licensed and original titles continue to get better. They continue to have amazing original 
content like “Stranger Things,” “Daredevil,” “Sex Education,” and reality TV shows like 
“Too Hot to Handle” that keeps audiences coming back for more. Netflix has even become 
a streaming service known for pumping out movies such as “Marriage Story,” “Don’t Look 
Up,” “Power of the Dog,” and “Tick Tick…Boom!” Netflix also holds the crown for best 
streaming service layout. They make browsing and looking through episodes easy, the 
fast-forward and rewind functions are easy to control, and they allow you to take titles off 
of your “continue watching” if it gets too cluttered. Another feature they have that I love 
is their “play anything” feature, which picks something random for you to watch based on 
their algorithm. Netflix’s algorithm is almost scarily accurate in predicting what you like 
to watch, making the browsing experience even better. Save for their annoying autoplay 
feature that starts playing the selected title even if you don’t want it to, Netflix continues 
to bring their A-game to the streaming platform wars. Their slate of upcoming movies 
makes me excited for what they have coming, and more than willing to keep paying their 
constantly-rising prices. 
Image courtesy of TechRadar. UCSDG Album Review: 
“Laurel Hell”
Mitski returns from a two-year hiatus with a moody synth-pop album that isn’t quite sure of 
its sound, but makes up for it with her signature vulnerable lyricism.
“Laurel Hell” is Mitski’s sixth studio album, though it might not have existed today if 
she hadn’t been contractually obligated to release another album through her record label, 
Dead Oceans. She famously took an indefinite hiatus from music and social media in 2019, 
telling The Guardian in a recent interview, “It almost doesn’t matter what music I write and 
put out into the world. At the end of the day, I’m a woman in public, allowing myself to be 
consumed. I put out songs, but really what people are buying is the product that is me. ”
Despite this keen awareness of her commercialization — or perhaps, because of it — 
Mitski puts it all on the page in “Laurel Hell. ” Line after line reveals her deepest fears, wor -
ries, and regrets. She reflects on her career, most blatantly in the lead single “Working for 
the Knife. ” On it, she croons, “I used to think I would tell stories/but nobody cared for the 
stories I had about/no good guys. ” The song taps into the pain of trying to create when 
people aren’t receptive to, or are even apathetic to, one’s efforts. It also brings to the forefront 
the rocky relationship Mitski has with an audience who sees her as an icon for sad girls ev -
erywhere without stopping to consider her reluctance to be put on a pedestal.
With an ample mix of subjects, emotions, and sounds, “Laurel Hell” traverses the singer-
songwriter's diverse discography. Far from the grungy vibe of her debut album “Lush” and 
not quite as graceful as 2018’s heralded “Be The Cowboy, ” “Laurel Hell” sees Mitski taking 
her artistry in a new direction. Retro synth intros and electronic soundscapes lend the al -
bum a nostalgic feel. In contrast, toned-down tracks with minimal instrumentation show 
a more restrained side of the indie pop star. Their sounds unite them to a degree, but there 
still appear to be two distinct moods on the album — the introspective, haunting one and 
the fast-paced, vibrant one. Because of this contrast, it’s difficult to declare “Laurel Hell” the 
cohesive body of work that its masterful predecessor “Be The Cowboy” was. 
This could be due to the many changes the album underwent in the three years in which 
Mitski and longtime collaborator Patrick Hyland experimented with it, eventually landing 
on an homage to the 80s. Case in point: “The Only Heartbreaker, ” which opens with a lift -
ing beat a la “Take On Me” or “Our Lips Are Sealed” — the 2020s, sad-girl version of these 
songs’ peppy intros. Coming after the wistful “Heat Lightning, ” “The Only Heartbreaker” 
starts the album’s transition from straight-up sad songs to songs that package the same feel -
ing in a brighter, shinier box. There are dips back into melancholic territory in the album’s 
second half, with the moody “There’s Nothing Left For Y ou” and “I Guess” interrupting their 
livelier counterparts. It’s not inherently bad to have an inconsistent sound across tracks — 
an album is a multi-faceted project, after all — but this inconsistency muddles the listening 
experience as a whole. 
Although she fumbles with what she wants the album to be, Mitski retains the skillful 
lyricism that first catapulted her to fame. There is a depth given to every line, whether it’s 
describing early-morning musings on “Heat Lightning” or declaring, “Sometimes I think I 
am free/Until I find I'm back in line again” at the end of the experimental track “Everyone. ” 
Mitski detaches herself from the pains of the past by acknowledging them, staring into the 
window of memory like it’s the still pond imagined in “I Guess. ” By the end of that song, she 
seems to be thanking her tormentors — be they ex-lovers and former friends or less tangible 
foes like creative block and unconquerable feelings — for helping her realize her need to get 
away from them all. How else could she escape the album’s titular “Hell” and search for her 
slice of heaven?
“That’s Our Lamp” is a strong way to end the album. Beginning with a bouncy electronic 
beat, the track dives into Mitski’s delightful vocalizations. A sweeping disco pickup takes 
place in the middle. Drum rolls and a perpetual metal clink carry this lifted mood forward. 
Mitski’s vocals are strengthened by background sounds and voices woven with her own. 
“That’s where you loved me, ” she reminds, reminisces, reflects, again and again until the 
song ends. For once, the sentiment is not bitter or sad, but simply stating and even celebrat -
ing the place where love once existed. It is proof: love has happened, and it will happen once 
more. There was a past that wasn’t all bad. There is a future that might be better.
Grade: B+
Release Date: February 4, 2022Bailey Bujnosek STAFF WRITER
Image courtesy of Pitchfork. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 78 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SPORTS
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs UC Irvine
at UC Irvine
at Hawaii 
vs Sacramento State
vs SeattleUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W Basketball
W Basketball
Softball
Baseball7PM
7PM
9PM
7PM
1PM2/15
2/15
2/17
2/18
2/19
The 12th-ranked UC San 
Diego women’s water polo team 
saw a mixed bag of results this 
past weekend on the first day of 
the Triton Invitational, hosted 
by the Tritons at Canyonview 
Aquatic Center. UCSD had not 
played for two weeks but looked 
to build on the previous two 
wins from their most recent 
performance at the Lancer Joust. After a promising early 
win against crosstown rivals No. 
18 San Diego State University, 
the Tritons fell in the afternoon 
to No. 2 UCLA. The home side 
was then forced to look to Day 
2 of the tournament to make a 
return to winning form.
UCSD kicked off the 
weekend with a morning match-
up against SDSU that ended 
13–10 to the home side. The 
Aztecs were first to put points 
on the board just a couple of 
minutes into the first quarter, 
but sophomore utility player Annika Arroyo equalized for 
the Tritons with an effort from 
distance that skipped past the 
goaltender into the back of the 
net. A successfully-converted 
penalty shot taken by graduate 
student center Ciara Franke 
nabbed the lead for the Tritons, 
who then followed that up with 
a short-range goal taken right 
in front of the net by freshman 
center Kendall Thomas. 
The second quarter began 
with a powerful shot driven into 
the net again by Thomas just 
seconds in to put the Tritons 2 
points up, a lead that was again 
shortened by a quick-response 
goal from the visitors. Each 
team grabbed 2 more in the 
period to end the first half 6–5 
to UCSD. 
A goal by Franke gave the 
Tritons back their lead after 
the visitors pulled even early 
in the second half, the first of 4 
consecutive goals scored by the 
hosts. While the third period 
was relatively uneventful, the 
fourth was lively, with 3 of 
UCSD’s 5 goals coming from 
Thomas, whose 5 total goals 
throughout the game led the 
hosts that morning. The Tritons 
spent the last few minutes of 
the final quarter determinedly 
defending their lead and it paid 
off. Although they scored 4 
of their own, SDSU was never 
able to get a strong hold on the 
game and the morning ended in 
disappointment for the visitors. 
Throughout the game, SDSU 
was chasing the lead the hosts 
snatched from them early in the 
first period, but were unable to 
pull back ahead at any point in the game despite equalizing 
a few minutes into the second 
half. Although they finished 
with a relatively narrow lead, the 
game decided by only 3 points, 
the morning was controlled by 
the Tritons and it looked to be a 
promising start to the weekend 
for them. 
Unfortunately, they were 
unable to replicate that result 
in their afternoon tie against 
UCLA; the 13–6 loss was a less-
than-ideal way to head into the 
second day of the tournament.
The home side began the 
afternoon positively, carrying 
their momentum from the 
morning to put the first points 
on the board. Franke continued 
her strong performance from 
the morning to push a skipped 
shot past the Bruins keeper 
early in the first period, then 
doubled the Tritons’ lead with 
another goal just a few minutes 
later. A goal tossed over the 
home keeper by UCLA’s Molly 
Renner got the visitors back 
into the game as the last goal 
of the first period. After the 
break, a penalty, again scored 
by Franke, was the only point 
for either team in the second 
quarter, sending the game to 
half with the Tritons in the lead 
3–1.
Despite their promising 
start, the Tritons completely 
lost their grip on the game in 
the second half, conceding 6 
goals in the third quarter to 
allow the invigorated Bruins to 
flip the home side’s hard-earned 
3–1 lead to a 7–5 deficit. A 
goal each from freshman utility 
player Lucia Doak, who had also scored twice in the morning, 
and junior center Grayson 
Mix broke up the barrage of 
attacks on the hosts’ goal, but 
the Tritons were never able to 
regain the lead they enjoyed in 
the first half.
The final period was also 
high scoring for the visitors, 
who again put 6 points on the 
board to widen their lead. The 
only goal for UCSD, scored by 
Lucia Doak for her second of 
the game, broke UCLA’s 3-goal 
streak, but was followed by 
another trio of points for the 
Bruins. Though they doggedly 
maintained an attacking 
mindset down to the full-time 
buzzer, UCSD was limited to 
the one goal in the final period, 
the afternoon ending 13–6 in 
the Bruins’ favor.
It would seem that the 
halftime pep-talk in the UCLA 
camp proved exceedingly 
motivating, as the visitors 
came out of the gate with an 
extra determination to wrest 
back control of the game, and 
it proved to be too much for the 
Tritons. Though they put in an 
impressive shift in the first half, 
UCSD was unable to keep up 
with the near-constant assault 
on their goal and the day ended 
in disappointment. 
After that pair of results on 
Saturday, UCSD was slated to 
play UC Davis the next day. 
They hoped to put this loss 
against UCLA behind them 
and get back to their winning 
ways on Sunday to end the 
tournament on a high note.Women’s Water Polo 
Splits Saturday Double -
header at Triton 
Invitational
Two weeks after UFC 270: 
Ngannou vs. Gane, the UFC 
came back with one of their 
Fight Night cards. These cards 
serve as a showcase for young 
talent and veterans alike who 
want to rise the ranks. Most 
prospects make their debuts on 
these cards, eventually making 
their way up main event slots 
on Fight Night or on the main 
card of a pay-per-view (PPV) 
event. The main event for these 
showcase Fight Nights feature 
rank fighters attempting to use 
the main event slot and parlay 
it into a title shot or a No. 1 
contender fight. 
Jack Hermansson and 
Sean Strickland vied for a 
spot in the title picture at the 
middleweight division, with 
the champion Israel Adesanya 
fighting Robert Whittaker in 
the following week. The title 
picture at middleweight is 
confusing, with Whittaker and 
Adesanya already beating most 
contenders. At No. 2, Marvin 
Vettori lost to the champion 
twice already, making a third 
fight very far away. No. 3 and 
No. 4 Derrick Brunson and 
Jarred Cannoier are fighting 
for a title shot in UFC 271, 
but they already lost to the 
champion and Whittaker. This 
leaves No. 6, Hermansson and 
No. 7, Strickland providing 
fresh blood for whoever wins 
the middleweight crown at UFC 
271: Adesanya vs. Whittaker 2. 
The Fight Night card also 
featured a few interesting 
prospects fighting each other, 
trying to work their way up from 
prospect status to contender. What was at stake?
Sean Strickland and Jack 
Hermansson entered with 
winning streaks. Strickland 
was riding a 7-fight win streak 
with him building his way up 
the rankings into the #7 spot. 
He fought at welterweight years 
ago, but after a devastating 
motorcycle accident, he entered 
middleweight and has been on a 
run ever since. Now, Stickland, 
coming off a main event win 
against Uriah Hall, tried to 
continue the momentum going 
into the Joker. 
Hermansson came in 
following a win against one 
of my favorite prospects — 
who may never realize his 
potential — Edmen Shabazyan. 
In the fight, Hermansson 
displayed wrestling chops 
with good ground-and-pound 
alongside good control on top. 
Hermansson has constantly 
been one fight away from 
the title, losing against top 5 
contenders Marvin Vettori and 
Jarred Cannonier whenever he 
got the main event slot. 
Such disappointments 
placed a lot of pressure on 
the Norwegian, especially 
considering his unwillingness 
to garner any attention from a 
part of the MMA community. 
Jack is a nice guy, hard working, 
and committed to his dream 
of becoming champion, but he 
does little to market himself as 
a personality. His personality 
is similar to any average UFC 
fighter’s desire of becoming 
champion. To earn that title 
shot, it takes either a long, 
impressive resume of wins or 
a personality that inspires fans. 
Strickland’s polarizing 
appeal created an opportunity 
for him to step into a title shot. 
Hermansson probably needed another win after this one to 
enter the title picture firmly, 
given his rollercoaster of 
contendership. 
In the co-main event, 
Nick Maximov faced Puna 
Soriano. Maximov trains out 
of the Nick Diaz Academy 
in Stockton, California. The 
Northern California fighter 
was a credentialed wrestler out 
of Oregon with a brown belt 
in jiu jitsu. His alliance with 
the Diaz brothers makes him 
a fighter to follow. Soriano, on 
the other hand, trains out of the 
same gym as Francis Ngannou, 
with Xtreme Couture. Soriano 
won his first two fights in the 
UFC, notably beating prospect 
Dusko Tudorovic. Soriano is a 
power puncher with a good deal 
of momentum in his favor at 
the middleweight division. Both 
Soriano and Maximov entered 
unranked and with the chance 
of impressing at the co-main 
slot. 
While these two fights 
filled out the top of the Fight 
Night card, the hardcore’s 
main event featured one of 
the most promising prospects 
in the entire UFC; Shavkat 
Rakhmonov. Rakhmonov faced 
another prospect, Charleston 
Harris, not as well-known, but 
an interesting test nonetheless. 
Harris packs a mean punch 
along with a well rounded game 
as well. While most believers in 
Rakhmonov felt this fight would 
end up as a showcase, other 
experts thought it would be a 
rough test, not one Rakhmonov 
or others should simply brush 
off. A win by either fighter 
would place them very near 
the rankings, with Rakhmonov 
finally fighting a rank fighter 
and getting tested in a much 
more serious fashion. Harris had the chance to also enter 
the rankings or generate some 
serious momentum against 
such an established fighter. 
What happened?
Sean Strickland def. Jack 
Hermansson via split decision 
(49–46, 47–48, 49–46)
In the first round of the main 
event, Hermansson peppered 
Strickland with leg kicks along 
with a few takedown attempts 
early on. Strickland defended 
both attempts very well, getting 
an underhook and keeping 
himself balanced. Whenever 
Sean wanted to hit Jack with a 
jab, it was open the entire fight. 
In a close round, Strickland 
won the round with the jab and 
the combos as well.
He displayed a good balance 
of body punches along with 
targeting the head as well. 
Throughout all 8 takedowns 
attempts in the fight, Strickland 
defended all of them, showcasing 
a real ability to stuff takedowns 
at will. The first round was 
essentially how the rest of the 
fight played out, with a repeat 
of failed takedowns and plenty 
of success for Strickland’s jab. 
Hermansson was never going to 
win without taking the fight to 
the ground; his striking game 
was just not good enough to hang with Strickland. Not only 
can Strickland hit fighters, he 
can also avoid strikes as well. 
He defended around 70% of 
Hermansson’s head strikes in 
the fight. His range control and 
defense can provide any fighter 
with problems, Hermansson 
especially. 
Uncharacteristic of 
Stickland, he never quite turned 
it on in the fight, doing enough 
to win all of the rounds with 
the jab, but he never traded 
with Hermansson and looked 
for a knockout. A ho-hum 
performance which puts him 
into the title picture, but not 
necessarily a title contender. 
Nick Maximov def. Punahele 
Soriano via split decision (28–
29, 30–27, 29–28)
In the co-main, Nick 
Maximov squared off against 
Puna Soriano. The fight was 
an interesting style match-up 
which favored Maximov. Nick 
has a really good ability to take 
a punch with his zombie-like 
chin along with his ability to 
wrestle and grapple. Soriano 
has a lot of power and can cause 
damage for an opponent who 
likes to stand and trade. By Nelson Espinal
Features EditorUFC Fight Night Recap: Hermansson vs. StricklandBy Emer Nolan 
Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego. 
Image courtesy of UFC.For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org