MUSIC CORE
IN SAN DIEGO
Missing the feeling of 
live music? Check out 
Lifestyle’s piece to see 
local attractions around the 
San Diego area that can 
quench your thirst! 
BATMAN RETURNS
AM I PERFECT?“The Batman”: Saving the Superhero 
Genre
Perfection is an Unattainable GoalA & E,  Page   7
FEATURES,  Page  6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Perfectionism is a self-
destructive and addictive 
belief system that fuels 
this primary thought: If 
I look perfect, and do 
everything perfectly, I 
can avoid or minimize the 
painful feelings of shame, 
judgment, and blame,”
- DR. BRENE BROWN
FEATURES, PAGE 6LIFESTYLE,   PAGE  8
MONDAY 
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY 
H 21 L 11
IMAGE COURTESY OF VISHNU NAIR.IMAGE COURTESY OF VISHNU NAIR.
TUESDAY 
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
HOUSING......................2
HOMOPHOBIA..............4EUPHORIA....................5MUSIC VENUES............8UCSD VS. HAWAII.........9VOLUME 55, ISSUE 20   MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2022  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Updates About 
On-Campus Housing 
Selection Procedures 
for Next Year School HOUSING
By Nikita Cardozo
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
UC San Diego’s on-campus 
housing procedures for the up-
coming school year include the 
p
riority of students housed and 
the addition of new buildings. In January, an eligibility email was sent to students that informed them of the process to apply for on-campus housing for the up -
coming 2022-2023 academic year. P
riority for UCSD students is 
ranked as follows: 
1.
 S
cholars in UCSD programs 
that have guaranteed four 
years of housing or are man -
dated living on campus as co
ndition of their offer;
2.
 N
ew incoming first-year and 
transfer students;
3.
 R
eturning second-year stu -
dents, including second-year t
ransfers who lived on-cam -
pus for at least two of three q
uarters during the 2021-22 
academic year;
4.
 R
emaining second-year stu-
dents, including second-year t
ransfer students;
5.
 R
emaining third and fourth 
year students.
UCSD housing expects to be 
able to provide housing for groups 1 and 2, and some students from group 3. There are approximately 13,000 beds available to under -
graduate students at UCSD, ac-cording to Associate Director of U
niversity Communications Les -
lie Sepuka.
S
epuka noted that “UC San 
Diego was able to add 700 un -
dergraduate beds to the housing in
ventory for the 2022-2023 aca -
demic year by providing a limited n
umber of triples. UCSD has in-
creased its undergraduate housing c
apacity by more than 72 percent 
(more than 5,000 beds) since the fall of 2010, but there is still tre -
mendous demand for student h
ousing. ”
Sepuka also claims that “by 
providing financial aid, building additional student housing, and providing housing at a cheaper rate than the local rental market, UCSD has tried to provide as many benefits for students as pos -
sible. ”
Th
e Theater District Living 
Learning Neighborhood will pro-vide housing for an additional 2,000 un
dergraduate students 
when it opens in 2023. Further -
more, the University of California R
egents approved new housing 
for approximately 1,310 transfer INSTITUTION
On Feb. 24, UC San Diego announced that the Biomedical Library was renamed to the Sally T. WongAvery Library, after UCSD alumna 
and donor Sally T. WongAvery. UCSD Library offi -
cials have begun the process of gradually introducing t
he new name.
“We’re really working towards a recognition event 
on April 23, […] but students will see name changes starting to happen over the next few weeks,” Audrey Geisel librarian Erik Mitchell said. 
The name change was in light of WongAvery’s $10 
million donation to the library, as well as her contri -
butions with the library’s East Asia Collection, which f
eatures a compilation of books, newspapers, and 
other print media in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean languages.
“[WongAvery] is a member of the UC San Diego 
Foundation and has been a really active member of the Chinese community in San Diego […] She started partnering with us to preserve some of the print pub -
lications from the Chinese community here in San D
iego,” Mitchell stated. 
WongAvery’s work specifically included sourcing 
and preserving copies of local Chinese media, adding both digital and print copies to the collection. The publications preserved included “the Chinese News, the first Chinese language newspaper in San Diego, and We Chinese magazine, a current publication that documents the community,” according to Mitchell.
Mitchell would elaborate that the donation will 
continue to expand and support the East Asia Col -
lection, including the collection of local publications a
nd other scholarly materials, in addition to more 
broadly supporting East Asian studies at the univer -
sity.
 “
The gift that is connected to this building nam -
ing [..] will ensure that it’s really providing support f
or the library to do collection development, hold 
events, and provide lots of different types of support around the area of East Asian culture and scholar -
ship,” Mitchell said. 
M
itchell continued that while most of the dona -
tion will support the East Asia collection, a smaller p
ortion will eventually fund library improvements. “A little bit of the funding will go to im -
provements to the WongAvery Library, but we h
aven’t really identified what those are yet,” 
Mitchell said. “I think the library is in pretty good shape, but I can imagine maybe changes to furniture or investments that are kind of centered around helping students make better use of that space in the future.”
While the former Biomedical Library will 
bear WongAvery’s name, there are no plans to change the focus of the media located in the WongAvery Library, which will remain mostly geared toward the biomedical field. 
“The [WongAvery] Library is located at the 
heart of the Biomedical campus […]. It has a focus as a place where our biomedical collec -
tion lives, and it’ll continue to be there,” stated M
itchell. 
The WongAvery Library has been known 
as the Biomedical Library since 1969. Accord -
ingly, UCSD administration has focused on p
romoting the name change to better acquaint 
students. 
“We want to make sure students are aware of 
this name change so that they do not get con -
fused when trying to book a study room in that b
uilding or request other services,” said UCSD 
Director of Library Communications Nikki Kolupalio. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Brandon 
Liu supported WongAvery’s donation and the renaming, expressing the personal impact made on him as an Asian-American student.
“Knowing WongAvery’s contributions, I feel 
like renaming the library [after her] would re -
ally cement the legacy of East Asian graduates a
t UCSD. It shows how UCSD has impacted the 
careers and lives of Asian students,” Liu said. 
With WongAvery’s donation, Library staff 
seek to make the East Asia Collection a broad resource for East Asian studies. The collection’s print archives will remain at their current loca -
tion on the fourth floor of Geisel Library in ad -
dition to over a million digital archives online.
Biomedical Library Renamed to 
Sally T . WongAvery Library
By Isaiah Irizarry  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Image courtesy of Pfeiffer Partners. 
See HOUSING,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD
 students and for the UCSD
 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Saida Hassan 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing EditorCo-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures EditorA&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
The regents also approved 
the funding of plans for the 
proposed Thurgood Marshall College undergraduate student housing. The project would provide housing for around 2,000 undergraduate students. 
Sixth College freshman 
Caitlin Choi expressed her worries about getting housing next year.
“I hope that I’ll be able to 
get housing on campus next year,” Choi said. “I really en -
joy not having to worry about d
riving or taking the bus to 
class. I’m a little nervous be -
cause getting housing for sec -
ond years is more difficult, but I
’m hoping for the best!” 
More information on hous -
ing can be found here .  Impor -
tant dates for incoming trans -
fer and continuing students c
an be found here . 
Read more @ 
ucsdguardian.org .▶ HOUSING , from page 1
Image courtesy of Ellie Wang for UCSD Guardian. 
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
The start of the pandemic 
sparked my return to the gaming 
community. With nothing to do all day but play, I had ended my half-year break from the infamous toxicity of gaming culture. At first, deciding to play the newly released Valorant was exciting as I had never played a first-person shooter (FPS) before, but then I remembered why I never wanted to in the first place.
Using voice chat in an FPS 
game is a very common and normal experience, but with the perception of one’s voice, comes the online, anonymous judgment. I had encountered toxic teammates before, usually criticizing my admittedly horrible gameplay, but in this specific instance, a random player decided to speak on more than just skill. The online stranger, who spoke unnecessarily rudely and arrogantly to the entire team, decided to pick on me after I had used voice chat to tell him to calm down, “I’m not homophobic, but you sound gay.”
I, of course, replied, “Maybe 
it’s because I am.” From that point on, he decided to call me essentially every slur he could think of and insult me based on this unrelated characteristic of mine. Even though I still ended with a better score than him, his malicious intent made the toxicity of the gaming community become much more apparent to me. And my experiences aren’t unique.
The gaming community 
containing toxic, problematic, and ignorant players is not a new issue. While, admittedly, “trash-talk” is a part of the gaming experience, there is a fine line between occasional banter and literal harassment. Criticizing someone based on their ability to play a game is one thing, but using sexism or homophobia to draw conclusions about one’s ability is a whole other. There needs to be changes made in gaming culture, by both individuals and companies, in order to make the community a safer, less toxic place. 
There’s obviously no way that 
trash-talk and toxic remarks are ever going to leave the gaming community, as it is part of the competitive experience. However, there is no place for literal bullying and bigotry.
A study found that 
while 65% of all gamers have experienced “severe harassment” while playing online, of the LGBTQ+ gamers surveyed, 73% experienced harassment based on their sexual orientation. The toxicity of the online gaming community when it comes to the LGBTQ+ community is what causes 
  4
1% of queer gamers to 
avoid certain games due to fear of harassment and for 35% to lie about their sexual identity while online.
According to another survey 
conducted in May 2021, 77% of women responded dealing with at least some sort of frustration when gaming because of their gender, and 44% of female gamers received unsolicited inquiries about their relationship statuses while gaming. This presence of sexism and double standards in online games is why 59% of women hide their gender when playing online games to avoid harassment by their teammates.  
Online harassment of these 
groups doesn’t just stop after a game has ended; instead, these forms of bullying have transitioned into the community of Twitch streamers and their viewers. Streamer Imane “Pokimane” Anys has repeatedly been told that her ability to play video games is hindered by the fact that she is female and that her following was only earned because of her appearance. Cody Garrett, also known as “Donut Operator,” was recently banned on Twitch for trying to reclaim the f-slur as a “gamer word,” despite not even being in the queer community. 
Whenever someone tries to 
discuss these issues within the gaming community, oftentimes, they are met with ignorance and crudeness. Co-CEO of esports team Team Liquid Steven Arhancet tried to bring to attention the bigoted comments made during online games. On April 30, 2019, he tweeted: “Enough of all the homophobic slurs in pub games. No, just because you didn’t mean it that way doesn’t make it okay. Wake the fuck up.” It was no surprise when he was immediately met with even more bigoted responses. Replies such as “Oh no The libtards got to you” and “Stfu fag” highlight how normalized and deeply rooted these behaviors are for gamers. 
The gaming community 
needs to create better solutions to combat the toxic groups that enable sexist, homophobic, and transphobic harassment instead of normalizing these interactions. It is because of these accepted behaviors that Streamer “Sweet Anita” found a subreddit fully dedicated to sexualizing her, and Black nonbinary Streamer Raven “RekItRaven” was hate-raided with racist, sexist, antisemitic, and homophobic comments during one of their streams. Not using voice chat to 
communicate with your team due to the fear of being bullied because of your gender, sexuality, or even the way your voice sounds shouldn’t even be an issue. The online gaming community is inflated by bigoted, ignorant men who have no regard for the respect for the mental well-being of others. 
Of course, there is no fool-
proof way to rid games of online trolls who are intentionally offensive and rude, but there is a way to forcefully punish those who continue to cross the line between competitive banter and ignorant bullying. While most gaming companies and streaming platforms have features where you can report users who ignore community guidelines and spout hateful comments, more needs to be done by gaming companies to regulate the toxic culture that most online games have come to have. 
While Riot Games, which 
created Valorant and League of Legends, has a detailed Code of Conduct that entails the consequences of not following the community guidelines such as chat restrictions, suspension from ranked games, and permanent bans, games like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, which is infamously known for their toxic community, have a vague policy regarding their punishments for harassment and toxicity. 
There needs to be harsher 
bans and punishment for sexism, homophobia, transphobia, and other ignorant comments made by users across all games and streaming platforms. If gaming companies truly care about the well-being of their players and consumers, they need to tighten up and fully flesh out their community guidelines and try to put an end to the overly toxic community instead of turning a blind eye in fear of decreasing their player count. Moreso, these companies need to publicly address the toxicity and bigotry within their respective communities, making it clear where they stand and what behaviors will be tolerated in their games. 
But most importantly, as 
individuals, don’t be afraid to call people out during your games. I’ve seen too many people be complicit in the overtly toxic and bigoted comments being made during games. 
Amanda Cote, a professor 
of Media Studies/Game Studies at the University of Oregon, found that “the right cultural norms can result in healthy online communities, even in the highly competitive world of esports.” Becoming desensitized to the ignorance and bigotry perpetuated by the gaming community helps no one and allows the online trolls to run rampant and think that their behaviors are acceptable online. 
Tolerating this behavior 
makes you complicit. Stand up for and support those who don’t have the privilege to ignore these issues. Gaming is supposed to be a fun experience, not something full of hateful, hurtful, and problematic interactions. 
Thankfully, I have tough 
skin and didn’t let this online troll affect my overall gaming experience. Still, this is an issue that minority groups should not have to face online. So, please, if you are part of the problem, do all of us a favor and just grow up.
By Raymond Tran 
Opinion EditorToxic Gaming Culture Breeds 
Sexism, Homophobia
Art by Nicholas Regli for the UCSD Guardian.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Some may argue that 
Euphoria was a cultural reset 
for Gen Z. With its unique fashion, cinematography, and soundtrack, it had a good portion of young adults and teens in a chokehold. After the release of Season 1 of Euphoria, amidst the praise and general appreciation of the show, many began to criticize the way the show portrayed addiction. With Season 2 coming to an end and keeping us on the edge of our seats, the debate continues: How glamorously is Euphoria really illustrating these issues? As the plot of Euphoria has progressed, so has the accuracy in depicting addiction, making it an excellent show in shining light onto the ugly side of addiction.
One of the main critiques of 
Euphoria was that it depicted drug use and addiction as glamorous and “not a big deal.” Additionally, some argue that substances are referred to as a coping mechanism for mental illness that masks some of its symptoms, while also giving the message that the substance abuse is better than suicide or self-harm. In Season 1, some scenes can give off this impression. When the main character, Rue, does strong drugs, the show illustrates what it would be like if we were on the same drugs as Rue. This can be seen in both the first episode of Season 1 at the party when she is climbing the walls and seeing things in glitter and color with Jules at Jules’ house. Rue even directly states “I’m so happy.” A lot of the scenes that show Rue on drugs from her perspective can make it seem almost “fun” to be doing these drugs through the bright colors and appealing visuals.
However, this should not be 
taken as “glamorizing drugs” when the rest of the content surrounding Rue and drugs portrays how much it affects one’s life. The reason Rue is saying she’s “so happy” because of drugs isn’t supposed to make the audience want to do them but is rather supposed to make the audience feel sad for Rue and the fact that she needs drugs in her life to feel happy. Sam Levinson even added, “people can tell if we’re pulling our punches and not showing the relief that drugs can be. It starts to lose its impact.” For instance, the show has a very real take on the reality of becoming sober. The show starts when Rue gets back from rehab and then goes straight to Fezco, her drug dealer, for more drugs. Later, Rue is banging on the door of Fezco’s house, begging for drugs and screaming at him and crying at the door. This won Zendaya an award and illustrates the power of addiction and how reliant it can make an individual.
The show also provides 
flashbacks in Season 1 from when Rue overdosed and her little sister found her. In fact, one of the best jobs Euphoria does depicting addiction is the effect it can have on family and loved ones. Season 2 has been a lot less glamorous in terms of outfits, visuals and cinematography in general, already forcing the audience to take matters more seriously. The 
By Catalina Fogg
Staff Writerseason has shown us little to no romanticization of addiction. The season centers around Rue’s struggle of relapsing, illustrating both the physical and mental effects of addiction. In episode 5 and 6 especially, the show heavily depicted the painfulness of withdrawal. Rue is shaking and unable to really move as she sits at the kitchen table in the beginning of episode 1, unable to open the Jolly Rancher sitting in front of her. She is in intense stomach pain throughout both of these episodes, enough to make the audience grimace in sympathy for her. These physical impacts are clearly used in the show to portray the damage of drugs on the body and the unbearable cycle of addiction and withdrawal that is difficult to escape. 
Additionally, the plot clearly 
shows the audience how Rue’s addiction is slowly burning bridges and destroying almost every relationship she has with those around her. From the beginning of the show, it is clear that Rue has a complicated relationship with her mom. Her mom does not trust her and is scared for her safety which causes Rue to push back and not tell her things. Gia, the younger sister, is close with Rue but also clearly scared and worried for Rue’s safety. In Season 1, there are scenes of Rue and her mother yelling at each other and other extremely escalated fights with Gia always watching them occur and crying or yelling for them to stop. Having a loved one struggle with addiction especially at a young age like Gia’s can be extremely traumatizing and a constant difficulty in life, which is very well shown in the context of Euphoria. Gia struggles with being scared for Rue and Euphoria is sympathetic towards Gia’s struggle and anger that Rue’s cycle of addiction continues.
In Season 2, Rue and her 
mom have an awful fight where they are screaming at each other and Rue is kicking at the door. Gia looks terrified and is crying the whole time, while Rue yells terrible things at her mom over and over again only to apologize a couple moments later in an attempt to take everything back. This instability in an addict’s behavior is portrayed very realistically through these scenes and the audience can really feel the fear that Gia is going through and the wedge Rue is driving between herself and her family. Rue slowly starts to lose all of her friends as well. First, Rue’s relationships with Jules and Elliot are strained when they tell Rue’s mom about her lack of sobriety and Rue is extremely mad that they would betray her like that, immediately cutting both Jules and Elliot off.
Even early on in the episode, Rue inappropriately tells Ali, her sponsor, horrible things that have to do with his past, resulting in him cutting Rue off. In the last episode, the audience can see Rue going through withdrawal and realize how badly she hurt Ali when she was relapsing and desperately wanting to apologize, fearful that he may never forgive her.
Through these struggles 
in Rue’s relationships, we see that her addiction causes her to lash out at and isolate from the people that care about her and say things to them she may never be able to take back. This is clearly incorporated in the show to depict how the instability of addiction can cause individuals to obliterate their support systems and consistently hurt themselves and those around them that they love, with little control over themselves to stop doing it. The contrasts of Season 1 to Season 2 are showing how the minute visual appeal of drugs isn’t worth the collateral damage of the vicious cycle of addiction ruining one’s life and relationships. 
‘Euphoria’ Doesn’t Romanticize 
Addiction
Image courtesy of HBO.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
Dr. Brené Brown is a research 
professor at the University of Hous -
ton and a visiting professor in man -
agement at the University of Texas at 
Austin. She holds a Bachelor of Social
 
Work from the University of Texas at Austin, as well as a Masters in Social Work and a Doctor of Philosophy de -
gree in Social Work from the Univer -
sity of Houston.  
Over her career, she authored
 
over a dozen books that explore the complex and interwoven subjects of shame, connection, vulnerability, empathy, leadership, courage, per -
fectionism, creativity and belonging. These fields of study, with an empha -
sis on qualitative research, have been her focus for over two decades.
 
When pressed to summarize the 
purpose of the vast collection of her work, Dr. Brown explains that in our pursuit of happiness, joy, growth, and emotional closeness, so many things get in our way: shame being one of the most principal ones.
As a researcher, she seeks to un -
derstand the mechanisms that hold people back from what they want.
 
Our ability to change any system is limited by how well we understand how and why it works. As a writer, public speaker, and podcaster, she at -
tempts to convey practical guides for people to implement the strategies
 
and mindsets her research supports. 
For many college students, so 
much gets in the way of joy. For one, perfectionism, an issue that Dr. Brown’s research addresses, is a mindset endemic to college campuses like UC San Diego. 
An article from Vox about the 
harms of perfectionism notes that the general trend for young people is that we are much more perfectionistic than previous generations.
The author of this article, Chris-
tie Aschwanden, highlights evidence that the existing pressure to appear
 
perfect present in interpersonal rela-
tionships and the pressure individu-ls place on themselves to be perfect 
i
s likely exacerbated by social me -
dia. 
“
Perfectionism comes in three 
common flavors — ‘self-oriented, ’ where someone demands perfec -
tion from themselves; ‘other-ori-ented, ’ where they demand perfec-
tion from others around them (like 
s
pouses, co-workers or friends), 
and ‘socially prescribed’ perfection-ism, where the person feels external p
ressure from the larger world and 
society to be perfect, ” Aschwanden said. 
Not only do those platforms 
create an environment for com -
parison, they are a captive audience.  Th
ey are a digital stage for individu -
als to perform on in trying to meet t
he external pressure from a society 
which expects perfection. 
Aschwanden emphasizes the 
prevalence of perfectionism as well as its relationship to and role in several common mental illnesses, harmful behaviors and physical ail -
ments. 
“
A meta-analysis of 284 studies 
found that high levels of perfec-
tionism were correlated with de -
pression, anxiety, eating disorders, 
de
liberate self-harm and obsessive-
compulsive disorder, ” Aschwanden said. “The constant stress of striving to be perfect can also leave people fatigued, stressed and suffering from headaches and insomnia. ” 
Perfectionism is detrimental to 
mental and physical health in the long term. But, in the short term, perfectionism is rewarded in aca -
demic settings and in our society t
hat values achievement so highly.
Sometimes the ‘benefits’ of per -
fectionism, like high grades and s
parkly resumes, are more visible 
than the costs individuals pay to produce those results. 
Perfectionism reinforces isola -
tion. If people feel pressure to mini -
mize mistakes and hide failures to  p
erfect, they cannot also reach for 
support in those difficult moments. 
When everyone competes re -
lentlessly with each other or always f
ocuses on the next achievement, no 
one has the time or space to relish in and share triumphs. A perfection -
ist mindset can leave people feeling b
urnt out and like they are going 
through life alone. 
It is a tall order to demand 
anyone change their perfectionist mindsets. Not only is perfection -
ism reinforced by the status of pro -
ductivity as a measure of self worth, b
ut attempting a paradigm shift like 
that is an extensive undertaking. 
Dr. Brown wrote multiple books 
delving into topics like perfection -
ism in the hopes that she can inform p
eople of how perfectionism ap -
pears in their daily lives in unsus -
pecting ways.
H
er discussions set an example 
for and provide insight into navigat -
ing taboo topics such as shame. The m
ajority of the work she produces 
across mediums builds a struc -
ture that the audience can follow t
o incorporate the findings of her 
grounded theory research into their daily lives. 
Dr. Brown wrote “The Gifts of 
Imperfection” to tackle the idea of perfectionism in depth. Through this book. Dr. Brown exposes how common perfectionism is and why so many of us strive to be perfect.
“Perfectionism is a self-destruc -
tive and addictive belief system that f
uels this primary thought: If I look 
perfect, and do everything perfectly, I can avoid or minimize the painful feelings of shame, judgment, and blame,” Dr. Brown said.
One of the most exhausting 
parts of perfectionism is that noth -
ing is ever good enough. Dr. Brown c
hallenges readers to replace that 
negative self blame with a more compassionate perspective that ac -
knowledges that we are all just doing b
est that we can. 
Dr. Brown digs down to the root 
motivations behind perfectionism, demonstrating the link between perfectionism and shame that may not be self-evident.
If shame drives people to per -
fectionism, part of combating per -
fectionism must include describing a
nd voicing the things people feel 
shame about. 
“The Gifts of Imperfection” 
broaches the topic of shame trig -
gers, general trends of which are o
bserved along binary gender lines. 
In Dr. Brown’s research findings, the most common shame trigger that emerged for women was body image and the most common shame trig -
ger for men were feelings of weak -
ness. 
A
s part of unlearning perfec -
tionism, Dr. Brown emphasizes the i
mportance of defining shame and 
acknowledging what situations trig -
ger shame in our individual lives. 
S
he talks about how shame feeds 
on secrecy and to process shame advises sharing our shame stories, whenever possible, with someone who can listen empathetically, with -
out judgment. 
“
Understanding the difference 
between healthy striving and per -
fectionism is critical to laying down t
he shield and picking up your life. 
Research shows that perfectionism hampers success. In fact, it's often the path to depression, anxiety, addiction, and life paralysis,” Dr. Brown said.
Dr. Brown lays out a mountain 
of information in this book, but she organizes it so that action steps are clear. One crucial pillar of her guidance is cultivating authenticity, which involves letting go of what people think and the idea of who we should be. 
One important cultural value 
she criticizes is the idea of “going it alone.” She argues that this idea re --inforces individuals' reluctance to a
sk for help even when they really 
need it. Another societal norm that Dr. Brown draws readers attention to is the fact that at the first sign of discomfort, shame, pain or vulnera -
bility most people turn to numbing:  
“
We can anesthetize with a 
whole bunch of stuff, including alco -
hol, drugs, food, sex, relationships, m
oney, work, caretaking, gambling, 
staying busy, affairs, chaos, shop -
ping, planning, perfectionism, con -
stant change, and the Internet,” Dr. B
rown said. 
Unfortunately, this tendency to -
wards numbing dulls not only nega -
tive emotions but positive emotions a
s well. In the long term, numbing 
robs individuals of a sense of satis -
faction with their lives. 
P
erfectionism is not sustainable, 
not only because perfection is a des -
tination no one can ever arrive at, b
ut also because along the way no 
one is allowed to truly rest. There always has to be improvement, or a side hustle. Perfectionism crowds out much needed rest and ensures that any time spent relaxing is marred by guilt.
Academia tries to prevent burn -
out often with short term solutions. Th
e kind of exhaustion Dr. Brown 
warns readers of in this book is a re -
sult of trying to be perfect every day f
or years on end, without gleaning 
almost any satisfaction.  
 “If we want the rewards of being 
loved we have to submit to the mor -
tifying ordeal of being known.” 
B
efore it was co-opted for a 
meme format this quote was the fi -
nal line in a NYT op-ed written by a m
an who’s coworkers accidentally 
cc’d him on an email making fun of him. Surely, he had no idea how well his words could summarize Dr. Brown’s research and writing. 
Perfectionism keeps people from 
being known. sonas each instead of 
Image courtesy of Brene Brown. 
Read more @ucsdguardian.org.Perfection is an Unattainable Goal
Katherine Getchell CONTRIBUTING WRITER
At times, UCSD can become singly focused on reaching high standards of research or education. These reputable results are more visible than some of the costs individuals incur while 
trying to be “perfect”.A R T S & E N T E R T AI N M E N T C O N T A C T T H E E DI T O R 
e ntertai n me nt @ ucs dg uar dia n. org     A R T S & E N T E R T A I N M E N T  T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D A Y,  M A R C H  7 ,  2 0 2 2  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  7
E LI A S R O M A N 
F or t h ose w h o ha ve yet t o be peer press ure d i nt o bi n ge watc hi n g “ E u p h oria”, t he s h o w 
f oll o ws se ver al tee na gers i n hi g hsc h o ol as t he y na vi gate t he har ds hi ps of life i n t he s u b -
ur bs. I n seas o n o ne t he s h o w mai nl y f oc use d o n R ue ( Ze n d aya), a rec o veri n g dr u g a d dict 
wh o is ret ur ni n g h o me a fter bei n g i n re ha b f or t he s u m mer. A fter t he seas o n o ne ﬁ nale le ft  
fa ns w o n deri n g w hat was ne xt f or t he “ E u p h oria” tee ns, we ha d t o wait a n a g o nizi n g t w o 
years f or a n ot her seas o n. Wit h seas o n o ne e n di n g i n 2 01 9 a n d C O VI D-1 9 delayi n g ﬁl m -
i n g, seas o n t w o di d n’t pre miere u ntil t his year. Alt h o u g h we waite d a n e xtr a year, we g ot 
tw o s pecial e pis o des de dic ate d t o R ue a n d J ules ( H u nter Sc hafer) res pecti vel y, as t he y tr y 
t o rec o ncile wit h t heir de part ure at t he e n d of seas o n o ne. 
O ne c a n i ma gi ne t he hy pe a n d e xcite me nt s urr o u n di n g t he seas o n t w o pre miere — t he 
pre miere r ac ke d u p 1 9 milli o n vie wers, ma ki n g it t he sec o n d m ost p o p ular H B O s h o w 
ri g ht be hi n d “ G a me of Thr o nes.” Seas o n t w o st arts o ﬀ ver y pr o misi n gl y, dr o p pi n g us i n 
t he mi d dle of a dr u g deal wit h Fez ( A n g us Cl o u d), R ue, a n d As htr ay (Ja v o n “ Wa n na” Wal -
t o n). Fr o m t here, t he y hea d t o a Ne w Years E ve part y w here all of o ur ret ur ni n g c har acters 
are, pl us a fe w ne w o nes. We meet Elli ot ( D o mi nic Fi ke), a n u na p ol o getic dr u g a d dict w h o 
s u p plies R ue wit h dr u gs a n d s a ves her life w he n s he falls i nt o c ar diac arrest. A n ot her ne w 
face we are i ntr o d uce d t o is Faye ( C hl oe C herr y), w h o is als o c a u g ht u p i n t he earlier dr u g 
deal. We als o meet L a urie ( Mart ha Kell y), t he m ost lai d bac k yet i nti mi d ati n g dr u g dealer 
t o e ver gr ace my scree n. The i ntr o d ucti o n of Elli ot bri n gs a l ot of pr o ble ms a n d a n xiet y 
w he n deali n g wit h his str a n ge relati o ns hi p wit h R ue a n d J ules. 
“ E u p h oria” ret ur ns wit h t he s a me vis u al st yle a n d gr a vit as t he ﬁrst seas o n di d. The 
ci ne mat o gr a p hy a n d pr o d ucti o n desi g n are b ol der a n d create a di ﬀere nt feel t o t his seas o n. 
This is d ue t o t he m s witc hi n g fr o m di git al t o ﬁl m w he n ﬁl mi n g seas o n t w o. Series creat or 
Sa m Le vi ns o n wa nte d t o create a feeli n g t hat felt li ke a me m or y, a n d he ac hie ve d j ust 
t hat. I nstea d of t he ﬂas hy, b ol d p ur ples a n d bl ues t hat d o mi nate d seas o n o ne’s  e u p h oric 
vi be, t his seas o n feels r a w a n d gr o u n de d. It’s clear Le vi ns o n i nte n de d t o ma ke t his seas o n 
d ar ker a n d hea vier, b ut s acri ﬁce d clear narr ati ve str uct ure i n fa v or of st u n ni n g vis u als. 
A fter t he seas o n be gi ns t he s a me way t he pre vi o us seas o n di d ( wit h a h o use part y), it st arts 
t o del ve i nt o a c ha otic mess of st or y li nes f or its ma ny c har acters. W hile R ue falls bac k 
i nt o d oi n g dr u gs, we f oll o w t he mess y l o ve tria n gle c o nsisti n g of C assie, Ma d d y, a n d Nate. 
W hile watc hi n g C assie s nea k ar o u n d wit h Nate — terri ﬁe d Ma d d y will ﬁ n d o ut — is ver y 
e ntert ai ni n g, it’s clear t hat ot her c har acters' st or y li nes are n’t getti n g t he pr o per atte nti o n 
t he y g ot t he seas o n pri or. 
F or e x a m ple, K at ( Bar bie Frierr a), a c har acter w h o gre w a l ot e m oti o nall y, lear ni n g t o 
be m ore c o n ﬁ de nt, see ms t o be g oi n g t hr o u g h t he s a me c har acter arc s he di d last seas o n; 
n ot t o me nti o n r a n d o ml y hati n g her b oyfrie n d Et ha n w h o has n’t d o ne a nyt hi n g t o deser ve 
her gasli g hti n g hi m i nt o a brea k u p. The w orst part of her j o ur ne y i n t his seas o n is t hat s he 
barel y has a ny scree n ti me, t h us, her st or y is ne ver res ol ve d. It’s dis a p p oi nti n g t o see a fa n 
fa v orite c har acter be si deli ne d s o easil y, es peciall y si nce Frierr a is a great actress. It bec o mes ver y e vi de nt d uri n g t his seas o n t hat Le vi ns o n was l osi n g c o ntr ol, u na ble t o 
bala nce t hese ma ny u ni q ue pl ot p oi nts, a n d trie d t o s h oe h or n e ver yt hi n g i nt o t he e pi -
s o des. R a n d o m sce nes i n e pis o de f o ur wit h K at a n d Et ha n i n a c ar, Elli ot i n a c h urc h, 
Jules st ari n g o ut t he wi n d o w, a n d ot her c har acters, are t hr o w n t o get her wit h n o t a n gi ble 
c orrelati o n. These s h ots are vis u all y st u n ni n g t h o u g h, es peciall y t he s h ot of C assie cr yi n g 
s urr o u n de d b y a bea utif ul arr a n ge me nt of ﬂ o wers. 
E ve n t h o u g h t he lac k of narr ati ve str uct ure was fr ustr ati n g t o e n d ure d uri n g e pis o des 
t w o t o f o ur e pis o de ﬁ ve s u d de nl y ga ve us a str ai g htf or war d a dre nali ne- ﬁlle d pl ot t hat was 
e xciti n g t o t u ne i nt o. As we see  R ue s pir al o ut of c o ntr ol g oi n g t hr o u g h wit h dr a wal a n d 
acti n g rec kless o ver t he c o urse of se ver al h o urs, we get a n ot her a mazi n g perf or ma nce 
fr o m Ze n d aya t hat s h o wc ases w hy s he deser ve d her 2 0 2 0 E m my wi n. I t hi n k re-est a blis h -
i n g R ue as t he mai n c har acter a fter si de-li ni n g her f or a bit hel pe d bri n g bac k t he narr a -
ti ve str uct ure t he seas o n des per atel y nee de d. F or t he rest of t he seas o n t he y bala nce R ue’s 
e m oti o nal j o ur ne y t o rec o ver y, t he a fter mat h of her telli n g Ma d d y a b o ut C assie a n d Nate, 
a n d e x pl ori n g Le xi ( Ma u de A pat o w) a n d Fez’s relati o ns hi p as s he pre pares f or her play. I 
t hi n k e n di n g t he seas o n o n Le xi’s play was a creati ve way t o i ntr os pecti vel y tell e ver y o ne’s 
st or y, es peciall y Le xi’s. I nstea d of Le xi getti n g her o w n c har acter i ntr o d ucti o n li ke m ost 
of t he ot her c har acters, telli n g her st or y i n t he f or m of a play ﬁts m ore wit h her pers o nal -
it y. S o me mi g ht ﬁ n d it t o o met a, b ut it o ﬀere d a n o p p ort u nit y f or c har acter re ﬂecti o n i n a 
n o n-clic he way. 
E ve n wit h ma ny q uesti o ns still u na ns were d — W hat a b o ut t hat $10, 0 0 0 R ue o wes L a u -
rie? Di d Fezc o a n d Faye g o t o jail? Di d Mc K ay j ust dis a p pear?. “ E u p h oria,” li ke it's c har -
acters, ha d its u ps a n d d o w ns. Wit h r u m ors a b o ut cert ai n act ors wal ki n g o ﬀ set, l o n g, 
ag o nizi n g h o urs, direct ors s h o wi n g u p wit h n o s h ot lists, a n d c o n ﬂict bet wee n c ast me m -
bers, w h o k n o ws w hat c o ul d ha ve fact ore d i nt o t he mess y a n d u n or ga nize d st or ytelli n g 
of seas o n t w o. As s o me o ne w h o reall y e nj oye d seas o n o ne a n d li ke d w hat t he y were ac -
c o m plis hi n g t hr o u g h pl ot a n d vis u al st or ytelli n g, I f o u n d seas o n t w o t o pri oritize st yle 
over s u bst a nce. The ci ne mat o gr a p hy a n d acti n g is w hat kee ps “ E u p h oria” fr o m bec o mi n g 
a n ot her c hees y C W tee n s h o w, s o h o pef ull y wit h a m ore str uct ure d pl ot t he y’ll steer far 
a way fr o m t hat i n u pc o mi n g seas o ns. E u p h o ri a S e a s o n T w o R e vi e w 
Flas h y li g hts a n d g or ge o us aest hetics mi g ht n ot be E u p h oria’s sa vi n g grace t his seas o n, as staff writer Ka mia h J o h ns o n re vie ws Seas o n 2 of t he 
hit tee n dra ma. 
Gr a de: B- 
Cre at or: S a m L e vi ns o n 
St arri n g: Z e n d a y a, H u nter Sc h afer, A n g us Cl o u d, J ac o b El or di, 
M a u de A p at o w, Ale x a De mie, B ar bie Ferreir a, S y d ne y S wee ne y I m a ge c o urtes y of To m’s G ui de. 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
It’s been almost three years since “The Batman” was announced. Originally slated for 
a June 2021 release, and then an October 2021 release, the newest iteration of the dark 
knight finally opened in theaters this past Friday, March 4, 2022. The film stars Profes -
sional Hot People Robert Pattinson and Zoë Kravitz as the titular Batman and Catwoman, r
espectively. In the lead-up to the film’s release, it was made abundantly clear by director 
Matt Reeves that this was a detective film more than it was a traditional superhero film — and he wasn’t lying.
 Th
e film opens with the gruff voice we’ve all come to know and love — albeit a 
more soft-spoken version of it — narrating a night of vigilante-ing for Batman. It feels like something right out of a 1940s noir film, and I only wish it would’ve been maintained throughout the middle parts of the film. The lighting and cinematography add even more to the neo-noir feel of the film, with sharp contrasts, dark shadows, and perpetually rainy nights. Yes, “The Batman” is a superhero film, but — and this is important — it doesn’t feel like one. There’s clear stylistic choices that Reeves has taken with this film, particularly in the aesthetic realm. It’s a far cry from the sanitized, bland look of the MCU films that we’ve all come to love (or hate, depending on what part of film Twitter you find yourself on). The darkness and shadows of Batman’s world have always played a big role in Batman’s story, so much so that one of the most famous lines associated with the character centers their role in the Batman mythos: Tom Hardy’s “Ah, you think darkness is your ally? You merely adopted the darkness. I was born in it, molded by it.” While that might’ve been true for Christian Bale’s Batman, viewers get the sense that Pattinson’s Batman was born of dark -
ness, and in many ways is still trying to find his way out.
 I
f his jawline wasn’t enough to convince you that he is Batman, Pattinson’s per -
formance in the film will. Robert Pattinson is the star of the show (obviously). We spend n
early the entire film with him as Batman, and in the few Bruce Wayne scenes we do get, 
it very quickly becomes clear that this is not the same happy-go-lucky billionaire playboy that Bruce Wayne usually is. Pattinson’s Bruce Wayne is a pale and gaunt figure, a man whose eyes betray his emotional fragility and instability. This Bruce Wayne has been — and continues to be — obsessed, nay, consumed by The Batman. The audience is unable to distinguish between the orphaned billionaire and the brooding caped crusader — but that’s the point. This film’s Bruce Wayne is himself unable to completely compartmental -
ize the two personas; even when he’s not wearing the cowl, he’s thinking about the Riddler, o
r hunching over evidence in his cave. Batman has always had a supernatural air sur -
rounding him, and this film embraces that. He operates almost as a demonic presence for W
ayne, whispering in his ear during the day, fully possessing him by night — not always 
physically present, but impossible to escape.
 I
n many ways, Bruce Wayne is the alter ego while Batman is the true self. It’s an 
idea that Batman is forced to confront when coming face-to-face with Paul Dano’s Rid -
dler. Dano shines as the antagonist of the film, embodying a frighteningly realistic avatar o
f institutional disillusionment. This Riddler is much more “Se7en” than he is “The Mask.” 
The character eerily mirrors the fringe alt-right figures we’ve seen come to prominence in recent years, rambling on to his followers about the corruption of Gotham and the need to take things into their own hands — all through what appears to be a dark web YouTube. 
The Riddler forces Pattinson’s Batman to confront who he is, pressing further on a 
question he asks himself in the beginning of the film: is he really making a difference? It’s a question that is satisfactorily answered in the film’s climax, when Batman disastrously realizes that his way is not working. It’s a shattering realization for our hero, but a neces -
sary one that pushes him to be better — to be more.
Th
e rest of the cast is equally as impressive and at the top of their game, from Jeffrey 
Wright as the tragically altruistic Jim Gordon to an unrecognizable Colin Ferrell wad -
dling his way to fans’ hearts as the definitive on-screen Penguin. Zoë Kravitz’s Selina K
yle plays off of Pattinson’s Batman wonderfully; every scene between the two seems to 
be bursting with yearning (and parental traumas). Though not a carbon-copy, fans famil -
iar with Jeph Loeb’s iconic “Batman: The Long Halloween” will be well-acquainted with K
ravitz’s Catwoman. She helps our hero obtain the information he needs, but is ultimately 
driven by her desire to make The Roman pay for his past wrongdoings more than she is by Batman’s crusade. 
 F
or all its starpower and aesthetic achievements, “The Batman” is not a perfect 
movie. The film tries to set up a heartfelt “father”-son moment between Bruce Wayne and Andy Serkis’ Alfred Pennyworth, but it ends up feeling slightly hollow. This is mostly due to the fact that viewers don’t get to spend much time with Alfred, making it feel like the film is depending more on fans’ attachment to Alfred the Character, rather than this specific version of Alfred. It’s a shame that the film doesn’t dedicate itself to exploring the relationship between our emo-punk “you’re not my dad” protagonist and his war-scarred veteran surrogate father, but at nearly (basically) three hours long, it’s understandable that there wouldn’t be room for everything. Which, yes, the film is long. Very long. But, the run time is mostly used to its maximum potential. The only time it seems to lull or fall apart a little is in its transition from the second to third act of the film. Even then, it man -
ages to compose itself and forge ahead to an explosive end.
“
The Batman” is everything a Batman fan could hope for: a gritty neo-noir detec -
tive film starring the pointy-eared vigilante, fellow animal enthusiast Catwoman, and the p
erpetually-mustachioed Jim Gordon. It’s a film that proves just how interesting and rich 
comic book superheroes can be when approached from the right angle. It cares about the story it’s telling, and it’s not afraid to take some creative risks. Kevin Feige, take notes. This is how you do a superhero film. “The Batman” is not only an example of what super -
hero movies can be — it’s what they should be. 
Grade: A
Directed by: Matt Reeves
Starring: Robert Pattinson, Zoë Kravitz, Jeffrey Wright, Paul Dano
Rated: PG-13
Release Date: March 4, 2022BATMAN
In a world full of bland-looking superhero films, “The Batman” is a beacon of hope; proof that superhero movies can still be fun and entertaining without 
having to sacrifice their artistic integrity.
Image courtesy of Digital Spy. 
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
The Best Music Venues in San Diego
Like most college students, the 
minute concert venues opened 
back up and my favorite artists announced their tours, I bought every ticket I could. As a result, my bank account has suffered, but my expertise in San Diego’s concert venues has flourished. So, here is my personal guide to attending concerts here in sunny San Diego.
The Music Box
The Music Box is downtown 
San Diego’s premiere music ven -
ue. If you’re looking for a party, Th
e Music Box is the place to be. 
The crowd, while intense, is in -
sanely fun, energetic, and kind. I c
an say I have met the best people 
at The Music Box and formed connections that I still have to this day. However, be warned, if you get stuck in the middle dur -
ing a particularly upbeat song, it i
s either mosh or be moshed. The 
Music Box is super small, so you are guaranteed to see the bands up close and truly feel the music inside your bones. I still feel Sun Room’s and almost monday’s big -
gest hits when I saw them at their Ha
lloween Show. You really can’t 
go far without hearing the beat of the base drum or the ringing of the lead guitar, even in the bath -
room, which is super nice by the b
y the way. If you get a chance 
to head to the balcony, you still won’t be far from the performers with a bird’s eye view and a nice break from the crowd. Overall, The Music Box is a great place to enjoy those smaller indie bands or artists that you love and party like there is no tomorrow!
Humphry’s by the Bay
Humphry’s is an amazing out -
door venue. While parking can b
e difficult, the $20 venue park -
ing I feel is totally worth it for c
onvenience. This place is truly 
beautiful. It is right on the water with boats floating by to catch a second of the amazing show you are about to see. Even if it’s chilly, no need to bring a jacket since you’ll be moving and grooving to music as the performers sing their heart out on the elevated stage. If you need a break from the crowd, there is a lovely grassy area near the back where you can enjoy the night air and magnificent sounds of your favorite bands. When I saw Bleachers here, I transcended. The amazing environment mixed with one of my favorite bands is a feeling like no other. Now, I make sure that if there is an art -
ist I have even remotely heard of, I b
uy tickets just to enjoy the venue. 
You’ll question every other stand -ing-room only general admission t
icket after you buy this one.
The Observatory at North Park
Located at the heart of Hill -
crest, The Observatory is a great p
lace to listen to your favorite 
bands and artists. No matter how early or late you arrive, you’ll be able to see your favorite artists just fine! The floor is slanted to -
wards the stage so even if you are s
tuck in the way back, your view 
won’t be obstructed by that ob -
scenely tall guy that just so hap -
pens to be in front of you at every c
oncert. This venue is plenty big 
with enough space for larger art -
ists to have bigger shows. Tickets h
ere are a bit more expensive, 
but such a nice space is worth it in my humble opinion. I cannot wait to see Hippo Campus here this spring and enjoy their per -
formance whether I am 10 or 100 f
eet away. Take a look at their 
website and find a band you love, you won’t regret it. 
Hopefully with this guide 
you’ll know what you’re getting yourself into when you buy tick -
ets to these venues. Let me know h
ow you like them, and keep 
rockin’ on!
Bradley Beggs LIFESTYLE CO-EDITOR
Image courtesy of Vishnu Nair on Unsplash. SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  10
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     vs UC Riverside
vs Princeton at Concordiavs Long Beach StateNCAA RegionalsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
Softball
M Volleyball
W Water Polo
Fencing3PM4PM6PM6PM
All Day3/73/83/9
3/113/12
The UC San Diego  men’s 
volleyball team (8–7, 1–2 
Big West) faced off twice in one week against the third-ranked team in Division I, the University of Hawaii (14–3, 1–1 Big West). Hawaii was extremely hot coming into the matchup, winning ten straight, but the UCSD Tritons were inspired in the first matchup and won in thrilling fashion in 5 sets. In the Friday rematch, Hawaii was able to take control with sound victories in each set, culminating in efficient revenge in straight sets. 
A hard-fought series found 
each team taking one match, with both of these teams looking like potential Big West contenders, and another potentially exciting matchup could be in store for these two in the Big West tournament. After the Tritons were able to take down an undefeated No. 1 Hawaii last year in the Big West tournament, UCSD would likely have a certain level of confidence that was apparent in the first matchup.
UCSD started off 
impressively, coming out as the aggressor against one of the most imposing teams in the nation. UCSD dominated the net in the first set, but did have difficulty with multiple serves falling out for the Tritons that helped keep Hawaii competitive. One of the influential moments in this set came from a dump from senior setter Blake Crisp, which completely handed the momentum to UCSD and led to a 25–22 victory. Set two started out very competitively after Hawaii started with a quick 3–0 lead. A kill from freshman outside hitter Matthew Lim from the right tied it at 8, and soon after senior outside hitter Kyle McCauley killed two consecutively to cut the deficit to one, at 12–11. An extremely close set ended with a Hawaii error, giving the Tritons a precious second set.
 With victory in sight, the 
Tritons did not let up. The third set started eerily similar to the second, with fixable mistakes like serving errors but stout play up front. McCauley’s kill tied the game at 15, and the Tritons seemed to be in position to steal a match from a talented Hawaii team. Senior middle blocker Shane Benetz dominated the interior with a huge slam to give the Tritons a 19–18 lead. He continued his onslaught with a firm block to save the set after a furious Hawaii comeback, and the set was tied at 24. The Tritons again tied it at 25, but Hawaii survived and moved into set 4. McCauley attempted to take over and helped put UCSD up 8–7 with a kill. Later, an out-of-system kill from McCauley on the second touch cut the deficit to three at 18–15. The Tritons never got much momentum, though, and the team lost the set 25–18.
In the deciding set, UCSD 
finally went on an elusive big run, and put Hawaii on their heels as Lim’s monster block electrified the crowd and put the team up 12–8. McCauley’s back row kill set the Tritons up for match point at 14–9, and the team ended up with the win by a score of 15–9 behind a great contingent of fan support.
In the second match, UCSD 
was able to start fast, taking a 3–1 lead early in the first set. Soon though, Hawaii took control and the only Triton points were coming from Hawaii errors. A much needed 4–0 run gave the Tritons a 17–16 lead, and the tide seemed to be turning after Crisp’s service ace. Hawaii quickly regrouped though, and took the set by a score of 25–22. In the second set, the two teams seemed evenly matched and started with great energy, much more sound now that the early jitters were gone. 
After Hawaii took a slight 
advantage, outside hitter Ryan Ka killed a set from Crisp to cut the lead down to two, at 9–7. Hawaii kept applying pressure on the Tritons, with punishing serves keeping UCSD off balance on offense. McCauley once again tried to come through with an impressive service ace that put the score at 21–18, but Hawaii once again took care of business and took set two, which was scored 25–20.
In a potentially deciding set, 
the Tritons did not begin with the same energy as they did in the prior sets. Hawaii was the more inspired team and they jumped out to a 11–5 lead. To UCSD’s credit, the team rallied and did a great job chipping away at the lead with their tactical subs. Mostly propelled by those substitutes, the Tritons took a 4–0 run to make the game competitive again at 18–14. UCSD did eventually regain the effort, but it was a little too late. The Tritons lost off of a McCauley service error by a convincing margin of 25–18.
Losing the second of two 
was not the ideal path for the Tritons, but there was certainly a lot of growth for the team in facing such a great opponent. Coach Kevin Ring praised the leadership of his seniors, Blake Crisp and Kyle McCauley, saying of them “You see the composure… that goes a long way.” Crisp and McCauley, the senior leaders of this team, will look to lead UCSD to a win in their next matchup, which will take place at Concordia University Irvine, on Wednesday, Mar. 9.
 
Men’s Volleyball Splits 
Series with Elite 
Hawaii Team
UC San Diego’s women’s 
water polo squad had quite the productive weekend on Mar. 4 and 5, as they won both legs of a doubleheader against Azusa Pacific University, Pomona-Pitzer Sagehens, 14–5 and 10–6, before returning home to win their first Big West conference match of the season against California State University, Northridge, 11–5. With the win, the No. 13 Tritons improved to 12–7 on the season.
UCSD’s matches against 
Azusa Pacific and Pomona-Pitzer on Friday, Mar. 4 were part of the 27-team Convergence Tournament, with the morning game played at the University of La Verne and the evening match at the Haldeman Pool of neighboring Claremont. The Tritons entered after a mixed performance against four ranked teams in the previous weekend’s Barbara Kalbus Invitational in Orange County, where they lost three in a row to UCLA, UC Davis, and the University of Indiana, before grabbing an overtime win against UC Santa Barbara in the final match.
Against Azusa Pacific, the 
Tritons were in the driver’s seat early, with graduate center Ciara Franke, last season’s Big West Player of the Year and UC San Diego Female Athlete of the Year, opening the scoring with 5:31 to go in the first period. UCSD would stretch that margin to 3–1 by the end of the quarter on a goal from freshman center Kendall Thomas, and a powerplay goal to beat the first-period buzzer from sophomore utility player Annika Arroyo. Franke and Thomas each added a second goal each in the second period, as the lead grew to 5–1 and the rout was on. Thomas notched a hat trick with a goal in the dying seconds of the period, making it 7–3 at the half.
The domination only 
continued in the second half, and both Franke and freshman attacker Courtney Okumura each had 2 goals in the half; Franke’s 2 goals gave her 4 goals for the match, with the final score coming on a penalty. UCSD closed out the match, only holding Azusa to a single goal in the final 14:43 of play to the Tritons’ 6, for a 14–5 victory. Franke led the way with 4 goals on 5 shots, and Thomas and Okumura added 3 and 2 scores, respectively. On defense, graduate Bennett Bugelli and sophomore Lexi Stahl shared goalkeeping duties with 16 minutes each, making 7 and 4 saves, respectively.
Just a couple hours and a 
10-minute drive later, the Tritons were in Claremont to face Pomona-Pitzer in their home pool. It looked like another smooth match for UCSD in the opening minutes, with a goal from Arroyo in the first minute, followed by a goal from Thomas and a powerplay goal from Arroyo, putting the Tritons up 3–0 within four minutes. The Pomona-Pitzer Sagehens pulled a goal back with 3:13 to go in the period, but Franke scored just 18 seconds later to put UCSD up 4–1. But Pomona-Pitzer wasn’t out of it yet, as they scored 3 goals in the next four minutes of play to even things up at 4 early in the second period.
But it would be all Tritons 
from that point on, as UCSD poured on the next 5 goals, including 2 from Franke and 1 from Arroyo, completing a hat trick for each player. Down 9–4, the Sagehens scored 2 goals quickly, but it was too little too late, and after Thomas added some unneeded insurance with a goal with 1:44 remaining, UCSD walked away with the 10–6 victory. The Tritons once again had two players with hat tricks, with Franke joined this time by Arroyo, and Thomas had another great game with 2 goals on as many shots. Bugelli stayed in the net for the entire match this time, making 7 saves to 6 goals against.
After two matches on Friday 
in Los Angeles County, it was back to La Jolla for the first Big West conference match of the season at noon on Saturday, but if there was a physical toll for the Tritons, it didn’t show against No. 25 CSU Northridge at Canyonview Aquatic Center. The Tritons drew a penalty within the first 10 seconds of play, and while they couldn’t convert, Okumura still got on the board in the first minute. But Northridge equalized less than a minute later on a powerplay earned from a foul by Arroyo. Senior utility player Holly Maine notched a pair of goals within a minute to put UCSD up by 2, and after another CSUN goal in the second period, Franke, junior center Grayson Mix, and Thomas scored to make the lead 6–2.
Both teams traded 3 goals 
apiece down the stretch into the fourth quarter, making the score 8–5, before the Tritons put the match away with 3 more goals in the final 3:14. The first 2 came on penalties against Northridge, both of which were neatly put away by Arroyo, and senior utility player Chloe Pena added a powerplay goal to finish off the scoring, 11–5. It was another solid performance for the Tritons, as they outshot CSUN 31–21, went 4–0 on sprints, and had 11 steals to the Matadors’ 4. This time, Arroyo was the only Triton with a hat trick, Maine and Okumura added 2 goals apiece, and Bugelli made 7 saves in a complete game in goal.
The three-game stretch was 
a very successful one for UCSD, especially for Ciara Franke, who had 8 goals, including 7 on Friday alone. Franke has now scored in all 15 matches she has played this season, for a total of 39 goals. Arroyo also had a stellar weekend, with 7 total goals. Meanwhile, Bugelli moved up to 736 career saves for UCSD, as she moved into third place on the all-time leaderboard during the Kalbus Invitational — although she has just over half of the goals of the all-time UCSD leader, Courtney Miller, who played from 2013–2016.
The Tritons will remain in 
San Diego next weekend, as they take on California State University, Long Beach at home on Friday, Mar. 11, before three matches in the San Diego State University Aztec Invite on Mar. 12 and 13.
By Praveen Nair
Sports EditorThree Wins in Two Days for Women’s Water PoloBy Donovan Perez-Schipper 
Senior Staff Writer
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics.
Image courtesy of Derrick Tuskan / UC San Diego Athletics.