START OF
A NEW REIGN
After back-to-back defeats, the 
Tritons are slowly coming back. 
Could this be their chance at 
an upcoming winning streak? 
Read more of Sports’ article 
this week!
UCSD WILDERNESS
WE LOVE LICORICE PIZZABRADLEY’S FIELD GUIDE TO THE LA JOLLA 
WILDERNESS
Press Conference Alana Haim 
Licorice PizzaLIFESTYLE,  Page   9
A & E,  Page  7
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE““Remember that so 
much work went into your 
food to get to your plate. 
People had to pick it, ship 
it, cool it, put a little wax 
layer or container around 
it, someone had to sell it, 
you had to buy it. Make the 
most of it. Why should its 
life cycle have to end in the 
MBOEmMM ”
- CAITLIN FREDERICK
FEATURES, PAGE 5SPORTS,   PAGE  10
MONDAY  
H 19 L 11
WEDNESDAY  
H 21 L 11
TUESDAY  
H 22 L 11
THURSDAY
H 25 L 12
AS NEWS.......................2
AMERICAN FILM........ ...4
LICORICE PIZZA...........7
CHONKY CATS.............8
BASKETBALL..............10VOLUME 55, ISSUE 15   MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 31, 2022  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A.S. Council Brief: 
Constitutional Reform, 
Scholarship Committee 
and Library 
RenovationsASSOCIATED STUDENTS HOUSING
UC San Diego Plans to Resume Triple 
Housing This Fall
UCSD To Participate in $10K Community Service InitiativeBy Tianrui Huang  /gid00015/gid00006/gid00024/gid00020/gid00001/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
By ABBY LEE
/gid00020/gid00021/gid00002/gid00007/gid00007/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
Week 3
At the A.S. Council’s Week 3 
meeting on Jan. 19, senators discussed 
constitutional reforms and individual 
senator projects. Additionally, they 
discussed the new Geisel renovations, 
increased library access to research 
materials, and the state of Geisel 
operations as students return to in-
person learning.
Associate Vice President of 
Campus Affairs Isaac Lara began with 
a presentation on his proposed changes 
to the A.S. Constitution. Major changes 
include restructuring Executive 
Officership, and reducing the number 
of College Senators for more equal and 
logical delegation of duties.
Lara proposes that his position 
be divided into three separate 
roles: Executive Vice President 
to handle senate responsibilities; 
Chief Communications Officer to 
handle marketing and outreach; and 
Chief Personnel Officer to manage 
attendance and hiring procedures.
Lara also proposed to reduce 
the number of Senators per college 
from two Senators to one, in order 
to circumvent the issues an inflated 
A.S. might face, such as unproductive 
discussions, as well as to ensure work is 
fairly distributed. 
“It tends to be that the labor always 
falls to one college senator, and then the 
other one tends to perform lackluster … 
or be impeached and removed,” Lara 
added.
However, the new Constitution 
is not proposed legislation currently, 
and Lara had intended for it to spark 
discussion during Senate. 
Next, Sixth College Senator 
Kharylle Rosario began with updates 
on senator projects. Rosario plans to 
distribute a range of self-care packages 
that Sixth College students can choose 
from via a Google form. In addition, 
Rosario updated the A.S. on her plan to 
collaborate with Sixth College Provost 
Chilukuri to form a scholarship 
committee that aims to enhance 
student engagement on campus.
Arts and Humanities Senator 
Rhianen Callahan spoke about 
their meeting with the Academic 
Senate Library Committee. Callahan 
explained that they had discussed 
increasing students’ access to 
educational materials by removing the 
steep costs of access.
“The library is willing to cover the 
fee [of open-access]…, so that there’ s no 
more financial barriers [to students]... 
And the Academic Senate has created 
a committee to work with negotiating 
with publishers, so that we can get a 
lot of research and works available for 
free,” Callahan said. 
While renovations are ongoing, 
the library is open from 7:30 a.m. to 10 
p.m. on weekdays, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
on weekends.
See ASSOCIATED STUDENTS , page 2
STUDENT AFFAIRS
By Kalohelani Danbara
/gid00004/gid00016/gid00015/gid00021/gid00019/gid00010/gid00003/gid00022/gid00021/gid00010/gid00015/gid00008/gid00001/gid00024/gid00019/gid00010/gid00021/gid00006/gid00019
UC San Diego will be one of 45 college campuses 
participating in the #CaliforniansForAll College 
Corps starting Fall 2022. /T_he program oﬀers up to 
6,500 students $10,000 towards their education along 
with academic credit in exchange for 450 hours of 
community service.
On  Jan. 18, 2022, California Governor Gavin 
Newsom announced the #CaliforniansForAll 
College Corps program with the goal of assisting 
students in aﬀording higher education. /T_he part-
time community service work given to the selected 
students will center around supporting California 
communities in need, and with regard to COVID-19 relief, K-12 education, and climate action. UCSD 
was one of the seven universities in the University of 
California system selected to participate. 
A press release for California Volunteers describes 
the #CaliforniansForAll College Corps as being 
part of Governor Newsom’s response to nearly four 
million Californians owing $147 billion collectively 
in student debt. Student debt is a nationwide issue 
with more than 45 million students taking out 
loans across the country, with $1.7 trillion owed in 
total. Students from higher-income families have 
an advantage in being able to go to college and in 
completing a bachelor’s degree or higher. 
California Chief Service Oﬃcer and Head of 
California Volunteers Josh Fryday declared the 
See STUDENT AFFAIRS , page 3UC San Diego plans to resume using triple 
rooms at full capacity starting in Fall 2022. 
According to an email sent to students 
last week, the university will be able to provide an 
additional 700 beds to undergraduate residents for 
the 2022–-2023 academic year.
In response to the pandemic, UCSD eliminated 
around 2,000 beds to ensure social distancing and 
avoid overcrowding. Combined with higher student 
enrollment, UCSD’s COVID policy caused a housing 
shortage. 
According to /T_he San Diego Union-Tribune, in 
summer 2021, there were almost 3,200 students on 
housing waiting lists. Last year, UCSD admitted 
a record 52,946 /f_irst-year and transfer students, 
according to UC San Diego News Center. 
/T_he additional beds in Fall 2022 will be provided 
on a priority system. Namely, students in scholarship 
programs with four-year housing guarantees are 
served /f_irst, then new incoming /f_irst-year, transfer 
students, and returning second-year students who 
remain in on-campus housing. Detailed priority 
system information can be found on the HDH 
website. 
“UC San Diego has increased its undergraduate 
housing capacity by more than 72 % (more than 
5,000 beds) since the fall of 2010, but there is 
still tremendous demand for student housing,” 
Leslie Sepuka, the associate director of university 
communications, wrote in an email to /T_he UCSD 
Guardian.“/T_he University controls what it can by providing 
robust /f_inancial aid, investing in the construction 
of additional student housing and providing on-
campus housing for students at rates that are more 
favorable than the local rental market.”
“/T_he /T_heatre District Living Learning 
Neighborhood will provide housing for an 
additional 2,000 undergraduate students when it 
opens in 2023.” Sepuka said. “/T_he University of 
California Regents approved much-needed housing 
for approximately 1,310 transfer and upper-division 
undergraduate students at their January meeting. 
Construction of the Pepper Canyon West student 
housing is anticipated to start this summer, with the 
goal of opening in the fall of 2024.”
Allocations of triples will be spread across 
campus. Speci/f_ic locations will be identi/f_ied in 
collaboration with each community’s Residence Life 
team, with consideration on square footage, ceiling 
heights, wall soﬃts and other physical limitations, 
such as room area, ceiling heights and infrastructure.
Beyond pandemic concerns, triples have posed 
some safety hazards in the past. As reported by Tthe 
San Diego Union-Tribune, two former UCSD oﬃcials 
said that because UCSD had stacked students too 
high, some of them had to move carefully to avoid 
being hit by the /f_ire sprinklers in the ceiling. Also, 
because of the low bed fence, some students even fell 
from their beds at times. 
See HOUSING , page 2
Image courtesy of Ellie W ang for UCSD Guardian. IMAGE COURTESY OF MIKE MCGINNIS.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Zara Irshad
Hemmy Chun
Troy Tuquero
Andrew Ha
Jocelyn Brossia
Raymond Tran
Praveen Nair
Nelson Espinal
Elías Roman
Priscilla Anne Puno
Bradley Beggs 
Cherry Nguyen 
Alicia Gunawan
Angela Liang 
Sophia NguyenEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Co-News Editors
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Design Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco   
Advertising Director  
Nicole Soong
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
While the library hopes to 
return to regular hours soon, it 
is still awaiting guidance from 
campus administration. Library 
processes may also be slower 
than usual, as the library is short-
staﬀed due to COVID-19 cases 
amongst library staﬀ.  
Lastly, a/f_ter speaking with 
two campus public health 
experts, A.S. President Manu 
Agni con/f_irmed that UC San 
Diego was planning to return to 
in-person learning, events and 
Associated Activities a/f_ter Jan. 
31. Agni also elaborated that 
although professors and lecturers 
could not be mandated to 
podcast, Agni was working with 
Academic Aﬀairs to strongly 
/uni25B6 ASSOCIATED STUDENTS ,
 from page 1
/uni25B6 HOUSING , from page 1Sixth College junior residential 
assistant on campus, have praised 
triple occupancy housing as an 
acceptable option.
“Last year, there was a housing 
crisis. ” LouAnne said. “Outside 
housing is really expensive, so a 
triple room was the best alternative 
in my freshman year —, also 
because of the campus vibe, but 
these were cut out because of the 
COVID. So basically, I just spent 
one quarter and a half there. ”
Last year the average rent 
around University City surged 
to $2,745 in the second quarter, 
while on-campus housing costs 
ranged from $1110 to $1400 per 
month.
“/T_he triple housing was 
an OK experience. ” LouAnne the meeting would ease their 
transition to in-person learning.
A.S. Council meetings take 
place at 6 p.m. every Wednesday 
and are open to students. Students 
can participate in these meetings 
by joining their Zoom link or 
tuning in on Facebook Live. continued. “When I walked in, it 
[was]’s always crammed. I slept 
on the upper bed. Since there was 
basically no fence some people 
fell from bed, and my head always 
hit the ceiling.” LouAnne said, 
“However it’s still an opportunity 
to bound people together, a 
positive way to be surrounded by 
people.”
Student enrollment is 
expected to continue rising, 
with Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
saying UCSD may reach the 
50,000 mark within 10 years. 
On-campus housing policies for 
the next incoming year will still 
depend on an adaptive strategy of 
the Return to Learn program and 
are subject to changes as a result 
of the ongoing pandemic. Academic Aﬀairs to strongly 
encourage more professors and 
lecturers to podcast lectures.    
Week 4
/T_he Week 4 meeting on Jan. 26 
was cancelled. According to A.S. 
Interim Executive Assistant Roy 
Velasquez, there were no urgent 
issues to pass on the docket, and 
many students felt that canceling 
Despite some criticisms, 
students such as LouAnne, a
Image courtesy of Ava Bayley for the UCSD Guardian. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
program a “monumental 
proposal to the next generation of 
Californians,” stating that “if you 
step up to serve your community, 
we’ll help you pay for college.” 
In a tweet, UC President 
Michael V. Drake touted the 
bene/f_its of the UC system’s 
involvement in the program.
“@UofCalifornia is proud to 
partner with @CAGovernor Newsom and fellow CA 
colleges & universities on the 
#CaliforniansForAll College 
Corps program. /T_his initiative is 
a re/f_lection of our state’s 
strong commitment to access, 
aﬀordability, and public service.”
In an email to /T_he UCSD 
Guardian, Assistant Director 
of University Communications 
Erika Johnson elaborated on 
what this program will look like 
for UCSD students in the upcoming year.   
“/T_hose who complete a year of 
service (450 hours) will receive 
a $7,000 stipend plus a $3,000 
education award, academic 
credit, real-world job experience, 
and access to training and 
professional development,” 
Johnson said. UCSD will select 
up to 225 students, including Cal 
Grant B eligible undocumented 
students, to participate in this 
program. /T_he school also plans to recruit College Corps 
Fellows to assist elementary, 
middle school, and high school 
students affected by pandemic 
learning loss by working with 
K-12 host schools colleges and 
universities. UCSD anticipates 
providing students with an 
application by late March 2022 
and plans to update students 
with more information in the 
upcoming weeks. /uni25B6 STUDENT AFFAIRS , from page 1Starting in August 2022, 
the program's official 
implementation will begin 
with the first cohort of 
students participating through 
July 2024 in a two-year 
program. If the initiative 
proves successful, Governor 
Newsom hopes to expand 
the program to include more 
California students. 
Image courtesy of T ony Anguiano for UCSD Guardian. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org     4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Raymond Tran
It’s no secret that our society 
is highly motivated by achieving 
the largest profit. But what 
happens when this driving desire 
begins to uproot creativity? In 
the world of American movies, 
film, and television, large 
corporations are now dominating 
and controlling the outpour of 
media dispersed to the masses. 
The issue with placing money-
driven institutions at the head 
of the American film industry is 
the unfortunate creation of often 
meaningless entertainment 
. Movies and television shows 
are simply viewed as monetary 
investments and sacrifice 
quality in favor of selling a wider 
quantity. 
While the American film 
industry wasn’t always so 
capitalistic, it’s important to 
understand when and how the 
shift away from innovation 
and artistry took place. Prior 
to the 1900s, American films 
were essentially unrestricted by 
laws. The industry was mainly 
composed of independent 
filmmakers who required only 
the proper funds and tools to carry out their visionary 
projects. However, in 1908, 
Thomas A. Edison pushed for the 
formation of the Motion Picture 
Patents Company (also known 
as The Movie Trust, Edison 
Trust, or The Trust) in order 
to monopolize the American 
film industry by removing 
independent filmmakers and 
distributors by generating 
unreasonable limitations. For 
example, The Trust created a 
contract with the Eastman 
Kodak Company, the largest 
manufacturer of film stock at the 
time, to regulate the distribution 
of film and guarantee that it was 
only given to licensed members 
of the company. In response to 
this, independent filmmakers 
and producers abandoned the 
east coast — which was home 
to The Trust — and moved 
to Hollywood, California, 
contributing to the origin of 
America’s present-day film 
capital. 
Eventually, The Trust was 
terminated under court order in 
1917. Though, a similar pattern 
of domination began to appear 
in Hollywood as major film 
studios like Universal Pictures, 
Paramount Pictures, Warner 
Bros. Pictures, Walt Disney 
Pictures, and Columbia Pictures grew in size. They became 
known as the “Big Five” and, as 
of September 2021, own 81% of 
the movie market. These studios 
are subsequently responsible 
for the industrialization of film 
through large-budget, mass-
produced, generic entertainment 
that is carefully curated to appeal 
to as many audiences as possible. 
By pandering to the masses, 
these film studios can raise 
their profits and continue the 
cycle of investing in meaningless 
material with high rewards. 
For instance, Walt Disney 
Pictures, among other studies, 
has recently become attached 
to the idea of recreating pre-
existing “classic” Disney films 
in live-action format. However, 
films like “The Lion King” 
that offer nothing substantially 
new or demonstrate anything 
particularly creative (with 
the exception of improved 
animation and image rendering 
that wasn’t available during 
the time of the original movie) 
contribute almost no artistic 
value since they are being used 
as money-making tools. Disney 
set aside around $180 million, 
on average, for these live-action 
remakes, drawing on a wide 
audience by appealing to their 
main market audience as well as adults who grew up watching the 
older Disney films. The studio 
also casted popular and well-
known actors to increase their 
marketability. 
Crown Media Holdings is not 
classified as one of the Big Five, 
but they are responsible for the 
production of Hallmark movies, 
notoriously known for their 
repetitive Christmas movies 
that feature almost identical 
plots, tropes, and unoriginal 
style. The company sets small 
budgets for these films, under $2 
million on average, and makes 
a considerable profit. From 
Christmas films alone, Hallmark 
makes an annual ad revenue of 
$350 million while contributing 
nothing particularly new 
or unique to the global film 
industry itself..  
In contrast to American 
films, Soviet films are 
completely free from the 
binds of commercialization. 
Independent filmmakers have 
the unrestricted ability to 
revolutionize film and create 
meaningful art in the absence 
of an unrelenting desire to profit 
off of their work. Intellectual 
montage, poetic visulas, film 
psychology, etc. all originated 
from great independent Soviet 
filmmakers like Lev Kuleshov and Dziga Vertov. George Lucas, 
creator of the infamous Star Wars 
series, said himself that freedom 
from commerce aids in technical 
innovation, when referencing the 
ingenuity of Soviet filmmakers. 
If the American film industry 
were to adopt a similar mindset 
of placing artistry above 
money, perhaps they too could 
contribute to the global world 
of film in a more purposeful 
manner. 
Independently produced 
films created by American film 
directors like Wes Anderson, the 
Coen Brothers, Greta Gerwig, or 
Richard Linklater, are all prime 
examples of the artistic potential 
the American film industry 
holds. Each film presents its 
own unique cinematography, 
soundtrack, visuals, and overall 
feel that exudes creativity and 
thoughtfulness. Independent 
films aren’t compromised by 
greed or concerns about profit. 
They are simply driven by the 
director’s desire to produce 
meaningful art which — at 
the risk of sounding slightly 
pretentious — is what films 
should be.  By Marcella Barncelo 
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Image courtesy of Myke Simon from Unsplash.American Film Industry Driven 
Ja8ZWÅ\IVL+WV[]UX\QWVOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
From the time, money, and 
compromises students make, 
their motivation to learn should 
be evident. However, even for 
a highly motivated student, 
it is not always the case that 
attending everything is the best. 
The tradeoffs students make to 
optimize learning need to be 
acknowledged. Some learn 
better from the textbook, and 
attending a lecture with 200 
people with the professor going 
over the slides and constantly 
being bogged down by questions 
may be detrimental for such 
an individual. While one may 
argue that this student could 
use this as review, there may 
also be better ways of solidifying 
knowledge. For some, doing 
different practice problems with 
one’s own hand is better than 
watching different people solve 
one problem.
Another defect of required 
attendance is schedule conflicts 
during course enrollment. In 
order to graduate in time, students 
need to take certain courses, but 
the course enrollment system 
does not always allow for a 
perfect schedule. If attendance 
is required, even if a student 
thoroughly understands the topic, they will lose points 
from missing class, even if the 
choice to miss class was made 
in order to optimize learning 
and enable them to come to 
such an understanding. Thus, to 
avoid being penalized for doing 
the right thing, students feel 
pressured into making choices 
suboptimal for their learning, 
which contradicts the primary 
aim of education.
Attendance points also make 
the grading more complicated. 
Ideally, grading systems should 
be a gauge of the student’s 
competence with the material. 
This does not correlate to a 
student’s effort or enthusiasm. 
While the latter two are 
appreciated and will indeed 
factor strongly when students 
approach professors for letters 
of recommendation, they should 
be kept separate from grades for 
fairness and to incentivize true 
learning.
One may argue that 
attendance points will incentivize 
students to participate in class, 
which will indirectly contribute 
to their learning. However, this 
assumes that participating in 
class is indeed the best way for 
a student to learn. In reality, 
some students learn better by 
reading the book, doing practice 
problems in small groups, or 
going to a tutor.
Furthermore, rather than By Benjamin Liou
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045fail to incentivize true learning, 
attendance points may even 
encourage students to game the 
system. From the perspective 
of a lazy student, attendance 
points may become an easy way 
to get buffer points to cover the 
points lost over not knowing 
the material, leading students to 
waste time sitting in class and 
“participating” only for the sake 
of a grade rather than seeking 
to extend one’s knowledge or contributing to the discussion. 
Similarly, a 1999 paper by St. 
Clair concluded that “By making 
class attendance compulsory, 
students can lose their feeling 
of control, begin to feel bad 
about their decision to enroll in 
college, and may decide there 
are more important things to do 
than attend class.” 
The purpose of education 
and grades are to instill and 
evaluate one’s knowledge. While class participation may help for 
some, for others, that time would 
be better spent through different 
means of learning. Individuals 
should be able to learn in 
whatever way suits them best as 
long as they achieve the ends of 
learning. Thus, grades should 
be independent of the means 
to that end and not be used to 
incentivize students to conform 
to a certain style of learning.Attendance Should Not Be 
Required 
Image courtesy of Andrew Pan for /T_he UCSD Guardian.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org     6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
NELSON  ESPINAL 
According to the Committee on 
Campus Climate Change (CCCC) 
July 2021  F o o d  W a s t e  R e p o r t ,  
UC San Diego wastes around 
1700–2150 tons of food yearly. 
Excess food tossed into 
trsh cans is sent to landfills to 
decompose and emit methane. 
Methane is a harmful gas, up to 
80 times more toxic than carbon 
dioxide. This much consumer 
food waste increases greenhouse 
gas emissions, which can have a 
devastating impact on the climate. 
In light of California’s 
new composting mandate, 
which requires all residents to 
compost their food waste and 
organics, UCSD will have to 
make some changes. 
Though there’s a 
grace period of two years, 
Calrecycle, a state agency, 
will evaluate if cities 
are sufficiently abiding 
by the new rules and 
subsequently fine property 
owners or cities as a whole.
Here at UCSD, both 
administrators and 
students are working 
to promote more 
sustainable practices with 
regard to food waste. 
As a student, Caitlin 
Frederick, UCSD graduate 
and Marine Biology major, 
became lead author on the 
2021 Food Waste Report 
through reaching out to 
the chair of the CCCC, 
Ram Ramanathan. 
Drawing attention to an 
issue that felt largely swept 
under the rug, the Food 
Waste Report expanded 
research on the life cycle of 
food and the impact of its 
waste on the production 
of greenhouse gases. 
“Before the report, 
[UCSD] had a [limited] concept 
of how much food waste was 
being made,” said Frederick.
UCSD’s 2019 Zero Waste Plan 
outlines the practices currently in 
place with regard to composting. 
UCSD composts its green 
waste, like landscaping debris, 
clippings, and wood, as well as 
pre-consumer food scraps (the 
material discarded before reaching 
consumers) from all markets 
and restaurants run by Housing, 
Dining, Hospitality (HDH).
Other recommendations 
outlined in the 2019 Waste Plan 
include enforcing “green event 
standards’’ for events, mitigating 
unnecessary packaging waste, 
enforcing their 2018 ban 
on Styrofoam, and working 
with the UC system to ban 
single-use plastics on campus. 
UCSD’s next step could 
examine post-consumer 
food waste, for which there is 
currently no system in place. 
“Post-consumer” food waste 
describes the food and organics 
disposed of after consumer 
use, including paper napkins, 
compostable plastics, and food 
put into trash cans by students 
in residential areas and dining 
facilities without compost bins. 
UCSD’s waste hauler, EDCO,   is a family owned and locally 
operated waste collection 
and recycling company. The 
collective considers mandatory 
recycling of organic waste 
an essential step towards 
reaching its Zero Waste goals. 
EDCO proposes their 
new anaerobic digestion 
facility as a solution to food 
waste. Anaerobic digestion 
is “a process through which 
bacteria break down organic 
matter,” according to the EPA. 
The UCSD campus is 
actually home to two on-site 
anaerobic digesters. Despite 
two recent reports (the 2019 
Zero Waste Plan and 2021 Food 
Waste Report) encouraging the 
idea, neither digester is in use.
The use of anaerobic 
digesters will depend on UCSD’s 
collection of post-consumer 
waste. Because the school 
has not begun this process, 
EDCO does not yet collect its 
post-consumer food waste. 
UCSD faced a number 
of issues in attempting to 
transform their composting 
systems, some listed in 
their 2019 Zero Waste Plan. 
One hurdle is the 
“competition for space,” 
because priority is given 
to academic and research 
buildings, on-campus housing, 
etc. Space for on-site sorting 
and self hauling is difficult 
to find. UCSD’s capacity to 
create effective organic waste 
systems is further complicated 
by a lack of regional organics 
recycling infrastructure.
Dawn Cox, UCSD’s 
environmental coordinator, 
works with sustainability staff 
on ideas and goals to achieve 
UCSD’s 90% Zero Waste goal. 
Cox explained why UCSD 
has not begun to use their 
on-campus anaerobic digesters.
“Our go-live [for the 
anaerobic digestion system] 
was supposed to be October 
of 2020, and then we just ran 
into some issues with staffing 
and logistics of how to get all the different areas into one place 
in order to haul it,” Cox said. 
In order to use the digesters, 
UCSD would need containers 
and compactors for a large 
number of facilities on campus. 
Cox said UCSD was planning 
to put green waste cans in 
Price Center common areas 
beginning the week of Jan. 23. 
Throughout the week, students 
would act as peer educators to 
help direct others as to where 
to put their food. Bins would 
be collected and audited daily 
by EDCO, making sure there 
wasn’t any contamination. 
After one week of this 
process,  educational signs 
would replace peer educators. 
From there, EDCO would 
compare results and evaluate 
the success and plausibility of 
the project on a bigger scale. 
Unfortunately, the project 
halted due to remote learning, 
though a new start date is 
in the works. Cox pointed 
out that it would actually be 
a big commitment to leave 
compost bins unattended. 
“Are we really ready to put 
out open cans and trust that 
everybody knows the process?” 
Cox told The UCSD Guardian. 
If UCSD is to install compost 
bins and begin composting 
post-consumer waste to send to 
anaerobic digesters, they’ll need 
the resources and staff to conduct 
education programs and training 
to ensure proper use of compost. 
Cox hopes that they can 
begin use of the anaerobic 
digesters in the next six 
months. She also noted that in 
the next 90–120 days, facilities 
will actually begin to compost 
paper towels from bathrooms.
An informational video on 
the Zero Waste page  informs 
students of the importance 
of properly disposing of food 
waste, explaining that until 
EDCO begins collecting UCSD’s 
post-consumer waste, students 
can bring their compost to 
student gardens around campus. 
These locations include Ellie’s Garden, Marshall Community 
Garden, Roger’s Urban Farmlab 
and Warren Grow. Student 
gardens are currently the best 
compost options for students 
residing on campus, although 
there is a limit to the amount 
of waste they can take in.
UCSD’s website actually 
hosts a large variety of resources 
promoting and encouraging 
sustainability on campus. The 
Staff Sustainability Collective 
website  includes links to events, 
programs, and ways to get 
involved at UCSD. They also 
provide guides on how to host 
sustainable or zero waste events 
and consider your own impact 
through a personal waste audit.  
They hosted a number of 
events to educate the community 
on sustainability, recycling, 
and approaching a zero waste 
lifestyle. All of these sites 
and guides serve as effective 
resources to educate students 
on how they can compost and 
be more sustainable, but do 
students even know about them? 
Shaylee Prelewicz, an Earl 
Warren College junior, is double 
majoring in environmental 
systems and anthropology. As 
director of energy and waste for the 
Student Sustainability Collective 
(SSC), Prelewicz has worked 
to educate and lead students 
towards a zero-waste lifestyle. 
An essential part of this zero 
waste lifestyle is understanding 
how to compost. Prelewicz 
feels that the biggest battle 
with regard to composting at 
UCSD is the lack of education 
and accessible information. 
“The campus could 
be more vocal about how 
students can get involved in 
composting,” Prelewicz said. 
Cox described different ways 
that she’d like to expand outreach, 
including informational booths 
around campus, signs to help 
students throw waste into the 
correct places, and equipping 
new student orientations with 
information about composting. 
Both Prelewicz and Frederick agreed that requiring 
students to learn about 
composting on campus serves 
as one of the most effective 
ways to get people involved. 
In the 2021 Food Waste 
Report, the UCSD Academic 
Senate suggests incentivizing a 
“zero food waste mindset” on 
campus. Frederick describes 
a mindset in which students 
examine their food consumption, 
working to understand where 
it came from and where it 
will go when disposed of. 
Students can implement this 
mindset into their daily lives 
through a host of different 
actions, including saving their 
leftovers, getting food from the 
gardens or  f o o d  p a n t r i e s ,  and 
making stock out of vegetable 
waste and meat bones. A 
student with a zero waste 
mindset will do everything 
they can to prevent their 
food from becoming 
waste in the first place. 
“You’re repurposing 
those unwanted parts 
of food and giving them 
one more use before they 
have to go in the trash,” 
Frederick said. “We want to 
eliminate food waste from 
even becoming food waste.”
Reducing the sources 
that generate waste is what 
can really make a difference. 
Prelewicz noted a similar 
sentiment, suggesting that 
students consider changing 
their lifestyle in even the 
smallest ways, like choosing 
not to purchase single-
use plastics anymore. 
“The little things that 
you can do as a student 
might not seem like much, 
but it really does make a 
difference,” Prelewicz said. 
The creation of new 
composting operations on 
campus involve significant 
costs; it isn’t inexpensive to 
hire their off-site haulers, 
nor install composters and hire 
people to conduct transports 
and education programs. 
Frederick and Prelewicz 
agreed that students are the best 
stakeholders to push for change, 
both in their lives and through 
pressuring administration into 
making much needed changes. 
According to Frederick, 
student demands and 
opinions could lead to 
structural changes at UCSD.
“I feel like a lot of the big 
changes I’ve seen have been a 
result of students reaching 
out and urging campus to 
make change,” Prelewicz said.  
Even if students don’t have the 
time or opportunity to compost 
their food, Frederick encourages 
them to take even just a moment 
to appreciate where it came from. 
“Remember that so much 
work went into your food to get 
to your plate. People had to pick 
it, ship it, cool it, put a little 
wax layer or container around 
it, someone had to sell it, you 
had to buy it. Make the most of 
it. Why should its life cycle have 
to end in the landfill?” Frederick 
told The UCSD Guardian. 
Wasting no time to Compost
As the start date for California’s new composting mandate passes, UCSD students 
and administrators consider their next steps to reducing food waste on campus.
By Vivian Dueker
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Diagram courtesy of UCSD Food Waste ReportARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENTCONTACT THE EDITOR
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org     ELIAS ROMAN
Staﬀ Writer Fabian Garcia from /T_he Guardian’s Arts & Entertainment section partakes in a 
college press conference for Paul /T_homas Anderson’s ninth /f_ilm “Licorice Pizza.”
/T_he UCSD Guardian recently had the opportunity to sit down with Alana Haim of the 
band HAIM over Zoom to discuss her acting debut in the newest Paul /T_homas Anderson 
/f_ilm, “Licorice Pizza.” Despite only appearing through a screen, Haim still radiated a 
natural gracious presence, as if we were in the room with her. 
“I’m just so happy to be here,” Haim said. 
“Licorice Pizza” follows the lives of 25-year-old Alana Kane and 15-year-old Gary 
Valentine as they explore the San Fernando Valley and /f_ind personal growth and passion 
in their pursuits to achieve something greater than themselves. Haim cites her personal 
experience growing up in the area as the reason for why she fell into her character, Alana 
Kane, so easily. However, that doesn’t mean moving from the concert stage to the silver 
screen wasn’t a “crazy transition” for the natural-born musician. 
“When you’re playing to a crowd everything is like, very big, you have to make 
your motions really big…” Haim said. “For a camera … it was more, you know, subtle 
movements and really getting into my body.”
A glaring detail about “Licorice Pizza” is the uncanny way it seems to mirror real life. 
Taking place in the 1970s, real people and events that occurred during that time have severe 
eﬀects on the characters and the plot. Haim is no exception sharing a nearly identical 
name with her character, but that doesn't necessarily mean the two are one and the same. 
“I’m not as crazy as Alana Kane,” Haim said. “But she rides for, you know, her friends 
and her family and she is very protective over the people that she cares about and I 
de/f_initely can see myself in that.”Music plays a very important role in the /f_ilm, and Haim’s 
background as a musician only made this element more enjoyable.
“It’s no secret that Anderson has impeccable music taste,” Haim said, recalling the 
times when classic 70s tracks were played on set or when she /f_irst heard “Life on Mars” by 
David Bowie in the trailer for the /f_ilm. “One of my favorite parts about /f_ilming the movie 
was when we got to the pinball palace, between takes or if we were reloading /f_ilm, Paul 
would play music, so it actually did kinda feel like we were all at a party,” Haim said.
/T_his story and many others inform viewers on just how entertaining the /f_ilming of 
“Licorice Pizza” itself was. “For the longest time it kinda felt like this weird family vacation movie that we all 
kinda made, but I never really thought anyone was gonna see,” Haim said, an interesting 
but still a very telling way of how those who worked on the /f_ilm viewed it. /T_he movie was 
very much a family aﬀair for Haim as her real life sisters and parents appear in “Licorice 
Pizza” to play their /f_ilm counterparts. “I don’t know how to work with anybody else,” 
Haim said. She would later ironically receive a call from her father during the conference, 
driving this point even further. Despite this, her family was only able to be on set for a 
limited amount of time due to COVID-19 restrictions. 
“I was alone for the /f_irst time in my life,” Haim said.
Without her family, Haim turned to Anderson for support and he certainly delivered. 
Her past work with Anderson on music videos was her “cheat sheet” into transitioning 
into acting, Haim said. 
“We had already had such a great working relationship,” Haim said. His patience and 
encouragement are ultimately what made the /f_ilming experience better for her as a new 
actress. 
Filming itself still remained in its natural and relaxed atmosphere. Haim remembered 
she had the most fun driving a U-haul backwards with Hoﬀman and Bradley Cooper, as 
well as spending time at Anderson’s reimagined version of the iconic LA restaurant Tail 
o’ the Cock.
 “It was just as fun as it looks,” Haim said. 
/T_he 70s time period was also kept consistent during /f_ilming as phones were not kept 
on set. 
“It was all very much like we were living in that time.” 
On the topic of the many themes present in the /f_ilm, Haim closed with her thoughts on 
what “Licorice Pizza” means to her. 
“Really these two people meet and they don't know it yet, but their lives are forever 
changed and they go on these crazy adventures.” Haim believes that the /f_ilm parallels her 
personal relationship with Paul and Cooper Hoﬀman, and how meeting both of them has 
forever changed her life. 
“/T_hey make my life so rich and happy and that de/f_initely is how I feel with Gary and 
Alana.” Press Conference Alana 
Haim Licorice Pizza
Image courtesy of MTV . 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org     PRISCILA ANNE PUNO AND BRADLEY BEGGS
Bradley’s Field Guide to the La Jolla Wilderness
Fan Palms Washingtonia Filifera
 These trees are more of a SoCal staple rather than a La Jolla staple. However, 
you’ll recognize that the fan palms you’ll see are neatly trimmed and are more of a 
residential/urban feature of the La Jolla landscape. But, if you can find one away from 
the hustle and bustle of the streets and sidewalks, you’ll see its dead leaves still a part of 
the tree, hanging below the fresh and healthy palms. Watch how their leaves sway in the 
wind. Hear their rustling, and appreciate their green hats, standing tall above the skyline. 
Eucalyptus/Gum Trees  Eucalyptus Mannifera
 For this tree, you really don’t need to travel far. These bad boys are 
EVERYWHERE. On and off campus, you’ll be able to spot their waxy leaves and 
stripped bark. Eucalyptus groves are also easy to recognize because many plants aren’t 
able to grow around these trees. Like the bad-asses they are, Eucalyptus trees taint the 
soil they grow in, making it virtually impossible for other species to grow nearby. Take 
a second look at these green giants the next time you’re walking around campus. I think 
that their foliage reflects the sunlight and dances with the wind beautifully. Sitting, 
watching, and listening to them, in my opinion, would be a great use of your time.
In conclusion, go outside and take a walk! Discover some plants and trees 
that you like. And, take in the fresh La Jolla air. Best of luck fellow ecologists!California Brittlebush Encelia Californica
 The California Brittlebush is only one of the many yellow flowers you may 
see while out and about the La Jolla wilderness. With its long stem, dark center, and 
dainty petals, the brittlebush resembles a daisy. However, the brittlebush thrives in a 
harsher and arid environment, unlike the fragile daisy. Take a look at their center and 
see the pollen gathered and left by the bees in the area and how its orange hue reflects 
against the dark background. You can see how the petals are perforated at its ends, 
giving this flower bush its iconic shape, making it a sight to behold on your next hike!
Bermuda Buttercup Oxalis Pes-Caprae
 Another iconic yellow flower that can be seen in the nearby areas is the Bermuda 
Buttercup. With a softer and brighter hue, the buttercup’s petals seem almost opaque and 
add a wonderful brightness to the otherwise brown and green environment. If you can, 
take a look at the leaves of this plant. Notice their roundness, almost like clovers, and how 
their shape completely compliments the silhouette of the buttercup. If you’re lucky, you’ll 
see a field of them with the Pacific Ocean as its backdrop. And while they may look fragile, 
their resistance to La Jolla weather makes that a tried-and-true staple of this landscape. 
California Prickly Pear Cactus Opuntia Phaeacantha
 You may be thinking that cactuses are strictly desert plants. However, 
La Jolla’s relatively dry climate (compared to further up north) makes this a great 
place for cactuses to share their homes with the bushels and wildflowers. If you’re 
lucky, you’ll see a greenish/yellowish flower blooming from the top of the cactus: 
a great juxtaposition of beauty and fragility compared to the tough and spikey 
skin of the prickly pear cactus. Clumps of these cacti can be found interspersed on 
any hiking trail nearby, so you’ll be sure to see them while you’re out exploring.By Bradley Beggs
/gid00013/gid00036/gid00033/gid00032/gid00046/gid00047/gid00052/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00004/gid00042/gid00183/gid00006/gid00031/gid00036/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045
If you’re anything like me, you’ve been going a little crazy attending Zoom University this quarter. Cooped up inside, I bet you’re itching for some fresh air. And, the 
walk to your nearest dining hall isn’t necessarily the best form of exercise. So, it is my pleasure to provide you with this helpful field guide. Hopefully, I’ll make your 
next hike more exciting, recognizing our native La Jolla flora. With the nearest hike into the great outdoors being just a 10–15 minute walk from campus, you too could 
soon be immersed in nature with the valuable knowledge I will gladly bestow upon you. So without further ado, here is Bradley’s Field Guide to the La Jolla Wilderness!
Photo and Art by Bradley Beggs & Olivia Gale LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2021 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
An All Stars  Showdown
By EMily Ito
/gid00004/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00029/gid00048/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00013/gid00036/gid00033/gid00032/gid00046/gid00047/gid00052/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
They were neck and neck, 
the votes split directly down the 
middle. The “silky soccer ball” 
versus the snowball royalty, the 
greatest and fiercest matchup 
since Batman versus Superman. 
The Chonky Choice All Stars 
Tournament was not a contest, 
but a battle. I sat perched at 
the edge of my seat, biting my 
nails and refreshing my page, 
awaiting the much anticipated 
results. Emotions were running 
high; the close match and 
the delayed results had many 
@weratechonks followers, 
myself included, in extreme 
distress. I scrolled through the 
comments, seeing my fellow fans 
endorsing their favorite fat cat 
and bad-mouthing their rival. 
I knew where my loyalties lie, 
having followed @snacksthefatcat 
for months. But I will admit 
that there was another cat that I 
had initially championed for. @
missbiscuitsfatcat, the beautiful 
and elegant calico kitty from 
North Carolina, was my obvious 
first choice; I advocated for her 
win, encouraging everyone I 
knew to vote for her. Yet despite 
my efforts, Miss Biscuits was 
eliminated in the very first 
round, bested by internet 
celebrity, @kingduncan__. 
Fortunately for me though, 
my second favorite fat internet 
cat, Miss Snacks, was pulling through. She won round after 
round, beating out major 
competitors like @keith_the_
cat_cow and @cinderblock_cat. 
Every bracket she entered, she dominated, raking in victory 
after victory. My hopes were 
high and I was confident 
that Miss Snacks would reign 
supreme. With her class, sass, 
and a--, there was no way that 
any other cat was worthy of the 
All Stars Chonky Choice title. 
I was highly optimistic and 
feeling quite positive until I saw 
the final matchup. My heart 
sank and a pit formed in my 
stomach. I had faith in Miss 
Snacks, the tuxedo goddess, but 
I was worried. King Duncan had 
already beaten Miss Biscuits and 
had more than twice the number 
of followers as Snacks. He had 
the pull, he had the support, 
and he had the charm. I had my 
doubts that Miss Snacks was at a 
place in the internet totem pole 
to really take home this win. 
But despite his obvious leg up, 
Miss Snacks held her own. The 
thousands of voters were split 
down the middle, each of these 
two cats being backed by endless 
support from their dedicated 
fans. I was gunning for her, doing 
everything in my power to tip 
the scale in her favor. But on the 
evening of Jan. 19, King Duncan 
was named the official winner. 
I really thought I’d be 
bitter, but I had to concede. It 
was a fierce competition and 
I had my favorites, but I also 
recognized that King Duncan 
earned it. He fought long and 
hard, and unfortunately for 
Miss Snacks, the odds were 
in his favor. He deserved the 
win and I can recognize that 
at this time, King Duncan is the ultimate fat internet cat. 
But I must emphasize that my 
concession does not mean I’ve 
given up on Miss Snacks. King 
Duncan is a handsome lad with a 
big personality, but Miss Snacks 
will always hold my heart. 
Despite Duncan’s obvious 
smugness, she took the loss 
with such elegance and grace; 
congratulating the King on his win 
and maintaining her composure, 
like the classy beauty she is. 
She may have taken the 
loss today, but this is not the 
end for Miss Snacks. One 
day, Miss Snacks will be 
the Chonky Choice Queen. 
(Disclaimer: All of the cats 
featured on @weratechonks are 
on a diet. To my knowledge, 
all of these fur babies are on 
a journey towards a healthy 
weight and are quite beloved.) 
Image Courtesy of instagram account @weratechonks THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTS
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 31, 2022 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  10
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
PRAVEEN NAIR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     at USC
at CSUN 
vs CSUN
vs Paci/f_ic
vs CalUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
M Basketball
W Basketball
W Tennis
MW Swim7PM
7PM
7PM
1PM
2PM2/2
2/3
2/3
2/4
2/4
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team (8–11, 2–6 Big 
West) suffered their sixth defeat 
in a row in all competitions 
to California Polytechnic 
University, San Luis Obispo 
(5–12, 2–4 Big West) this past 
Thursday at home in La Jolla, 
the score 55–59 at the full-time 
buzzer. Despite maintaining 
the lead for the majority of the 
evening, the Tritons lost their 
grip on the game after a second-half push by the Mustangs who 
nabbed the victory late on in 
a spectator-less RIMAC Arena. 
In a particularly low-scoring 
match, both teams should 
be proud of the determined 
defensive efforts they each put 
in; but UCSD will be doubly 
disappointed to have given up 
the lead in the final quarter 
after holding on to it for most 
of the game. Despite the final 
scoreline favoring the visitors, 
the Tritons were the stronger 
team overall, albeit a brief 
decline in form that cost them 
in the end.Cal Poly San Luis Obispo 
began brightly, winning first 
possession and scoring a 
bucket just over 3 minutes in. 
The low-scoring pattern of the 
evening made itself known 
from the get-go, however, with 
a UCSD lead held to 4–2 for 
the first nine minutes of play, 
courtesy of a pair of layups 
by senior forward Toni Rocak 
and freshman forward Francis 
Nwaokorie. Although both 
teams went back and forth in 
baskets after that initial slow 
start, the Tritons spent the first 
half building their advantage. 
A trio of 3-pointers from 
redshirt sophomore forward 
Jake Kosakowski as well as a 
pair from redshirt sophomore 
guard Bryce Pope helped widen 
the home side’s lead, and a pair 
of free throws from Rocak were 
the last of the half to make the 
score 33–22 at the buzzer. 
The second half began 
with a layup by Cal Poly San 
Luis Obispo followed by a 
pair of buckets for the Tritons 
from Rocak and Nwaokorie. 
However, this came just before 
a six-minute period in which 
the visitors steadily chipped 
away at UCSD’s 13-point lead. 
Even though Kosakowski broke 
the dry spell with another 
3-pointer, his fourth of the 
evening, the Mustangs had built 
up momentum that saw them 
continue to narrow the gap. 
Just three minutes later, 
a layup by Cal Poly San Luis 
Obispo’s Trevon Taylor brought the visitors over the mark to take 
the lead for the first time in the 
game. In the last few minutes, 
the Tritons doubled down and 
made a valiant effort to pull 
back the advantage, with Rocak 
stealing four points back from a 
couple of layups. Unfortunately 
for the home team, it wasn’t 
enough to take back the game, 
and after a trio of free throws 
from the visitors, the game 
ended in a disappointingly close 
55–59 defeat for the Tritons.
Rocak was one of the 
standout performers on the 
evening, leading the Tritons 
with a contribution of 15 
points on the board. He also 
impressed by putting up a 
double-double of 15 points and 
12 rebounds, his second of the 
season. Kosakowski and Pope 
also made vital contributions to 
UCSD’s scoresheet, each adding 
four 3-pointers to their totals of 
14 and 12 points, respectively. 
UCSD had the advantage 
for most of the game, but both 
sides put out low shooting 
percentages, with the Tritons 
shooting 33% on field goals 
throughout the whole game. 
The game went through a few 
periods in which the teams 
traded points as well as a couple 
of stretches where neither 
side could seem to get the ball 
into the net. Visually, it was 
frustrating to watch how many 
shots were taken that bounced 
off the rim or just air-balled 
altogether. 
The second half was where the Tritons lost the edge: 
their shooting percentages 
went down from 38% to 29%. 
These offensive difficulties 
were paired with issues in the 
defense as well. The home side 
reported 10 turnovers in the 
second half that, combined 
with their shooting, created a 
bit of a perfect storm for the 
Tritons, resulting in an overall 
downturn in game performance. 
Despite their struggles 
during the night, however, it 
has to be acknowledged that 
the Tritons were up against 
a stubborn defence. The 
Mustangs smothered many of 
their attempts to score before 
the shot could be released, and 
their attacks were effective 
in putting together stretches 
of momentum that disrupted 
UCSD’s rhythm and eventually 
broke down their lead.
UCSD next took on 
California State University, 
Bakersfield two days later on 
Saturday, Jan. 29 in another 
Big West contest at home. 
Fortunately for the Tritons, the 
83–75 win broke their six-game 
string of defeats, giving them 
their first victory since their 
New Year’s Day triumph against 
California State University, 
Northridge. Head coach Eric 
Olen’s men will be looking to 
turn this result against CSUB 
into a run of wins when they 
again face off against CSU 
Northridge away this Thursday, 
Feb. 3. Tritons’ Skid Extends to 
Six Against Cal Poly
In the sport of MMA, more 
so than other sports, the media 
and people alike move on from 
last week’s events so quickly. 
Games or events that are 
supposed to be “talked about 
for a long time” are instead 
last week’s news the day after 
they happen. The UFC is no 
exception, with fans and the 
company itself moving on to 
the next event. Within these 
highly promoted pay-per-view 
events, the UFC inserts the 
promotional for the following 
pay-per-view next month. 
Fighters are giving it their all 
in the octagon, only for the next 
event to completely overshadow 
what they just accomplished or 
went through. In this column, 
the aim is to spotlight what 
happened the weekend before, 
instead of moving on to the 
next fighters and set of stakes. 
Let’s start with UFC 270. 
What was at stake?
The event featured a 
somewhat lackluster undercard, 
with not too much depth in 
terms of ranked fighters. 
Most of the card consisted of 
fighters making their UFC 
debut or prospects with only 
a few appearances. The main 
draws were the main event 
and co-main event, with 
Francis Ngannou defending his 
undisputed belt against interim 
champion Ciryl Gane. 
Francis knocked out the 
most decorated heavyweight 
champion in Stipe Miocic last 
March to win his title. This 
fight was a rematch to the first 
fight, in which Francis got 
dominated by Stipe’s wrestling. 
In the leadup to 270, it was 
announced Ngannou entered with only one fight left on his 
deal and only 12 months left on 
his contract. 
In the UFC, most fighters 
sign long deals, with five to ten 
fights on a single contract. This 
is done out of financial security 
for the fighters, but also a way 
for the UFC to keep fighters 
on low wages for a long stretch. 
These contracts also feature a 
champion clause, which once 
activated extends the deal for 
three more fights or another 
year, but gives the champions 
a certain percentage of the pay-
per-view revenue. With all of 
the clauses and importance on 
renewing their contract, it is 
extremely rare for a fighter to 
enter free agency in their prime, 
let alone a champion. Francis, 
if he won the fight, could enter 
this rarified air. 
In the opposing corner, 
Cyril Gane was undefeated, 
10–0 with most of those fights 
happening in the UFC. He is one 
of the fastest, most agile fighters 
that the UFC has ever seen at 
the heavyweight division. His 
athleticism and speed combined 
with his great technique made 
him one of the best kickboxers 
in the UFC as well. From Joe 
Rogan to Daniel Cormier, 
everyone has him pegged as the 
evolution at the heavyweight 
division, historically full of 
hard hitting, slow fighters who 
were not well rounded in the 
striking department. 
Yet, there was a lot more 
meaning to the fight for Gane 
and Ngannou, because they 
used to train together. Gane 
currently trains out of France, 
calling the gym Factory MMA 
his home  throughout his 
career. Francis trained out of 
this same gym to start his UFC 
career, and their paths crossed 
for a few months. In the end, 
tension arose between the head coach at Factory MMA, Ferand 
Lopez, and Ngannou, which led 
the latter to leaving the gym 
for Xtreme Couture out of Las 
Vegas.
The fight was more than just 
an extremely skilled kickboxer 
and muay thai fighter going up 
against a fighter with record-
setting power. Free agency, 
backroom politics, and tense 
relationships all played into the 
buildup for the fight. While the 
drama and headline remain 
minimal in the week before the 
fight, the baggage began years 
ago, with the heavyweight belt 
still on the line. 
In the co-main event, 
Deiveson Figeiredo and 
Brandon Moreno were set to 
square off for the flyweight belt. 
This was the third fight in a 
trilogy, with the first ending in 
a draw and the second ending 
with Moreno finally capturing 
the flyweight crown. The 125-
pound division was about to be 
removed from the UFC, with not 
enough talent and excitement 
around the division as a whole, 
when Deiveson Figeiredo 
entered the picture and took it 
by storm. He knocked out a lot 
of fighters with unprecedented 
power for a fighter this light, 
along with a strong Jiu-jitsu 
game. He also defended the belt 
constantly, with the first fight 
against Moreno happening 
after fighting only three weeks 
ago. The first fight was an 
all-action war, but Figueiredo 
won the fight due to the power 
difference overall. The main 
reason for the draw was a low 
blow which led to him losing a 
point. 
Moreno showed an ability 
to handle Figueiredo’s power 
and took some hard shots 
throughout the fight. His 
chin and lack of fear towards 
Figueiredo led to the upset in their second fight, in which 
Moreno dominated with his 
jab and submitted the black 
belt. Moreno became Mexico’s 
first champion, after getting 
cut from the UFC years ago. 
His underdog story reasoned 
well among fans, leading to a 
lot of popularity and stardom 
leading into this third fight. For 
the first time in the trilogy, he 
entered as the favorite. 
In response to his loss, 
Figeiredo joined Henry 
Cejudo’s gym in an attempt 
to revamp his game and focus 
more. Moreno trained with 
Cejudo several years ago and 
now ends up fighting a fighter 
cornered by Cejudo (where 
have I heard that before?). In 
the third showdown, it was all 
about redemption for Figeiredo 
and validation for Moreno. 
What ended up happening?
In the first two rounds of the UFC 270 main event, 
Gane dominated most of the 
interactions. He moved away 
from all of Francis’ power 
punches with fast head 
movement. Gane would touch 
Francis with the jab over and 
over again, peppering him with 
body punches and creative leg 
kicks as well. This seemed to be 
a runaway fight for Gane, with 
more rounds left for him to win.
In a surprising evolution, 
however, Ngannou showcased 
wrestling chops with a huge 
takedown in the third round. 
A caught leg kick turned into a 
huge slam to the ground. While 
not much happened on the 
ground, Gane would get up, but 
Francis showcased high level 
trips and balance maneuvering.By Nelson Espinal
/gid00007/gid00032/gid00028/gid00047/gid00048/gid00045/gid00032/gid00046/gid00001/gid00006/gid00031/gid00036/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045Last Week This Week: UFC 270By Emer Nolan
/gid00020/gid00047/gid00028/gid00033/gid00033/gid00001/gid00024/gid00045/gid00036/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045
Image courtesy of Mike McGinnis / UC San Diego. 
Image courtesy of ESPN+. For rest of article, visit 
UCSDGuardian.org