The Carnegie Mellon men’s
soccer team continued its perfect
start to this season with a
dramatic victory over Grove
City College on Saturday,
marking the team’s best start
to a season since 2002.
Carnegie Mellon was able
to start the game off strongly
by holding the majority of
possession and being aggressive
in the opponent’s half of
the field. However, the Tartans
were not able to capitalize
on their chances, despite
making several shots on goal
early in the first half of play.
Grove City was then able to
score in the 31st minute off a
corner kick against the run of
play.
The Tartans continued to
press and were rewarded in
the final minutes of the leading
half as first-year midfielder Chris Wysocki scored
his first career collegiate goal
off a pass from senior Brett
Roller. Carnegie Mellon continued
to set the tone of the
match in the second half, but
frustration began to grow as
the game remained level at
1–1. It wasn’t until the very
last minute of the match that
Carnegie Mellon was able to
break the deadlock as a result
of a smooth finish by sophomore
forward Alex Abedian.
The Tartans are now
8–0 and are ranked No. 3 in
the nation in the NSCAA/
HendrickCars.com Division
III rankings. With No. 1 Calvin
College losing over the
past weekend, the Tartans are
expected to move up to No. 2
in this week’s poll.
Just one more non-conference
game is left before Carnegie
Mellon opens University
Athletic Association conference
play this Saturday, away
at the University of Chicago.
Having had a strong start to
the season thus far, the Tartans
will be expecting their
toughest challenges in the
upcoming month from the
likes of Emory University, the
University of Rochester, and
Washington University (Mo.),
all of which are ranked in the
top 25 in the nation. However,
all three of those teams will be
playing at Carnegie Mellon,
where the Tartans have had
an exceptional home record
of 19–1–3 in the past three
years.
The Tartans’ next match is
away against against Bethany
College (W.Va.) tomorrow.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


It was 63 degrees and partly
cloudy in Gesling Stadium as
the Carnegie Mellon football
team recorded its first home
victory against the Kenyon
College Lords, 17–10. With the
win, the Tartans move to 2–2
for the season.
Carnegie Mellon won the
coin toss and chose to receive.
Sophomore Patrick Blanks recovered
the kickoff and moved
the ball to the 37-yard line. Just
five minutes, 73 yards, and 10
plays later, sophomore running
back Jake Nardone completed
a 12-yard touchdown to
put the Tartans at 7–0.
At the start of the second
quarter, Carnegie Mellon faced
two penalties and was unable
to push the ball past the Kenyon
17-yard line. With 12:52
on the clock, senior Elliot Carnevale scored a field goal and
expanded the Tartans’ lead
to 10–0. The score remained
the same over four possession
changes. With less than a third
of the quarter left, junior running
back Chris Garcia rushed
the ball 26 yards to the Kenyon
3-yard line, resulting in a first
down. Garcia completed the
job and ran a 3-yard touchdown
with just 3:14 left on the
clock. Kenyon responded two
minutes later by kicking a field
goal from the 27-yard line to
change the score to 17–3. An
interception by sophomore
Nick Karabin put the ball into
Carnegie Mellon’s possession
again just 23 seconds before
the second quarter ended.
Only five minutes into the
next quarter, the Lords’ Bradley
Couts ran a 4-yard play to
finalize the score at 17–10. The
Tartans were able to maintain
a strong defensive front for
the remainder of the game
and bring home their second
win of the season. Senior Mike
Shedlosky and Karabin were
leaders on the defensive front,
bagging 13 and 11 tackles, respectively.
Leading the way on
the offensive side was Garcia,
who recorded 104 yards on
the ground, followed by Nardone
with 56 yards.
“I think we played well,” junior
Andrew Medenbach said.
“We have some corrections to
make, but we played with intensity
the whole time. That is
what we need to do to win and
keep winning.”
The Tartans resume play
next Saturday when they take
on the Hiram College Terriers
at 2 p.m. at Gesling Stadium.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The Carnegie Mellon women’s
soccer hot streak ended
with the arrival of No. 4 Otterbein
University in a 1–0 decision.
With the loss, the Tartans
drop to 5–3–0, while the
Cardinals remain undefeated
and improve to 7–0–1.
The Tartans were on a fi vegame
winning streak — that
started with beating Kenyon in
an overtime thriller — heading
into Saturday’s game. The
Tartans had topped Mount
Union and Oberlin in 8–0 and
6–2 contests prior to taking
on the Cardinals, the No. 4
team in the nation.
The Tartans and Cardinals
started off slow in a rough,
physical contest where both
teams’ defenses stayed strong
and controlled the game for
most of the fi rst half. Neither
team was able to put the ball
in the net to take control.
The Tartans took aim, but
shots came up empty. Both
teams combined for a total of
10 shots, with the Cardinals
shooting seven to the Tartans’
three.
In the second half, the Tartans
were only able to get four
shots off as Otterbein shot
six.
In the 84th minute of play,
the Cardinals finally struck.
Molly Kroger scored her third
goal of the season off Cristen
Herold’s corner kick. Kroger
headed the ball past senior
goalkeeper Anya Rosen to put
the Cardinals up 1–0, in what
would prove to be the game
winner.
The Tartans tried to recover,
but they were stopped
by the Cardinals’ goalkeeper
Tara Carter, who finished the
day with one save. Rosen finished
the game with five saves
on goal.
“I think we showed that we
could play with the best teams
in the country. You know, I
told the girls after the game
that if that team is No. 4, then
we’re No. 5,” head coach Yon
Struble said. “We thought we
out-possessed them, we outworked
them; I think they just
showed that they have some
experience in the clutch —
that we are working at. We’re
young and they’re old.”
Struble also spoke about
the impact this game could
make when conference starts
up. “We’re not that far off
with conference coming up; I
think that it’s a great game to
have. In our conference, every
game we have will be just like
that. So it’s good we had that
game. Like I said, I think we
showed that we can play with
the best teams; that’s good.
This is good to move on from:
not good losing, but good to
move from here to show what
we can do,” she said.
The Tartans’ next game
will be against Grove City
College tomorrow when they
host Grove City College Wolverines
at 7:30 p.m.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The Carnegie Mellon volleyball team has had a busy week. On Wednesday, the
Tartans competed against St.
Vincent College at home, a
game that ended in a 3–2 loss.
The Tartans dropped a close
decision to St. Vincent, who
is now 11–2 overall. Despite
the loss, the Tartans still had
stellar play, led offensively by
senior Caroline Size, who had
21 kills, and defensively by
first-year Emily Wright, who
had 56 assists and 16 digs.
Over the weekend, the volleyball
team traveled to the
2010 York College Spartan
Volleyball Invitational. On
Friday, the team opened with
a win over Rutgers-Camden,
3–0. Their second match versus
the host Spartans went to
fi ve sets, ending in a 3–2 loss
for the Tartans.
On Saturday, the team
started strong with a 3–2 win
over Johns Hopkins University.
But, the team slipped again
with a loss to St. Mary’s College
in a 3–2 decision for third
place.
“We had a couple of tough
losses this weekend,” explained
Wright. “In both of
our losses, the games went to
fi ve matches after we came
back from a 2–0 deficit. The
loss to the York College was
especially hard; the fifth game
ended in a score of 19–17.”
The Tartans left the invitational
2–2, but not without
excitement. Both the offense
and defense have reason to
celebrate. Size recorded her
1,000th career kill and her
current total has reached
1,005. In three out of the four
matches, Wright had over 50
assists.
The invitational marked
the last matches before the
start of UAA matches next
weekend. With an overall
9–8 record, the Carnegie Mellon
team will be facing some
tough teams. Starting opposite
hitter and senior Aislinn
McCloskey commented on the
Tartans’ upcoming matches:
“I think that we’re at a point
where we’re improving and
learning new things about
our team every weekend, and
since we’re so young this year,
that’s really important to be
continuously improving and
working to get better.” Wright
echoed McCloskey: “The team
is clearly getting better and
we’re expecting a good season,”
she said.
The Tartans will begin
round-robin UAA play next
weekend in Atlanta against
Case Western Reserve University.
The team will not play
at home again until Oct. 26,
when it faces Point Park.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


In early April, Texas
catcher Taylor Teagarden
and Cleveland truck Travis
“Pronk” Hafner collided
at home plate in a beautiful
explosion of old-school
baseball. In the bottom of
the sixth inning with the
score tied 2–2, Matt LaPorta
singled up the middle with
Hafner on second. Julio Borbon,
the Rangers’ relatively
rookie center fielder, came
up throwing with a terrific
strike to the plate as Pronk
lumbered towards home.
Teagarden had the ball firmly
in his glove a good second
before the Indians’ self-appointed
hulk got there, and,
doing exactly what he should
have done, Hafner smashed
into Teagarden with a blow
that only Mo Vaughn could
withstand.
Teagarden held onto the
ball, Hafner was out, and it
was glorious.
That’s not something you
tend to see anymore. Nowadays,
the collision at home
plate is not done nearly as
much as it should be. More
often than not, a guy will try
some ridiculous hook slide to
try to avoid the tag, or just
straight up give in and slide
right into the catcher’s shin
guard. If a guy does collide
with a catcher and knock him
fl at, it starts a bench-clearing
incident and sometimes ends
in retaliation. And yeah,
sure, the Cubs’ Michael Barrett
didn’t have the ball when
A.J. Pierzynski famously
bulldozed him, but it’s still
better to be safe and look like
a jerk than sorry and look
like a fool.
In recent years, there has
been an unnecessary amount
of preaching from players,
coaches, reporters, or other
such folks with access to
the Internet about baseball’s
“unwritten rules.” These
rules, though, seem different
from the ones I learned back
when I watched ’90s baseball
and videos of years past.
Back then, it seemed like the
unwritten rules of baseball
were as follows:
1. Do what you have to do.
Nice guys fi nish last.
2. Win games any way you
can. Refer to rule No. 1.
3. Do the honorable thing;
don’t try to stretch a
double to a triple when
you’re up 10 runs.
4. Retaliate for a teammate
however you must. Refer
to rule No. 1.
Umpires nowadays have
seemingly been issuing warnings
and ejections with every
close pitch. Umpires have
far shorter leashes when the
question of intent comes into
play, so even if a slow curveball
slips away from a pitcher
and ends up hitting the batter
or barely missing him, there
is a chance for a warning to
be issued. One especially pathetic
instance of an umpire
jumping the gun occurred on
July 26, 2007, when Washington
then-rookie pitcher
John Lannan was making his
Major League debut against
Philadelphia. Lannan’s first
four innings went without incident
before he accidentally
hit Chase Utley with a pitch.
Lannan then hit the next
batter, Ryan Howard, and
though both hits were clearly
accidental, home plate umpire
Hunter Wendelstadt decided
to eject both Lannan
and Nationals manager Manny
Acta, without issuing a
warning, because he decided
that Lannan had thrown at
the batters intentionally.
“His explanation was that
Howard hit a home run in
his previous at-bat and then
he got hit in his next at-bat,”
Acta said in an article on
ESPN.com. “I was very surprised.
I don’t think the kid
is going to come up here and
start throwing at people.”
Among others bewildered
by the cowardly call was opposing manager Charlie Manuel.
The umpires aren’t the
only ones who have gone soft.
On Friday, the Phillies’ Utley
was chastised for sliding
hard into second base to trying
to break up a double play
against the Mets. Mets players
complained that Utley’s
hard slide had been after the
second baseman had thrown
the ball, and was therefore
unnecessary.
“There’s a thin line between
going out there and
playing the game hard and
going out there and trying
to get somebody hurt,” Mets
third baseman David Wright
commented in an article
on www.mets.com. However,
what Utley was doing
was playing baseball like it
should be played. Players are
supposed to try to break up
double plays — see unwritten
rules No. 1 and No. 2. Utley
had the intent of breaking up
the double play from the getgo,
and it is really hard for a
player to change momentum
when he is running at full
speed if he realizes only a
split second beforehand that
he doesn’t have to go in hard.
Even Wright’s own manager,
Jerry Manuel, was okay
with the slide. “There is nothing
wrong with a good, hard
slide to break up a double
play,” Manuel said on www.
mets.com. “We preach that.”
Baseball needs to get back
to how it used to be. “Make
sure no one gets hurt” was
never an unwritten rule in any
competitive sport. Neither is
“No fi ghting allowed.” Just
ask Tom Hanks in A League of
Their Own — there’s no crying
in baseball.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Carnegie Mellon’s cross
country teams hosted the
Mideast Pre-Regional meet
last Saturday at Cooper’s Lake
Camp Ground in Slippery
Rock, Pa.
The ladies competed in
a 6k, placing fifth out of 14
teams, while the men participated
in an 8k, placing first
out of all 16 teams.
The Tartan men, who
claimed their second straight
team first-place finish, completely
obliterated the competition.
Senior Dan Addis
took first place with a time of
25:41, trailed closely by senior
Nate Bussiere, who had
a second-place finish just two
seconds later.
Senior Justin Kurp also had
an excellent performance, finishing
fourth with a time of
26:07. The next finisher for
Carnegie Mellon was junior
Matt Jacob, taking 11th place
in 26:42.
“Hosting the pre-regional
meet was a great opportunity
for our men’s team to
establish our presence as a
powerful force in the Mideast
region,” Addis said, commenting
on the success of the meet.
“With a number of returning
top runners coming off of injury
and sickness, I couldn’t
be more impressed with the
underclassmen’s performance
as they stepped up to help the
team secure the win.” As far
as team goals, he added, “We
have a ways to go before the
regional championship, but
our ability to work as a team
is what is going to be the biggest
challenge to our opponents.
Carnegie Mellon men’s
cross country is going to turn
some heads this season at the
conference, regional, and national
level.”
On the women’s side,
sophomore Emily Wobb paced
the Lady Tartans with a thirdplace
finish with a time of
22:32. Senior Courtney Baker
followed Wobb, placing 11th
with a time of 23:25.
Next, senior Danielle Morse
brought home a 39th-place
finish in 24:47. Senior Laura
McKee managed a 53rd-place
finish with a time of 25:08,
and she was followed closely
by sophomore teammate Eva
Humphrey with a time of
25:11.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


For Carmen Minella, being a star soccer player is just one of his everyday duties. The junior midfielder and business administration major scored the winning goal in overtime against Wheaton (Ill.) College last week, which allowed the Tartans to keep their then-seven-game winning streak alive and attain a national ranking of No. 3. Minella’s spectacular shot is probably one of many goals to come this season.
Minella started his soccer career by playing in youth leagues when he was five years old. After a brief stint as quarterback for his middle school football team, he realized his physical size would be better suited playing soccer instead. Having been involved in sports for most of
his life, Minella felt playing in college was a no-brainer. “I continued soccer in college because I couldn’t imagine not competing athletically,”
he said. Yet, for Minella, the best part of varsity soccer is the team atmosphere; the team helped him transition from high school to college,
and the members are all good friends.
Minella was drawn to Carnegie Mellon because of the diverse academic programs and the excellent soccer team. “Being only 20 minutes
from home was just a bonus,” he added. Although he finds the constant studying for exams annoying, he knows it will pay off in the long run. For now, he hopes to find a summer internship. In the future, however, Minella wants to find an excellent job or get an MBA. He may even chase after his dream job: being the general manager for the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Besides school and soccer, Minella is an avid gamer. “I am most likely the best Super Smash Brothers player on campus,” he said, and welcomes anyone to prove him wrong. If given $1 million tax-free, he would buy expensive cars and gifts for his siblings and mother, import a fig tree from Italy for his father, and try to get the soccer field named Minella Field. As for the season, Minella is confident the team will only continue to make history. “We’ve been successful so far, and the entire team believes when we are playing at our best it is very hard for an opponent
to stay with us. Conference play will be a big test, but I would be disappointed if we don’t win the UAAs. When we get into the NCAA tournament, anything can happen.”

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Every day is full of decisions. Store brand or name brand? Take the bus or walk to school? Understanding how people make decisions would involve compiling massive amounts of decision-making data. But some researchers at Carnegie Mellon have come up with a unique solution: build a “research café” in the middle of a busy food court and allow the data to come to them.
The Carnegie Mellon Research Café is a product of the Center for Behavioral Decision Research (CBDR), a group of over 50 researchers from various departments at Carnegie Mellon. In addition to conducting various types of experiments, CBDR researchers may use surveys as a common tool to extract decision-making information from participants.
Located in the food court of Fifth Avenue Place in downtown Pittsburgh, the Carnegie Mellon Research Café allows people who are interested in a decision-making study to participate in one. Some of the studies have certain eligibility requirements, but many of the studies only require you to be at least 18 years old and capable of using a computer. Participants simply walk in, sit down, and start answering questions relating to some decision-making scenario. After the survey is completed, the participants are rewarded with cash or gift cards.
Because it is located in the middle of a food court in a busy city, the Research Café receives all kinds of visitors, which is important for any researcher trying to obtain data from a range of populations.
“The idea behind it is to collect data in the general public so that we’re not just in the middle of a university. We can get data from different demographics this way,” said Amanda Poe, a lab assistant for the CBDR.
“One convenience is that a lot of people know that we’re here and enjoyed their experience, so they’ll tell other people to come down here,” said Julianne Moon, another lab assistant for the CBDR. As people spread the word about the Research Café, new participants sustain the flow of data.
Although most participants come to the Research Café during lunch time, Poe explained that some people drop in on their way to work or on their way home, and there are even some who come in on their way to a baseball game.
“Right now, citizens and policy makers are asking themselves questions like: How can we reduce obesity in this country? How can we conserve energy? How do we save for retirement? How can we protect our privacy? And behavioral economics, while not the only tool we should be relying on when addressing these questions, can provide a number of insights into these topics,” said Jessica Kopsic, a research associate with the CBDR.
Kopsic further elaborateed on these important behavioral questions by explaining how the outcomes of decisions we make may have different short- and long-term effects. For example, eating a dessert after a meal will probably not make us gain five pounds; there is no significant short-term effect. However, eating a dessert after every meal every day over a long period of time may cause us to gain those five pounds. Sometimes the less desirable effects of a decision are not immediate, and this can affect the decisions we will make.
While the Research Café acts as a public laboratory to study these ideas, it also allows for people to gain something intellectually fulfilling for themselves.
“I think the Research Café is unique because it gives people an opportunity to learn about things they might not have a chance to be exposed to otherwise. People who have never set foot on a college campus, or would never think to, now have the opportunity to get involved in scientific research, do their part to help, and hopefully learn something interesting in the process,” Kopsic said.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


To many people, a life without cell phones is unfathomable. Cell phones have become more than just a means of verbal communication; they have become personal phone books, calculators, clocks, calendars, and even a way to access the Internet. With all of these applications, it’s no wonder that the technology involved is unique in today’s modern world.
Cell phones work using a combination of fairly old technologies: radio waves and the traditional telephone. It works in a similar fashion to a walkie-talkie, but it is, according to www.howstuffworks.com, a full-duplex device, meaning that the phone can use one frequency for listening and a separate frequency for talking.
The origin behind the name is the cell service carrier’s strategy of dividing up an area into hexagonal “cells,” allowing many people within a certain area, like a city, to communicate at once. Cells are usually roughly 10 square miles, and each carrier receives about 832 different frequencies to divide among the cells they use. The range of frequencies a certain cell is designated is determined by a radio tower located somewhere within the cell, as reported by www.brighthub.com. Signals on cell phones are received from, and sent to, the base station. As users move from one cell to another, the base stations “hand off” the signal and allow for the same frequencies to be reused.
In order for the multiple transmitters — or cell phones — to be shared over the same frequency range, a method known as Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA) is used. The base station designates a section of its available wavelengths to a specific cell phone, and it does not receive any interference from calls on other frequencies. Another method, Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), is used in conjunction with FDMA. In TDMA, each user is given a certain amount of time on a specific frequency that lasts as long as the user remains on the phone. Both FDMA and TDMA are often used in conjunction by major providers, like AT&T, with each phone receiving a certain wavelength range and time slot.
Other carriers use Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). In this method, multiple users are placed on the same frequency, but each phone is given a unique code that others phones cannot decipher. This way, each phone’s signal can be spread over the entire frequency range. Eight to 10 CDMA calls can be carried in the same channel as one FDMA or TDMA call.
Cell phones each have a unique five-digit system identification code (SID). When base stations receive the signal from a phone, they check to see which cell the phone is located in and compare it to the phone’s SID. If the two numbers do not match (that is, the user is not in the cell in which the phone is registered), the signal shows up as “roaming,” and the base station must check with the phone’s “home” cell in order to verify that the phone is valid. If the base station gets confirmation, the call is transferred to the new cell and the signal improves.
Original cell phones operated on an analog cell phone standard called Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS). AMPS phones operate in the 800 megahertz frequency range and typically have channels about 30 kilohertz wide, with each channel separated by a frequency of 45 megahertz to prevent interference.
Improving on this system are Generation 2 (2G) phones. They operate on the same frequency range as AMPS providers, but they convert phone signals to a binary code of 1s and 0s and are able to compress these signals. These digital phones convert the signal using frequency-shift keying, where two frequencies for 1s and 0s alternate rapidly and send a signal to the base station. These 2G phones can manage three to 10 times more signals than AMPS phones in a single cell.
Generation 3 (3G) phones were soon to follow. These kinds of cell phones have increased bandwidth and transfer rates in order to accommodate audio and video files, which allow for the texting and photo transfers so common in today’s cell phones. Additionally, these cell phones have a transfer speed of up to 3 megabytes per second, making them ideal for downloading material off the Internet.
Now, 4G phones have hit the market. These phones further increase the multimedia applications of 3G phones, providing full ultra-broadband Internet access and greater video and audio file capacity.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


For some people, extra calories are not the only worrisome aspect about an occasional ice-cream or cheese indulgence. For those who are lactose intolerant, eating too much of these foods could cause severe discomfort and pain.
Within half an hour to two hours after eating lactose-containing foods, lactose-intolerant people can experience symptoms ranging from diarrhea and abdominal pain to nausea. Although the symptoms are usually mild, they can be extremely uncomfortable.
Lactose intolerance is caused by the deficiency of an enzyme called lactase, which is responsible for breaking up lactose into glucose and galactose, two different kinds of sugars. Lactose cannot be used directly by the body and needs to be broken down into these components. The small intestine is lined with cells known as microvilli, and it is these cells that normally produce lactase. The microvilli have long, thin projections on their surfaces that help absorb nutrients from the small intestine into the blood stream. After lactose is broken down into glucose and galactose in the small intestine, the sugars are absorbed into the bloodstream and used by the body.
As explained in the book Biochemistry by Jeremy Berg, John Tymoczko, and Lubert Stryer, in the absence of the lactase enzyme, lactose passes into the colon. In the colon, lactose comes into contact with healthy bacteria that are normally present there. These bacteria use the lactose as a source of energy and, to do so, convert it into lactic acid. During this reaction, methane gas and hydrogen gas are produced. These gases are responsible for the uncomfortable bloated feeling that lactose-intolerant people feel after eating dairy products. The unused lactose and the lactic acid present in the large intestine also cause water to enter the large intestine, resulting in diarrhea.
A number of different factors can lead to lactase deficiency. As explained on www.mayoclinic.com, lactase deficiency can be the result of the normal aging process. Lactase is produced in large amounts in babies, as their main source of nutrition is milk. However, as a person grows older and starts eating a larger variety of food, the body naturally reduces the production of lactase as it is no longer as necessary. In some people, this reduced lactase production can be more apparent and can cause symptoms of lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance can also be caused by an injury to the small intestine. Thus, diseases such as cystic fibrosis, celiac disease, or even stomach flu can damage the cells of the small intestine and reduce lactase production. Surgical procedures involving the small intestine can also result in lactase deficiency.
For a small percentage of people, lactase deficiency can be present at birth. In such people, the gene responsible for lactase production, known as the LCT gene, is mutated. According to the Genetics Home Reference, at least nine mutations have been identified in the LCT gene resulting in a non-functional form of lactase. The inheritance of lactose intolerance is autosomal recessive, which means that both parents have to carry at least one copy of the defective gene for their child to be lactose intolerant. Babies with such a congenital form of lactose intolerance are unable to digest breast milk and require a special lactose-free infant formula.
Although lactose intolerance can be an inconvenience, major problems can be avoided by simply eating a diet free of dairy products. Chewable pills that provide the body with a supply of lactase are also available and are an easy way to deal with the condition. The body, however, gets used to the lactase pills over time, and individuals often have to continually increase the dosage of these pills to prevent symptoms of the condition.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Scientists map the human brain
Scientists at 12 laboratories and universities have begun work on the Human Connectome Project, which aims to scan and map out the entire human brain. The goal of the project is to identify and plot every single connection and neuron of the brain within five years. With a $30 million grant from the National Institutes of Health, the researchers will use advanced brain-scanning technology — including diffusion imaging, multiple MRI techniques, and magnetoencephalography — to scrutinize over 90 billion neurons and the 150 trillion synapses connecting them. Neurons are the basic unit of the nervous system, consisting of a cell body, an axon extending out to make connections with other neurons, and dendrites entering to receive signals. Synapses are the gaps between neurons across which electrical signals pass information.
The immense amount of data generated from imaging the brain will equal about one petabyte, which is roughly 1 million gigabytes. The end goal of the Human Connectome Project is to create an open-source platform for scientists to understand the brain and analyze its structure in relation to neurological issues.
Source: _Popular Science _magazine
Heat wave kills off coral
With one of the worst heat waves on record, this year has seen the suffering of not only humans and plants, but also coral reefs that are invaluable to ocean ecosystems. Reefs spanning the Pacific Ocean eastward to the Caribbean region are bleaching and subsequently dying. Coral reefs consist of millions of tiny animals called polyps, which have hard skeletons of calcium carbonate that compose the actual coral structure. The polyps supply algae in the water with nutrients and shelter, so the algae symbiotically provide the coral polyps with food through photosynthesis. When the algae, which are the source of a reef’s bright colors, are overwhelmed with heat and sunshine, they photosynthesize too fast, and begin to produce toxins which cause the coral to eject them and lose its color. Hence, the bleaching of coral reefs is an indicator of starved coral reefs.
When reefs die, the local ecosystem is irrevocably damaged, causing a decrease in local fish and other marine populations. Fisheries in Thailand have begun feeling the economic effects, and many of the dying reefs have no hope of recovering so far.
Source: The New York Times
First human-powered flight recorded
Two graduate students at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies (UTIAS) have created the first winged human aircraft able to fly continuously. The ornithopter, a heavier-than-air craft propelled by flapping wings, piloted by engineering Ph.D. candidate Todd Reichart, flew at an average speed of 15.9 miles per hour for 19.3 seconds at the Great Lakes Gliding Club in Ontario. As a project in both sustainability and efficient design, the Snowbird has a wingspan as large as a Boeing 737’s (105 feet), but weighs only 94 pounds.
The Snowbird is the first flying craft powered solely by human energy that has been capable of maintaining its altitude for prolonged periods of time. Since Leonardo da Vinci’s speculation of a human-powered aircraft in the 1400s, various people have tried to implement his idea. The most recent attempt before the Snowbird was also headed by the UTIAS, though the craft, known as UTIAS Ornithopter No. 1, was powered by a jet engine.
Source: BBC

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


With over 500 million users, thousands of games, several books on its use, and a movie on its founding set to open on Oct. 1, Facebook has become one of the most monumental inventions of the human race; yet other social networking sites, including Twitter, Flickr, Tumblr, and LinkedIn, are quickly gaining prominence as well.
To avoid belaboring the point: Unless you literally live in a cave, you’re either a member of one of these sites or know someone who is. However, it should be mentioned that there are several ways — both helpful and sinister — that these sites can be of incredible use to college students every day.
Cyberstalking
The phenomenon of “Facebook stalking” is not new to most members of the site. “Cyberstalking” often involves a user looking over his or her friends’ profiles, but can also consist of sifting through conversations between strangers, poring through the sordid details of a friend’s user info, or digging up pictures from six years ago. It is often a first resource when searching out information on someone new or unfamiliar. 
However, e-stalking has its repercussions: Users often forget that their information is privy to the eyes of others when they post it. “It’s invasive, but useful,” said Isabel Smith-Bernstein, a sophomore in H&SS. “Even though it’s public information, you’re still finding things out about a person without asking them. It just depends on what you’re willing to put online, I guess.” This is where the problem lies: Rather than learning information through face-to-face contact, users often resort to profile activity to give them an idea of a person’s character in real life. E-stalking can often lead to awkward situations where “friends” on Facebook have had little to no physical contact with each other, yet still know very private or personal information about each others’ lives. 
Internet stalking has even become an offense serious enough to merit legal action, should one take it too far. Today, at least 47 out of 50 states have passed some legislation regarding cyberstalking, often labeling it a criminal offense comparable to face-to-face stalking and harassment. According to the Department of Justice’s website, “harassing or threatening behavior that an individual engages in repeatedly” may constitute a serious cyberstalking issue. The site also cautions that “the ease of use and non-confrontational, impersonal, and sometimes anonymous nature of Internet communications may remove disincentives to cyberstalking.” 
The moral of the story? Be careful what you post online. That strange, yeti-like kid from your chemistry lecture might be watching from the shadows.
Socializing in the series of tubes
Beyond connecting strangers, user-centric content sites like Tumblr, Twitter, and LiveJournal often give users a way to connect and share interests across the world. Many, however, agree that these sites have their respective uses and flaws. Turadg Aleahmad, a Ph.D. candidate in human-computer interaction, said, “They’re double-edged in that they facilitate more frequent and easy connectivity to others’ lives, but it’s also a less satisfying interaction than face-to-face. Still, I like knowing what’s going on in looser friends’ lives so that when I do see them in person — say, at a party — I know what I’d like to ask them about.” 
Students often use these sites to maintain connections to those whom they may not see often, including family and distant friends in different parts of the world. Sophomore Alex Klarfeld, an electrical and chemical engineering major, claimed that Facebook’s public publishing system is a “necessary evil,” but added that “being able to keep in touch with friends after high school through many different means, mainly pictures and messaging” is the ultimate benefit of being online. 
However, with the advent of public online communication comes a caveat — privacy is no longer as hefty as it once was, and the concept of identity is changing. While you might normally share pictures of your wild Saturday night with your buddies, you might not necessarily want to pass them by Mom and Dad. “You can filter things to different audiences, but there is a cognitive cost to that, and you are thus inclined to share uniformly. Identity is contextual, though; you don’t act the same with your friends as your family, for example,” Aleahmad said. “These tools are requiring us to create a cohesive identity.” Along with the plugged-in nature of these sites comes a push towards collectivity, and a removal of the anonymity which the Web once ubiquitously provided.
Corporate cleanup
By far the most popular corporate networking site, LinkedIn is in wide use among adult employees looking to branch out. But for novices to the career market, as many Carnegie Mellon students are, it may not be the most ideal solution. Connor Fallon, a junior creative writing major, has had a LinkedIn account for about two years; he was recently contacted by LucasFilm on his LinkedIn profile, yet his profile is mostly empty. “I don’t use it that often. You get notifications that five people have looked at your profile, but it’s unfinished,” he said. Similarly, Jacob Beatty, a senior in mechanical engineering, added, “I think it’s intimidating. I would love to contact somebody from Pixar using LinkedIn, but I’d feel weird contacting other people ‘above me.’” The problem seems to lie in the intimidation factor: Instead of contacting one’s peers or friends, LinkedIn asks its users to reach out to higher-ups and network with big names. Students, noticeably, are reluctant to make such connections without a face-to-face relationship.
Instead, Carnegie Mellon students are quickly turning to other sources to present themselves and their work to employers. Tumblr, a blogging site launched in 2008, has already garnered 3 million users, and it accumulates approximately 15,000 more each day. 
Tumblr also doubles as a portfolio site, which can be used as a presentation tool to potential employers. “I use my Tumblr as my sketchbook,” said Susan Lin, a junior in information systems. Despite coming from a technical background, she said, “They’ve made it easy for people who don’t know how to code to use it, and it’s easy to customize.” With thousands of free templates, Tumblr’s publishing system takes almost no time to learn and is excellent for keeping updated work online.
Additionally, sites like daPortfolio, deviantArt and Webs.com are popular resources for publishing work on the Web, especially for those not savvy with web design and content creation. Geared towards artists, designers, and writers, daPortfolio (www.daportfolio.com) and deviantArt (www.deviantart.com) are quick to set up and have volumes of help documents to assist in publishing. Students can post articles and artwork to their own personal portfolios, which can be customized. deviantArt also allows for comment feedback from other users of the site, and it has an active community that often selects pieces to receive site-wide awards and distinctions.  
Webs.com, on the other hand, is more of a dynamic tool for all sorts of work. Harkening back to the days of Geocities and Angelfire, the site allows users to sign up and create a professional, slick-looking website for free — even without technical experience. Everything from compiled code to project specs can be added with ease to a site, allowing employers to get a quick idea of one’s recent undertakings with minimal effort. 
With these options available, it’s simple to create something that not only showcases one’s work, but also delivers it in an engaging and aesthetically-pleasing way without the pressure of forming connections through the Internet alone.
Detoxing
With most students having an account on at least one of these networks, networking online can very quickly become a massive time sink. For this reason, many have begun the process of “detoxing” — either removing themselves from one or more sites, or taking a break when there are other priorities. Aleahmad advised trying a “slow media diet” to reduce time spent socializing through the Web alone. “The first couple days, I was surprised at how frequently I felt a compulsion to check one of those. Different events would trigger it — for example, returning to my desk from lunch. It wore off, though, and I gradually had more attention to deal with the things I really care about.” 
With all of these tools at hand, the nature of face-to-face conversation and the implications of networking for the future remain to be seen. Yet one thing is clear: Social norms are mutating — and we are changing with them.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The members of Maroon 5 have never been afraid of adding a little funk to their music. In their past two albums, they’ve openly welcomed an ’80s influence on their sound. But now with Hands All Over, their third album, they’ve totally immersed themselves in it. Both their debut and sophomore efforts were critically acclaimed, and they’ve established a name for themselves as being fresh and sensual (as evident in the new album’s cover art, the erotic sounds of their song “Secret,” and the music video for “This Love”). Changing the focus the third time from sex to soul, Maroon 5 explores a new side of the group’s musicality.
The album starts off with “Misery,” the smash debut single that became one of this summer’s staple songs. The radio-friendly, extremely catchy tune let everyone know that Maroon 5 was back in the spotlight. For a song about a depressed feeling, the music is surprisingly perky, and lead singer Adam Levine sings with a charismatic energy that makes the song extremely likable. 
Next up, “Give a Little More” catapults listeners right back into dance clubs of the ’70s and ’80s. The verses are pretty tame, and unfortunately it’s easy for the music to overpower the monotonous lyric delivery of the lyrics. At first listen, it might seem that the song is meant to be gentle, without picking up speed or energy; however, this assumption is proved wrong once the groovy chorus comes in. 
“Stutter” is the epitome of a pop song. The music complements the vocals, as Levine sings, “Give me affection, I need your perfection, you feel so good you make me s-s-stutter.” You can just picture what the future of this song could involve: a cheesy music video where two lovers are rollerblading in the park, overreacting to obstacles that keep them apart.
“Don’t Know Nothing” isn’t anything special, unfortunately. It fits the mold of the many other funky songs on the album, but it doesn’t contribute anything mesmerizing. 
Upon looking at its lyrics, “Never Gonna Leave This Bed” is subtly heartbreaking. He wants her, but the emotions aren’t returned (“So you say go, it isn’t worth it; and I say no, it isn’t perfect”). Levine convinces us that the fight he’s trying to win isn’t easy, but the prize is worth the price paid. 
“I Can’t Lie” is an easy-listening soundtrack to a stroll through New York City. Again, nothing makes the song stand out, though the lyrics (like “I wanna feel your heart beat for me instead”) are intriguing.
The title track seems to have overlapped retro with grunge, ending up with music reminiscent of the anthem “Pour Some Sugar On Me.” It’s entirely experimental, and it might be a hate-it-or-love-it song. It can grow on you after each listen, but it’s a total 180 from the funk and groove of the rest of the album. 
“How” brings us back to the Maroon 5 we’re accustomed to. This is the good-boy side of Levine, asking for a way to get his long-gone-girl back into his arms. He’s really a hopeless romantic, declaring, “Though I don’t understand the meaning of love, I do not mind if I die trying” and “I have been bound by the shackles of love, and I don’t mind if I die tied up.”
Afterward, “Get Back In My Life” brings us back to the groovy tunes after a brief departure, with Levine singing about how, if his love doesn’t come back, he’s going to find her and make her be a part of his life. “Just a Feeling” slows things down and, unfortunately, ends up sounding like a cheap and tacky love ballad. The previous comment about Maroon 5 being “fresh” is retracted for this song.
“Runaway” almost serves as a sequel to the song right before it, which is not a good thing. This tune, though, introduces us to Levine’s deep voice. Shedding his high notes for this tune, he sings of a girl who just can’t seem to stick around.
The final track, “Out of Goodbyes,” gives listeners a very surprising duo by joining Maroon 5  with country trio Lady Antebellum. Because of the guest vocalists, the music echoes country.
The first bonus track, “The Air That I Breathe,” treats us to some more love song lyrics to close the CD. Levine does what he does best here, and that’s belting out some strong falsettos. He’s got a unique voice, but the nasal cry works for him and sort of juxtaposes his highly sexual bad-boy image.
The second bonus track, “No Curtain Call,” ditches the ’80s soul and pumps up the drama. With a crisp violin playing in the background, the song maybe isn’t the best way to close out the deluxe version of the album, but it’s a nice addition and adds to the variety of style on the group’s third CD.
Listen Up: “Misery,” “Stutter,” “How”
The Verdict: The recipe for this album is a bit heavy on the retro feel. If you’re looking for the pop-rock shade of Maroon 5, look a few years back in the group’s discography.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Ridiculous dance moves, an over-abundance of glow sticks, and scantily clad girls with hula hoops: These are all clear indicators that you are at an electronic music concert, and they were all in great supply at Designer Drugs’ show last Thursday at Rex Theater. Although the concert started off slowly, it soon transformed into an evening of fast-paced bass lines and energetic dancing.
At first, the concert did not appear promising — the show started at 9 p.m., but by 9:30 p.m. there were only about 30 people in the club. The opening DJ was Pittsburgh local Eryn Evans, who, despite her best efforts, could not inspire the small crowd to dance. Although some of her songs selections were catchy, her set was jumbled, with awkward transitions between songs, and she seemed incapable of staying on one song for more than 32 measures, resulting in an ADD music set that failed to mobilize the audience.
By the time the second DJ, Jesse Jamz, took the stage, the crowd had swelled to about 70 people, and he quickly got them all dancing with his high-energy set. He smoothly transitioned from one song to the next, mixing everything from electro to minimal without missing a beat. His was the sort of set where, once you started dancing, you never wanted to stop, no matter how exhausted or sweat-drenched you became.
Despite the frenzied dancing, the audience was still buzzing with energy by the time Jesse Jamz ended his set and Lauren G & Nikkels, a local DJ duo, took over. They took turns mixing songs, with one at the mixer while the other danced in the background.
There were a few awkward moments in their set; every once in a while, they would deviate from the thumping dance beats to throw in some musical effects. While musically interesting, these moments mostly just resulted in audience members awkwardly pausing their dancing and waiting for the dance beats to resume. The DJs also occasionally produced sounds that were more distressing than danceable; at one point, they produced a bass so heavy and low that you could feel your eardrums shaking in your ear and the hairs on your arm stand on end. For the most part, though, their music continued to build upon the fun, high-energy atmosphere that Jesse Jamz had established.
Designer Drugs didn’t take the stage until about midnight, but when they did, the audience quickly pressed towards the stage, re-energized by the appearance of the DJ duo, composed of Michael Vincent Patrick and Theodore Paul Nelson. They kept up with the theme of high-energy dance music, adding some dubstep to the evening; a particular favorite was a dubstep remix of Imogen Heap’s often-sampled “Hide and Seek,” complete with a hot and heavy bass line.
Unfortunately, Designer Drugs’ equipment lost power a little after 12:30 a.m. Despite the headliner’s abbreviated performance, the evening still proved to be a resoundingly and ridiculously fun success — one that left everyone drenched with sweat and pumped full of electro-fueled endorphins.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Last semester, I was fortunate enough to live in Barcelona, Spain. Not only did I get a break from Carnegie Mellon, but I also got to experience a different culture firsthand. I learned about the Spanish way of life and also further developed my understanding of what it means to be an American and how we perceive the world. When living abroad, it’s important to realize that American tourists have many misconceptions and can behave in ways that are unintentionally culturally insensitive to non-Americans. During my time in Barcelona, I discovered quite a few of these American misconceptions, and I am going to list them here so that if you happen to travel to Spain, you can avoid these mistakes. 
Misconceptions about Spain
1. Spaniards love watching bullfights
While this may be true in Andalucía and Madrid, many Spaniards in other parts of the country find bullfighting to be distasteful and unnecessarily cruel to animals. If there is a sport that unites Spain, it is fútbol. If you go to a fútbol match, do not be surprised to see lots of drunken people yelling and cussing at the referees in Spanish, Catalan, or any other language. 
2. The words “Spain” and “Mexico” are synonymous
This could not be further from the truth. Although both Spanish and Mexican people speak Spanish, and the majority of people in both countries are Roman Catholics and share similar cultures, let us not forget that there are numerous differences between the two countries. 
3. Spaniards wear sombreros 
Spanish people do not wear sombreros — end of discussion. If you want to see sombreros, go to Mexico. Many of the Barcelona natives I befriended in Spain were amused to see Americans go to the popular street of  La Rambla and purchase sombreros. 
4. Spaniards love tacos, enchiladas, and burritos
While it is true that metropolitan areas such as Barcelona and Madrid have some Mexican restaurants because of the large Mexican immigrant population, do not mistake these place for Spanish restaurants. Spanish food is most comparable to Mediterranean or Southern European cuisine since Spain is, after all, located in the region. Spanish food does not contain anywhere close to as many spices as Mexican food does, so, not surprisingly, many Spaniards are not accustomed to spicy food.
5. Everyone in Spain speaks or knows Spanish
Now this may be true for the majority of Spaniards, but there is a minority of Spaniards who do not speak Spanish, and in certain circumstances they would be offended if you spoke to them in Spanish. If you visit Barcelona, you will notice that the signs are not only in Spanish but in another language known as Catalan. There are two common misconceptions that Catalan is a “slang dialect” of Spanish, or a mix of French and Spanish, but that is far from true. While I admit that Catalan does have similarities to French, Catalan is another language that was not derived from either Spanish or French but rather from Latin. Some other Spaniards speak Galician and Basque. Please heed this advice: Try to speak the language that is spoken in the region of Spain you are in. If you are in Barcelona or in Catalonia, try to learn a few phrases in Catalan. Most of the people there will not hate you for speaking Spanish since you are a tourist, but they would be friendlier if you spoke the region’s native language. 
6. Spaniards take siestas 
It used to be that, in Spain, people took mid-day siestas and cities would shut down during the mid-afternoon. In Barcelona, most shops, restaurants, and other stores would remain open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. from Monday to Saturday without any mid-day siestas. The same happened when I visited Madrid for a weekend. It is true that, in many parts of southern Spain, siestas are still the precedent and part of the norm, but don’t visit the major cities and expect a nap time.
Mistakes that many tourists make while in Spain
1. Being very loud
Many of us may not realize this, but we Americans can be a loud bunch. We tend to raise our voices, even when the person we are talking to is close by, and we tend to laugh really loudly. The Spaniards, on the other hand, speak more quietly with one another, although they are not by any means soft-spoken people. Many Spaniards I spoke with repeatedly complained about how loud and obnoxious many American tourists were. If you visit Spain and make an effort not to be the stereotypical American tourist, you will be well received. 
2. Wearing inappropriately casual clothes
In Pittsburgh — and in most of the United States — it is perfectly normal for a guy to wear a T-shirt, shorts, and a pair of white sneakers, and for a girl to wear Ugg boots and a North Face jacket. In Barcelona, however, you would stand out in these clothes and be the subject of many funny looks. If you are a guy and visiting Spain, my recommendation is to wear jeans or pants, a collared shirt, and dress shoes. In Spain, it is perfectly normal to wear clothes that would be considered a bit flamboyant in the United States. If you are a girl, don’t wear Ugg boots or a North Face jacket. Instead, try finding yourself a classier everyday outfit.
3. Not making any effort to speak Spanish
I know it is difficult to speak a foreign language, but, when in Spain, you should at least make an effort to speak Spanish or Catalan. Contrary to popular belief, you actually will need to know how to speak Spanish, as most Spaniards do not know much English. Pick up a Spanish for Dummies book from Borders and learn a few phrases during your long flight. A few good phrases to know would be “Donde estas el bano?”(“Where is the bathroom?”) or “yo quiero una paella por favor”( “I want a paella, please”). Even if you have terrible grammar, the Spaniards will appreciate it when tourists make an effort. During my numerous encounters with the locals, Spaniards would frequently complain about how cocky Americans were because many of the American tourists made no effort to speak Spanish, Catalan, or one of Spain’s other languages when visiting Spain. 
I had the time of my life in Spain and was happy to correct these misconceptions and truly become immersed in Spanish culture. Spain is a wonderful country to visit, and no matter what your interests are, you should really enjoy time there.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The famous Cambridge Footlights, a comedy troupe from England, were warmly welcomed by the Carnegie Mellon community upon their arrival in Pittsburgh the weekend of Sept. 18–19. Boasting alumni such as Sasha Baron Cohen and John Cleese, the Footlights performed for enthralled Carnegie Mellon students. Their skits were brilliant and their accents made everything 10 times funnier, especially when they cursed or did Harry Potter imitations. Although they had little time to get accustomed to our McConomy Auditorium, the Footlights technical crew was able to prepare the lighting, music, and basic set design needed for the group's two performances, and the effects were stunning.
At the beginning of each show, audience members were warned by the cast that if they did not find the Footlights performance funny, it was certainly not the comedians’ fault — there was simply too much of a cultural divide. However, this was definitely not a problem. It was amusing to watch the show, but equally amusing watching the audience members’ reactions to the Footlights. Everyone was laughing, rolling backward and forward in their chairs as the Footlights danced around the stage, showed clips of people “snogging,” and described birds.
However, if you missed this act and would like to experience the thrill of a live performance, it is definitely worth attending Scotch’n’Soda’s Rocky Horror Picture Show. Directed by Nick Petrillo, a senior mechanical engineering major, this musical will be just as thrilling as “traditional” Rocky performances. For veteran Rocky viewers, it is interesting to note that none of the scenes have been cut or edited in these Carnegie Mellon performances; you can still expect the character Frank to wear his high heels and a corset. Also, Petrillo affirmed that you can still feel free to participate in the show as an audience member. The program for the performance will have a list of all the points during the show when the audience members can “intrude” into the performance itself.
According to Petrillo, the cast of the Rocky Horror Picture Show is extremely talented and was selectively chosen after numerous auditions. This is a first-time directing experience for Petrillo, who is excited for the upcoming performances. Having participated twice in the Rocky Horror Picture Show in his high school, he had originally submitted a proposal for the show to the Scotch’n’Soda board last year because the expected performance dates had corresponded with Halloween then — making it an opportune moment for such an interesting show. However, his proposal was accepted as this year’s musical instead. He is especially looking forward to the “Time Warp” scene in the show, as well as senior chemical engineering major Dan Wetzel’s dance choreography. He warned that the show was “not going to be politically correct,” so be prepared for craziness.  
For seasoned Scotch’n’Soda fans, there will also be a Cabaret after the Rocky shows, as well as other theater productions throughout the year to look forward to.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


While Author Conan Doyle and the inestimable Sherlock Holmes may have claimed the mantle of definitive detective fiction of the late 19th century, there is some doubt in the public mind as to which author and amateur sleuth pair were their successors. Many have tried; one only needs to visit the mystery section of a local bookstore or library to the see the results. However, despite years of imitation, the mystery novel has changed. Many tales of today have metamorphosed into gritty, extended episodes of CSI, and their leading investigators, though efficient, have characters that are often about as colorful as cardboard. 
Where, then, does the reader hungry for an enticing enigma and an eccentric investigator turn? London, clearly. The address, though, has changed from 221B Baker Street to 110 Piccadilly, the home of Lord Peter Wimsey. 
What immediately makes Wimsey different from Holmes and many other detectives is his position as a member of the nobility. His tastes are elegant, his manners refined, and his love of literature (and of quoting it) permeates each volume of Dorothy L. Sayers’ series. He is drawn to the workings of the criminal mind out of curiosity, as many of his counterparts are, but he has a much more difficult time justifying it. His brother, Gerald, the duke of Denver, finds his antics tiring, and many of his fellow aristocrats consider his sleuthing as more of an odd hobby to be humored than a serious occupation. 
However, Lord Peter is not to be deterred. Whether the challenge is figuring out who left a corpse in an architect’s bathtub or clearing the woman he loves of poisoning someone, he constantly amazes and entertains with his dry wit, sharp intelligence, and eccentric perspective. Where Holmes had the Irregulars, Wimsey has the Cattery, a legion of spinster typists ideal for ingratiating themselves into espionage positions as secretaries; and while the Great Detective can hardly be mentioned without Watson, Wimsey has Bunter, his manservant, whose ruthless efficiency and decorum aid his lordship in both solving cases and staying presentable for polite society.
Both sleuths have their respective darknesses: Holmes requires the stimulation of morphine, and Wimsey’s memories of the First World War continue to haunt him. 
Strong Poison, the fifth installment in the series, is truly a treat. The novel opens with the trial of Harriet Vane, a mystery writer accused of murdering her former lover in a manner exactly like in one of her books. Wimsey follows the proceedings and finds himself falling in love with Vane, even going so far as to ask for her hand in marriage if he can solve the case. He’s shocked to learn that she’s already had 40-some proposals, but still vows to save her from the hangman’s noose. 
One of the beauties of Sayers’ work is the scattered literary allusions she includes. Readers with a decent command of French and Latin will enjoy Lord Peter’s asides, while literati will relish his frequent forays into Dante. Another joy of Sayers’ work is that villains are never apparent unless she wants them to be, and even then their motives often remain opaque at best. Anyone bored with contemporary mystery and hungry for a new master’s work to plunge into should consider making an appointment with Lord Wimsey and judge for themselves if he is indeed a worthy successor to Holmes. His first published adventure is Whose Body?

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The summer before the first year of college, people often try to re-invent themselves: They get daring new haircuts, buy new clothes, and convince themselves that they are not going to be one of those people who look like they rolled out of bed and got hit by a bus on the way to class. However, after a few weeks of school, if classes don’t drain your will to look presentable, a quick look into your permanently empty wallet usually does the trick. Soon, wearing something that doesn’t have “Carnegie Mellon” emblazoned on it prompts people to ask why you dressed up today. If you want to escape this slippery slope or avoid it altogether, here are some tips to being fashionable and economical time- and money-wise. 
The best place to start is at the root of the problem: the morning. It’s that God-awful time of day when you feel like you have a coffee hangover from that crazy night at the library. This feeling is magnified if you’re having a hell week: those weeks when you are constantly on edge and your emotions switch between wanting to cry in an abandoned stairwell and wanting to punch the next guy you see in the face. The last thing on your mind is looking presentable, but doing just that might make your week better. Spending a little extra time getting ready in the morning might even be therapeutic. Wear clothes that you feel fantastic in, like your favorite blazer or cute flats, because looking good will make you feel good, too. 
The most common excuse heard from people who look like they’re married to that hoodie and sweatpants combo is waking up 10 minutes before class. Next time this happens, stop and look at what you’re wearing. Nobody wants to sit next to — or be seen talking to — the kid who just ran into class in SpongeBob SquarePants PJs; put on some jeans! It will only take five seconds and makes you look infinitely better than running out in pajama bottoms. If you can spare another five seconds, grab a jacket on the way out so you can cover up that embarrassing stained T-shirt you only wear to bed.
Another common excuse: being broke because the money that you would have used to shop was spent on your textbooks. It’s okay: You can upgrade your wardrobe without actually buying new clothes. Just pay attention to what pieces you always wear together and switch it up by mixing and matching. Try wearing that blue shirt with a floral skirt instead of those white shorts you usually wear it with, and it instantly looks like you updated your wardrobe.
But the easiest way to step up your look is jewelry. People underestimate the power of jewelry, but it can really be the thing that makes your look if the rest of your outfit is so-so. For example, if you forgot to do your laundry and all you have is that oversized white T-shirt and old jeans, throwing on a statement necklace or a pair of over-sized hoops can transform your outfit.
The clothes you wear can actually have a positive effect on you and will improve your mood and confidence. You don’t have to look like Kim Kardashian every time you leave your room, but putting in a little extra effort to appreciate yourself in the morning will pay off. Looking good should be for you and not for others — but an occasional compliment on what you’re wearing doesn’t hurt. While it’s inevitable that you will have those days when you look like you got hit by a bus, you have the choice to reduce the number of those days and feel better and have fun in the process.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Dear Hoskins Brothers,
I see all the women doing FMR outside Morewood, and it looks like they’re having a lot of fun. Should I do FMR next year?
Sincerely,
Seeking sorority
Dear SS,
It all depends. Do you like being judged? Do you enjoy being valued like a head of livestock? Do you like being lumped into categories so guys can more easily judge you? If so, join a sorority!
Here’s the deal with FMR: Sororities are mean. Last year, I went to an FMR information session. At first, the sisters told me to pull up a chair, but just as I was making myself comfortable, one of the women in charge said to me “Like, you do know this is only for, like, girls, right?” To which I replied, “That’s sexist,” and walked out, ignoring their retorts. They excluded me just because I’m a guy! Had Susan B. Anthony been a man, he’d be outraged!
Sororities do blah blah blah give back to the community blah blah blah Greek Sing blah blah blah Booth blah blah blah. So join if you like being judged and excluded by other girls. Or if you liked high school.
They’re sexist,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Hoskins Brothers,
I just got a tattoo, but I think the tattoo artist was playing a joke on me. My Chinese friend told me that what I thought said “peace” actually says “chicken salad.” What should I do?
Sincerely,
Regretfully inked
Dear RI,
Here’s the deal. Tattoos are permanent, so you need to know what you’re getting into. Never get a tattoo you don’t know the meaning of. You need to walk in there knowing what you want. 
Don’t get a tattoo when you’re drunk (which you probably were). Find a reputable tattoo artist — someone who keeps their shop clean and won’t mess with you like that guy did. Ink is permanent, and so are bad decisions. Keep in mind, your body’s going to start sagging soon. In a few years, that symbol will be so stretched out no one will be able to tell if it’s “chicken salad” or “chicken sandwich.”
Next time get something original, like a tribal armband.
Tattoo removal is expensive,
Brian Hoskins
Need advice? E-mail your questions to advice@thetartan.org.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The Protector
Thursday, Sept. 30
8 10 12
Currently the most successful Thai film to be released in the United States, this 2005 martial arts film centers around a Bangkok youth named Kham who leaves his home and embarks on an adventure to Australia to retrieve his two elephants, stolen by an international Thai Mafia. In Thai culture, elephants stand for both peace and war-readiness. If Kham wishes to attempt a successful rescue, he must learn from the elephants and utilize his muay Thai fighting skills. Fun fact: the style of fighting depicted in this, “muay” or “muaykodchasarn,” roughly translates in English to “elephant boxing.”
The Karate Kid
Friday, Oct. 1
7:30 10 12:30
Featuring Jackie Chan and Jaden Smith, this 2010 remake of The Karate Kid is able to stand on its own. Smith plays 12-year-old Drey Parker, who moves with his single mom from Detroit all the way to China. In Beijing, culture shock takes on a physical form for Drey through the class bully, Cheng. Never fear, though — in the spirit of the original The Karate Kid, an unassuming janitor named Mr. Han, played by Chan, steps in and helps Drey grow mentally and physically into a character worthy of the name “karate kid.” Fun fact: Although the movie is titled The Karate Kid, only kung fu is performed in it.
Enter the Dragon
Saturday, Oct. 2
8 10 12
If you are a martial arts film buff, this movie is for you. Watch Bruce Lee at his finest as he goes undercover for British intelligence as a competitor in a martial arts tournament. His assignment is to infiltrate the activities of an illegal drug and prostitution ring. However, the job becomes personal when Lee discovers that the head of the gang, Han, was responsible for his sister’s death. Fun fact: Watch out for a Jackie Chan cameo towards the end of the movie.
Kung Fu Hustle
Sunday, Oct. 3
8 10 12
Stephen Chow has written a love letter to kung fu cinema in this 2004 movie that was nominated for a Golden Globe. Set in Canton, China in the 1940s, the main character, Sing, wants to be a part of the powerful Axe Gang. In an effort to prove himself, Sing attempts to rob a barber in a slum called Pig Sty. However, Sing gets more than he bargained for when he discovers that the slum is really full of kung fu masters. Soon enough the Axe Gang arrives, and their presence forces Sing to make a choice: become a gangster or save the day. Fun fact: If you can’t get enough of this movie, the sequel is coming out 2012.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Let’s cut to the chase. Dinosaurs rule.
You’re planning a birthday party for your two-year-old and want to have the best dinosaur-related music on hand. What to play? First off, how loud do you want to get? Real loud? Then let’s go deep into the Pleistocene. Let’s get your toddler’s blood a-pumping with percussive assault of Mastodon’s whip-snap thunderhoof drumming. Knock over some chairs. Hell, get wild and throw some Cheetos around the living room. 
How about some sunbaked California rhymes that ride the oozing lava flows? Jurassic Five’s the ticket. Bob your head and look out your window to watch the megafauna to the beat of “Concrete Schoolyard.” What better way to teach your kid the lessons of life?
Is your toddler’s imaginary brontosaurus tastelessly urinating all over your Ikea furniture? Well then, it’s obviously time to walk the dinosaur. With the cheesiest moments of 1987’s “Walk the Dinosaur” by Was (Not Was), your baby brontosaurus’ bowels will surely be emptied out of doors in a jiffy. What’s that you say? “Brontosaurus” is an obsolete synonym for “apatosaurus”? Well, I’ll be. Who knew you were a paleontologist? It’s an imaginary dinosaur. My friend, your panties; please unbunch them.
Speaking of panties getting up in a bunch, T-Rex is sure to get your young niece’s panties tangled and twisted into the tightest of knots. Unless of course she’s not into the whole deep jam, glam-infused, blues rock of the late ’70s. 
Get your kid a pair of sparkling skin-tight jeans and toss him a guitar. Have him play lead while you sing along to “Children of The Revolution.” Good times are sure to be had.
The cake, you ask? Well, that’s for you to figure out. 
Hugs and kisses,

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


100 years ago
Sept. 28, 1910
A blurb mentions that the former editor-in-chief of The Tartan will not return to Carnegie Tech, to the dismay of the current staff. He was in charge during the last month of the previous year before deciding even he couldn’t stand reading the paper anymore.  
50 years ago
Sept. 28, 1960
A comic where two characters nearly die while river rafting ends with them laughing off their near-death experience and lighting up a Viceroy cigarette to ease the tension. Ah, how I yearn for the days when smoking cigarettes wasn’t banned on 90 percent of the campus.
25 years ago:
Sept. 24, 1985
Comedian Yakov Smirnoff performed and answered questions on Carnegie Mellon’s campus the previous week to the delight of many students. This made me wonder: If Carnegie Mellon was under Soviet control, would The Tartan read you?  
10 years ago
Sept. 25, 2000
A front-page story informs students that Ralph Nader would be lecturing on campus the next day on the topic of global commerce. In an unrelated story, Al Gore lost his bid to speak on campus to George Bush by just a few percentage points. 
5 years ago
Sept. 26, 2005
The SciTech section features a “How Things Work” article on the subject of laughter. Only at Carnegie Mellon can such a simple pleasure like giggling or yukking it up with some friends be deemed necessary to be researched. 
1 year ago
Sept. 28, 2009
Gluttony was on display this week in history at Carnegie Mellon’s Donut Dash, a combination of an eating and running competition where individual participants must eat a dozen donuts during a two-mile run. This is truly what makes America great.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


MONDAY09.27.10
The Six O'Clock Series: Make a Difference, Not Just a Paycheck. Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 6 p.m.
Miro Quartet. Carnegie Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
TUESDAY09.28.10
Voices Carry for Auberle. Heinz Field. 6:30 p.m.
FastTrac NewVenture. Chatham University. 6:30 p.m.
Jess Klein. Club Café. 7 p.m.
Author Susan Henderson. Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136A). 7:30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY09.29.10
RADical Day. Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens. 9:30 a.m.
RADical Day. Allegheny Kiski Valley Heritage Site. 11 a.m.
RADical Day. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. 1 p.m.
Farmers at Phipps. Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens. 2:30 p.m.
Michelle Lewis. Backstage Bar at Theater Square. 5 p.m.
Bikestravaganza! A Traveling Roadshow Bike Summit. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 6 p.m.
Psychic Salon. Gypsy Café. 7:30 p.m.
Celtic Thunder. Benedum Center for the Performing Arts. 7:30 p.m.
Esperanza Spalding. Byham Theater. 7:30 p.m.
Tone Deaf Trivia. Brothers Grimm Bar and Restaurant. 8:30 p.m.
THURSDAY09.30.10
Mellon Square Jazz. Mellon Square. 11:30 a.m.
Entrepreneurial Thursday. Little E's. 5:30 p.m. 21+
Author Norman Fulkerson. Penguin Bookshop. 7 p.m.
Art of the People. Westmoreland Museum of American Art. 7 p.m.
Bo Wagner's Rat Pack. Palace Theatre. 8 p.m.
The Gypsy Strings. Gypsy Café. 8 p.m.
The Van Allen Belt. Lava Lounge. 10 p.m. 21+
FRIDAY10.01.10
Gallery Crawl. Pittsburgh Cultural District. 5:30 p.m. 
Rioult: Bolero. Byham Theater. 8 p.m.
Rory Block. Thunderbird Café and Lounge. 8 p.m. 21+
Kenny Blake. Melange Bistro Bar. 9 p.m. 
Pandemic. Brillobox. 9:30. 21+
SATURDAY10.02.10
Alzheimer's Memory Walk. Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG Aquarium. 9 a.m.
DogtoberFEST. SouthSide Works. 10 a.m. 
Stand Up Now Champions of Peace Jazz Fest. Melange Bistro Bar. 3 p.m. 
Occasional Reign. Brothers Grimm Bar and Restaurant. 9 p.m. 21+
The Fruit Bats. Garfield Artworks. 9 p.m.
Low Water. Club Café. 10 p.m. 21+
SUNDAY10.03.10
Summertime Jazz. Schenley  Plaza. 12 p.m.
Pittsburgh Steelers Football. Heinz Field. 1 p.m.
Sunday Night Jazz. Rivers Casino. 6 p.m.
MONDAY10.04.10
The Six O'Clock Series: Responding to Violence. Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 6 p.m.
ONGOING10.05.20
Varied Expressions. Art Space 105. Through Sept. 29.
Milestone. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. Through Sept. 30.
Make Me A Song. Grey Box Theatre. Through Oct. 2.
ARTrageous. Merrick Art Gallery. Through Oct. 3.
Forum 65: Jones, Koester, Nashashibi/Skaer Reanimation. Carnegie Museum of Art. Through Oct. 3.
TXT. 707 & 709 Galleries. Through Oct. 24.
DIY: A Revolution in Handicrafts. Society for Contemporary Craft. Society for Contemporary Craft. Through March 26. 
Want to see your event here? E-mail calendar@thetartan.org.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Beware of people in striped shirts. The repetitive pattern is meant to hypnotize you.

You don’t need these horoscopes to tell you what your future holds. There’s a website for that: It's called Blackboard.
If you are feeling sad and blue, give everyone you see a dollar. This will probably not improve your mood, but it will keep others from feeling the way you do.
Do not run around campus naked this week. It’s far too hot. Hold your streaking urges until the weather gets better.
There is someone, somewhere, at some point in time who thinks you are awesome. The only problem is that this person sucks at specificity.
The onset of fall has you seeing red. Calm down. You’re not sick or angry; the leaves are just changing colors.
Your future is written not in the stars but in the clouds. Cirrus and stratus will bring you great luck while cumulo-nimbus clouds are a sign of ominous things to come. No matter which type of clouds are in the sky, run for cover whenever one is in the shape of an animal.
There is no need to have a long, drawn-out explanation of how your week is going to be. It can be summed up in one word: @#%*.
At the next full moon you will find a magic pixie at the Kraus Campo. Whatever you do, don't breathe her pixie dust. There’s just some magic out there that you can’t handle.
It's ok, I understand; Facebook made you do it.
0111100101101111011101010111001000100000011100110110111101100011011010010110000101101100001000000110110001101001011001100110010100100000011011010111010101110011011101000010000001100010011001010010000001100001011101110110010101110011011011110110110101100101
Something nice. Something good.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The voice of Martin Luther King Jr. booming, “One day, right there in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers” is juxtaposed against the image of people holding Palestinian flags with chains wrapped around their wrists in the trailer for Little Town of Bethlehem.
This is just one of many powerful images that the short trailer promises for EthnoGraphic  Media’s film, which will be screened in Rangos 1 and 2 tomorrow. In its most basic sense, the film is a documentary illuminating the lives of three men of different faiths who live in Israel and Palestine. 
Cary McQueen Morrow, a Heinz College alumna (’03) and the director of the Grassroots Empowerment department for EthnoGraphic Media, explained that the film “follows their own personal story, starting even with their grandparents, taking them all the way through the present day.”
Filmed on location in the West Bank, Tel Aviv, and Jerusalem, the film follows the three protagonists in their journey of using nonviolence to address the often-brutal Israel-Palestine conflict. The film will be shown as part of Carnegie Mellon’s “Two Weeks of Peace” program, which celebrates Gandhi’s birthday and the International Day of Peace.
The story of the film began when the producer, Mart Green, began traveling all over the world, looking for interesting stories involving real people. He connected with an Israeli Jew, a Palestinian Muslim, and a Palestinian Christian, who were all working towards nonviolent resolution to the violent Israel-Palestine conflict.
After the film was completely finished, it was premiered last year in Tel Aviv, Bethlehem, and Jerusalem to “make sure that the story was resonating and accurately conveying the reality for the people whose story it is,” Morrow said.
After those premieres, however, the film moved towards its target audience: American college students. “Our mission is to get 18- to-25-year-olds involved in talking about and thinking about and understanding what their role could possibly be in the toughest issues of our times,” Morrow said.
The film was launched at over 20 college campuses on Sept. 21. The 10-day launch was designed to fall between the UN’s International Day of Peace (Sept. 21) and International Day of Nonviolence (Oct. 2).
While Carnegie Mellon did not originally make the list of universities to screen the movie, Morrow reached out to Indira Nair, the former vice provost of education, to see if the school was interested. The screening has evolved into a comprehensive program, which will open with a dramatization of a news broadcast by Evan Barron, a senior drama student. After the film, there will be a discussion with Carnegie Mellon history professor Laurie Eisenberg, Morrow, and Green. “EthnoGraphic Media is unique in their approach to filmmaking and storytelling — they work from the inside out, telling stories in ways that people can hear,” Morrow said. 
Eisenberg, a historian of the modern Middle East, explained the challenges with the film. “I would hope that the [message of nonviolence] would be welcomed, but the region and the Palestine-Israel theater is not without very real dangers. So the solution isn’t as simple as saying, ‘If we all join hands, we can make peace happen.’ But the film’s three subjects represent an important part component of the formula that is required to make peace a reality,” she said.
Morrow acknowledged similar challenges, and indicates that the critics of the movie are people who have already formed opinions. “There’s between 60 and 80 percent of Americans who are what we call the convincible middle. They can think [the conflict] is hopeless because it’s been going on for so long, but as an alternative, they are willing to discuss that and see why it is. That’s really who we’re talking to.”
While the intended audience is anyone in the campus community, Morrow is especially optimistic about the students. “I think the generation who will be leaders in the next 20 years, who are on campuses now, are really smart and creative in ways that previous generations weren’t. There’s a lot of opportunity for thinking differently about seemingly intractable problems,” she said.
Shernell Smith, the coordinator of multicultural and diversity initiatives, reiterated how the film showing and panel discussion will open up a dialogue. “This is not a debate, it’s [a] discourse. I’d like to see how [the conversation] can continue. My hope is that we have a dialogue in a respectful way,” said Smith, who has worked to put together the Two Weeks of Peace program.
Nair agreed and commented on the impact that the film can have. “Even if five students use this for open discussion, that’s enough for me. With none of these things should you measure the effect immediately…. The impact of things when they sink into people’s heads is slow — sometimes it can take years,” she said.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


There are few professors who have both national and international experiences combined with a drive and ability to teach like Jendayi Frazer, a distinguished service professor at Carnegie Mellon’s Heinz College and the department of social and decision sciences.
Frazer’s interest in both teaching and international relations experience originate from her relationship with former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in college. During her junior year at Stanford University, Frazer met Rice when she took a class that Rice was teaching on the Soviet Union. “I always went to all of her office hours,” said Frazer. “She became my adviser during [my] undergraduate and graduate years .… I entered the university planning on becoming a lawyer, but [Rice] eventually told me that I should go into teaching.” After receiving her doctorate in 1994, Frazer joined the faculty at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government and at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.
Frazer’s relationship with Rice would eventually lead to Frazer’s role in shaping the Bush administration’s foreign policy in Africa. In 2001, Rice hired Frazer as a special assistant to President George W. Bush for African affairs. In 2004, Frazer was sworn in as the first woman United States ambassador to South Africa, and in 2005, Frazer became assistant secretary of state for African Affairs. “It was great working in the Bush administration,” remarked Frazer. “I had a lot of close contact with Condi and the other ambassadors.”
While many students may have mixed feelings about the Bush administration, even Democrats will have a hard time criticizing Frazer’s work in government. In no small part due to Frazer, the Bush administration extended a record $6.7 billion of assistance to Africa during her years of government service. Frazer is also credited for designing the administration’s policies for ending the wars in The Democratic Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Burundi. At the end of her term, Rice presented Frazer with a Distinguished Service Award.
In January 2009, after the Obama administration assumed office, Frazer joined Carnegie Mellon’s faculty as a distinguished service professor and as the director of Carnegie Mellon’s newly created Center for International Policy and Innovation (CIPI) at The Heinz College, located in Washington, D.C., and in Pittsburgh. “Carnegie Mellon is very strong in the technologies… [and] has many interdisciplinary programs,” said Frazer, in regard to her reasons for accepting the position. “We are working with engineering… to see how we can use this technology in developing nations.”
“It’s great to work with Dr. Frazer. She is extremely knowledgeable about a range of international affairs issues and she is very generous with her expertise. I have learned a great deal as a result,” said CIPI’s executive director, Kendra Gaither. Gaither also worked with Frazer in the Bureau of African Affairs.
By the same token, there is a great benefit to Carnegie Mellon students as well.
“Dr. Frazer’s classes are unlike most classes at CMU,” remarked Jess Martin, a master’s student in public policy and management who also currently works as Frazer’s teaching assistant for her Diplomacy and Statecraft course. 
“Although she has been involved in high-level meetings and discussions with foreign leaders, she is able to lecture in a very relatable and practical manner understood by all.”
In particular, the private classroom setting enables Frazer to use personal experiences to illustrate classroom concepts. “She provides amazing insights into some of the most complex issues facing the international political arena with real-world examples,” Martin said. 
Being politically savvy themselves, Frazer’s students recognize the privilege they are receiving to hear these stories and respect the risk she takes by sharing these stories. “She always tells us that everything she says is off the record,” said Travis Mecum, a master’s student in public policy. “She’s very up-front and earnest.”
However, for Frazer, the payoff outweighs the risk in teaching her students: “These students will have an impact on government,” she said.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


In a recent poll conducted by The Wall Street Journal, Carnegie Mellon was ranked the No. 1 school in the U.S. by job recruiters looking for new hires in the field of computer science. Recruiters ranked Carnegie Mellon fourth in finance, seventh in business and 21st in engineering. Overall, Carnegie Mellon placed 10th in “The Top 25 Recruiter Picks.”
As stated in the poll’s survey methodology, these rankings were calculated from the responses of 479 recruiters from “the nation’s largest public and private companies, nonprofit organizations, and federal agencies.” 
Recruiters were asked to profile the new graduates that they had hired within the past year, including how many there were, which majors they pursued, and from which schools they had graduated. Recruiters were asked to choose which university’s graduates with a bachelor’s degree were best trained and most prepared for success in their respective fields. From their experience, recruiters were then asked to rank colleges and universities by top school overall and by top school for major. Weight was given to responses based on the number of new hires each recruiter had reported from each respective school and each specific major, and recruiters could only rate schools and majors from which they had reported active recruitment.
Not only was Carnegie Mellon placed 10th in producing the best graduates overall, it was also the only private institution to make the top 10. Carnegie Mellon also boasted one of the lowest undergraduate populations of any of the top 25 recruiter picks with a reported undergraduate student body of 6,023. 
Pennsylvania State University, with undergraduate enrollment listed at 38,630, was deemed the No. 1 top recruiter pick overall. Of the 25 top institutions named, only the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), ranked 23rd overall, had a lower undergraduate population than that of Carnegie Mellon.
While Carnegie Mellon has performed well in countless college and university rankings, each new poll release is exciting for the campus community.
“A lot of people do look at rankings to get a first glance at a school’s reputation; they are often looked at by prospective students and their families, as well as high school guidance counselors,” said Abby Houck, Carnegie Mellon’s media relations specialist. “We consider all of these people an audience for polls and rankings such as these from The Wall Street  Journal.”
“I’m not surprised that the computer science program has been given such praise. I came to CMU because of the reputation of its computer science program, which I read about from college rankings,” said Natalie Hildebrandt, a sophomore majoring in computer science.
University rankings, such as the one conducted by  U.S. News & World Report, assess factors such as reputation, retention, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resource spending per student, graduation rate performance, and alumni giving rates. Unlike its predecessors, The Wall Street Journal’s “Top 25 Recruiter Picks” poll was a direct reflection of recruiter opinions.
“There would be no other way to evaluate which students are most prepared than to talk to recruiters and employers,” said Judi Mancusi, assistant director for recruiting in the Carnegie Mellon Career and Professional Development Center. 
“It’s nice to see the recognition.... It says a lot about our alumni and the great things that they do. It says a lot about our students and their abilities. It also reflects years and years of hard work of building a career center that serves not only students but also employers in a very direct and personal way.”
Lisa Dickter, associate director for career consulting, guides CIT students through all phases of job and internship attainment. “To be quoted and used by recruiters is a great thing. It gets our name out there. Students should be proud that recruiters want to come here, because our students can compete for wonderful jobs,” Dickter said.
To learn more about Carnegie Mellon’s national rankings among other top-notch colleges and universities, check out www.cmu.edu/news/rankings/index.shtml.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Every year, as students graduate from Carnegie Mellon, the question arises as to where they will go next. The new lecture series Show+Tell, sponsored by Alumni Relations, is providing that answer. Andrea Shockling, the assistant director of on-campus programs, has been working to develop the series, which will consist of four programs throughout the academic year.
“We talked about ways to engage specifically with young alumni and the fact that there are really fantastic things being done by alumni .... What if we put together a series of stories and made those available to the campus community?” said Shockling.
Designed to target alumni who have graduated within the past 10 years, the goal of the program is to bring alumni back to the campus while exposing undergraduates and graduate students to the possibilities awaiting them after graduation. 
All lectures will be free to the Carnegie Mellon community. The speakers for this year hail from a variety of academic disciplines within Carnegie Mellon, and their dreams and career paths are equally diverse.
“Hearing their stories, being able to ask questions, and to interact one-on-one gives students the opportunity to see where they could be within the next 10 years, even if they choose to take a non-traditional route, as some of our speakers have,” said Dan Barnett, the director of on-campus programs with Alumni Relations.
Pittsburgh-based company ModCloth is the source of the first alumni to present on campus. Allen Lu (H&SS ’01), Jay Palat (HNZ ’04), and Evan Tahler (CIT ’06, CMU ’08) will represent ModCloth at the first Show+Tell lecture, “From Dorm Room to Board Room,” on Sept. 30 at 6:30 p.m. in the University Center. Although the founders, Eric and Susan Koger, both of the Tepper School of Business, have previously spoken on campus, this lecture will provide a fresh view of the company. 
“It is such an exciting company that a lot of students recognize and identify with that we thought it was an excellent choice to start the series. That was a particular choice to take something had some name recognition but do new twists,” said Shockling.
Literally created “From Dorm Room to Board Room,” Susan Koger’s interest in vintage clothing sparked the company that has now grown to include over 200 employees in Pittsburgh, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. The speakers have an engaging presentation prepared that will include audience interaction. 
Jay Palat, a senior software architect for Modcloth, offered some advice. “Don’t be afraid to step forward and volunteer to try something new. In any environment there is always more work than people — if it interests you, ask how you can help. Interest and a willingness to learn can take you a long way,” he said.
The three remaining lectures are “Mobile Technology and Design” with DeepLocal, Inc. founder and CEO Nathan Martin (CFA ’99); “Sustainability in Government” with Pittsburgh City Councilwoman Natalia Rudiak (HNZ ’06) and Washington D.C. Sustainability Specialist Mark Chambers (CFA ’01, HNZ ’02); and “The Means to an End” with Frank Janesh (CFA ’01) from The Scenic Route in Los Angeles and Nitya Venkataraman Chambers (H&SS ’01) from ABCnews.com in Washington, D.C. 
Both Shockling and Barnett hope this lecture series will encourage alumni to keep in touch with the campus, and Shockling has already received more contact from young alumni as a result of the publicity of Show+Tell. “We hope this will motivate the young alumni to share their stories within their companies, social circles, and networks and inspire them to stay connected and involved with CMU,” said Barnett.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


In rough economic times, it has become difficult for many seniors to find jobs. Akshay Dave, a senior majoring in computer science and business administration, will be chronicling his search for a career in a blog on the website of The Wall Street Journal. The blog, called Hire Education, attempts to chronicle the experiences of college seniors as they look for work in a tough job market. Every year, the blog features a different set of college seniors from across the country who relay their year-long search careers.
“One day over the summer, I came across the blog [on the Wall Street Journal website] and realized that the seniors on there were graduating in 2010,” said Dave. “So I e-mailed the person in charge and expressed my interest in writing for the blog. It was certainly proactive, but it did not really require an immense amount of effort.”
Dave will join with students from the University of Virginia, George Washington University, Bates College, New York University, the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, and other universities to chronicle the current job search. Dave is searching for a career that involves both of his majors and has an “international flair.” Other writers will address their experiences finding careers in fields that include nursing, consulting, and public relations.
According to Dave, the reason he is contributing is to make sure that students who will be in his current position in the future will know how difficult the search is and how best to handle it. The fact that an applicant like Dave is having trouble finding a job is a sign of how difficult it currently is to break into the job market. Dave will be receiving degrees from the School of Computer Science and the Tepper School of Business, nationally ranked first and ninth, respectively, according to  U.S. News & World Report at www.usnews.com.
Aside from working in the classroom, Dave is no stranger to the career-seeking resources at Carnegie Mellon. “I think the Career Center has been very useful. Counselors like Kevin Collins have also provided invaluable advice and guidance,” he said. However, he also believes that these resources could be strengthened. 
“The career fairs are not as useful as I had hoped, but the problem is that employers come to CMU looking for technical people instead of inter-disciplinary people, which is supposed to be our selling point.” Looking back on his first year, Dave realized how different he thought the career search would be.
“When I came in as a freshman, it was really easy for the seniors to get jobs. The market was booming and firms were hiring like crazy. As students that were juniors [or] seniors during the recession, we have certainly had to scale back expectations.”
Seeing Dave and other seniors struggle in the job market, many current first-years have grasped how difficult the transition after graduation will be. “I think it’s really cool that someone from Carnegie Mellon is writing in The Wall Street Journal,” said Eric Telmer, a first-year mechanical engineering major, “but it’s kind of scary that he’s writing about how hard it’s going to be to get a job. We all think that, if we can just do well here, a job will find us. This shows it’s really not that easy.”
In the process of finding a career and finishing up the last year of school, it’s possible to forget that Carnegie Mellon will become a thing of the past. 
“Graduation?” Dave said. “I haven’t even thought about it. Honestly, it is really far away. I am sure I will miss Carnegie Mellon. But it is one of those things that grow on you only once you have left. I really missed my high school during the first few months of college. And I am sure I will realize how much I miss Carnegie Mellon in late 2011.” 
Editor's Note: Akshay Dave is a staffwriter for The Tartan.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Weingart awarded title of Carnegie Bosch Professor
Professor Laurie R. Weingart was named the Carnegie Bosch Chair of Organizational Behavior and Theory for her excellent academic record, for  considerable contributions to the field of organizational behavior, and for exemplifying the unique relationship between Tepper School of Business and the Bosch Group through the Carnegie Bosch Institute.
Weingart’s research focuses on team dynamics, strategic negotiation, interdisciplinary teams, and innovation processes within groups. In 2004, she published a paper in the Journal of Applied Psychology that revealed contrary evidence to prevailing ideas concerning the impact of task and relationship conflict on team performances, leading to a new means of approaching the subject. 
A reception was held on Sept. 16, highlighting Weingart’s accomplishments in the field of behavioral study, as well as recognizing her new position. 
Carnegie Mellon President Jared Cohon, Tepper School of Business Dean Kenneth B. Dunn, and Carnegie Bosch Institute President Sylvia B. Vogt were all in attendance to honor and support her. 
“Laurie is a recognized researcher, a popular professor, a mentor to junior faculty, a collaborator across the Carnegie Mellon campus, and a true innovator in her academic field,” Dunn said in a recent university press release.
Consortium to develop new ways to measure learning
Spanning across five countries, the Measuring Learning Consortium aims to develop better technologies to more accurately measure student competency in scientific and mathematical fields. Many see classic science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education as outdated and not adequately meeting the needs of students seeking higher learning. Sponsored by the HP Catalyst Initiative, the consortium plans to transform traditional methods of gauging how students understand STEM through new innovations, such as computer-based tutoring systems. 
Candace Thille, director of Carnegie Mellon’s Open Learning Initiative, and Ananda Gunawardena, associate teaching professor in the School of Computer Science, will lead one of the five consortiums planned by HP in 2010. “Ultimately, we want to develop a new breed of technology-enabled embedded assessments that measure STEM competencies that the international community values. Many of the competencies that we believe are important are difficult, if not impossible, to appraise through conventional methods,” Thille said in a university press release. 
Members of the consortium have been provided with more than $6 million in funding for this year from the HP Catalyst Initiative program.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Public Intoxication
Sept. 17, 2010
University Police responded to Forbes Avenue and Bouquet Street at the request of University of Pittsburgh police officers who had found a Carnegie Mellon student intoxicated. The student was examined by Pittsburgh EMS and released.
Suspicious Person
Sept. 17, 2010 
University Police responded when two Carnegie Mellon students reported being approached by a suspicious male on Forbes Avenue. The male was described as being 5'9'' and about 40 to 50 years old, having light-colored hair, wearing a white T-shirt, and appearing homeless. Officers checked the surrounding area for students being confronted by this suspicious person, with negative results. 
Disorderly Person
Sept. 17, 2010
University Police were called to the College of Fine Arts during a concert to remove an unwanted person from backstage. The suspect was carrying false identification and was given both internal and state citations.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 18, 2010
Carnegie Mellon EMS and Pittsburgh EMS were called to Morewood Gardens to assist University Police with a student who was extremely intoxicated. The student was taken to UPMC Presbyterian Hospital in an ambulance.
Fire Alarm Activation
Sept. 18, 2010
University Police and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire were dispatched to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house in response to a fire alarm activation. Upon arrival, officers and fire fighters found that the cause of the alarm was the accidental discharge of a fire extinguisher.
Loud Party
Sept. 18, 2010
City of Pittsburgh Police and University Police responded to 5240 Forbes Ave. to assist in breaking up a large party of 100 to 200 people. The residents of the home could not be found. No legal action was taken by Carnegie Mellon Police.
Theft
Sept. 18, 2010
A student in Hunt Library reported a theft. He had left his Macintosh laptop computer unattended while he retrieved items from the printer. When he came back, the computer was gone.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 19, 2010
University Police responded to Fifth Avenue between Neville and Clyde streets for a report of a student who was lying unconscious in the grass. Officers were able to wake up the student and get him home safely.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 19, 2010
University Police, Carnegie Mellon EMS, and City of Pittsburgh EMS responded to Mudge House for a report of an intoxicated male. The student had been intoxicated and sick for a few hours before the police were informed. The student was treated and not transported to a hospital. Officers explained the alcohol amnesty policy to everyone on scene for future reference.
Medical
Sept. 19, 2010
A buggy crashed into a row of hay bales in the Chute on the Buggy free-roll course. The driver was extracted from the buggy safely and evaluated by Carnegie Mellon EMS. The student was given an ice pack and treated for minor injuries.
Theft
Sept. 19, 2010
University Police responded to a report of a stolen bicycle at Neville Apartments. The bike was secured to the rack in front of the building with a cable lock. The lock was found on scene intact and not cut, but the bike was missing.
Medical
Sept. 22, 2010
A student in Webster Hall reported a dislocated shoulder. Carnegie Mellon EMS and city of Pittsburgh EMS responded, and the student was transported to the hospital.
Suspicious Person
Sept. 22, 2010
A suspicious male was reported on the third floor of Hunt Library. The person was found and removed from the library by University Police. The person was also given a Defiant Trespass warning letter.
Lost Wallet
Sept. 23, 2010
University Police responded to Skibo Cafe for a report of a lost wallet. The area was checked by officers, and the victim was given assistance in canceling his credit cards.  
Theft
Sept. 23, 2010
A student in Doherty Hall reported that his cell phone and his money were stolen from his backpack while it was in the coat room.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Book tour: Cooking for Geeks
Today at 5 p.m.
Rashid Auditorium (4401 Gates Hillman Complex)
Author Jeff Potter will discuss his new book, Cooking for Geeks, which is for anyone who wants to do more than follow a recipe. According to Roxanne Webber of Chow.com, “_Cooking for Geeks_, a new cookbook by Jeff Potter, is probably the best science-meets-the-kitchen book to come out. Ever.”
Humanities Center Lecture: Constructing Latinos as a Threat to the Nation
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m.
Porter Hall 100 (Gregg Hall)
Anthropology professor Leo Chavez from the University of California, Irvine will examine how media and public discourse portray Mexican and other Latin American immigrants and their U.S.-born children as a threat to the United States, focusing on the narratives of invasion, reconquest, and, more recently, national security. 
Chavez’s books include Shadowed Lives: Undocumented Immigrants in American Society, Covering Immigration: Popular Images and the Politics of the Nation, and The Latino Threat: Constructing Immigrants, Citizens and the Nation. For more information, please visit www.cmu.edu/uls/september/chavez.html.
Film screening: Little Town of Bethlehem
Tuesday at 6 p.m.
Rangos 1, University Center
Carnegie Mellon has been selected as a university site for a screening of Little Town of Bethlehem, a documentary by award-winning director Jim Hanon and producer Mart Green. 
Little Town of Bethlehem follows the story of three men of three different faiths and their lives in Israel and Palestine. A question-and-answer session with Green will follow the screening.
HCII Seminar: Karen Holtzblatt
Wednesday at 4 p.m.
Newell-Simon Hall 1305
Karen Holtzblatt, CEO and co-founder of InContext and Contextual Design, will discuss “Practical Innovation: Making Products that Build Businesses.” 
Holtzblatt will address what it takes to become the creator of the next major innovative product or service and discuss the role of contextual design in innovation. She will draw from her personal experience with InContext.
For more information, see http://www.hcii.cmu.edu/news/seminar/2010/09/practical-innovation-making-products-build-businesses.
Show+Tell: ModCloth
Thursday at 6:30 p.m.
Rangos Hall, University Center
Show+Tell is a new speaker series, debuting this year, that features dynamic young alumni sharing their stories of innovation and creation. 
The first company represented will be ModCloth with a discussion titled “From Dorm Room to Board Room.” The popular indie fashion site will be represented by three alumni, Allen Lu (HS ’01), Evan Tahler (E ’06, CMU ’08), and Jay Palat (HNZ ’04). 
For more information, please see “Show+Tell to feature Modcloth, DeepLocal, ABCnews.com, among others” on page A1.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Many students spent the past week preparing their TiVos for television fall season premieres. The debut of new shows and the return of popular ones are sure to bring plenty of conversation and excitement, as viewers prepare to learn the fates of their favorite characters. Here’s a look back at last year’s TV season, as well as a sneak peak at this season’s new shows:
Number of people watching American Idol, the most-watched TV series of the 2009–10 season: 24,714,000
Number of TV shows (across all five major networks: ABC, NBC, CBS, CW, Fox) not returning for the fall 2010 season: 30
Number of new pilots picked up for this season: 34
Number of new pilots each picked up by ABC and NBC, the two stations with the most pilots: 9
Sources: www.deadline.com, www.tvguide.com

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


A vote taking steps to lift the ban on openly gay soldiers serving in the military was scheduled for this week as part of the annual defense spending bill; however, this amendment did not receive the required 60 votes to pass. This marked the first time in 48 years that Congress has not passed the routine defense spending authorization.
This year, the bill included a number of controversial non-military budget items (as is common), including the proposed “don’t ask, don’t tell” (DADT) repeal legislation.
While it is disappointing that the bill did not pass and was not even debated, it is even more disappointing that it was partisan politics at play, rather than respect toward the actual issues, that stopped it. When politics block progress, the American population at large loses.
But with public opinion largely in favor of gay soldiers openly serving in the military, and this opinion having remained unchanged over the past several years, we want to see more movement on this issue. And currently the movement seems to be coming not from the legislative branch, but the judicial.
Earlier in September, U.S. District Court Judge Virginia Phillips ruled that DADT is in violation of both the First and Fifth Amendments. Then, late last Friday, U.S. District Court Judge Ronald B. Leighton reversed an earlier decision that he made, now ruling that outed flight nurse Major Margaret Witt must be reinstated to military service. Witt was outed by a third party and discharged from service in 2006, but a higher appeals court forced Leighton to reconsider the case based on what is now known as the “Witt Standard,” an evaluation based specifically on whether or not Witt was harming the operations of her unit, a much stricter and personalized standard than the general “homosexuals harm military unity” claim.
It is in these cases and in continued work by activist groups that the most progress is being made toward striking down DADT. We applaud their continued efforts, encourage further and louder public support of the repeal, and remain hopeful that Congress or the White House will be moved to real action.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The NFL season never fails to bring a ton of controversy every year, and, of course, the beginning of the 2010 season has been no different. If you have not heard, the New York Jets have been caught up in a locker room controversy with a female reporter from Azteca TV, a Mexican media outlet that covers the play of the Jets’ Mexican-American quarterback, Mark Sanchez. About two weeks ago, reporter Ines Sainz tweeted on her account that she felt “embarrassed and uncomfortable” in the Jets locker room, suggesting that she was receiving some verbal abuse from the Jets players. Although this type of conduct is clearly inappropriate for a professional football team, Sainz’s choice of clothing and that the way she has been advertising herself on her website have sparked a locker-room controversy. Should women be allowed in the locker room, and what type of dress is appropriate for the occasion?
For those of you who are unfamiliar with Sainz, she is one of the many “sexy” reporters to cover professional sports, and she happens to promote her body on her website, often appearing in pictures wearing only a bikini or scant clothing. Also, on the day of the incident, Sainz was wearing a pair of skin-tight jeans along with a white top that highlighted her upper body. Some people say that she deserved the treatment that she got due to her attire. Again, this type of conduct from the Jets clearly crosses the line, but Sainz cannot be taken seriously if she continues to dress as such in a professional environment. This is her job, and it is up to her to dress appropriately. Women who work in a corporate environment do not strut into work with revealing tops and skin-tight jeans. This type of attire would almost certainly be grounds for an employee to lose her job. Of course, this standard applies to men as well. If a man were to come into work wearing a sleeveless shirt and revealing jeans, then I’m sure that he wouldn’t be taken seriously, either.
Now, after dealing with the attire of reporters in the locker room, we come to the question of whether or not female reporters should even be allowed in men’s locker rooms. Oftentimes, the call for gender equivalence allows females to “do their job” in these situations. However, male reporters are never allowed in the women’s locker room. Rather than dismissing this point as a juvenile argument, take a closer look into the question. There are plenty of male reporters. There is no reason for a male reporter not to take the role of interviewing male players, especially after a game when hormones are active and testosterone is high. I’m not sure about you, but I would almost expect catcalls if I were a female reporter, especially one who is attractive. Female reporters are the only ones allowed in a women’s locker room, and the same should hold for men. There are plenty of other reporting duties for women to take on, such as sideline reporting, on-field interviews, game recaps, and many more. Take some of the men who do these jobs, and put them in the locker rooms.
Putting men in men’s locker rooms would solve a problem not only for the media industry, but for the actual players as well. One of the most scrutinized reactions in the Jets controversy was that of Redskins running back and longtime NFL player Clinton Portis, who was quoted as saying, “And I mean, you put a woman and you give her a choice of 53 athletes, somebody got to be appealing to her. You know, somebody got to spark her interest, or she’s gonna want somebody. I don’t know what kind of woman won’t, if you get to go and look at 53 men’s packages. And you’re just sitting here, saying ‘Oh, none of this is attractive to me.’ I know you’re doing a job, but at the same time, the same way I’m gonna cut my eye if I see somebody worth talking to, I’m sure they do the same thing.” Now, of course, Portis’ take on the situation may be a bit over-the-top and biased, but he has a point. Why are men held to a standard that women may or may not be held to? If Sainz or any other reporter was actually “checking out a player’s package,” then there is no way that she should be in the locker room, either. If Portis feels this way, I’m sure more than a few players feel the same way. And I also highly doubt that there hasn’t been a female reporter who hasn’t looked at a few of the players that she’s following. 
There is certain etiquette for locker-room behavior, and putting a woman in this setting causes confusion that can easily be avoided.
Jeremy King (jqk@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


A bill currently under consideration in Congress would increase military recruitment and give more students the opportunity to attend college. It would reward those who serve as role models in their communities and those who serve the United States in the armed forces. Yet this bill, the DREAM Act, has remained controversial and impossible to pass since it was first proposed in 2001, because it confronts the problem of illegal immigration.
Although there have been minor changes in the DREAM Act in the last nine years, the major features have stayed the same. In essence, the bill would allow undocumented aliens who came to the United States as minors — and who have graduated from high school with a clean criminal record — to have a path to legal residency and, ultimately, citizenship. This path offers undocumented aliens two options: They can complete two years of college, or they can serve in the military for two years and be honorably discharged. At that point, they gain legal residency. Far from being “amnesty” for illegal immigrants, this bill is an opportunity to reward those who provide a service to America. Furthermore, many undocumented minors were brought to the United States by their parents. They should be given a chance to succeed, not punished for a choice that was not theirs.
Time and again, the DREAM Act’s progress has been halted in Congress. There are two main causes for this legislative failure. The first is political maneuvering for its own sake. The second is that any provisions that benefit aliens without legal status — that is, undocumented or illegal immigrants — are controversial. Nearly every time the DREAM Act has been put to a vote in the Senate, it has received a majority of votes, and yet it has never achieved the 60 needed to break a filibuster. Few Senators have legitimate causes for opposition and instead argue against the process used. Others think the DREAM Act should only be passed as part of a larger immigration reform package. These legislative niceties may seem like minor delays to Congressmen, but to those aliens who did not come to America by their own choice and wish to contribute to society, every delay increases their risk of being deported. Solving immigration reform as a whole will take years, but passing the DREAM Act is a step that should be taken immediately.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The Pittsburgh area has more than its share of references to Andrew Carnegie, the great steel tycoon and philanthropist. Many of these, such as the Carnegie Museums and Carnegie Mellon University, attribute their founding to Carnegie’s funding. Similarly, the Carnegie Libraries of Pittsburgh trace their roots back to the philanthropist and his emphasis on learning. Carnegie funded the creation of thousands of libraries around the world, all of which were intended to be, as is engraved on the Carnegie Library in Oakland, “free to the people.” In the century since Carnegie lived, his libraries have been an enduring legacy, and they have improved people’s lives in ways that his other philanthropic efforts (even Carnegie Tech) have not even approached. Now, unfortunately, the Carnegie Library system in Pittsburgh is in crisis, as are other public libraries throughout the United States. But before we get into the details of today’s problems, a quick history lesson is in order.
Carnegie was born in Scotland, the son of a weaver, in the middle of the Industrial Revolution. The family immigrated to Allegheny (now Pittsburgh’s North Side), and Carnegie took his first job at 13, working constantly for the next five decades. Early in this time, Colonel James Anderson of Pittsburgh opened his personal library of 400 books to the “working boys” of the area. To Carnegie, this was heaven; he later described it in his autobiography as if “the windows were opened in the walls of my dungeon through which the light of knowledge streamed in.” He, along with his younger brother Thomas, frequented Anderson’s home, and thus, Carnegie believed access to information was the way for any man to motivate himself and succeed in the world.
So, 50 years later, as Carnegie neared retirement, he came up with a method to spread free libraries across the world. He launched this method to donate funding to cities meeting his four requirements: They could prove the need for a library, provide land for the library, provide (generally through taxes) money to afford the operating costs, and offer free service to all — so that 13-year-old boys could become millionaires. In this way, Carnegie spread about 2,500 libraries across the world, 19 of which are still operating in Pittsburgh.
This and other stories were part of the history of Carnegie’s library-related philanthropy that was recounted by writer Karen Lillis on a tour of the libraries in Pittsburgh, part of the Small Press Festival that is going on this month in the city.
As Carnegie’s base, Pittsburgh provides some of his earliest experiments in free libraries. The Braddock library was the first Carnegie Library to open in America and was part of the library tour. Complete with a music hall, bathhouse, gymnasium, and swimming pool, the libraries that Carnegie imagined were not just shelves of books but true centers for education and the community. And while Braddock has re-imagined the spaces that fell into disrepair in the mid-1900s — the bathhouse has become a ceramics studio, the swimming pool has been used as a performance space, and much of the third floor has been converted into a computer lab and screen-printing studio — these libraries must continue to be funded and supported by their communities as they continue to serve and educate the people that support them.
Just this weekend, the Music Hall at the Homestead library hosted Owen Pallett and the National, and the hipsters in their plaid shirts and tight jeans got drinks at the bar (set up in one of the library’s community rooms — complete with shuffleboard courts in the floors). Earlier in the day there were likely dozens of people swimming in Homestead’s still-functional swimming pool, workers constructing a new second-floor coffee shop, and, of course, local residents visiting and reading books. These hundred-year-old libraries are institutions in this city, and they must be supported.
We know that libraries are evolving. One hundred years ago the stacks were closed, and you had to ask a librarian for the book you wanted to see; they would fetch it; you would read. Twenty years ago, libraries were starting to install computers and build up their CD and videocassette collections. Five years ago, they were beginning to open up to the idea of the library as a more general-purpose space; the Maggie Murph Cafe in our Hunt Library opened in 2006. The libraries of 10, 20, let alone 100 years from now are impossible to predict. Will we enter the space to acquire a temporary copy of a book on an e-reader? Will they become solely academic spaces? Community spaces? Completely digital? For now we continue to hope that there will always be a physical footprint, a hall of community growth, and free knowledge.
Michael Kahn (mkahn@) is Forum editor for The Tartan. Patrick Gage Kelley (pkelley@) is a contributing editor for The Tartan. 

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


The once-bustling, now-struggling community of Braddock, Pa., has slowly garnered national attention as the community attempts to find both creative and inspired solutions to the economic downturn. Braddock first entered national news last year after an article in The New York Times described the town’s ongoing attempts to reverse decades of decline, which began with the collapse of the steel industry and then became even worse with the current economic downturn. Since then, Braddock has been covered in a variety of national and international news sources — even gaining its own section on Good.is, the popular international magazine and integrated media platform for “people who want to live well and do good.”
Even at Carnegie Mellon, Braddock has become a focal point of new and inventive educational experiences. Jill Miller, a visiting assistant professor of art, has created an advanced sculpture, installation, and site-specific class that focuses on the rural community called Mapping Braddock, in which students are asked to produce ethnographic interviews, collect histories, and create a picture that represents Braddock.
However, a recent move by Levi Strauss & Co., the popular clothing company known by the majority of the nation for its denim, has the potential to bring Braddock a new level of fame.
This summer, Levi’s officially launched an advertising campaign featuring the landscape and community members of Braddock. The ads, which can be seen online, in print, on television, and across large billboards throughout Pittsburgh, feature the phrase “We are all workers.” Photos of families and individuals in Braddock accompany the phrase, which is centered just above a small caption reading “Braddock, Pa.” in the bottom right-hand corner. In partnership with Levi’s, the Sundance Channel and the Independent Film Channel are also working to present a series of videos about Braddock and its people.
When I initially heard about the decision by Levi’s to include Braddock in its new campaign, I was immediately against the move. Levi’s primary goal is, of course, to make a profit. The use of a struggling Rust Belt town in a national corporation’s ads reeks, to me, of exploitation. Levi’s is, more or less, using a community’s unfortunate situation to produce a sentiment that primarily results in increased sales.
However, as the campaign has gained momentum, more details regarding the community’s involvement have surfaced, and I have found that my outrage has diminished, if not disappeared. First, and most influential in affecting my opinion regarding the campaign, was the information regarding Levi’s investment in the community. Levi’s is giving Braddock more than $1 million over the next two years to fund a new community center and support the Braddock Urban Farm. As reported by PittsburghLive, Levi’s contacted the mayor of Braddock last fall and “did an exploratory visit and presented the concept of a partnership between the company and the community,” said Braddock mayor John Fetterman, who won’t appear in the ads. “What they were offering wasn’t participation in a marketing campaign, but an incredible opportunity.”
Regardless of being wary of the potential for exploitation, I have to applaud Levi’s decision to pair a successful advertising campaign with an attempt to improve the lives of a community that is in desperate need of help. While Braddock residents may not be the most photogenic, the most educated, or the most successful, it is admirable for a large company to take up their cause, feature real individuals, and encourage the transformation of a community. I can only hope that more groups will follow Levi’s example, stepping up and backing the hundreds of communities whose situations parallel that of Braddock’s.
Courtney Wittekind (cwitteki@) is News editor for The Tartan.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


This Friday, the CFA Lawn will be the site of Carnegie Mellon’s Relay for Life. Relay for Life is a global movement run by the American Cancer Society that involves 3.5 million participants and raises millions of dollars for cancer research each year. At Carnegie Mellon, the relay gives organizations across campus the chance to consolidate their efforts to support cancer research.
The Biological Student Advisory Council (BioSAC) has taken a leading role in raising money for Relay — they are currently in first place among student groups with almost $3,500 collected thus far. As part of their efforts, they partnered with Panther Hollow Inn (most commonly known as PHI Bar) to have $1 from every drink purchased last Saturday night go to their relay fund, and in doing so raised over $600 that night.
PHI Bar and the fight against cancer are rarely placed in the same sentence, or even the same article. So when BioSAC’s “Fight Cancer at PHI Bar” flyers went up around campus, they turned quite a few heads. After all, drinking alcohol isn’t typically considered beneficial to one’s health. Realistically, though, BioSAC’s event, despite its surface irony, is a creative way to raise money for a good cause and partner with a local business.
We think the PHI Bar event was an excellent way to use an activity that many students already do — going to a bar on a Saturday night — to make a positive impact at the university and beyond. It is unlikely that any students who went to PHI for the BioSAC event made any more negative decisions than they might have otherwise. BioSAC’s partnership with PHI acknowledged that a bar on a Saturday night just fits the college lifestyle better than a bake sale on a Monday morning.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


Just a month ago, I wrote about Glenn Beck’s bringing of God to the National Mall. I mentioned the blood, the lepers, the smiting of innocents, and I believed that was about as much action as the Mall was going to get this semester. 
But I was incorrect. Yes, in just one month’s time, a battle is coming to the green spaces of D.C.: a battle between good and evil, between black and white, between sanity and fear, between Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert. On Oct. 30, 2010, these two Comedy Central satirical news show hosts will seemingly wage war on each other in Washington, D.C.
I first saw the announcement of these battling rallies in my normal Internet perusing, likely sent the link to a few friends, and said, “Ha ha” or maybe even “lol” — what a funny joke to mock Mr. Beck. How hilarious that every TV show host can now enjoy his celebrity influence and host his own rally.
Stewart and Colbert are bringing their particular brand of politics to Washington in more than one way. Last week, Colbert was invited to testify in front of a Congressional subcommittee by Representative Zoe Lofgren (D–Calif.), who had worked a farm with the pundit for a day.
And Colbert responded in extravagant Colbert Report-style with a traveling road show, right into the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, and Border Security. Yes, he brought his “star power” right into the hallowed halls of the United States Capitol, pushing his satirical political commentary to the level of Congressional testimony. Yet, while rife with jokes about his expertise on migrant labor, his colonoscopy, fruit-human hybrids, and the shirked responsibilities of Congress, Colbert did actually deliver a real message. And while I will not delve into the politics surrounding immigration and migrant workers in this country (see page A6 for that), I will continue to question the roles that Colbert and Stewart play in American politics.
In theory, they could be written off as hacks — members of the Comedy Central family who have thrived in unison with The Sarah Silverman Show and Reno 911!. But what if they have become something larger than simply farce and comedic news reporting? 
It seems they already have. This rally is not a joke on cable television mocking the tens of thousands of people who came to hear Glenn Beck be touched by God before Abraham Lincoln — this rally is (as far as I can tell) going to become an actual event. An actual political rally to both restore sanity and keep fear alive, and it is going to do so just days before the midterm elections.
So, I hope this rally is an actual political rally. One that energizes the more liberal audiences that appreciate Stewart’s and Colbert’s shows. One that excites young voters to go out and participate in an election that might not be as historic as electing a black president, but one that will be just as important in helping him maintain a Congress that will at least try to support his reforms. I want this rally to at least continue to leverage Colbert and Stewart’s excellent abilities to use humor to point out the pure ridiculousness of the positions, beliefs, and statements of many of the Republican candidates this fall. That is, I want the Tea Party to be laughed out of Washington, D.C. before they even arrive.
I have often said that I hate politics and I hate funny things. But it is possible that, in the case of these two absurd rallies, two wrongs do make something that just feels right. So whether you support fear or sanity (I support both, of course), I will see you in D.C.
Patrick Gage Kelley (pkelley@) is a contributing editor for The Tartan. He has one spot left in his car.

        We're testing a new look for The Tartan. Let us know what you think!

        © The Tartan. 
        Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906.
        

Archives | 
          Join the Staff |
          Advertising |
          About Us |
          Contact Us


