
USC baseball may have only logged a 28-28 season in 2009, but six Trojans have already been selected in this week’s MLB draft.
Highly touted junior shortstop Grant Green was the first to go, in the first round at 13th overall to the Oakland Athletics.
Green hit .374 with four home runs and 32 RBI this season for the Trojans. In his three years, his .359 career average places him sixth on USC’s all-time list.
Under baseball rules, Green still retains his eligibility to return to USC for his senior season if he wishes, but the 21-year-old has stated in the past that he feels ready to sign and go to the minor leagues.
Last year’s No. 13 selection, former Pac-10 player of the year Brett Wallace, signed for a 1.84 million signing bonus with the St. Louis Cardinals.
Green’s advisor, Scott Boras, has a history of holdouts and long negotiations with top prospects.
Two other top USC juniors made waves on the first day of the draft, as righthander Brad Boxberger was selected 43rd overall by the Cincinnati Reds and catcher Robert Stock was taken with the 67th pick by the St. Louis Cardinals.
Boxberger started his college career on the right track, earning second-team All-America honors and posting a 3.20 ERA as a freshman, but he slipped in 2008 and went 2-4 with a 6.14 ERA. He then spent the summer in the Cape Cod Baseball League and shined as a closer for the Chatham A’s before establishing himself as USC’s ace in 2009. In 14 starts, he went 6-3 with a 3.16 ERA and garnered All-Pac-10 honors.
Boxberger’s father, Rod, was a first-round pick of the Houston Astros in 1978 out of USC. Rod Boxberger pitched six minor league seasons but never made a big-league appearance.
Stock enrolled in USC after his junior year at Agoura High— where he was named Baseball America Youth Player of the Year — but failed to improve much at the plate in his three years as a Trojan. He never hit above .300 and recorded only a .226 average this season. 
Stock began the season as the Trojans’ closer but moved to the rotation mid-season. He became the Saturday starter for USC, going 5-4 and registering a 2.90 ERA. Stock struck out 66 hitters in 59 and two-thirds innings, but he has voiced a desire to play catcher at the next level and the Cardinals drafted him as a backstop.
On the second day of the draft, three more Trojans were picked.
Senior lefthander Anthony Vasquez and junior catcher Hector Rabago were each picked in the 18th round, by the Seattle Mariners and New York Yankees, respectively.
Vasquez went 4-6 with a 4.33 ERA in his final year with USC after transferring from Texas A&M prior to his sophomore season. He also served as a middle-of-the-lineup bat for the Trojans, hitting .307 with six home runs in 2009, but he was selected as a pitcher by the Mariners.
Starting the season at second base Rabago hit only .257 in 183 bats but showed improvement defensively when he played primarily at catcher as the season went on. College catchers are often looked at as a valuable commodity in the draft.
Senior righthander Daniel Cooper marked the final Trojan selection of the day, going in the 21st round (623rd overall) to the Mariners. Before 2009, Cooper had pitched just 18 and two-thirds major college innings, allowing 14 earned runs. This season, though, Cooper became USC’s most effective reliever, recording 34 and two-thirds innings pitched with a 2.08 ERA. The six-foot-three, 203-pound Cooper transferred to USC from Rice before his junior season.
With the third day of the draft — meaning rounds 30-50 — yet to come, there are other Trojans who could hear their names called: namely junior righthander Kevin Couture.

Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
