USC’s offense had it’s signature win against Ohio State. The Trojans on defense now have theirs.
USC’s 34-27 victory over Notre Dame culminating in a last second goaline stand caused Trojan fans just as much emotional strain as the win over the Buckeyes but carried much more weight.
Everson Griffen was called for an excessive celebration penalty after flexing his muscles following a sack of Jimmy Clausen. - Dieuwertje Kast | Daily Trojan
Why? Because it happened on this field, in this rivalry.
The Fighting Irish had all the momentum in the final minutes and were getting all the favorable calls as they drove down to the USC 4-yardline trailing by one touchdown. In just under 10 seconds, they would have three chances to tie the game.
Each time, USC’s defense answered the call.
“This seems to be the theme of our season — close situations,” linebacker Chris Galippo said.
It didn’t even bother the Trojans that they had to win the game twice. After Clausen’s first attempt fell incomplete, he lined up with four seconds on clock and threw a pass to receiver Golden Tate that hit the ground as the clocked clicked down to double-zeroes.
The Trojans started rushing the field to celebrate their eighth straight victory over Notre Dame before the officials announced that they would review the previous play to see exactly where the time ended.
Talk about throwing a bone to Notre Dame. How often does the clock stop precisely when a pass falls incomplete? And it should go both ways — I doubt they checked if the clock started exactly when Clausen snapped the ball.
But even though USC fans were probably punching their TVs and cursing the referee crew, the Trojans on the field didn’t seem to mind.
They just went out and did it all over again, providing blanket coverage on another Clausen pass and sealing up the win in a signature stand.
“It was a great moment,” coach Pete Carroll said. “Whether we had to go back again or not, that just doubled the fun of trying to get it done.”
For those Trojans on the sidelines, it may have been a bit more stressful.
“I don’t know how many chances you can get,” receiver Damian Williams said, adding, “They got off three plays in nine seconds, I’ve never heard of that. But our defense did a great job.”
Ironically, the defense did not play well during a long stretch in the fourth quarter. Quarterback Matt Barkley and the Trojan offense seemed to put the game out of reach, building a 20 point lead early in the fourth quarter. But Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen capitalized on the somewhat complacent Trojans, scoring two touchdowns fairly easily and getting in position to win the game at the end.
But for all all the mistakes and blown coverages, the Trojans came through mentally when it counted.
They were able to overcome four personal foul penalties in the second half, three of which were blatantly bad calls, especially the one on defensive Everson Griffen for excessive celebration when Griffen flexed his muscles after sacking Clausen. (Count how many times that same celebration is made the rest of the season and not called a penalty. Believe me, you’ll need more than just your fingers and toes.)
USC safety Josh Pinkard admitted the bad calls frustrated him — “Goodness, let us play man,” he said he was thinking — but it never affected him beyond that. After all, Pinkard was the one who broke up Clausen’s pass to Tate on the second to last play of the game.
The Trojan defense as a unit wasn’t fazed either, able to keep the most important play — the current one — at the forefront of their minds.
“They maintained a level of poise to make the right decision at that time,” defensive coordinator Rocky Seto said.
It is not only the gap in talent level that has allowed USC to dominate Notre Dame over this decade. It’s not the X’s and O’s either.
What it comes down to is the mentality, the winning attitude that Carroll has so completely cultivated in his players’ minds that they never think games are going to end in anything but W’s.
“Everyone in that huddle, everybody on that sidelines, that’s all we’ve known,” Carroll said. “We prepared our mindset [so] that’s all we know.”
As clear as this is on USC’s sidelines is how much it is apparently lacking on Notre Dame’s.  You could hear it in Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis’s words leading up to this week. You could see it in the desperation the Irish played with Saturday and with which their fans cheered. They were begging for this game, a longing dating back to 2001.
But wanting it bad enough doesn’t win games. When it comes down to it, believing in yourself and your team separates the champions from the wannabes. The USC defense came through because it never doubted that it would.
“You want to have that mentality if it goes to that last play,” Carroll said. “We’ve been talking that way and preparing the way we prepare to build legitimacy to that mindset. Again, we had a chance to back it.”
The defense certainly took advantage of that chance to back it up, giving Trojan fans another game to be remembered in the USC-Notre Dame rivalry and another reminder why USC’s remarkable run under Carroll doesn’t seem to be stopping any time soon.
Yeah penalties for ripping off a player’s helmet (the second time in the game a SC player did that), and then pushing a qb down after his throw were terrible calls by the PAC-10 Refs. Gimme a break. And I’ll be damned if a SC fan is going to complain about time being put back on the clock (correctly) after 2005’s game.
Here’s what actually happened: USC stopped getting consistent pressure in the 4th quarter and Notre Dame made them pay. In the end, ND were wr’s slip on the final play from forcing OT. Personally I wouldn’t credit this victory to the SC defense. They played well (Griffin is a beast), but ND moved the ball pretty well in the second half.
Thank you for being the only writer to mention the egregiousness of those “penalties”.  I was sick of reading on ESPN and everywhere else that ND “fought” their way back into this game and how we committed stupid penalties.  The officiating was horrible and was the only reason ND was able to have those last second chances.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
