Department of Public Safety and LAPD officials arrested a suspect in connection with three recent armed robberies Wednesday near the 1200 block of 29th Street, DPS said.
The suspect, Anthony Paul Hood, was spotted by the DPS Special Problems Unit, which was patrolling the area because there was suspicion a drug deal was taking place. Because Hood matched the suspect description provided by the victims of the three robberies, the officers of the Special Problems Unit and LAPD officers assigned to the USC area detained him, and a subsequent investigation led to his arrest at approximately 7:30 p.m.
“Our Special Problems Unit was patrolling in the North University Park Area and they observed a suspect matching the description of a suspect in three robberies get in a vehicle near a house where we suspect drug dealing was going on,” DPS Capt. David Carlisle said. “DPS officers detained that suspect along with the LAPD unit that is assigned to USC.”
During the follow-up investigation, the laptop of a student who was robbed June 7 near the 1200 block of 27th Street was recovered. Later, the student positively identified Hood as the man who robbed him, Carlisle said. Officers also recovered a BB gun.
In addition to the June 7 robbery, Carlisle said officials also believe Hood was responsible for robberies on June 2 and 3. The June 2 robbery took place at the 2700 block of Ellendale, while the June 3 robbery occurred at 1120 W. 27th St. In all three instances a weapon was displayed.
According to the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department Inmate Locator, Hood was booked at the LAPD Southwest Station early Thursday morning, and is being held on $100,000 bail.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
