Police are currently investigating a suspicious package found two blocks west of campus, and have instructed students to stay away from the area.
According to LAPD Officer Cleon Joseph, an area resident reported the presence of the suspicious package near 35th Place and Budlong Avenue around 1 p.m. An LAPD bomb squad responded immediately and will remain until the situation has been secured, Joseph said.
USC Department of Public Safety Capt. David Carlisle said the package was found under a car and there is concern it could be a pipe bomb. LAPD is currently planning to destroy the device, which could cause a loud noise.
“They’re going to, rather than take a chance, detonate it,” Carlisle said.
DPS was called in by LAPD to help evacuate residents, Carlisle said. People living in the area of 35th and Budlong have been moved to on-campus locations, and LAPD has set up a command post on Normandie Avenue.
Carlisle said he was unsure how many, if any, students were affected by the evacuation, though there are students who live west of campus.
All students were instructed to stay away from the area by messages on the Trojans Alert system. The first Trojans Alert was sent at approximately 6 p.m.
UPDATE (10:12 p.m.): The suspicious package — confirmed to be a pipe bomb — has been removed, according to a Trojans Alert sent at approximately 8:30 p.m. The Trojans Alert indicates the actual location of the pipe bomb was 35th Place and Normandie Avenue. Residents are being allowed back into the neighborhood, though LAPD will be continuing to investigate the area.
And what happened?
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
