The story: No. 4 USC avenged an early-season defeat from a year ago, beating Oregon State — just barely — in a closer-than-expected shootout, 42-36.
The Beavers had two chances to get the ball back late in the fourth quarter but failed to stop the USC offense on two third-down plays.
“It sucks,” said Oregon State quarterback Sean Canfield, who completed 30-of-43 passes for 329 yards and three touchdowns. “We just ran out of time. We didn’t make enough plays and they made more.”
USC (6-1) led 21-6 at one point and 42-23 at another, but Oregon State (4-3) didn’t let up and pushed its way back into the games on both occasions.
“It’s a lesson learned,” fourth-year junior linebacker Michael Morgan said. “We shut them down for the most part in the first half but they came out as a different team in the second half.”
Key play: Shortly after the start of the fourth quarter, USC receiver Damian Williams took a punt back 63 yards for the touchdown, opening the Trojans’ lead up to 42-23.
At the time it looked like it would be the dagger in the Beavers’ collective heart.
Oregon State did manage to put together two consecutive touchdown drives to get the score close, but Williams’  touchdown proved to be the difference.
“We needed a big play, and we were real fortunate to make that play,” Williams said. “The biggest thing was the blocking. I told the guys that all they had to do was give 100% on that play and I’d do the rest.”
USC coach Pete Carroll mentioned after the game that special teams coordinator Brian Schneider had switched up the blocking schemes just before the return occurred.
“Damian’s punt return was exhilarating — the play of the year,” Carroll said. We were anticipating that this might be the one, and it was.”
Most valuable player: Fourth-year junior running back Allen Bradford. Bradford ran a career-high 15 times for a career-high 147 yards, including two touchdowns and six first downs.
He didn’t spell starter Joe McKnight until midway through the second quarter. From that point on, McKnight rushed the ball only three times while Bradford ran all over the Oregon State defense.
“I feel like I can go out there and display how fast I am and how physical I am,” Bradford said. “And that’s all I want to do.”
Surprise performance: After a forgettable one-catch performance at Notre Dame a week prior, junior receiver Ronald Johnson led the Trojans in receiving with six catches for 99 yards and a touchdown against the Beavers.
Johnson also made an impressive diving catch on a corner route that got the Coliseum crowd roaring early in the second quarter.
“It doesn’t get any better than that,” Johnson said. “Making a comeback like that, it just feels perfect.”
Johnson missed the first five games of the season with a broken collarbone before making a largely uneventful return in South Bend.
Saturday, he earned his first start of the season and did wonders with it.
“’We’ve got RoJo back’ is the statement that he made today,” Williams said. “He’s been that playmaker in the past, but we’ve needed him this season.”
“He’s back, and we can count on him.”
The Rodgers brothers: Jacquizz and James continued to terrorize the Trojans, producing a combined 317 all-purpose yards Saturday.
James, the elder brother and a receiver, caught seven passes for 56 yards, ran six times for 46 yards and amassed 96 kick return yards.
Jacquizz, a running back, rushed for 115 yards on 20 carries despite missing the entire second quarter.
“He’s intense,” middle linebacker Chris Galippo said of the true sophomore, who ran for 194 yards against the Trojans in 2008. “He’s super explosive, he’s really shifty, he’s got tremendous balance. He does a whole bunch of things really well. “
Neither brother weighs more than 200 pounds nor stands taller than 5-foot-7. Still, they continued to puzzle USC.
Said receiver Ronald Johnson: “Hey, whatever works for them, right?”
Stat of the game: 482 yards on offense to 429. The Oregon State offense outgained the Trojans for the second consecutive year.
“They are probably the most explosive offense we have played,” USC safety Taylor Mays said. “With Jacquizz and James [Rodgers], it has to be the best offense we have played.”
The Rodgers brothers weren’t so complimentary of their own performance.
“If you don’t win, it doesn’t really mean anything,” Jacquizz Rodgers said. “It would’ve been good if we got the win.”
Quote of the game: “It was like the opposite of last year.” – USC defensive coordinator Rocky Seto compared the Trojans’ win to the upset in Corvallis.
Last year, USC lost 27-21 despite a furious second-half comeback after starting the game off in a 21-0 hole.
This year, the Trojans almost let Oregon State do what they couldn’t manage to.
“We had a slow start last time,” Seto said. “This game we started off better than them, but then they got the momentum in the second half.”
“We switched it around.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
