Matt Barkley’s first throw of his long awaited collegiate debut landed safely in the hands of tight end Anthony McCoy. The only problem, however, was that it went for a 2-yard loss.
But Barkley is not one to dwell on early hiccups. By the end of the game, there was little doubt as to why USC coach Pete Carroll had put so much confidence in him.
Aided by 343 rushing yards from USC’s backfield, the 18-year-old true freshman overcame a slow start to lead the No. 4 Trojans to a 56-3 rout of San Jose State. Barkley passed for 233 yards with no interceptions, and four tailbacks combined to score six touchdowns for USC.
“We just really tried to put it behind us,” Barkley said of a scoreless first quarter in which the Trojans lost two fumbles. “We had a couple bumpy first drives but realized there’s nothing we could do about it. We came out rocking after that.”
Barkley admitted a brief moment of jitters as he stepped onto the field of the Los Angeles Coliseum. But as soon as the game started, he showed how comfortable he was playing in the spotlight.
“It was so much fun to be out there,” he said. “I felt really at home, and I think the guys did a great job of saying, ‘This is you, just be yourself.’”
Carroll was not the only one impressed by Barkley’s performance.
“[Barkley] came to the huddle calm and collected,” said McKnight, who rushed for 145 yards and two touchdowns. “He even gave us a couple of pep talks.”
After a disappointing start to the game, USC’s offense started to assert itself in the second quarter.
With the Trojans’ formidable offensive line clearing space up front, Barkley and company marched down the field on their first drive of the quarter. Barkley completed a 10-yard pass to David Ausberry before Stafon Johnson rumbled into the end zone for USC’s first score of the game.
“As we’ve seen so many times over the years, it’s not how you start,” Carroll said. “It’s how you finish. Once the game got going, everything worked in a real positive direction.”
Over the next 10 minutes, three different Trojan tailbacks rushed for touchdowns, putting USC up 28-3. The defense also elevated its play, holding the Spartans in check after giving up 67 yards in the first quarter.
“Tremendous line play really contributed to that,” Carroll said of the Trojans’ success. “Guys did a fantastic job of picking up different looks and stunts and gave guys running room. The running backs took over from there.”
The Trojans picked up right where they left off in the second half. Just three plays into the third quarter, McKnight sliced his way through the Spartan defense on an electrifying 54-yard TD run.
“The offensive line made holes, made great blocks,” McKnight said. “That’s what got me open.”
The Spartans had little success stopping a slew of other Trojan tailbacks. Marc Tyler rushed for 72 yards and a score, Allen Bradford made a 43-yard TD run and Johnson added two scores of his own.
Midway through the quarter, Barkley found Rhett Ellison in the end zone for the only passing touchdown of the game. It was the icing on a nearly flawless performance by the poised freshman, who completed 15 of 19 passes.
“Matt Barkley just absolutely handled this,” Carroll said. “It was no big deal for him. … He had a smile on his face, he loved every minute of it. He’s shown us nothing but that since we’ve been around him.”
Patrick Perry had 48 rushing yards for the Spartans but didn’t receive much help from his teammates. After gaining 67 yards on offense in the first quarter, the Spartans were held to just 54 the rest of the way.
Aaron Corp, who lost the starting job to Barkley just a little over a week ago, took over in the fourth quarter. In the last minutes of the game, he threw a 13-yard TD pass to D.J. Shoemate for the Trojans’ final score.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
