The tumultuous non-conference portion of USC’s schedule came to a close Wednesday night.
There have been highs, such as recent wins over ranked opponents Texas and Tennessee, and there have been lows, including a 20-point home loss against Rider, and a large blown lead on the road at Nebraska.
Wednesday night’s game against Lehigh (6-6) was another high point for the Trojans (8-5), a convincing 76-49 win.
USC came out shooting the ball well, making six of their first seven 3-point attempts.
Junior guard Jio Fontan shined in his first home appearance and third game overall since becoming eligible to play for the Trojans after transferring from Fordham. Fontan had a game-high 21 points, and made all four of his 3-point attempts.
“Jio is getting better every game,” USC coach Kevin O’Neill said. “He is a guy who [fills] a missing piece for us.”
Junior forward Nikola Vucevic came alive in the second half, scoring 14 of his 16 points after halftime, while also adding 10 rebounds. Senior forward Alex Stepheson also had a double-double, scoring 11 points and grabbing 14 rebounds.
With senior guard Marcus Simmons draped all over him, sophomore guard C.J. McCollum, the Mountain Hawk’s leading scoring who entered the night averaging 22.5 points per game, only managed to score one point in the first half, and seven points overall.
After back-to-back victories, and four wins in the last five games, the Trojans believe they have discovered what it takes to win.
“We have to play defense,” Vucevic said. “We have to stop people. We are not going to just outscore anybody. We have to hold [opponents] under 40 percent [from the field].”
USC begins Pac-10 competition against preseason conference favorite Washington on December 29 at 7:30 p.m.
“We want to win every single game in our league,” O’Neill said. “Will we win every game? I doubt it. But we are going to play hard, and I am convinced of that now. I have a lot of confidence that I did not have early on.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
