
Stay tuned for updates for the impending game against Arizona State. For additional news, follow the Daily Trojan on Twitter at twitter.com/dailytrojan.
Final – USC 34, ASU 33 – The Trojans couldn’t get a first down, but they hold on after running the clock down to 23 seconds and intercepting Threet as time expires. Not a pretty win, but USC will undoubtedly take it. The win moves them to 6-3, and 3-3 in the Pac-10. Thanks for tuning in, and be sure to check us out next week as the Trojans travel to Arizona to face the Wildcats!
1:37 – 4th Quarter – USC 34, ASU 33 – Field goal attempt by ASU is NO good, and the Trojans take over possession. If USC can get a first down, the game is all but over, as ASU has no timeouts.
3:06 – 4th Quarter – USC 34, ASU 33 – Field goal USC! Houston finally converts an attempt, nailing a 29-yarder when it matters most. The Trojans are up by 1, but this game is by no means over. USC’s special teams is able to make a tackle on the ensuing kickoff, so it will be up to ASU’s offense to put up a fight.
7:00 – 4th Quarter – ASU 33, USC 31 – After the Sun Devils stop the Trojans offense for the first time in awhile, Threet leads the offense down field, converting a crucial third down that allows the Sun Devils to continue their drive.   The Trojans were penalized with a personal foul that cost them ten yards and one play later, Threet found Miles for a 10-yard score.  The Sun Devils attempt the PAT and it is blocked by Thomas Weber and recovered by Torin Harris for a two-point conversion.  The Trojans defense is not doing so well at an inopportune time, but there is still plenty of time left.  However, the special teams for the Trojans is playing very well.
13:24 – 4th Quarter – USC 29, ASU 27 – The Trojans stopped the Sun Devils on a three-and-out to end a whirlwind third quarter that saw a pick-6 and a 100-yard kickoff return.  The offense seemed to be carrying that momentum into the fourth until Barkley threw a pass off Ausberry’s hands and into ASU’s Omar Bolden’s possession, who returns it 66 yards a pick-6.  Both teams now have interception returns for touchdowns.  The Sun Devils attempt a two-point conversion to try and tie the game, but the USC defense holds strong and preserves the lead.
4:39 – 3rd Quarter – USC 29, ASU 14 – The Trojans offense responds right back as  Barkley orchestrates a seven play, 67-yard scoring drive that culminates in a 22-yard touchdown pass to Stanley Havili.  Barkley was efficient and looked great during that drive, spreading the ball around to three different receivers.
USC 29, ASU 21 – Fourteen seconds later, the Sun Devils strike back as LeQuan Lewis returns the kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown.  Somehow, Lewis found a way through a heap of defenders and that was that.  This half has been electric to say the least as both teams have combined to put up more points in 11 minutes than the entire first half combined.
7:34 – 3rd Quarter – USC 22, ASU 14 – Well, it didn’t take long for the Sun Devils to respond.  Threet atones for his mistake, promptly leading the offense downfield and finding Robinson in the end zone for his second score of the night.  The game is starting to pick up after a lackluster first half that saw a lot of defense and not much else.
9:53 – 3rd Quarter – USC 22, ASU 7 – PICK-6! Malcolm Smith intercepts Threet and takes it 74 yards to the house!  Mitch Mustain finishes off the scoring with a pass to Ausberry to convert the two-point conversion.  Last year, Smith returned a 62-yard interception for a touchdown against UCLA.
Hey guys, Trevor Wong filling in for the rest of this game.  Stay tuned for the second half of this game!
End of 2nd Quarter – USC 14, ASU 7 – TOUCHDOWN USC! Wide receiver David Ausberry connects with Barkley for a 2-yard score — Barkley’s second of the night. There may not be many points on the board, but that’s not to say this game is lacking excitement. The final four minutes of the half featured a blocked punt by USC cornerback T.J. McDonald, an immediate interception after the fact by ASU, another Shareece Wright sack on Threet, a USC fourth down conversion, and finally a Trojan score.
USC’s offense hasn’t broken a big play yet, but they are doing a good job keeping possession of the ball, logging almost 18 minutes so far. Barkley also showed some mobility with a 10-yard scamper for a first down. Definitely some positives to come out of the first half for USC, mostly relating to it’s defense.
P.S. Houston may be 0 for 2 in field goals, but he is 2 for 2 in PATs. Silver lining anyone?
4:46 – 2nd Quarter – ASU 7, USC 7 – TOUCHDOWN USC! The Trojans finally break out of their funk, finishing a meticulous drive down the field with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Barkley to tailback Marc Tyler to knot the game at 7-7. Arizona State’s defense has been solid for the most part, but they showed some weakness on this drive against the short outside passes that the Trojans utilized multiple times (including on Tyler’s scoring play). The crowd is re-energized, the team seems pumped up, and Joe Houston most definitely just breathed a sigh of relief about having to kick a PAT instead of a 30-yard field goal.
11:02 – 2nd Quarter – ASU 7, USC 0 – Houston continues to disappoint, missing a 35-yarder wide right to keep the Trojans off the scoreboard. USC coach Lane Kiffin may be getting closer and closer to reverting back to his old gameplan of going for it on fourth down in the red zone. Fortunately for USC, it’s defense is looking stellar, forcing yet another punt. They currently have sacked Threet three times and have held him to 4 for 11 passing. You could say it’s been a battle of defense so far, but this match looks more like a game of “which offense will make less mistakes?” so far.
End of 1st Quarter – ASU 7, USC 0 – Same story here folks…USC’s defense has held strong and forced another punt, but the Trojans have yet to get on the scoreboard. While Barkley stepped up and made some big throws on the last drive, he wasn’t able to connect with anyone for the touchdown, despite USC having a 1st & goal situation from the ASU 7 yard line. Senior kicker Joe Houston then came on and decided to test the durability of the Coliseum’s goal posts, banging a kick squarely off the right upright to keep USC at 0. It seems that the Trojans haven’t completely gotten over their early-season woes, but it is promising that USC’s defense can pick up any slack.
7:18 1st Quarter – ASU 7, USC 0 – USC’s defense decided to show up, but the Trojan offense is still lagging behind. Barkley seems to be out of sync with his receivers, and the run game has not been established yet with freshman tailback Dillon Baxter filling the starting spot. The Trojans just punted for the second time in a row, and currently have only eight total yards of offense.
The Sun Devils have taken over on offense and seem to have their running legs underneath them. USC’s run D has struggled stopping tailback Deantre Lewis, but have all but stuffed Threet and the ASU passing game. Threet is currently 3 for 6 on the night.
13:23 1st Quarter – ASU 7, USC 0 – The Sun Devils jump to an immediate lead, needing only four plays to find the end zone against the Trojans. ASU wide receiver Jamal Miles found wide receiver T.J. Simpson for a 54 yard gain on a double pass trick play to kickstart the drive, and quarterback Steven Threet finished things with a 10 yard pass to wideout Gerell Robinson for the score. USc’s defense doesn’t seem to be in rhythm, and the offense doesn’t look much better. USC quarterback Matt Barkley missed wide-open wide receiver Robert Woods on a long pass attempt, and then could not find the first down. ASU now has the ball again.
Pregame – Hey guys, it’s James Bianchi here providing the live blog updates for tonight’s game against Arizona State. Stay tuned!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
