USC’s hearing before the NCAA Infractions Appeal Committee has been scheduled for Jan. 22 in Indianapolis, athletic director Pat Haden announced Thursday.
USC is appealing June’s NCAA-levied sanctions that included a two-year bowl ban and a loss of 30 scholarships over three years. The school was penalized, in part, as a result of  improper benefits received by two former student-athletes – Reggie Bush and O.J. Mayo – from 2004-2008.
According to the NCAA’s findings, Bush and his parents were found to have received thousands of dollars worth of “extra benefits” from agents and sports marketers, including free rent at a suburban San Diego home.
School officials allege that the penalties were “excessive” and have asked in its appeal, which was filed in June, for the two-year postseason ban to be reduced to one year and the loss of 30 scholarships to be reduced to 15.
Haden, along with university president Max Nikias and vice president for athletic compliance David Roberts, will be in attendance at the January hearing in Indianapolis in addition to the school’s legal counsel.
“I am not terribly optimistic that we are going to win the appeal,” Haden said in a statement published on USCTrojans.com’s RipsIt Blog. “If you look at it statistically, about 10 percent of appeals win. Having said that, we feel like we have some very good points to make.  We are going to put our best foot forward and hope for the best, but we probably will not know for quite some time after that.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
