Ari Bermann, a second-year master’s in business administration student from Chile, was attending Shabbat dinner the day the 8.8-magnitude earthquake hit the country and only heard of it when his father called from Santiago to report the news. After relaying the information to family members and checking Facebook to verify that others in Chile were safe, he began to think of ways to help.
Bermann decided to return to Chile for spring break, despite travel warnings from the U.S. Department of State.
“Aftershocks are still going on. I’m going to stay one week and see what I can do,” he said.
While in Chile, Bermann plans to attend a wedding and volunteer with Un Techo para Chile, a volunteer organization building temporary housing for displaced Chileans.
Upon his return to USC, Bermann plans to hold a fundraiser for building efforts and encourages other Trojans to get involved.
“If students want to go down there, that would be amazing,” he said. “I’m sure the help will be needed for a long time.”
Most students, however, do not have plans to visit Chile or Haiti; some because they are assured of  the safety of their friends and loved ones, others because they don’t want to get in the way of relief operations.
Oscar Viel, a Chilean in Marshall’s International MBA program, also had family affected by the earthquake. Because all are safe, he has decided to wait to return as scheduled at the end of his program in July. Still, he does not minimize the extent of the impact.
“Building is the most urgent need,” he said. “In the next two to three months, it will be winter, and it rains quite a lot. It will be very critical to build houses.”
Tirsa St. Fort, a junior majoring in business administration who has family in Haiti, recalled her initial reaction to the Jan. 12 earthquake.
“I had a speechless reaction — just didn’t know what to say,” she said.
Though she reports that her extended family on the island escaped unharmed, most are still in dire straits, and her immediate family in Boston is considering traveling to Haiti in a month’s time to deliver clothes and other resources.
St. Fort suggested that anyone looking to aid the relief efforts consider donating to a non-governmental organization and think carefully before traveling.
“Everyone right now is trying to survive, so going down on your own wouldn’t make much sense,” she said.
Groups of students from universities such as Penn State and the University of Maryland are traveling down for alternative break trips in the affected countries, but Melissa Gaeke, director of the USC Volunteer Center, said the university does not have any organized trips to Haiti or Chile.
Though the USC Institute for Global Health is currently assembling a team to travel to Haiti, there do not appear to be any plans to include students on such a trip. Gaeke noted that the university cannot send students to locations under travel restrictions.
“My office is bound by travel warnings — we are not able to organize trips if there’s a travel warning,” she said.
Indeed, the notifications on the U.S. Department of State website are fairly dire. The Haiti travel warning “strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid travel to Haiti … The Embassy’s ability to provide emergency consular services is limited.”
As for Chile, the warnings are only slightly less ominous. The department “strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid tourism and non-essential travel to Chile.”
Still, for students driven to volunteer, Gaeke offered the following advice: Link up with a trusted organization, make sure you have confidence in and clear assurances from the organization and be certain to obtain travel insurance.
She also noted that the skills required for rescue and medical help (as in Haiti) are different from those needed for rebuilding (as in Chile). In general, she said skilled workers are considered much more valuable than unskilled volunteers.
“You have to think of a country’s capacity and the framework in which they can take advantage of your skills,” Gaeke said.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Students purchase cell phones, iPods and other items at the Department of Public Safety’s lost and found sale Wednesday. About 200 people showed up to the sale and most items sold within the first hour, DPS Capt. David Carlisle said. The items were belongings that had been recovered by DPS but had not been claimed in a 90-day period. A few items remain, and the sale will be held again Thursday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Courtney Sandlin | Daily Trojan

Courtney Sandlin | Daily Trojan
I love the picture in this article! The photographer did a great job capturing the moment.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Students from a variety of ideologies are coming together in protest of the Undergraduate Student Government’s decision to provide funding to help bring a controversial speaker to campus Thursday.
Students for Justice in Palestine has arranged to host Norman Finkelstein as part of Palestine Awareness Week. Finkelstein has argued that some Jews have exploited the Holocaust and his appearance on campus has raised eyebrows. Students are more concerned, however, about the source of funding for the event than about the event itself.
SJP submitted an application to USG’s Discretionary Funding Board for money to help bring Finkelstein to campus. The application met USG’s guidelines, and SJP was granted the requested funds. The Discretionary Funding Board money comes from the student programming fee — the $55.50 fee each student pays every semester.
Student organizations, including ’SC Students for Israel, College Democrats, College Republicans and several others, wrote and submitted a letter to USG expressing concern that USG was using student activity money to fund as controversial a speaker as Finkelstein, who they called a Holocaust-denier outside the realm of academia.
“We’re very opposed to him receiving USC money for his visit,” said Lauren Korbatov, director of public relations for College Republicans. “It’s like bringing a guy that said slavery never happened in the United States.”
Korbatov and others noted that they are not against freedom of speech; they simply disagree with the use of student funds in sponsoring some events.
“We support freedom of speech but we don’t support funding a speaker like this,” said Aaron Perman, vice president of College Democrats.
Shanel Melamed, president of ’SC Students for Israel, echoed this sentiment.
“My concern is that we go to a truly amazing school,” she said. “The money that we pay for the school and the student activity fee should be going toward civilized academic discussion … how can the school fund a speaker that supports violence against Israelis?”
Ashwin Appiah, USG’s treasurer, said USG makes funding decisions based on a set of guidelines, and Finkelstein’s visit met all the requirements.
“We stay neutral in the events that we fund,” Appiah said. “We do not judge on content. Every student deserves this money as much as the other.”
The issue was brought to the attention of the Office of Student Affairs, but Vice President for Student Affairs Michael Jackson said he was not involved in the decision to fund the event.
“It is not up to me, for example, to censor a program that our student government has agreed that they want to support,” Jackson said. “I’ve never censored a student event, and I’m not going to start now … Students would be very mad at me.”
Marwa Katbi, a member of SJP, said the group considered a number of speakers before choosing Finkelstein.
“He’s a speaker who can provide students with a different perspective on the [Israeli-Palestinian] conflicts from what people normally hear,” she said.
Finkelstein will speak about the contents of his latest book, This Time We Went Too Far, about the most recent massacre in Gaza and the different pressures within the Jewish community that challenge racist policies in Israel. Katbi said she hopes students will come out to hear the talk.
“With issues of controversy, it would be unfortunate if this opportunity to learn was bypassed for the comfort and convenience of the community,” Katbi said.
SJP expects about 100 attendees and has talked to university officials about preparing for any protests or acts of opposition, Katbi said. Though Finkelstein requests security not be present at his lectures, Department of Public Safety officials are aware of the situation and are prepared to intervene as needed.
Students not involved in the event or the protest expressed mixed feelings about whether or not USG should use the student programming fee to fund controversial events and speakers.
Melissa Gish, a junior majoring in chemistry, suggested that USG sponsor a debate to ensure views on both sides of the issue are heard.
Others, however, said they do not think USG should judge the content of events looking for funding.
“I think you can’t discriminate based on a person’s opinion,” said Swade Geiger, a sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering. “It’s up to us whether or not we listen to what he says. We give [USG] our right to decide who comes.”
USG has since responded to the letter from the student groups, explaining  in an e-mail USG’s procedure for granting student organizations funding. But Melamed felt the e-mail was an “informal response” to their letter and did not address her concerns.
“For the school to fund an individual who is going to stand there and say that it’s OK for me to be killed is really, really scary, and I myself, I’m getting scared for my security,” Melamed said.
Correction: The original version of this article included an unattributed claim that Norman Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust denier. Finkelstein has argued that some Jews have exploited the Holocaust, but he is not a Holocaust denier.
Before everyone continues to blast the lack of journalism ethics that may or may not exist in this article, before anyone continues to blast the author of this post, try reading Mr. Finklestein’s chapter in The Holocaust Industry, in which he himself without support calls Bernard Lewis on Page 69 of his new 2003 version a mainstream Holocaust denier..Lewis was fined one franc, after he wrote in a 1993 article that he believed the 1915 Armenian Massacres were mass murderers but not publicly sponsored by the government itself. .However he was not fined for his opinions, rather withholding the other side of the argument…Finklestein, a man for which many of here have decided to hold in such high esteem failed to a) share Lewis’ remarks from the article or his quotes after the proceedings and b) falsely reported why the French courts actually fined Lewis…So while this article may seem opinionated and biasis at its core, in your attempt to fight back you have defended a man, who in his most famous publication, committed the exact same offense of libel as you claim Ms. Stepney did.
“In fact, the one truly mainstream holocaust denier is Bernard Lewis. A French court even convicted
Lewis of denying genocide.” (p.69)
Wow, so its okay when the ‘SC Students for Israel and the College Republicans invite and get funding for David Horowitz, the same David Horowitz who ran an ad saying “the Muslim Student Association is a radical political group that was founded by members of the Muslim Brotherhood, the godfather of Al Qaeda and Hamas, to bring the jihad into the heart of American higher education.” and blaming blacks for slavery but its wrong when SJP invites a JEWISH scholar to talk about how people are talking advantage of the suffering of others.
You know, I didn’t care when they invited david horowitz, and I don’t care about this man either. I also don’t care if you oppose both of them coming to USC. But to glorify one and call the other a terrorist is hypocritical.
It’s refreshing that so many have spotted and jumped on the boring, trivial ‘Holocaust denier’ smear against Finkelstein. Free thinking is not dead at USC.
This libel is standard operating procedure for the organized Zionist ‘hasbara’ propagandists. They churn out these prefabricated attacks on every Jew who dares to question the way Israel treats the Arabs cooped up in its concentration camps in Gaza and the West Bank.
The Shoah has been so used and abused by these mouthpieces (many of them ridden with guilt because they feel safer in the USA than in the Zionist paradise, and will NEVER make aliyah) that it is ceasing to be a valuable bludgeon in their hands. Also failing is the equally tedious screeching of ‘antisemite’ at every American who dares to question our governments’ slavish devotion to the interests of one small foreign country. 
The Founding Fathers warned America not to play favorites overseas, and to shun ‘entangling alliances’. How right they’ve been proved.
This is just really poor journalism.
It’s obvious now that this is astroturfing (“fake grassroots” in other words). The SJP loons are flooding the zone with pages and pages of PR messages meant to try and make anti-semitism seem like a mainstream view. Notice how Taylor (above) repeatedly insists that accusing the jews of racist massacre is “mainstream” and “uncontroversial”.
I’m sorry that you’re unable to distinguish between the claim that “the Jews committed a racist massacre”, a deliberate misrepresentation of the actual claims being made, and the claims that “the recent events in Gaza constitute a massacre” and that “racist policies exist within Israel, policies that Jews themselves, Israeli and American, are beginning to question”, and, in fact, have questioned for a long time. Again, if the mainstream is defined as views in line with the overwhelming international consensus, then, yes, the latter views are perfectly within the mainstream. If you have a better definition, I’d like to hear it.
Thank you to the editors of the DT for acknowledging that student funds should not be spent to fund a man that calls for violence against Israelis and has on numerous occasions denied the Holocaust. Imgaine if the USC College Republicans received USG funding for their Horowitz event – the outrage that would ensure would not even pale in comparison. Whereas Horowitz simply has strong opinions that he supports in facts, Finklestein denies one of the darkest chapters in human history. The double standard is disgusting and infuriating. On another note, I don’t know when it became politically correct to marginalize jewish and pro-israel students but we are headed down a very dangerous road when a univeristy such as USC funds a holocaust denier. SJP claims that they are not anti-semestic but when you hate a country full of Jews as much as SJP does, you are anti-semetic. Their hosting of Finklestien only further solidifies the virulent anti-semitism SJP perpetuates at USC. Shame on those who approved the funding. We say “Never again”…but do we really mean it?
Finkelstein does no such thing.
Many students at USC appear to be condemning Norman Finkelstein as a holocaust denier without ever having read any of his books or even looked at the evidence regarding what he says.  These supposedly educated minds, the leaders of the College Democrats and College Republicans write letters to the USG just to reveal complete ignorance?  I challenge any one of them to come to Finkelstein’s lecture and ask him any question.  To be sure, the Students for Israel may be trying to promote ignorance,  a couple of others I notice in the blog are promoting racism.  They should stay away, they already have their minds closed.  But what’s the excuse for the College Democrats and Republicans?  I’m terribly embarrassed for this school, which should be a place of learning.
In response to Jack: ““For the school to fund an individual who is going to stand there and say that it’s OK for me to be killed is really, really scary, and I myself, I’m getting scared for my security,” Melamed said.
What..?”
Jack, he supports armed resistance against Israel, whether against civilians or military, and this is what he said about the rockets to Sderot
“what were those rockets but a message to a world “sos” we’re dying.”
That is justifying attempted murder. His justification is that it has a larger purpose, and that palestinians supposedly have no other choice. But essentially, really, Shanel is right. Finkelstein is saying for the sake of this “sos” message, hamas would be justified in firing rockets at her.
Now what happens when an idiot (many are displayed on this comment section) that says, O arms resistance is fine, but wait I’m not in Palestine right now, so what’s the closest thing—O, the head of students for Israel.
That’s laughably hyperbolic, and you know it.
“He is a Jew and if that is not enough I have no idea what is.”
Are you really that stupid? Do I even have to argue this?
Boycott, Divestment and Sanction for justice and peace!
How much do you want to be that the above commentator”James Cohen” is just a plant for anti-Semites to trash Jewish names. I mean at least make it SOUND real!
Idiots.
“For the school to fund an individual who is going to stand there and say that it’s OK for me to be killed is really, really scary, and I myself, I’m getting scared for my security,” Melamed said.
What..?
I have never had much esteem for DT in terms of journalistic professionalism since many of the writers are students, but this heinously disinformative piece shattered the last minuscule hope I had for DT to improve. Whether this horrendous disregard for factuality comes from the sheer unawares of the publisher on this highly sensitive subject or its bias par excellance towards alternative views on IPC, DT has hit the bottom with this “article.”
The real problem might be allowing ignorant people who say things like “Arabs should be removed from not only USC, but the United States altogether” into this university.
Joe,
I’m sorry, but, in form, both statements you address are identical, in that they are factual statements about things that have been said. The recent massacre in Gaza is, in fact, the topic of Finkelstein’s most recent book, and the fact that this is the topic of Finkelstein’s most recent book is the only claim being advanced. Similarly, the writer notes that Finkelstein is “said to be a Holocaust-denier”, and the fact that this has been said is the only claim being advanced. In this respect, they are both factual statements, and no one is disputing that; however, the claims are both lent legitimacy by their presence in the article, whether or not the writer made the statements themselves, and they, therefore, ought to be held accountable for that. One is a statement that is plainly false, completely unsupported by any evidence, and completely un-sourced, making it impossible to find such evidence even if it existed. The other is a statement on which the speaker has written an entire book, meticulously supported with credible well-sourced evidence, not to mention a prolific output of related material over the course of an entire career, and a topic that the speaker intends to expand upon in the course of his lecture. If you’d like to find out more about the legitimacy of his claims, you can attend the lecture and/or read his books, then decide for yourself; however, no such option is presented for determining the legitimacy of the claims that he is a Holocaust-denier or that he wishes harm to innocent Israelis. Still, this is considered an appropriate statement for the opening of the article, while the actual substance of Finkelstein’s argument is relegated to the end of the article. You ought to be intelligent enough to understand why the need is felt to object to this kind of sleight-of-hand.
Taylor, the DT refers to the “massacre” by the “racist” Jews without setting those words in quotation marks. The sentence in question takes it for granted that Israeli “racists” are out “massacring” people. They don’t say “it is said that…” — they just say the Israelis are murderous racists, and Finkelstein has written a book about it. Period.
This article, and the DT’s other writing about the Israel issue, all display a noticeable anti-Israel bias. Yet whenever they are called on it, it seems that half a dozen students for jew-killing in palestine (SJP) show up to denounce the DT as shamelessly pro-Israel. I don’t know if this is evidence of a desperate anti-semitic bias in their minds, where any article that doesn’t overtly call for a second Holocaust is seen as “pro-Israel”, or if it is a deliberate “astroturf” operation, where the SJP have decided to flood the internet with fake opinions to try and make people feel like their kooky views are mainstream.
Joe, this is called a paraphrase, and quotation marks aren’t needed, as it’s quite obvious that the author is merely describing the subject of Finkelstein’s book. Furthermore, the recent events in Gaza clearly constitute a massacre, uncontroversially so, and there are many explicitly racist policies within Israel, as Finkelstein meticulously documents in his book as well as many other publications throughout the course of a prolific career. Still, even if you have trouble accepting these views, despite the lack of any real controversy, it’s very easy to investigate further, assess the evidence which forms the purported basis of said views, and decide for yourself, whereas this is not an option for those wishing to investigate the claim of Holocaust-denial. 
SJP has never called for “jew-killing in palestine” and a cursory review of their mission statement would indicate that such an appeal would directly contradict their most basic goals. Also, their views are squarely within the mainstream, assuming that the mainstream is defined as the overwhelming international consensus codified in international law for decades now.
Also, neither Finkelstein nor the writer of the article suggest that Israelis, in general, are murderous racists. The claims, attributed very clearly to Finkelstein, are that a massacre has occurred in Gaza, and that racist policies exist within Israel, policies now under scrutiny within the Jewish community. I’m sorry if you can’t understand the difference between this position, nuanced, well-supported, and uncontroversial, and the suggestion that “the Israelis are murderous racists”.
Daily Trojan this is appalling. How could you even publish this trash???
This man’s family were in Nazi camps! He is a Jew and if that is not enough I have no idea what is.
DT, if you want to publish opinions, this is simply one that certainly does NOT fit a university paper, and certainly NOT written by someone who should be an educated intellectual- which is what I would rather read in my USC paper. I am really considering how true you are to the concept of respectable journalism… As far as I can see this is only an attempt to undermine an acclaimed speaker and the organization that sponsored the event. and DT, you should be ashamed. you are an academic newspaper not a trashy rumours magazine.
This is the problem in allowing Arabs to attend USC.  Most Arabs are terrorist sympathizers.  Arabs should be removed from not only USC, but the United States altogether.
God Bless Israel.
James Cohen
I read the recent article in the Daily Trojan, and I was surprised and saddened to see such ignorant and non-rebutted comments as “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust denier”, and implications that he supports violence against Israelis. Devious weasel-words. Finkelstein may be said by some to be a Holocaust denier, but if you select who you quote then you can find quotes to smear anyone. Phenomenally ignorant. I first became aware of Norman Finkelstein several years ago after reading one of his books, upon which I decided to find out more about the man and his ideas. I do not agree with everything he says, as sometimes he goes too far, but on the whole he has some good points. Far from denying the Holocaust, he is completely honest about its historical basis, and he does not advocate violence against anyone, neither Israelis nor Palestinians. What he does do, and what Israeli nationalist right-wingers hate him for, is to argue against those who abuse the memory of the Holocaust as a means of stifle debate. He also argues against using the Holocaust as a means of projecting victimhood into the present to justify illegal territorial expansion. I have never heard him justify Islamist terrorism as being right, but he does bring balance by helping to better understand the conditions in which it has arisen in the specific instance of modern occupied Palestine.
“Students are more concerned, however, about the source of funding for the event than about the event itself.”
They let that b*tch Coulter on campus, so I don’t really see the problem with a distinguished, if controversial JEWISH scholar visiting. Anyone who criticises Israeli policies is likely to be lambasted by SC Students for Israel. 
Considering how both mainstream political parties at USC are opposed to this isn’t it nice to have an alternative to the mainstream?
I do not think this is the forum to use obscenity, especially towards women, when you do not agree with someone’s viewpoint. The whole basis of substantial debate is to enlist multiple perspectives. Having said that,  you cannot have it both ways and only support public speakers from one political spectrum. Secondly, I do not think that having alternative viewpoint necessitates receiving student program funding. But, there should surely be no debate about funding a Ph.D. from Princeton to speak at USC. Especially, considering people like David Horowitz and Anne Coulter have spoken at USC in the recent pasts. Finkelstein balances these two speakers, in particular, well. Every student organization should have equal access to funding.
The allegations of Dr. Finkelstein being a Holocaust-denier are nothing more than rumors and should not be the focus of an article. Anyone can easily search this on Google and it is readily apparent that it is a minority opinion not endorsed by any person with an ounce of integrity. Regretfully, the DT chose to make it the focus of a news story and omits crucial information (like the fact that he is a child of Holocaust survivors). This article reads like subtle propaganda. 
This article should be put in opinions, or better yet, the trash.
All the anti-semites are here with outrageous outrage about the DT printing “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust-denier ” — which is an objectively true fact, and is appropriately qualified as something others have said — but none of you raised an eyebrow at the following sentence?:
“Finkelstein will speak about … the most recent massacre in Gaza and the different pressures within the Jewish community that challenge racist policies in Israel.”
The DT doesn’t use any quotation marks around the words “massacre” or “racist”. Their bias is clearly on the anti-Israel, pro “Palestinian” side of things. You certainly must have noticed this… so my question is honestly, why are you even commenting here, drawing attention to the writer’s bias?
ya why do all the pro-finklestein comments here seem like theyre trying to promote him or something.. kinda annoying to have to read big paragraphs of comments that sound like theyre trying to convince you or something…jeez this is a comments page for your opinions not a PR ad.
What an interesting thought experiment we’re asked to consider! IF a holocaust denier who suggested it was alright to kill Israeli students were allowed to give a university-funded lecture on campus, would this be considered freedom of speech? What an interesting thought experiment! That has absolutely no connection to reality! 
There cannot be even the slightest basis for the claims that Mr. Finkelstein is either a Holocaust-denier or has called for Israeli students to be killed. Even the most cursory review of the things he’s actually said would indicate that he has on many occasions discussed the extraordinary suffering his parents endured during the course of Holocaust. The fact that the paper published the statement that he “is said to be a Holocaust-denier” rather than flat-out calling him a Holocaust-denier, is really beside the point. In the act of publishing it, the claim is lent legitimacy, and the paper should be held responsible for this. Further, it is not a matter of opinion, as Jessica suggests, but a factual claim, easily debunked. Calling someone a Holocaust-denier is a claim about something they either did or didn’t say. In this case, there is not a single bit of evidence that he’s ever said such a thing, while there’s a mountain of evidence that he’s said many contradicting things. So, if the Daily Trojan feels it’s appropriate to publish any statement no matter how plainly false and libelous in the form of “it’s been said…” statements, that’s there decision, but, in the mean time, it shouldn’t be regarded as real journalism.
These lies are outragous! Dr. Finklestein is a very intellectual and respectful man, and to scrutinize him with white lies is distgusting especially from such a prestige school such as USC.
I attended Dr. Finklestein’s previous talk at USC. He was quite informative and very well received. He addressed the points of opposition by those in attendance and went out of his way to give them every opportunity to have their views heard.
The line, “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust-denier” is both shameful and wrong; more fitting in a cheap tabloid than in the DT (not that some do not repeat this lie about him). Next time try attributing the charge of “Holocaust denier” so that your readers can assess for themselves the credibility and agenda of those making such a statement.
The difference in opinion is excellent.  Norman Finkelstein is an excellent and reputable speaker, regardless of content.  I’ll enjoy the event later today.  See you all there.
and by the way… his whole family didn’t die in the Holocaust, since he always reminds people, “if there are so many survivors, my mom would always ask, who did Hitler kill?”
Norman Finkelstein is a renowned scholar in the study of Israel, Zionism and the “holocaust.”  His work entitled, the “Holocaust Industry” is a brilliant and daring expose of the manner in which right-wing Jews and Zionists have used the smokescreen of the holocaust (Shoa) to stifle criticism of Jewish abuse of Palestinians – to steal their land, erect a racist Apartheid wall in the name of “security” and commit genocide against them.  His work has been praised by THE premier scholar of holocaust studies in the world.  The libelous hysteria directed against this intellectual giant precedes him every time he speaks and it is always the same crowd – the hysterical pro-Israel, Zionist Vaudeville show, consisting of the loudest and most obnoxious quacks anyone could ever assemble.  Let’s get real.  In America, and especially in Los Angeles/Hollywood, ANY criticism of Israel, Zionism or Jewish hypocrisy is going to be drowned out and villified as anti-semitic and pro-Nazi by the very same crowd that are presently slandering Finkelstein.  The Daily Trojan is a university newspaper and should act like one.  The article regarding Mr. Finkelstein distorts the true picture of this man and stinks as if was written and edited by AIPAC (the Israeli lobby).  Retract it and publish a real article about Mr. Finkelstein
lol you believe what you want to apparently…
People, Finkelstein isn’t a Holocasut denier! He’s a Holocaust MINIMIZER… it’s not like saying slavery never happened, it’s like saying ehhh it wasn’t as bad as they make it seem… come on people! All Finklestein has done is publicly support Hezbollah and has publicly said the only solution is armed resistance.! Come on people, all he has said is that Steven Spielberg has exploited the Holocaust to make money… he’s not that crazy! And just because he is condemned by the very people he quotes in his books because of his selective quoting doesn’t mean he’s not a respected scholar… just because he attempts to rewrite history without any factual reasoning doesn’t mean he’s crazy!! It’s like bringing Goebbels to campus to speak about sports on campus… yeah Goebbels was a propagandist, but he’s not going to be speaking about Jews so we might as well hear what he has to say. And for the record, NO ONE WAS ATTEMPTING TO CENSOR FINKELSTEIN… we actually want him to speak because he is his own worst enemy… but based on SJP’s requests and USG’s approval, I think we need to bring the head of the KKK to show how ridiculous USG’s funding process is.
Finally a voice of reason on this page……………. ya finkle is not a total holocaust denier but his book which is called the holocaust industry just tries to show how the holocaust has been exagerated and misframed for financial benefit or whatever…like he talks about authors like Elie Wiesel as being a part of an industry…but if it weren’t for authors like Wiesel we would have even less knowledge of what happened.  And Elie Wiesel now works on many many issues relating to other genocides than the holocaust….wish finklestein would spend histime something equally beneficial
I am astounded that this article is trying to masquerade its pro-Israeli and superficial understanding of Professor Finkelstein as an “objective” news article. 
Finkelstein is a controversial figure precisely because he doesn’t preach hate and intolerance but against it. He is a Jewish scholar who has been explicit in his love for Israelis as a son of Holocaust survivors – and he brings to light the atrocities and hypocrisy of the Israeli government so that the violence of the past doesn’t continue to be perpeuated mindlessley and below the radar. 
I think students would greatly benefit from this discussion – challenging, listening, and learning from Finkelstein – not simply mimicking the one-liners and sensational soundbites you listen to between classes. This is, after all, a university.
Makes one wonder if DT has begun a section dedicated to humour!
and what a justification,
“all that sentence says is that SOME people believe he is a Holocaust-denier.”
to whoever wrote it in the first place , is nt there any shame left in you to lie so openly?
melamed: the same girl who once said the solution to the israeli palestinian conflict was for palestinians to “teach their children to love” HAHAHA
what obvious racism, it’s like saying to prevent crime in the states we should tell blacks to “teach their kids not to steal!”
ignorant, scared racism. don’t worry hun, all of Israel’s tanks and apaches and Mossad agents stand behind you.
Just to echo some of the comments already made:
“Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust-denier and his appearance on campus has raised eyebrows.”  Shame. Don’t they teach you in your first journalism class (or any writing course for that matter) not to use the passive when the subject is important? Who made these allegations? Even a cursory check of Finkelstein’s speaking and written record would prove this to be false.
“My concern is that we go to a truly amazing school,” she said. “The money that we pay for the school and the student activity fee should be going toward civilized academic discussion … how can the school fund a speaker that supports violence against Israelis? […] For the school to fund an individual who is going to stand there and say that it’s OK for me to be killed is really, really scary, and I myself, I’m getting scared for my security,””
Again, a simple fact check would have sufficed. Finkelstein does not support violence against Israelis as a whole – he has said this time and again. He does support the right of the Palestinian and Lebanese people to resist the Israeli military, with force of arms or otherwise. He has condemned attacks on civilian targets from both sides. In fact, when one looks at the substance of his arguments, and not his combative speaking style, Finkelstein is a moderate. Ms. Melamed can thus rest assured that Finkelstein does not seek her demise (unless she serves in the Israeli military, in which case she would be correct in saying that Finkelstein does support the right of the Palestinian to shoot back at her.)
Imagine the NYT running a front-page news, not opinion, article where the reporter interviews 5 people, 4 of them just say “Obama is a terrorist,” and then the 5th person says “Obama has different views,” then writing it up like there’s nothing else to say.
his whole family died in the holocaust and you have the audacity to suggest that he could possibly be a holocaust denier? this is absolutely outrageous and unbelieveable!
Also, that Finkelstein supports violence against Israeli’s is equally controversial and yet again, no differing view was presented in this article.
The extreme claims made against Finkelstein are left to hang in the reader’s mind and is without any counter.  Marwa is given a couple of sentences, but they address not the details of Finkelstein’s views, but that his views are different and thus important to the discussion.  Again, Finkelstein’s views are presented in one way, and although many people, including probably everyone in SJP, would strongly disagree, their perspectives are not given, or worse, were not asked on the subject or not printed.
Also, the article presents the strong and very controversial assertion that Finkelstein is a Holocaust-denier without offering any kind of balance.  Marwa from SJP is given a couple of lines about how she thinks that it’s important to provide a different perspective on the Israel-Palestinian conflict.  Was she asked about the allegations of Finkelstein’s supposed Holocaust denial?  Did the DT think to ask anybody else about these allegations in order to provide a balance of reporting?
If a supposedly neutral source of news published an article where Obama is called a Holocaust-denier, would it not be necessary to also show someone else saying that he is not a Holocaust-denier.  The serious claim that Finkelstein is a Holocaust-denier is left completely unchallenged in this article.
Jessica, or someone from the DT, could you please respond.
Well I think that the writer might have just thought he was talking to a familiar audience.  Also Finklestein is a pretty well known guy, at least for people interested in the issues he talks about.  But I dont understand what you mean when you say “allegations”.  He’s not on trial or anything. And there’s no way to “prove” what someone thinks about something.  But I’ve heard and read a lot of stuff from this guy that clearly show me what his views are.  Lots of scholars and commentators have explained why his views are problematic…
You do also have to realize that Finklestein is a widely discredited academic….something that is not a trivial matter expecially to other academics..  The article was at least nice enough not to frame him as a complete fraud.
Hi Jessica,
Your point is taken.  However, I find framing of the sentence to be in bad taste.  “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust-denier” sounds like the statement is some kind of folk wisdom.  What should have been added to that is WHO said that Finkelstein is a Holocaust denier.  This is clarified a couple of paragraphs later in the piece, but by putting the very strong claim that he is a Holocaust denier long before connecting it with a person or group gives the wrong impression.
Max,
The quote you pulled from this article goes against your point: “Finkelstein is SAID to be a Holocaust-denier” all that sentence says is that SOME people believe he is a Holocaust-denier. As a neutral source for news the DT cannot say whether or not he is a Holocaust-denier. That is obviously based on opinion since the Students for Justice in Palestine believe he isn’t a Holocaust-denier and the SC Students for Israel believe is.
Of course the paper can check. Read his books. Consult his website. Do you know?  He hardly denies the holocaust, and terming him a holocaust denier is as libelous as can be. He has been critical of Israel’s government and of its actions and has been critical of how people have made a financial industry out of holocaust survivorship and application for reparations. Don’t get caught in the intellectual trap of giving equal weight to both sides. The ones who are attacking Finkelstein are at worst lying and at best ignorant.
To call Finkelstein a Holocaust denier is as far from the truth as possible.  Both of his parents were in and survived Nazi concentration camps and the rest of his mother’s side of the family was exterminated.  The Holocaust is a very personal thing to Finkelstein and he takes it very seriously.
For the DT to print a sentence such as, “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust-denier,” is like saying that “it is said that the DT denies the Holocaust,” or any other outrageous comment.  That the facts on this are easily accessible and verifiable, the least the DT could have done was counter a flatly false and slanderous claim and note that no, Finkelstein is not a Holocaust denier and that much of his family died in fact were murdered in the Holocaust.
You’re right, he’s not a Holocaust denier, he’s a Holocaust minimalist who claims it has been “used” and exagerated for political purposes… as if the murder of 6 MILLION Jews and millions of other people in extermination camps is just a figment of someone’s exagerated imagination, and that the massive efforts to document it and the stories of survivors (such as the Shoah Foundation here at USC) so that no one could ever deny and minimalize should just be overlooked and dismissed as political folly.
He contends that, ehhh, maybe a million Jews were killed… by such idiotic statements he does two things: First, he totally eradicates his credibility and expertise on anything else in history, and second, by minimalizing the event as much as possible, he brings us one step closer to it happening again.  It’s like if I were to say that blacks were just indentured servants in the United States, or that Rwanda had some unfortunate infighting in 1994.
The fact that both of his parents lived through the Holocaust makes his denial just that more disgusting.
It is a good thing that he is such a widely discredited “academic” with no real following except those who would literally follow a monkey if it could say something bad about Israel.
He simply does not say any of these things. It’s just not true, I’m sorry.
You read his book on Holocaust? Sorry to tell ya, but its in there.
“ehhh, maybe a million Jews were killed”
No, he does not say anything remotely like that, and you know it. Nor does he in any way attempt to diminish the importance of the Holocaust or the severity of the suffering that it represents. His points simply have nothing to do with this. You either haven’t read his book yourself, or have and are intentionally misrepresenting it, both deserving of contempt.
Oh but indeed he does.  And its funny that the only people who support him are the anti-Israel crowd….he is an excellent way to deflect attention from real issues of importance…
For example, he is on record saying this just a couple months after 9/11:
“Frankly, part of me says…‘you know what, we deserve the problem on our hands because some things Bin Laden says are true’. One of the things he said on that last tape was that ‘until we live in security, you’re not going to live in security’, and there is a certain amount of rightness in that.”
And this he writes in his Holocaust book:
‘If everyone who claims to be a survivor actually is one,’ my mother used to exclaim, ‘who did Hitler kill then?’”
What a stupendously stupid pair of statements.
Even as a guy with no personal ties to any of the conflict, I can smell a fraudulent bum from a mile away….
Neither of the statements that you cite have anything to do with the claim above, nor do they amount to either denial or trivialization of the holocaust.
Tony Litwinko said it all.  To say Finkelstein is a holocaust denier is libel — he criticizes how the fact of the holocaust has been used and abused by some for financial gain.  He does not support violence; he does support the right to resist violence.  That includes the rights of Palestinians to resist the Occupation.  He is essentially a moderate, though his language tends to be in your face.
Finkelstein expresses views which are not always heard.  USC students should be pleased to have the chance to hear these views directly so they can judge and evaluate for themselves.
Haha thats just too too funny…. If by resist the occupation you mean never strive for peace, and by resist violence you mean blow yourself up in a club or coffee house with a belt full of nails and metal parts to maim as many people as possible, and then cry foul play when the other side defends itself, then ya he definitely would support the right to “resist violence”.  
As for calling him a Holocaust denier… he denies large truths about the Holocaust and trivializes it by pretending it has been blown out of proportion.  He should not be surprised that his intellectual dishonesty on this has given people good reason not to take him seriously on anything else.
[…] USG-funded speaker event draws criticism | Daily Trojan […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Political debate was in full swing Wednesday night as students filled the room in Waite Phillips Hall to hear campus political groups debate President Obama’s terrorism policy.
Resolved · Rob McCarthy (left), a member of College Republicans, speaks at Wednesday’s debate as Jonathan Brebner and Fritz Pielstick (right) of College Democrats consider his argument. - Candice Harbour | Daily Trojan
The fourth such policy debate between the USC College Republicans and USC College Democrats, the event was sponsored by the Trojan Debate Squad, the Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism and the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics; it focused on evaluating Obama’s approach to terrorism.
Republicans argued that Obama’s policy had been ineffective in combating terrorism, while the Democrats took the opposite stance.
Taking the side that the president needed to take a stronger approach in combating terrorism, College Republicans member Rob McCarthy said Obama was too concerned with his political image, rather than national security.
“Until President Obama decides to be practical, his inefficiency will lead to future attacks,” he said.
College Democrats debater Jonathan Brebner argued that Obama’s strategy has not been inefficient and emphasized that U.S. policy does not exist in a vacuum.
“America is safer when people hate us less,” he said. “This is something that can’t be said enough and has to be hammered home.”
Fritz Pielstick of College Democrats agreed, saying Obama’s approach, though not ideal, was an improvement over the previous administration.
“The simple fact of the matter is the fact that Obama has decreased anti-American sentiment has put us in a better situation than we were, if not a perfect situation,” he said.
But Sammy Goldenberg, also a member of College Republicans, dismissed arguments that anti-American sentiment led to terrorism.
“Obama’s attempts at reconciliation have not quelled the terrorist fury against us in the least,” he said, citing recent incidents like the Ft. Hood shooting and attempted Christmas Day bombing. “It is not true that treating our enemy with kid gloves will somehow make them hate us less, nor should we have to worry about angering those who already want to destroy us.”
Debate between the panelists remained calm for the most part, with the exception of a few brief bouts of “I didn’t say that!” and “Yes, you did!” retorts during cross-examination.
Audience reaction was more heated. In addition to mixed laughter and boos during comments, question and answer sessions featured sparring between audience members and panelists.
Some listeners thought the back-and-forth detracted from the debate.
“It could have been more constructive than people talking past each other,” said Catherine Sullivan, a junior majoring in philosophy (ethics, law and value theory) and political science.
Neftalie Williams, a junior majoring in communication, agreed.
“The audience got a little too heated without getting points across,” he said.
As in previous debates, audience members voted to determine a winner. But this year, for the first time, the debate included a judge, Dr. Jeffrey Sellers, an associate professor of political science at USC.
Upon the conclusion of the debate, Sellers called both sides’ arguments underwhelming.
“In my role as Simon Cowell here, I will try to set the record straight,” Sellers said. “I hope everyone is equally dissatisfied.”
He said both parties got hung up on weaker arguments during questioning but gave a marginal edge to the Democrats.
“My overall conclusion about the merits is that the Democrats were not actually able to establish that the Obama administration is effective, but that they were able to establish that it was less ineffective than the Bush administration,” Sellers said.
Nick Bradvica, a freshman majoring in creative writing, political science and social sciences (economics) who represented the GOP in the last debate, spoke more highly of the outcome.
“I thought both debaters on both sides were prepared and argued solid points,” he said.
Bradvica said that although he felt the Republicans did a better job, he wasn’t sure the debate swayed many people’s opinions.
“I think most people don’t change their minds over one hour of debate,” he said.
But Bobby Almeida, the president of the USC Democrats, said he hoped the debate helped bring students to the Democratic side, which he felt did a better job of showcasing the facts.
“I’d assume some people were wishy-washy on the issues,” he said.
Anna Li, a junior majoring in communication who leads the Trojan Debate Squad, spoke more highly of the event, saying it had a higher standard of arguments than previous debates.
“It was really a success because both sides became passionate,” she said.
A debate for next semester is already in the works.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The No. 9 USC women’s swimming and diving team will fly to Purdue, Ind., on Monday to compete in the NCAA championship meet.
After the team’s breakthrough performance two weeks ago at the Pac-10 championships, where the Women of Troy placed third overall, a more refined women’s team will be looking to turn heads not just in its conference but all across the nation.
“We have a very strong team going into NCAAs and we’re aiming for top five,” co-captain senior Dina Hegazy said. “And the team is very excited and motivated to reach that goal.”
The hand-picked NCAA team will consist of returning All-Americans Hegazy, juniors Presley Bard, Lyndsay DePaul and Ellie Doran, sophomores Katinka Hosszu, Tanya Krisman and sophomore diver Victoria Ishimatsu. USC will also be sending freshmen Haley Anderson, Yumi So, Jessica Schmitt, Christel Simms, Kate Shumway and Ariel Rittenhouse.
This means the Women of Troy will be represented by one more swimmer and diver than they had in 2009, an outstanding performance considering last year’s NCAA team had four members who graduated.
The backstroke and freestyle events have a strong team this year, with veteran Hegazy and young additions incuding Shumway and Simms. But overall these events will mainly be dominated by Bard. The junior will be looking to improve on her already stellar results at the Pac-10 championships, where she broke two individual school records in the 50-yard freestyle (22.26) and the 200-yard backstroke (1:51.80). She also helped destroy the team’s 800-yard freestyle relay record by more than eight seconds (6:59.48). The transfer junior will be representing USC for the first time at the NCAA championship.
DePaul, another junior transfer, will also be wearing cardinal and gold for the first time at the NCAA meet. After breaking several records of her own at the Pac-10 championships in the 100-yard butterfly (51.86) and also doing her part in the 800-yard freestyle relay, DePaul will be a key asset in the butterfly and medley events as well as relays.
The competition begins March 18 and concludes March 20.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Mothers are strange beasts. Their relationships with their children are far more complex and imperfect than most realize until they are parents themselves. Some women come to hate their children while others, like the older lady at the center of director Joon-ho Bong’s Mother, develop an unhealthy obsession with their offspring.
Unbroken bond · Kim Hye-ja plays an obsessive mother who will do anything to prove the innocence of her mentally disabled son. - Photos courtesy of Magnolia Pictures 
Bong’s first South Korean feature since his delightful 2006 monster movie The Host studies the lengths some women will go to in order to preserve the image that their children are perfect. The titular protagonist’s son is mentally challenged (in his late 20s but possessing a child’s mind) and when he is accused of murdering a local girl, his doting mother takes on the handle of amateur detective to try to prove his innocence.
In tone, Mother is a spiritual sequel to Bong’s Memories of Murder — a 2003 masterpiece about an inept, small-town cop’s relentless search for South Korea’s most notorious serial killer. There, and in Mother, Bong mixes a serious plot about murder in a country town with a bizarre and well-placed sense of humor.
Mother finds a lot of comedy in the rural bureaucracy and the strange and cruel tactics local police use against the accused. Bong’s twisted sense of humor is the most shocking and wonderful aspect of his films, and the ways he induces the audience to giggle in Mother serves as an important counterpoint to the deadly serious subject matter. For the director, life can be cruel and tragic but only because people behave so absurdly.
But Mother is still Bong’s most serious film, and in the end his least satiric. The mother’s search for evidence leads her in far over her head, and by the time she nears the solution to the plot’s puzzles she has uncovered some of the darker elements of society — and of her own personality.
Like his previous films, Bong fills his movie’s pallet with a number of tragicomic ancillary characters. The story of the murdered girl unfolds alongside the mother’s search for evidence to clear her son’s name, and Bong creates a truly tragic story within a story about poverty. There is also the son’s thug friend, played coolly by Yoon Jae-moon, who aids the mother in a brutal interrogation of some potential witnesses and reveals a career goal that serves as one of the movie’s most poignant little laughs.
The weakest part of Mother is the son, whose mental handicap often feels more like a plot device. Won Bin does well in the part, but the character is flawed on the screenplay level. Bong has written mentally challenged characters into each of his films — and it is to his credit that he never romanticized conditions in the same way that Hollywood does — but in Mother the son is granted moments of clarity and releases from his handicap that merely serve to reveal important plot points at crucial moments.
The anchor of the film, appropriately, is Kim Hye-ja’s turn as the mother. Hye-ja turns an emotionally incomprehensible character into a unique heroine — we cannot understand the extent of her devotion to her son, but as it drives her deeper and deeper into a mystery she becomes strangely sympathetic. The film’s emotional centerpiece is a conversation between mother and incarcerated son — which passes through the great cinematic barrier of a glass-separated visitation room — delivered by Hye-ja and Bin with great power.
Cinematographer Hong Kyung-Pyo effectively mimics the style of Bong’s first two films, transforming the damp and expansive rural landscape into an important character in its own right. Open fields and beautiful forests seem to swallow the characters up, and the whole film carries an air of mystery and melancholy in the way it looks.
Mother is Bong’s most personal film. The last 30 minutes deliver a punch in the gut that, sadly, the film just might not earn. Bong hid aces up his sleeve in the service of a good mystery, and the end of the mother’s journey loses some poignancy for it. The proceedings are saved by Hye-ja, who brings her character’s arc to its logical conclusion with true grace. The difficult decisions the mother makes in order to save her son — and the aftereffects of those actions on her psyche — are perfectly rendered by the performer and captured against the wonderful visuals.
Mother is a flawed mystery but a near-perfect character study. Like a noir, the solution to the crime becomes secondary to the depths that the investigation takes the detective. To the credit of the director and his star, Mother is an emotionally-shattering film: serious and funny in all the right places and bolstered by a truly magnificent performance.
This was a real oddball movie; I watched it at the SCE building–awesome little movie theatre–thanks George Lucas. I really like the direction of contemporary Korean movies such as these. They’re raw. I doubt the S. Korean audience likes this style.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The USC track and field team will have plenty of ways to keep busy over spring break. With the Northridge Invitational beginning Friday and the Trojan Invitational the next week, the team will truly begin its outdoor season.
Busy break · Senior Nate Anderson and sophomore Joey Hughes and the USC track team will take part in two meets over spring break. - Daily Trojan file photo 
“We’ve just been playing around with different combinations up until now,” USC coach Ron Allice said. “This week is when we absolutely go forward and say, ‘Let’s see how good we can be.’”
In addition to the two meets, USC will send some of its best performers to the NCAA indoor track & field championship in Fayetteville, Ark. Among the competitors will be senior Brendan Estrada, who won the men’s pole vault at the Washington Last Chance indoor meet at the University of Washington in Seattle by clearing a personal best 18.5 feet.
Also expected to compete will be sophomore Blake Shaw, who became the first Trojan to ever break the four-minute mark in the mile when he ran 3:59.85 at the Washington meet.
“What Blake did truly is a tremendous accomplishment,” Allice said. “To be the first in our program to run under four minutes is quite the feat.”
For the rest of the team, the Northridge Invitational on March 12 marks what Allice calls “the real start to the season.” And with the annual USC-UCLA dual meet to take place in Westwood on May 1, the Trojan Invitational on March 19 will be USC’s only true home meet of the season.
The meets will be the first real showcase for the top tier of USC’s talented group of athletes. Redshirt sophomore Bryshon Nellum, who missed all of last season because of an injury, will make his 2010 debut for the Trojans as a member of the 4×400-meter relay team. Also expected to run is star sprinter senior Ahmad Rashad, who has been held back in the early portion of the season.
“It’s going to be exciting to see where we’re at,” Allice said. “These meets should be very telling.”
Badass!!
Sub-4 in the mile!!! No matter how you slice it, that’s pretty darn fast! Way to go Trojan Track & Field! Fight On!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The No. 7 USC men’s volleyball team will travel to Utah this spring break, as it visits No. 4 Brigham Young University for back-to-back games March 19 and 20.
The Trojans (10-7, 8-6) have the same record as the Cougars. Both are tied for fifth with Hawai’i in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation, but they are only two games behind conference leader Stanford.
This will be the second set of back-to-back games against the same opponent for USC. The Trojans split a pair against No. 8 Hawai’i at the Galen Center earlier this week.
After enduring a stretch from late January to early March when they lost five out of seven games, the Trojans have won two of the last three and look to be regaining the form they had when they were the No. 1 team in the country earlier this season.
The Trojans have improved their passing and blocking since that losing streak but are still struggling in the first set of each match. The team has lost nine out of its last 10 first sets and recognizes that it needs to come out with more energy to avoid putting itself in that quick 1-0 hole.
“This is our trend. We need to figure that out because it’s a problem. But once we figure it out we should do OK,” junior setter Riley McKibbin said after the Hawai’i game Tuesday.
The break will give the Trojans some much needed time to string multiple practices together. They were limited in fall practices because of three players who participated in the U.S. Junior National team and the world championships in late August, and two other players were injured.
Combined with the fact that many of the Trojans’ games earlier in the season were on Wednesdays and Fridays, USC did not have a lot of time to work on areas that need improvement.
BYU will play two games in the Long Beach State Active Ankle Tournament against No. 9 Penn State and St. Francis before heading home to face the Trojans.
Coming into the Long Beach tournament, the Cougars have won three of their last six games and are the top blocking team in the MPSF, averaging 3.27 per game. That is .33 more blocks per game than the second-place team.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Fresh off a dominating 5-2 victory over Wake Forest on Wednesday, the No. 3 USC men’s tennis team will be heading east for two matches during spring break.
Clincher · After dropping his opening set, junior Peter Lucassen won two straight sets Wednesday to help secure the 5-2 win over Wake Forest. - Geo Tu | Daily Trojan 
The Trojans (13-1, 0-0) will celebrate St. Patrick’s Day by facing off against the No. 33 Duke Blue Devils (5-4, 0-0) in Durham, N.C.
Duke has three singles players ranked in the top 70, headed by  No. 14 Henrique Cunha and the No. 3 doubles team of Cunha and Reid Carleton.
In their two most recent matches, the Blue Devils faced off against No. 8 UCLA and No. 5 Texas — two teams that played USC earlier this season — and lost each match 2-5 and 3-4, respectively.
Two days later the Trojans will head farther south to Athens, Ga., to battle No. 9 Georgia (10-2, 2-0) on March 19.
As with the Duke squad, the Bulldogs have three ranked singles players and one ranked doubles team.
Playing on the road is never easy, but the Trojans have proved they can be successful away from home, most notably with victories at No. 12 Stanford and No. 8 UCLA.
The team looks at these matches as a way to gain more road experience and establish some consistency, especially in doubles, where USC coach Peter Smith seems to have found a lineup after a season-long search for the right combination.
“We still need to keep working on doubles,” Smith said. “I think we have settled on our doubles teams; now we just have to make all of them comfortable and confident.”
In addition, the matches at Duke and Georgia are crucial in maintaining the intensity and focus for the Trojans because when they return from break, Pac-10 play will begin in earnest.
[…] East Coast swing for streaking Trojans | Daily Trojan […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Calling itself the host of the best field in college golf, the Southern Highlands Collegiate will welcome 11 of the nation’s top 20 golf teams, including No. 15 USC, to Las Vegas this weekend.
The tournament, hosted by UNLV at the Southern Highlands Golf Club, will provide the Trojans’ young lineup with a stiff test.
“It’s the best field of the year that we’ll play in,” USC coach Chris Zambri said. “But I think we have a good chance to win the thing.”
The Trojans are coming off of a tie for fourth place at their home tournament in Westlake Village, Calif., last week.
Zambri will make one change to his lineup, inserting freshman Stewart Hagestad into the starting five for the first time in the golfer’s career.
“He’s got a nice solid game, and I think the course where we’re going will be good for him,” Zambri said. “Stewart can plod along and make some pars; he’s not real erratic, and that’s what we’re looking for.”
Hagestad, playing as an individual last week in the USC Collegiate, shot a pair of 69s in the final two rounds and finished the tournament tied for 43rd.
The Trojans will be led this weekend by freshman T.J. Vogel, who shot 9 under par at the USC Collegiate and finished in second place overall.
Sophomore Steve Lim and freshman Martin Trainer have been consistent performers so far this spring for USC and will be in the lineup again.
Zambri is also counting on a better performance from two-time All-American Matt Giles. Giles was so unhappy with his performance at the USC Collegiate, where he shot a final round of 83 and finished in a tie for 75th, that the junior drove out to Scottsdale, Ariz., last weekend to meet with his swing coach.
“When you’re playing well, generally you’re just thinking about the shot at hand and that’s about it,” Giles said, noting that he was worrying too much about his swing last week. “I feel much more confident about my game now heading into this week than in the past couple of weeks.”
The tournament tees off Friday at 8 a.m.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
University of Connecticut third baseman Mike Olt’s ninth inning double off the glove of USC senior centerfielder Mike O’Neill knocked in the game-winning run as the Huskies defeated the Trojans, 5-4, on a windy Wednesday night at Dedeaux Field.
Productive · Sophomore first baseman Ricky Oropesa went 3-4 Wednesday night with one RBI and a walk, while recording 12 putouts. - Geo Tu | Daily Trojan 
The Huskies improved to 6-2 on the young season, while the Trojans (6-7) fell back under .500 after dropping the second game of a brutal stretch that finds them playing six contests in seven days.
“We hate losing. We’re very disappointed we haven’t played better at home,” USC coach Chad Kreuter said. “But I don’t think we can really hang our heads too much other than we readjust, and the kids have to keep on plugging away and not get down.”
Sophomore Brandon Garcia     (0-1) took the loss for the Trojans, while reliever Scott Oberg                   (1-0) picked up the win for UConn. Kevin Vance earned the save.
USC hopped on board first in the second inning on O’Neill’s sacrifice fly that brought home freshman designated hitter Cade Kreuter. The Trojans added another run off UConn junior starter Robert Van Woert in the third inning when sophomore left fielder Matt Foat hit an RBI groundout to shortstop, driving home sophomore first baseman Ricky Oropesa.
But the Huskies mounted a two-out rally against USC sophomore starter Chad Smith, who had dominated the first four innings of the game. With runners on second and third and two down in the inning, Smith appeared to be on the verge of escaping the jam unscathed. But Smith threw a wild pitch that allowed designated hitter Matt Burnett to score from third. Huskies’ second baseman Pierre LePage then hit an infield single to second base, which allowed catcher Joe Pavone to touch home plate and tie the game at two.
Smith then balked, allowing LePage to advance to second, and sophomore shortstop Nick Ahmed singled home LePage in a long, gritty at bat that chased the pitcher from the game.
The Trojans tied the game in the bottom of the frame when Oropesa drove in O’Neill on a single to right field, but the Huskies took the lead right back when Pavone drove in a run in the bottom of the inning.
Once again, USC responded with a run of its own in the bottom half of the fifth on sophomore catcher Kevin Roundtree’s sacrifice fly to centerfield.
“What we take out of this game tonight is we battled,” Kreuter said. “The team competed but fell short.”
With the score tied at four, the game became a battle of the bullpens in the later innings. Each reliever held the opposing team scoreless until Ahmed led off the ninth inning with a single against USC sophomore reliever Brandon Garcia, and Olt drove him in two batters later.
A ninth-inning USC rally fell short when Foat struck out swinging, leaving junior second baseman Joe De Pinto stranded at second base to end the game.
Next up for the Trojans is a four-game series in Honolulu as USC will take on Hawai’i Friday through Monday. Sophomore ace Andrew Triggs (1-0, 4.12) will start off the weekend Friday for the Trojans against Josh Slaats  (1-0, 0.52) of Hawai’i at 6:35 p.m.
“The road has been good to us so far,” Kreuter said. “Hopefully, it stays good to us out there. We’ve got to stay focused in Hawaii.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The No. 13 USC women’s tennis team returns to conference competition Saturday in Tempe, Ariz. with a dual match against the No. 32 Arizona State Sun Devils.
Tough competition · Junior Maria Sanchez will likely be faced with Fresno State’s No. 12 Anastasia Petukhova when USC meets the Bulldogs. - Geo Tu | Daily Trojan 
The Women of Troy (8-5, 1-0) are trying to get back into the swing of things after their 5-2 loss to No. 9 Baylor on Tuesday.
USC features a handful of ranked singles players, including junior Maria Sanchez, the nation’s No. 3 singles player with an 11-1 record this season, along with No. 21 sophomore Alison Ramos, No. 22 freshman Danielle Lao and No. 91 freshman Valeria Pulido.
Sanchez is also ranked on two different doubles teams with junior Lyndsay Kinstler and Pulido, at  No. 36 and No. 40, respectively.
The Women of Troy are hoping to put a damper on the Sun Devils’ stellar week. ASU (7-2, 2-0)defeated Washington State, 5-2, and then posted an upset over No. 18 Washington, 5-2. With these two big wins last weekend, ASU jumped in this week’s rankings from No. 44 to No. 32.
Michaela Hein of ASU has also been named the Pac-10 Women’s Tennis Player of the Week after pounding out wins in her singles and doubles matches against both schools last weekend.
The Sun Devils also have No. 104 Kelcy McKenna ranked in singles but none of their players are ranked in doubles.
USC is 42-19 all-time against ASU, having won the past 14 straight matches against the Sun Devils, including 4-2 and 5-2 wins over the Sun Devils last season.
“Our team goal for taking on ASU is to win the doubles point,” said Sanchez. “It’s a really important point. It gives us more momentum going into singles play.”
USC has only won the doubles point twice in its last seven matches.
USC will head to ASU for a noon match Saturday.
Next Wednesday, March 17, the Women of Troy will come back home to take on unranked Fresno State, featuring No. 12 Anastasia Petukhova.
The Bulldogs will face off against Pepperdine before coming to Marks Stadium for the mid-week match.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
You might not agree with what appears in the paper today, but at least you have the opportunity to read it.
That’s more than the students at some schools can say. 
At Texas A&M University-Commerce two weeks ago, a group of football players stole every copy of the campus newspaper because it contained a front-page story detailing the arrest of two of their players. Last week, Texas A&M-Commerce coach Guy Morriss came under fire for calling the players’ act “the best team-building exercise we had ever done.” When asked if he had seen the edition of The East Texan in question, Morriss said “I don’t read that crap.”
Morriss gave a half-hearted apology this week, saying that his remarks were meant to be humorous and not to be taken seriously. This would usually be the end of the story, but as a fellow journalist, something about this got under my skin.
Since when is it OK to endorse activity that warrants police investigation so long as you lazily retract it later?
If you haven’t heard, it’s hard out here for a sports writer. Working for a newspaper, even if it’s only a college newspaper, is a daily test of faith. It’s hard enough to put out a product every day without worrying about it being taken.
Writing unpopular stories always results in an uproar. But it appears the only objection Morriss and his players had to this story was that word of the arrests was printed at all.
I wish I could say this was the only case of a football coach being unreasonable toward a campus news outlet, but there are probably more instances than could fit in this column. Last season, Montana coach Bobby Hauck belittled and froze out reporters from the school newspaper after it printed a story on two football players who allegedly committed assault.
Hauck could have acted like an adult and articulated whatever his objections were, but instead he chose the petulant route and went into lockdown mode.
All of the effort that goes into putting campus newspapers in their place is enough to make you wonder why any of the coaches care so much.
I understand the dilemma for coaches in such matters. Most in Division I revenue sports are accustomed to a high level of control, but they wield almost none when it comes to dealing with the media.
Of course, coaches have every right to object if they feel like any part of their program, especially the players, has been put in an unfair light because of factual errors or biased reporting. But this requires a dialogue, not temper tantrums like the ones seen at Texas A&M-Commerce and Montana. Maybe next time coaches like Hauck will try holding their breath until they get what they want.
When players and coaches are upset with what appears in the newspaper only because they are ashamed of their actions, they have no one to blame but themselves. And instead of viewing the media as the enemy for reporting on their miscues, college coaches and athletes should think about how to foster a positive relationship with news outlets.
Little of this, however, is applicable here at USC. You might be able to run and hide in Montana and East Texas, but there are few spots of refuge from media in Los Angeles. That’s not to say the school is always totally forthcoming or all its coaches embrace the media, but stunts like the ones Morriss and Hauck pulled won’t work here.
If they ever want to learn how to operate on the same level as USC, then bully coaches like Morriss and Hauck should look to this school and other major universities to see how top programs deal with the media.
Despite their lack of people skills, Morriss and Hauck have found at least some modicum of success as coaches — Texas A&M-Commerce finished 5-5 last year, and Hauck translated another successful year with Montana into the head coaching job at UNLV. It’s clear that both have solid football minds.
But imagine how much better they would be if they didn’t care what was printed about them.
“Tackling Dummy” runs Thursdays. To comment on this article, visit dailytrojan.com or e-mail Michael at middlehu@usc.edu.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Women of Troy clinched third place in conference play — their highest finish since the 2004-2005 season — and now head into the Pac-10 tournament riding a five-game winning streak.
“We’re very fortunate and lucky to be in the third slot, and I think it’s great for our university,” USC coach Michael Cooper said. “We’ve experienced some terrible lulls, but it seems like we’ve got ourselves back together … it was definitely good ending the season [that way] heading into the Pac-10 [tournament].”
Time to shine · In just his first year as the coach of USC, Michael Cooper has led the Women of Troy to the third seed in the Pac-10 conference, the team’s highest ranking in five years. The Women of Troy begin play against Oregon at the Galen Center. - Tim Tran | Daily Trojan
This season was anything but smooth for the Women of Troy (18-11, 12-6), who managed to string together two five-game winning streaks this season, but had a five-game losing streak in between.
The coaching staff, however, wasn’t too worried.
“We just had to re-focus ourselves,” Cooper said. “We were winning games by the skin of our teeth … we just had to come back and go back to the beginning and get back to what we were doing that was helping us win basketball games.”
Now, they turn their attention to the Oregon Ducks (16-14, 7-11), who boast one of the most prolific offenses in the nation.
The Women of Troy and the Ducks split their two meetings during the regular season, with both teams winning away.
The Ducks are led by senior guard Taylor Lilley, who averaged 17.5 points per game during the regular season.
But she isn’t the only offensive threat — the Ducks boast three other players who average in double figures.
“We’re going to have to take care of Oregon’s offense,” Cooper said. “It’s going to require us to get back for 40 minutes because they want to run at every opportunity.”
Not only do the Women of Troy have to focus on defense, but one of their constant struggles throughout the season has been rebounding the basketball.
“Our biggest nemesis all year long has been rebounding,” Cooper said. “We have to rebound by committee, and [everybody] will have to help out.”
This season, the Women of Troy have been led by the play of sophomore guards Ashley Corral and Briana Gilbreath, but the supporting cast for the team has played a big role in their success as well.
Redshirt junior guard Jacki Gemelos has provided the team with solid play off the bench since she came back from injury, and freshman forward Christina Marinacci has given the team a presence down low since being thrust into a starting role.
Though the Women of Troy will be playing at the Galen Center during the Pac-10 tournament, home-court advantage will hardly play a role, if any.
And if the Women of Troy hope to earn a NCAA tournament bid, they know they’ll just have to be successful no matter the venue.
“Championships are won on the road,” Cooper said. “It doesn’t matter where we’re playing … We just have to get the job done.”
Tip-off is scheduled for 5 p.m.
A win tonight would set up a date with No. 2 seed and crosstown rival UCLA on Saturday at 5 p.m. in the semifinals of the tournament.
The Women of Troy split both meetings with the Bruins as well, with each team winning on its home floor.
If the Women of Troy manage to beat both Oregon and UCLA, they will play for the Pac-10 tournament championship with an automatic NCAA bid at stake.
Their likely opponent would be the Stanford Cardinal, who hold the No. 1 seed in the tournament for the ninth straight season.
The championship game will be held Sunday at 3 p.m.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
thursday, march 11
 Navigating the Film Festival World Seminar for Filmmakers
7:30 p.m. > Egyptian Theatre > $15
For budding filmmakers and future film critics, this informative seminar — intended as a precursor to future festivals like Sundance — provides practical skills and experiences to navigate the often-overwhelming world of film culture.
Just Imagine: A Tribute to John Lennon
8 p.m. > Platinum Live! Theater > $35 – $81
John Lennon impersenator Tim Piper covers Lennon’s hits and a large portion of the Beatles’ catalogue. Piper’s scruffy appearance gives the perfect illusion of the icon himself and the show is a chance to see him perform one last time.
Kelli Stanley: City of Dragons
7 p.m. > Book Soup > FREE
As part of Book Soup’s endless array of up and coming authors, Thursday night features writer Kelli Stanley. Her latest book captures San Francisco’s Chinatown on the eve of the Lunar New Year in 1940 and delves into a thrilling mystery featuring a tough female private investigator.
Slow Club
11 a.m. > Spaceland > $10
Come hear Charles Watson and Rebecca Taylor, who make up Slow Club, a folk-pop duo from Sheffield, England. Their debut album, Yeah So (out now on the Moshi Moshi label), features somber acoustic chords compiled with a witty and romantic exchange of lyrics between the two band members.
friday, march 12
 Star Wars Burlesque
9 p.m. > Henry Fonda Theatre > $20
What started out as a mere YouTube video boasting more than 150,000 views has evolved into a full production on a much bigger stage in Hollywood. An encore performance following their sold-out one show in January, this burlesque will change your perspective on Darth Vader forever.
Holly Miranda
10 p.m. > Bootleg Theater > $10
The sultry-voiced songwriter from the band Jealous Girlfriends — who earned sonic placements on TV shows such as Grey’s Anatomy, The L Word and CSI: Miami — has produced a solo disc, The Magician’s Private Library, under her own name.
RAW’s First Birthday
7:30 p.m. > Hotel Angeleno > $10
Los Angeles’ RAW, a gathering of innovative artists, is celebrating its first anniversary by opening its multimedia lounge-filled doors with visual and performing artists, musicians, fashion designers and even stylists to establish an open network of overlapping specialties.
Picasso: All Mixed Up
6:30 p.m. > Norton Simon Museum > FREE
In honor of the museum’s portrait-centric exhibitions — both Rembrandt’s and Ingres’ are on display — the “Friday Night Family Art” series will provide all the tools to make a portrait collage inspired by the famous cubist artist.
saturday, march 13
 E-40
9 p.m. > The Key Club > $25
Northern Californian rapper E-40 — who created the “izzle” and whose considerable body of work has made an impression on the last 20 years of rap — is performing at the Key Club with Eyedrop, Da Paranormal, Bellz, The Circuit and Precise.
High Points and Lows: Life, Faith, and Figuring It All Out
2 p.m. > Book Soup > FREE
Often labeled “the Christian guy” on 2006’s Survivor: Panama, Austin Carty steps away from the little screen to a not-so-little bookstore on Sunset Boulevard. His new book is filled with easy and entertaining anecdotes that will appeal to anyone regardless of religious belief.
Michael Kalish
8 p.m. > Artworks Gallery > FREE
Come check out Michael Kalish’s The Rose Collection, a series of mixed media sculptures forged from reclaimed metal, mostly from cars and trucks. You’ll witness the scars and surface distress that landed them in the salvage yard in the first place and the symbolic delicacy and natural beauty the wear gives the roses.
Love, Eric & Sanae: Seasonal Vegan Macrobiotic Cuisine
5 p.m. > Book Soup > FREE
Although this densely titled cookbook may appear to cater solely food lovers, vegan cuisine can provide a refreshing break for your palate. Authors Eric Lehasseur and Sanae Suzuki present in person their take on this nutritious and delicious food.
sunday, march 14
 St. Patty’s Fest 2010
2 p.m. > Taglyan Complex > $50
For those looking to celebrate St. Patty’s Day this year, the Taglyan Complex on Vine Street in Hollywood is housing a festival featuring an all-you-can-eat-and-drink ticket with food from Pink’s Hot Dogs and entertainment rumored to include beer pong. If the lure of Irish beer isn’t enough, all proceeds go to benefit the Children’s Tumor Foundation and Irish Center.
Michael Cera presents Freebie and the Bean
8 p.m. > Silent Movie Theatre > $14
You noticed him in Juno, fell for him in Superbad, and stood by him in Youth in Revolt. Michael Cera, hailed as one of the funniest actors of his generation, has chosen action-comedy Freebie and the Bean as his film pick of the evening.
Official Twilight Convention
8 a.m. – 5 p.m. > The Marriott at Los Angeles International Airport > $25+
For vampire lovers who don’t mind the sunlight, the official Twilight convention will be bringing anything and everything related to the book and film franchise to the LAX Marriott.
Broken Bells
8 p.m. > The Troubadour > $25
An innovative pairing of psych-pop producer Danger Mouse and the Shins’ James Mercer calling it Broken Bells takes the stage at the famous West Hollywood venue Sunday night. If the Troubadour’s career-launching magic is still intact, the gig should send them to the top.
—Tanvi Mirani and Becca Lett
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Gorillaz’s newest release, Plastic Beach, is unmistakably pop.
But confined to current and somewhat mistaken definitions of the genre, this is either an insult or just plain wrong. Indie music buffs might denounce such a claim, pointing to the many guest appearances ­— from progressive artists such as De La Soul and Mos Def — as well as the many flashes of originality in song structure and lyrical form.
Pop primates · Gorillaz, the virtual band fronted by Blur’s Damon Albarn, released their third album Plastic Beach. - Photo courtesy of EMI
Fans of the mainstream might cock their heads at this same assertion, offering the fact that it doesn’t sound like Jason Derülo as a rebuttal. But regardless of whose side you’re on, when it comes down to it, Plastic Beach is pop music at its postmodern finest.
For one thing, the catchy hooks are ever-present, and they are executed with the charm and proficiency that the “virtual band” — led primarily by Damon Albarn of Blur — has already demonstrated in hits such as “Feel Good Inc.” and “Clint Eastwood.”
Cultural critic Simon Frith suggests that pop music places a focus on recording, production and technology over live performance, and there could not be a more fitting description of Gorillaz, a band that has only performed live a handful of times and even then were masked by large screens. Gorillaz’s true talent manifests itself in studio-crafted compositions such as the brilliant “On Melancholy Hill,” which swirls with a pseudo-chillwave, four-to-the-floor beat and contains a veritable sea of synthesizers recalling the mellower side of Daft Punk. And just try not to dance along with the hypnotic single “Stylo,” which is made even more fascinating by singer-songwriter Bobby Womack’s soulful belting and a well-timed rap by Mos Def in which his words drop over a mildly retro, electronic bass beat.
With the recognizable fusion of melodic lines and simple harmonies paired with a verse-chorus-verse song structure, Plastic Beach makes use of the formulas pop audiences have come to love. The feel-good simplicity of the album — those familiar chord progressions that are the equivalent of musical comfort food — hammers it all home.
Most of the album’s songs, like the ethereal “Empire Ants,” aren’t mind-bending, but dispersed throughout these effortless gems are other tracks that are thought provoking and need some getting used to in order to fully enjoy. Examples include the impeccably quirky “Rhinestone Eyes,” which declares, Your love’s like rhinestones falling from the sky / That’s electric / With future pixels in factories far away / Here we go again in Albarn’s signature monotone singing-speaking voice. Even in these more difficult tracks, it’s evident that experimentation isn’t the only priority. Gorillaz intertwines clarity of melody with the complexity of abstraction, taking it to the cliff’s edge of intricacy without turning off the listener in the process.
The end result is an album that is both immediately accessible and continuously challenging, poppy without being patronizing and catchy without being stagnantly repetitive. This is, as one can imagine, quite the feat.
It’s much easier to make an album that’s more “out there” than Pluto and pass it off as originality and expertise. It’s also simpler to throw down some Auto-Tuned R&B vocals over a slick, already-popular sample and call it a day. But with respect to both of these methodologies, it is much more difficult to craft a complex, talented piece of art under a veil of simplicity that hooks a listener and keeps him mesmerized.
Graciously, this is what Plastic Beach does, encompassing the best aspects of pop music while relegating the clichés and the rampant, soulless commercialism to other, lesser artists. Gorillaz has seemingly always understood that pandering to the least common denominator of public opinion is not the right path of musicianship. Thankfully, they’ve also understood that one can avoid this while still crafting a piece of sheer pop brilliancy.
Glorious in its grin-inducing atmosphere and somewhat silly thematic ideas, Plastic Beach will surely be one of the best releases of 2010. With some cooperation from the listener, Gorillaz proves again how good pop can really be.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
This week I did something that I never thought I would do — I started a blog.
Blogging has become a nearly ubiquitous hobby for our generation — at least, that’s how it’s sometimes portrayed by the media. While the blogosphere is quite vocal, not everyone has a blog, especially not every college student. Still, we really should give blogging another look.
Amid today’s profusion of social networking sites, what makes a blog unique? Unlike Facebook or Twitter, a blog offers more than just a list of interests and facts about yourself: A blog offers the blogger an outlet to comment on anything and everything.
But a blog is more than just a virtual soapbox on which the socially awkward can stand and air out their opinions online. The possibilities of what to do with a blog are limitless.
There are blogs about sports, college food, Los Angeles happenings and weddings. It’s a popular misconception that blogs are somehow required to discuss either politics or celebrity gossip.
I enjoy writing — poetry, prose, anything — so I launched a blog to have a place to focus on and showcase my work. Sometimes a blog is just that, a showcase of your opinions and thoughts. A blog allows the blogger to cultivate an audience and create a personality around which people with similar interests can convene. Want to be known as an expert on indie rock? You can. Want to be the source for information on local concerts? Make the posts, update often and that can be what you are known for.
If that’s piqued your interest and you want to start blogging, the first step is deciding on a host website. There are many blogging platforms out there, each with their own pros and cons. Three of the most popular are Blogger, WordPress and Squarespace. All are great, but Blogger is probably the simplest of the three options and the best for those who are unfamiliar with coding or website building. While there are not many add-ons, the free, easy-to-operate website is a great way to dive into blogging.
For those who prefer to record their thoughts on video instead of typing, Squarespace is probably the best platform. It has the option for text posts, but it features a great video player and offers a sleek, stylish layout. It starts at $8 a month for the basic package, but the features make it a great platform for more professional websites.
WordPress is definitely the most expansive of the three major platforms. It comes in two manifestations.
The first is a lot like Blogger, a free blog hosted on WordPress.com with some good add-ons but limited customization.
The second option, self-hosted WordPress, is one of the most popular on the Internet. Users who download the WordPress software are able to create completely unique websites. It requires some computing knowledge and a unique domain name, which costs additional money, but the site’s unmatched capacity for customization makes it a winner.
For my blog, I chose Blogger. While it’s not the most customizable, I didn’t feel familiar enough with website building to warrant spending money on the option to customize. For now, Blogger suits my purposes just fine, and while I might someday upgrade to WordPress, right now I’m very satisfied with my experience.
There is another perk to blogging: ad revenue. If your blog eventually gets enough hits on a daily basis, that silly hobby could actually earn you money. Having a website allows you to use programs like Google AdSense. If you register your site with AdSense, it installs a code, putting ads related to what you write about on the sides of your site. Income is based on clicks on the ads, and, while it is not a lot, it is a great way to generate passive income.
There’s also Student Bloggers, created by college students to link blogs to advertisers. The site not only promotes your blog but also actively recruits revenue sources. And since college life isn’t exactly cheap, a little bit of extra cash is always a good thing — especially when that cash comes from writing about something you love.
If you have an idea of what to write and you are registering your website, take that idea and find similar blogs. Networks of sites allow you to find content that may interest you and also put your site out to a larger audience. It not only increases your readership but can put you in contact with people who have similar passions. Blogging can be personal, but it can also be social.
So go ahead, lay claim on your piece of the Internet. I don’t expect that my blog will have a huge following at any point in the future, but it’s fulfilling nevertheless to have that forum to broadcast my opinions. It’s the Internet age, and a blog is just the way to get your thoughts out there.
Nicholas Slayton is a freshman majoring in print journalism. His column “A Series of Tubes“ runs Thursdays.
i am a student too…. nice to be here reading your usefull articles…
keep in touch…
[…] Blogging provides students a soapbox | Daily Trojan […]
[…] that’s how it’s sometimes portrayed by the media. While the blogosphere is quite vocal … Read Full Article   (No Ratings Yet)  Loading …    Word […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
In a world of corruption, avarice and back-room deals, a fervent debate has been raging between warring parties for years. Since art became a business, individuals have lobbied for its preservation and against its exploitation. The world of art collection, romanticized for years by those unfamiliar with it, is, as Humphrey Bogart would say, “What dreams are made of.”
Moving on up · The Art of the Steal traces the political agendas associated with the relocation of the Barnes Collection — a $25 billion estate which includes more than 2,500 modern and post-impressionist objects. - Photo courtesy of IFC Films  
The Art of The Steal is an exploration of the life of multi-billionaire Albert C. Barnes, who throughout his lifetime amassed an extraordinary collection of modern and post-impressionist art at his home in Philadelphia.
Moreover, it is a probing investigation into the Barnes Foundation and the political manipulation that surrounded Barnes’ fortune after he passed away. In his will, Barnes explicitly requested that his paintings never be moved or sold, but as power shifted among trustees, his dying wishes were neglected and even erased.
With a price tag of $25 billion, the Barnes Collection became the centerpiece of a fascinating conspiracy.
As the title suggests, The Art of The Steal is executed with an impressive amount of precision and grace. The construction of the story caters to the mind-set of a thief, often turning to graphics that are a  pastiche of heist films from an earlier era. These graphic diagrams convey the devious plotting of political figures, as subtle bass kicks emphasize the thieves’ calculated evil.
What the recent documentary, The Art of The Steal, proves better than anything else is that significant issues terrorize citizens every single day, yet the mass majority are ignorant and unaware. As the world begins to close in on itself, our scope is still stunted by the media and those who sit in thrones of high social standing.
In cinematic flourishes, the film moves with the compelling grip of a political thriller, pulling the rug out from under us on several occasions. Its tone is clearly bitter, but the overarching argument is well-supported and even revelatory. Amazingly enough, several individuals who are considered antagonists appear in interviews. Those who opted not to seemed to confirm their own portrayal.
The central dilemma concerns the art world and what happens when big businesses enter that system. Clearly, the arts often tap into some kind of revenue stream, which can be beneficial for both sides, but Barnes’ collection was the antithesis to exhibitions for profit.
As the film conveys, “Barnes wanted you to have a certain experience.” His self-made mausoleum, which comes off a bit too Citizen Kane for most, was, as Henri Matisse said, “The only sane place to see art in America.”
Barnes housed his paintings in a residential paradise because he believed in having a special experience, one that is un tainted by commercial museum life. This ideal is debatable, but it is Barnes’ right as the owner that is the soul of the story.
As The Art of The Steal maintains, the most effective documentaries in existence are manipulative. The irony, of course, is that the film criticizes manipulation specifically. With a cunning sensibility, The Art of The Steal creates an aura of seduction with the filmmakers’ angles and information. What is easily discerned from the stylistic qualities is just how cinematic documentary pictures have become. The film utilizes close-ups to frame its villains and catch the sweat on their brows during difficult interviews. Sweeping camera movements allude to police investigations, with CSI-esque flair, and our heroes are shot from triumphant low angles. The end result is a more immersive experience.
Despite the high caliber of the production and the general potency of the material, the real tragedy of The Art of The Steal is how slight the impact will likely be. The subject matter is narrow and confined to a very exclusive breed of people, which dilutes the resentment it induces. And with such limited release, the majority will probably carry on unaware of this unfortunate reality. Those who are demonized in the film retain their clout, and as the film conveys, no one can stop them. Power can be a poison, and as history proves time and again, it’s odorless, colorless and right before our eyes.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The university setting is an ideal forum for viewpoints from all political, cultural and ideological arenas; colleges across the country have a storied history of rigorously defending the right to free speech.
Tonight, controversial political scientist Norman Finkelstein will be lecturing at an event co-sponsored by Students for Justice in Palestine, the Levantine Cultural Center and the Undergraduate Student Government.
On a college campus as diverse as USC’s, not everyone will share the same ideologies, and student groups often sponsor contentious speakers. In the last four years, students have attended or protested lectures by divisive figureheads such as Ann Coulter, David Lloyd and David Horowitz, prompting healthy discourse among the student body. Although tonight’s event has been the subject of much protest, the fact remains that Dr. Finkelstein has every right to voice his views on campus.
We must question, however, the use of student fees to pay for this event.
USG has a responsibility to aid all student organizations who properly process requests for funding. Without such support, the scope of activity for many such organizations would be narrowed significantly.
Every undergraduate at USC pays a mandatory programming fee in addition to their tuition, which is used to finance the budget for USG.
When USG co-sponsors a speaker on campus, it gives the event its seal of approval, whether intentionally or not. At the very least, USG has a responsibility to poll students and gauge the majority opinion on a controversial event to make sure it is best serving the interests of its constituents.
USG overstepped its bounds by co-sponsoring the Finkelstein event.
Student groups can and should continue to invite programming that showcases the unique diversity of the student body. But in the future, USG must take into account the interests of all of its constituents when determining the allocation of funding to student organizations.
The university should provide a forum for the discussion of controversial perspectives — not sponsor just one of them.
Correction: A previous version of this editorial incorrectly listed one of the co-sponsors of the event as “Students for Justice and Peace in Palestine.” The group’s name is “Students For Justice in Palestine.” 
Thank you to the editors of the DT for acknowledging that student funds should not be spent to fund a man that calls for violence against Israelis and has on numerous occasions denied the Holocaust. Imgaine of the USC College Republicans received USG funding for their Horowitz event – the outrage that would ensure would not even pale in comparison. The double standard is disgusting and infuriating. On another note, I don’t know when it became politically correct to marginalize jewish and pro-israel students but we are headed down a very dangerous road when a univeristy such as USC funds a holocaust denier. Shame on those who approved the funding. We say “Never again”…but do we really mean it?
“We went to school for educations, not validations of our opinions.”
I couldn’t have said it better myself.
All of the comments on this article so far are fantastic. The article itself is terrible and very poorly devised. But what else could be expected of the DT, especially given their recent coverage (and glaring lack of coverage) lately.
I was formerly the two-term director of the Academic Culture Assembly, one of the programming branches of USG.  Dr. Finkelstein was once invited by my colleagues of the Political Student Assembly and I supported the decision wholeheartedly.  I wish the ACA had officially endorsed it then, because Finkelstein is a rigorous and demanding intellectual unafraid of challenging established perceptions, which is exactly the reason why we give people academic tenure in the first place.  
As you mention, it would have been a nice if we could have gotten somebody from the “other side” of the debate to come and debate Finkelstein.  But who would that other side even be?  Dr. Alan Dershowitz, his main academic rival, absolutely refuses to hold debates with him, saying essentially that he will not talk to people he does not agree with.  That position isn’t very academic and it isn’t worth an invitation from a respectable academic institution.
First find someone who can debate Finkelstein point for point instead of just calling him an anti-Semite or a self-hating Jew, and then recommend that person to USG, instead of just wanting and wishing for something you obviously haven’t looked into yourself. 
Also: academic and political programming are parts of USG’s mandate, and yet what is the value of academic and political programming if they only pander to what students want to see and hear?  I find your editorial’s opinion that USG should only sponsor events its students approve of to be very disingenuous.  We went to school for educations, not validations of our opinions.
There are several outrageous statements in the article against Mr. Finkelstein that are without any basis in fact. If the paper is not able or willing to document the factual basis of these statements it should print an apology to Mr. Finkelstein and the sponsoring group immediately. Is this paper simply an accomplice to the Israel lobby on campus, or an instrument of honest reporting? That is what is at stake- and it looks very much like the former at this stage.
Dr. Finkelstein himself suffered enormous injustice in academic circles, right here in the United State of America. His being at USC speaks volume about our students’ conscience and stance against injustice. That being said, I don’t agree with all of his views on the issues.
BTW, a not well-written piece.
Years ago I was the advisor through the Office of Religious Life to one of the university’s student atheist groups. I had tried many times unsuccessfully to get a panel discussion co-sponsored with other recognized campus groups that included Dr. Finkelstein or someone representing a view that considered the question of justice for Palestinians or from the Palestinians’ point of view.  A co-sponsorship never materialized and our group was unsuccessful in being able to bring Dr. Finkelstein to campus. One of the rejections of any event featuring Dr. Finkelstein was simply, “Alan Dershowitz doesn’t like him.”
It is worth noting that this was after a speaker (Walid Shoebat) compared Palestinians to Nazis. He was co-sponsored by several campus groups. Considering the resistance to joint participation in a panel discussion then, the complaint now about lack of balance seems disingenuous at best.
I enthusiastically commend USC’s Students for Justice in Palestine for their work to again bring someone as dedicated to peace and justice as Dr. Finkelstein to our campus. His talk tonight will be most enlightening.
USG did not make a mistake by choosing to fund the Norman Finkelstein event.  The people opposed to this event made a mistake by not applying for USG funding for their own counter events.  Support free speech, even if you disagree with what is being said.  Free speech and dissent should be encouraged by USC and USG.
You can’t have it both ways, Daily Trojan. First you say that USG should co-sponsor both sides of the debate. Then you say “USG overstepped its bounds by co-sponsoring the Finkelstein event”. The inevitable problem with a top-down government trying to enforce “fairness” is that it lets the government decide what the debate is about, where the “middle” is, and who represents either side. The FCC used to have a policy called the “Fairness Doctrine” where any radio station that had a political talker on, had to provide equal time for a talker of the “other” side. In practice it was basically a ban on political talk radio, because there’s always some fringe group (like the SJP) that can sue the station saying “My side wasn’t represented!”
IMHO, the student government should concern itself more with pep rallies, intramural sports, and bringing musical acts to campus, and stay out of politics. Free speech is much more free without government sponsorship. The student organizations can raise money to bring speakers, or sell tickets at the door. Who wouldn’t pay five bucks to see a talk by a political celebrity they admire?
Actually, there are restrictions against selling tickets for on campus events. And there are restrictions and regulations for fundraising for student groups.
And it would be incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to raise the money needed to bring a high profile speaker to USC–most are a minimum of $3,000. Quality speakers are very expensive, and that is one reason USG, Program Board, and other sources on campus offer funding.
I don’t think you understand how much money is spent every year putting on events at this school. Or how much it costs to bring a speaker, musical act, etc. Your suggestions are quaint, but unrealistic.
Just FYI, the money spent by the USG comes from the students’ pockets. Maybe instead of taking the money and spending it on stuff the students don’t want to see (as evidenced by turnout), they could let the students keep it and spend it themselves. The fact that there are restrictions and regulations on fundraising weakens your claim that student organizations are unable to raise money — JUST REPEAL THE REGULATIONS. Of course there are middle-of-the-road solutions, too. You could, for example, issue each student a number of vouchers or tickets representing their share of the funding, and let the students provide these to whichever (registered) student organizations they wish. So the university still gets to regulate the use of student funds, but student preferences are reflected in the selection of programs.
Each student pays $55 in student programming fees. With most events on campus, if the student attends just one or two events the whole semester, they get their “monies worth.” If a student chooses not to attend any events, it is their own loss. They get to pick and choose which events to attend and support, and which to ignore or protest. THAT is how every student votes.
And if a student group wishes to bring an opposing speaker, they have every right to do so. Every student organization has a limited amount of funding that they may receive each semester. And as recognized student organizations who have gone through the process of writing and submitting a constitution and bylaws, etc., they have earned the right to apply for and receive funding for their events.
Asking USG not to sponsor a potentially controversial event because it might not cater to some students is ludicrous. No single event could possibly cater to every student on campus. Groups have received funding to host events that discussed everything from how to have better sex, to gay porn, to Christian leaders in the HIV/AIDS initiatives, to film screenings that portray one or more specific cultures unfavorably, etc. There are controversial events every year. And they should absolutely continue and should be funded by our programming fees. That is what you ask for when you choose to attend a diverse, distinguished private institutions full of people with different opinions and beliefs.
Student preferences are already reflected in the selection of programs. It is students who plan them, students who propose them, students who approve funding, students who facilitate them, students who attend them…The entire process is based on student interest and demand.
Not all student groups have the privilege of access to rich parent organizations (or simply rich parents) that are independent of USC and have no limits on funding they decide to give. Most student groups are operating with incredibly limited resources–but as students who have paid their own programming fees and followed all of the procedures and paperwork required to receive funding, they deserve to have such funding provided.
An event should not be banned because it doesn’t suite everyone–even if that event does involve portraying Israel in a less-than-glorious light (oh, god forbid).
I read the recent article in the Daily Trojan, and I was surprised and saddened to see such ignorant and non-rebutted comments as “Finkelstein is said to be a Holocaust denier”, and implications that he supports violence against Israelis.  Devious weasel-words.  Finkelstein may be said by some to be a Holocaust denier, but if you select who you quote then you can find quotes to smear anyone.  Phenomenally ignorant.  I first became aware of Norman Finkelstein several years ago after reading one of his books, upon which I decided to find out more about the man and his ideas.  I do not agree with everything he says, as sometimes he goes too far, but on the whole he has some good points.  Far from denying the Holocaust, he is completely honest about its historical basis, and he does not advocate violence against anyone, neither Israelis nor Palestinians.  What he does do, and what Israeli nationalist right-wingers hate him for, is to argue against those who abuse the memory of the Holocaust as a means of stifle debate.  He also argues against using the Holocaust as a means of projecting victimhood into the present to justify illegal territorial expansion.  I have never heard him justify Islamist terrorism as being right, but he does bring balance by helping to better understand the conditions in which it has arisen in the specific instance of modern occupied Palestine.
This piece shoots itself in the foot with it’s title, suggesting that “USG should sponsor both sides of the debate”, as that is exactly what USG is doing by funding Finkelstein’s visit, especially in the context of recent visits by Horowitz et al. If the writers intend to suggest that USG should literally sponsor a debate with any controversial speaker that comes to campus, that, of course, would have been very welcome when Horowitz or Coulter came. Also, it’s very difficult to imagine that the student body would have a sufficient opportunity to understand the views of controversial speakers before they even come to campus (so as to conduct polls regarding said views), considering that the explication of these views is the presumed function of such events.
As Hoiland said, other diverse speakers are hardly prevented from funding and visiting. 
Slow news day?
maybe you should consider a name change… :-)
We’re called “students for justice in palestine,” not “peace and justice in palestine.” How can you criticize us and not even know our name?
“The university should provide a forum for the discussion of controversial perspectives — not sponsor just one of them.” – DT
Student organizations who hold views different from the ones held by SJP or Norman Finkelstein are of course permitted to apply for USG funding.  If properly requested, USG funding would likely be allocated for a speaker espousing views contrary to Finkelstein’s.  I believe speakers strongly supportive of Israeli policy have come to USC with USG funding before and I encourage organizations to bring such speakers in the future.
Furthermore, SJP is not a very wealthy organization and does not have the money to privately fund bringing well-known speakers to campus, as the College Republicans did recently with David Horowitz.  That USG provides funds for speakers like Finkelstein actually increases the diversity of perspectives on campus by giving student organizations access to important speakers that they might not have the pocketbooks to afford otherwise.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Well into midterm season, college students across campus feel the stress of studying for exams and the anxiety that comes with testing. But while hours melt away before the dreaded confrontation with blue books and scantrons, about 80 to 95 percent of those same college students procrastinate doing their work.
According to an article in Scientific American Mind, the lifestyle of an average college student, with a rigorous academic schedule and frat party distractions, is the reason that student procrastinators exist in such high proportions.
Thomas Curry | Daily Trojan
As a college student and self-admitted procrastinator, I wonder — is procrastination really that bad? Is there anything I can do about it,  or is it just inevitable?
Seven types of procrastination have been discussed in scholarly articles, books and blogs: mañana (“I’ll do it tomorrow), contingent mañana (“I’ll do it tomorrow if…), grasshopperism (“I need to have fun beforehand”), escapism (“I need to get out of here and clear my head”), impulsiveness (“I need to change my major/ my university”), music and reading (“I’ll relax and then I’ll do it”) and cavalry to the rescue (“Tomorrow will be a snow day and class will be cancelled”) — though the last is not a common excuse in Southern California, of course.
There is no doubt that procrastination is common among university students. Just Googling “procrastination” gave me several hits to confirm this belief.
The health drawbacks of procrastination, both physical and psychological, are quite alarming and very noticeable, from possible formations of insomnia to a weakened immune system.
In an article in Psychology Today, Dr. Joseph Ferrari of De Paul University in Chicago and Dr. Timothy Pychyl, director of the Procrastination Research Group at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada, revealed that 20 percent of people around the world are self-identified “chronic procrastinators” (such as myself).  Additionally, the United States might have a larger percentage of those procrastinators than the rest of the world, according to the article.
In several blog entries, Dr. Pychyl goes as far as denouncing procrastination as a thief of meaning, life and happiness.
But let’s face it, not all procrastinators are the thrill-seeking, relationship-ruining, irrational people that doctors make them out to be. Deadlines keep college students in check, and, procrastination or not, the work gets done; life moves on.
How can university students stop when so many distractions exist, from Facebook and College Humor to FMyLife and Texts From Last Night?
And with long nights at “Club Leavey” with your friends cramming, fueled by late-night caffeine stops at TroGro, procrastination is also a shared social experience.
It seems that procrastination is inevitable, but just like all things, students have to exercise moderation when choosing to put things off until later.
Ironically enough, I procrastinated right before writing this article. I told myself the reason why I procrastinated was because I was doing experimental behavioral research on the subject. I even congratulated myself on being topical.
When it comes down to it, they’re all excuses. My procrastination was spent watching an episode of The Big Bang Theory, hanging out with my friends, catching up on politics and news, and listening to music. As the poet Edward Young once said, “Procrastination is the thief of time.” What if we want our time whiled away sometimes? Perhaps that procrastination isn’t such a bad thing after all.
In the end, it is better to be a procrastinator and still get things done than to be a flake and not follow through. Procrastinators are perhaps productive outside of academic deadlines and work projects. It seems that if you are a procrastinator you might not be losing out too much. In fact, there is a very real hope of success for procrastinators; after all, I finished this article.
Miruna Barnoschi is a freshman majoring in international relations.
Oh fiddlesticks!!! My 4 page write up is due tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning, it’s almost midnight now, and I’m only on the first page…this sucks, I hate college life!!!!!!!!!!!
No such thing as cramming for exams and getting A’s except you are a Graham Bell or Marie Curie!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
A Tuesday walk down University Avenue is no longer just a monotonous commute to and from class.
It’s an experience.
The farmers market, which was previously located at Shrine Place, offers more than 12 vendors who sell different types of food, clothing and accessories.
Vendors offer a large selection of already-prepared meals such as Peruvian cuisine, crêpes and quesadillas, tamales, other Latin American food and sloppy Joes. Other kiosks sold diverse snack foods like peanuts, popcorn, fresh fruit and Mediterranean munchies such as tabouli, hummus, olives and pickled vegetables. Every food vendor allowed pedestrians to try free samples, and it was well worth the 30 seconds to stop by and try something.
That’s how the fruit vendor got me.
I stopped to try a strawberry, and he explained that his father grows the produce and he, the operator, sells it. His father uses natural methods rather than pesticides on the food, which was a plus. And most importantly, the price was right. A bundle of strawberries sold for $2, whereas Ralph’s sells a box for $1.50.
“Most of [the prices are] pretty comparable,” said Raul Arteaga, one of the fruit vendors. “There are obviously stores sometimes that have specials and things like that that we can’t compete with. However, everything here is picked fresh, daily.”
The vendor’s amicability, charm and price convinced me to buy some of the delicious fruit.
Deb Berman | Daily Trojan
In addition to the food quality, the vendors were friendly.
Jed Lorenzen, the operator of Hot Sloppy’s, said he prepares and sells Sloppy Joes from an original 1955 family recipe from Iowa.
“It’s not your common food such as you might see around here that you see everywhere,” said Lorenzen. “It’s a sloppy Joe that you haven’t had since you’ve been a kid, and now it’s here for you again.”
Another attribute that proved the market’s charm was the vendors’ sincerity and desire for their customers to truly enjoy their food. For example, after trying a spicy green olive from a Mediterranean snack kiosk, I was won over by its combination of flavors and kick of spicy jalapeño seeds. I bought a bundle and ate most of the container within minutes. I returned to tell the vendor how wonderful and unique his product was, and he gave me a container of spicy green olives for free. He obviously cared that I enjoyed the product he provided.
Before I saw the market for myself, I assumed the vendors would try to rip me off or sell me sub-par quality products; I figured they would assume it didn’t matter because I’m a student and wouldn’t know the difference. However, it was just the opposite. I did not feel like I was being taken advantage of, and I was surprised to see most of the food, snacks and clothes were of good to excellent quality. And the prices were appropriate to meet students’ needs.
Students are not the only people who benefit from the market’s new location. At the Shrine, vendors said they found it difficult to lure students there, and the rent was exorbitant.
Now, the vendors are benefiting from constant foot traffic up and down University Avenue, and they only have to pay 10 percent of their daily earnings.
“So if you don’t make anything, you don’t pay anything,” said Chase Mosley, the owner of Spend jewelry, clothing and accessories. We have a lot more foot traffic here, whereas before it was difficult to get students to come from walkway to the Shrine.”
As great as the farmers market is, the strip of kiosks is not without its hassles.
Midday, the area often becomes crowded because pedestrians and bikers are making their way to and from class. A bit of advice — don’t go between noon and 1 p.m. It gets too crowded. Shoot for the morning or late afternoon to miss the traffic.
Even so, Tuesday’s farmers market is a delight for students, and because of the vast assortment of booths, students have the opportunity to try something new every week. The variety of food choices allows for students to dine somewhere other than The Lot or Café 84, and because it only comes to campus once a week, it should be utilized by every student. With such a convenient location, students have no excuse to miss out, and if they aren’t hungry, they can always shop at the several clothing and accessory boutiques.
Fortunately for students, the market adds to the much-needed off-campus entertainment life around USC.
Danielle Nisimov is a sophomore majoring in public relations.  Her column “On the SCene” runs Thursdays.
[…] Farmers market offers unique experience | Daily Trojan […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 404
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
