USC’s campus has recently become the scene of a growing movement by pro-Palestine supporters speaking out against what they see as illegal occupation of territory and discriminatory practices by the Israeli government.
The movement, known internationally as the “Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions” movement, aims to achieve sanctions or other official action against Israel.
Activists hope to achieve this by means of boycotting certain Israeli institutions and stopping business in — or divesting from — companies that are involved in the occupation of what BDS supporters say is Palestinian territory.
The movement has been spearheaded on campus by Students for Justice in Palestine, a pro-Palestine student group that has attempted to raise awareness for the movement by hosting events and collecting petition signatures.
According to SJP President Marwa Katbi, the group is currently focusing on the Israel Divestment Campaign, which is a statewide campaign aimed at collecting enough signatures to create a ballot initiative that would require California’s two public retirement funds to divest from corporations that are directly involved in Israel’s occupation.
“It’s a very focused target, and it’s smart in the sense that these companies — American and Israeli both — specifically finance certain aspects of the occupation,” said Katbi, a senior majoring in English. “For example, Caterpillar will directly give the bulldozers that the Israelis use to demolish homes. It’s very well-researched and specific, so you’re not targeting all of Israel, just the occupation specifically.”
Opponents of the campaign, such as ’SC Students for Israel, have continued to speak out against the presence of a divestment movement on campus.
Shanel Melamed, the president of SCSI, said that the campaign is a radical movement that has no place on campus.
“From a rational view, the divestment actions being attempted at the moment are thinly veiled anti-Semitism,” said Melamed, a senior majoring in international relations and public diplomacy. “A divestment campaign is not a form of negotiation, conversation, dialogue or understanding. It’s very much a radical stance that says, ‘We don’t even want to talk with you, we don’t want to negotiate with you, we don’t want to meet in the middle with you and we just don’t want you around.’”
Some supporters of the BDS movement have argued that they too want only to negotiate — that the movement is in fact aimed toward bringing about a successful atmosphere of peace and cooperation.
“We just want to create the conditions for genuine negotiation,” said David Lloyd, a professor of English. “This apocalyptic claim that the BDS movement wants to destroy Israel … is just not true. We’re only asking that people respect what every democracy in the world respects, which is the equal rights of all its citizens.”
Lloyd disagreed with the idea that the BDS movement was nothing more than anti-Semitic sentiment, pointing out that prominent Jewish leaders have joined the movement because of Israel’s actions.
“A lot of these initiatives are being run by Americans and international Jewish organizations,” Lloyd said. “This is not an insidious conspiracy of Muslims to undermine Israel. Jewish leaders are the most prominent people in the boycott movement.”
Melamed said, however, that the Israeli government has come under attack from radical anti-Israeli movements, which has forced it to take the defensive.
“We’re being forced into this political situation that’s being pushed upon us because our campus is being used as a platform for people to spread their political ideologies,” Melamed said.
Boycott Israel.
MELAMED SEEMED TO SAY POLITICAL IDEOLOGIES  SHOULD NOT BE PUSHED HERE AT USC.
IF NOT HERE …WHERE ?
IF NOT NOW….. WHEN ?
WE HAVE BEEN AT WAR FOR 10 YEARS … LETS END IT …. ANY IDEAS ??
WHEN I GO EAST I RESPECT THE CULTURE AND DISCIPLINE
WHEN I GO WEST I RESPECT THE FREEDOM
WHEN IN ROME DO AS THE ROMANS DO.
I HAVE LEARNED THAT GOOD AND BAD ARE NOT THE SAME EVERWHERE
BECAUSE PEOPLE WANT DIFFERENT THINGS WE CAN SETTLE THIS.
POSSESSION IS 9/10 OF THE LAW AND THE ISRAELIS HAVE POSESSION AND THEREFORE DO NOT NEED TO NEGOTIATE… BUT THEY COULD MAKE A DEAL UNDER ISLAMIC LAW THAT WILL GET PEACE FOR 100 YEARS. 
PAY THE PALESTINIANS THE KORANIC FEE FOR THE OCCUPIED AREAS.
SIMPLE ?
Here’s the definition of Islamophobia:  “Someone who has studied Islam, its core religious texts and its history, and understands it for what it is.”
Here is what some Islamophobes (rational observers of Islam) have said about Islam and Muslims.  Some of the Islamophobes date back 1,400 years to the time shortly after the warlord, Mohammed, was born.
1. Winston Churchill On Islam
“How dreadful are the curses which Mohammedanism lays on its votaries! Besides the fanatical frenzy, which is as dangerous in a man as hydrophobia in a dog, there is this fearful fatalistic apathy. The effects are apparent in many countries. Improvident habits, slovenly systems of agriculture, sluggish methods of commerce, and insecurity of property exist wherever the followers of the Prophet rule or live. A degraded sensualism deprives this life of its grace and refinement; the next of its dignity and sanctity. The fact that in Mohammedan law every woman must belong to some man as his absolute property – either as a child, a wife, or a concubine – must delay the final extinction of slavery until the faith of Islam has ceased to be a great power among men.”
“Individual Moslems may show splendid qualities. Thousands become the brave and loyal soldiers of the Queen; all know how to die; but the influence of the religion paralyses the social development of those who follow it. No stronger retrograde force exists in the world. Far from being moribund, Mohammedanism is a militant and proselytizing faith. It has already spread throughout Central Africa, raising fearless warriors at every step; and were it not that Christianity is sheltered in the strong arms of science – the science against which it had vainly struggled – the civilisation of modern Europe might fall, as fell the civilisation of ancient Rome.”
2. John Quincy Adams on Islam
“The precept of the Koran is, perpetual war against all who deny, that Mahomet is the prophet of God. The vanquished may purchase their lives, by the payment of tribute; the victorious may be appeased by a false and delusive promise of peace; and the faithful follower of the prophet, may submit to the imperious necessities of defeat: but the command to propagate the Moslem creed by the sword is always obligatory, when it can be made effective. The commands of the prophet may be performed alike, by fraud, or by force.”
3. John Wesley on Islam
“Ever since the religion of Islam appeared in the world, the espousers of it…have been as wolves and tigers to all other nations, rending and tearing all that fell into their merciless paws, and grinding them with their iron teeth; that numberless cities are raised from the foundation, and only their name remaining; that many countries, which were once as the garden of God, are now a desolate wilderness; and that so many once numerous and powerful nations are vanished from the earth! Such was, and is at this day, the rage, the fury, the revenge, of these destroyers of human kind.”
4. Hilaire Belloc on Islam
“Will not perhaps the temporal power of Islam return and with it the menace of an armed Mohammedan world, which will shake off the domination of Europeans – still nominally Christian – and reappear as the prime enemy of our civilization? The future always comes as a surprise, but political wisdom consists in attempting at least some partial judgment of what that surprise may be. And for my part I cannot but believe that a main unexpected thing of the future is the return of Islam.”
5. Bishop Fulton J Sheen on Islam
“Today (1950), the hatred of the Moslem countries against the West is becoming hatred against Christianity itself. Although the statesmen have not yet taken it into account, there is still grave danger that the temporal power of Islam may return and, with it, the menace that it may shake off a West which has ceased to be Christian, and affirm itself as a great anti-Christian world Power.”
6. Patriarch Cyrus of Alexandria on Islam
“I am afraid that God has sent these men to lay waste the world”. 
7. Gregory Palamus of Thessalonica on Islam
“For these impious people, hated by God and infamous, boast of having got the better of the Romans by their love of God…they live by the bow, the sword and debauchery, finding pleasure in taking slaves, devoting themselves to murder, pillage, spoil and not only do they commit these crimes, but even – what an aberration – they believe that God approves of them. This is what I think of them, now that I know precisely about their way of life.”
8. William Eaton on Islam
“Considered as a nation, they are deplorably wretched, because they have no property in the soil to inspire an ambition to cultivate it. They are abject slaves to the despotism of their government, and they are humiliated by tyranny, the worst of all tyrannies, the despotism of priestcraft. They live in more solemn fear of the frowns of a bigot who has been dead and rotten above a thousand years, than of the living despot whose frown would cost them their lives. The ignorance, superstitious tradition and civil and religious tyranny, which depress the human mind here, exclude improvement of every kind.”
9. John Quincy Adams on Islam
“In the seventh century of the Christian era, a wandering Arab of the lineage of Hagar [i.e., Muhammad], the Egyptian, combining the powers of transcendent genius, with the preternatural energy of a fanatic, and the fraudulent spirit of an impostor, proclaimed himself as a messenger from Heaven, and spread desolation and delusion over an extensive portion of the earth. Adopting from the sublime conception of the Mosaic law, the doctrine of one omnipotent God; he connected indissolubly with it, the audacious falsehood, that he was himself his prophet and apostle. Adopting from the new Revelation of Jesus, the faith and hope of immortal life, and of future retribution, he humbled it to the dust by adapting all the rewards and sanctions of his religion to the gratification of the sexual passion. He poisoned the sources of human felicity at the fountain, by degrading the condition of the female sex, and the allowance of polygamy; and he declared undistinguishing and exterminating war, as a part of his religion, against all the rest of mankind.”
“THE ESSENCE OF HIS DOCTRINE WAS VIOLENCE AND LUST: TO EXALT THE BRUTAL OVER THE SPIRITUAL PART OF HUMAN NATURE (Adams’s capital letters). Between these two religions, thus contrasted in their characters, a war of twelve hundred years has already raged. The war is yet flagrant. While the merciless and dissolute dogmas of the false prophet shall furnish motives to human action, there can never be peace upon earth, and goodwill towards men.” 
10. Lord Tebbit on Islam
“The Muslim religion is so unreformed since it was created that nowhere in the Muslim world has there been any real advance in science, or art or literature, or technology in the last 500 years.”
11. Vernon Richards on Islam
“The true Islamic concept of peace goes something like this:’Peace comes through submission to Muhammad and his concept of Allah'(i.e. Islam). As such the Islamic concept of peace, meaning making the whole world Muslim, is actually a mandate for war. It was inevitable and unavoidable that the conflict would eventually reach our borders, and so it has.”
12. Andre Servier on Islam
“Islam was not a torch, as has been claimed, but an extinguisher. Conceived in a barbarous brain for the use of a barbarous people, it was – and it remains – incapable of adapting itself to civilization. Wherever it has dominated, it has broken the impulse towards progress and checked the evolution of society.”
13. Theodore Roosevelt on Islam
“The Greeks who triumphed at Marathon and Salamis did a work without which the world would have been deprived of the social value of Plato and Aristotle, of Aeschylus, Herodotus, and Thucydides. The civilization of Europe, America, and Australia exists today at all only because of the victories of civilized man over the enemies of civilization, because the victories stretching through the centuries from the days of Miltiades and Themistocles to those of Charles Martel in the eighth century and those of John Sobieski in the seventeenth century.”
“During the thousand years that included the careers of the Frankish soldier and the Polish king, the Christians of Asia and Africa proved unable to wage successful war with the Moslem conquerors; and in consequence Christianity practically vanished from the two continents; and today nobody can find in them any ‘social values’ whatever, in the sense in which we use the words, so far as the sphere of Mohammedan influence. There are such ‘social values’ today in Europe, America, and Australia only because during those thousand years the Christians of Europe possessed the warlike power to do what the Christians of Asia and Africa had failed to do – that is, to beat back the Moslem invader.”
Churchill advocated using gas bombs against Iraq in the 1920’s. This is mild compared to Israel’s virtual incineration of Gaza in 2008.
Arafat-
1. Your definition of Islamophobia makes no sense. Here, I’ll give you some help: -phobia, via Latin from Greek means “extreme or irrational fear or dislike of a specified thing or group”
2. A bunch of dead white guys talking about ‘ze moslems’ as if they were aliens, or at least some unworthy subspecies doesn’t exactly a cogent argument make.
““From a rational view, the divestment actions being attempted at the moment are thinly veiled anti-Semitism,” said Melamed”…
There’s nothing “rational” about this point of view, but something quite fanatical.
In politics there’s a simple maxim: “the first one to mention Hitler loses.” This should be supplemented by another: “the first one to accuse anti-Zionists of anti-Semitism loses.”
Apart from anything else, you’re crying wolf and making the anti-Semitism accusation useless – a dangerous thing to do when that particular pathology hasn’t entirely disappeared.
However, the new anti-Semitism is Islamophobia. Please, Melamed, turn your attention to this scourge instead of defending the indefensible.
Lloyd’s had one Guiness too many.  Is he following in the famous Irish tradition of brain-numbing via too much whisky?
spme.net/cgi-bin/articles.cgi?ID=5142
Diane,
They don’t hate Jews.  
frontpagemag.com/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=33355
Now do you understand?
Some straight talk from one of our new congressmen.  
Lloyd won’t like it because it is true.  lloyd’s currency of trade is lies.
youtube.com/user/IslamistTube#p/f/17/TkGQmCZjJ0k
Lloyd’s heros:
frontpagemag.com/2010/06/02/chomsky-america-israel-and-the-left/
I wonder what lloyd says about this?
spme.net/cgi-bin/articles.cgi?ID=6889
Oh, yeah.  I almost forgot.  We’re talking about Lloyd.
Are they talking about lloyd here?
spme.net/cgi-bin/articles.cgi?ID=6889
Of course they are.
Lloyd, honestly, drop the hate.  Just drop it.  For you to perpetuate this type of negativity, racism and sheer hatred makes it clear to the USC audience that you have no credibility in academia, or in any other arena.
Stop singling out Israel, stop supporting Hamas, and stop bringing Jihadist values to our campus.  If you call yourself pro-Palestinian, be that– don’t be like the rest of the Arab world who uses the Palestinians as a pawn, through which to try to destroy Israel.    
No one thinks Israel is perfect, but you and SJP are simply negative, problem-oriented radicals who worsen the sitaution for everyone.  
Please, consider endulging in a dose of reality.  Its almost 2011.  Drop this modern blood libel, stop preaching the demonization of Israel, and take part in actions that are moderate, rational and positive. 
And stop giving USC a bad name– Stop dirtying USC’s reputation with your Berkeley nonsense.
This proposal is focused exactly where it should be:
on the brutal, decades-long occupation of Palestinian territories and the institutions that directly participate in it. Though I’m sure no effort to the contrary will be spared by the usual parties, I think it is going to be very difficult to portray this proposal as anything but a call for the recognition of Palestinian national rights and sovereignty.
The “occupation” is not the cause of the conflict. Before there was any occupation there were Arab attacks against Jews in the Holy Land in 1920, 1921, 1929, 1936, 1947, 1948…The root cause of the conflict is that Arab society rejects a large Jewish presence in the Middle East, and rejects the notion that the Land of Israel is the rightful homeland of the Jews.
There was a large Jewish presence before 1948 in Egyot and in Iraq. They were there for many years with no problems.
It is the presence of a violent racist state called “Israel” that is the problem.
Boycott “Israel”.
Your viewpoint shows that the divestment campaign is not about promoting peace. It is about destroying Israel and the Jewish community there.
Sammy G-
No one said they wanted to destroy Israel. No one said that they want to destroy the Jewish community there.  You can’t just say “You said X which obviously means Y”.
The BDS campaign is not called the “Kill Jews” campaign, you wanna know why? Because it’s not the “Kill Jews” campaign.
Please, instead of making arguments that bear no logic, let’s talk facts.
Thanks, all.
Since when is anti-Israel=anti-Jew?
Me personally I love the Jews; not so much the Israel.
And I really don’t understand how saying “I disagree with what this nation is doing, so through non-violent means I am going to make an intellectual argument using economic coercion” exactly fits the “anti-Semites trying to make their sick ideology appear mainstream” description.
Charlotte-
I appreciate both your enthusiasm, and your well-spaced paragraphs, but on content, we may have to disagree.
Your point about Hamas is correct; they never have voted at the UN, but let’s not forget that they won fair and free elections to be the Palestinian Authority leaders, but were never allowed to rule after the Fatah-executed, US and Tel Aviv-backed putsch.
Beyond that, we can debate the relative merits of democratic systems or ethnocratic systems, but it’s clear that in no one’s definition would Israel fall under the former category. Just one (of many) examples to illustrate my point: University tuition is heavily subsidized by the state, but in order to qualify for these subsidies, one must have served in the army. Because, for many Arab Israelis (Arabs of 48) policing Gaza, the border areas, or Arab towns is nearly unconscionable, given what has happened, the army is no longer a viable choice for a certain chunk of the population. University for some then becomes prohibitively expensive, and Israel is shown to be as much a democracy as Mississippi under Jim Crow. Yes, on paper, the group has the right to something, but in reality, do they have the SAME right?
Simply “striving” to give all of its citizens equal rights, as you say, does not a democracy make.
What Israel is, is a reality. The sooner the Arab parties come to terms with that, the sooner we can have a solution- be it with one state or two. But in the meantime, please, let’s not make Israel into something it’s not. Such posturing does not help progress the issue–something that is in the best interests of both the Israelis and the Palestinians.
CE – Your comment is yet another example of the rampant disinformation pro-Palestinian groups distribute on Israel. University tuition is indeed heavily subsidized by the state of Israel, but is identical for any student, regardless of military service. It is true that some independent organizations might offer scholarships for people who have performed military service, but that’s their right and is no different than what happens in the US. By the way, other organizations only offer assistance to Arabs.
Prof. Lloyd, as a Jewess I no longer feel safe on British campuses, thanks to people like you whipping up anti-Israel hysteria which is completely unfounded on the real facts on the ground, and which is used by the more thuggish elements of the student bodies in the UK to result in creating an atmosphere where Jewish students are routinely intimidated and subjected to hate speech on the best of days, and actual physical violence on the worst. Thank you very much for bringing one of the darker and more embarrassing aspects of British University life across the pond with you and allowing it to flourish here at USC.
Well put, Steve. 
The U.N. report that Max mentions is highly controversial as to its accuracy.
I see that Max also pointedly ignored your point that Israeli divestment would hurt the Palestinian people as well. 
And claiming that Hamas and Hezbollah (and the Iranian president, for that matter) are not threatening to wipe out Israel is a blatant, wrongheaded LIE.
170 Palestinian civil society organizations, from trade unions to churches and mosques, havs supported the call for BDS.  The real destruction of Palestinian well-being comes from the Occupation and the Israeli control of the economy, exploitation of Palestinian water, land and resources, and its control of exports and imports,destruction of Palestinian agriculture, and so forth, not from BDS.  The same crocodile tears were shed when the African National Congress and other South African anti-apartheid organizations called for sanctions against South Africa.  It is a completely hypocritical red herring.
And such divestment did indeed hurt poor people in those areas, “colles”, but you are certainly correct that that is not the primary reason so oppose BDS. The primary reason to oppose BDS is that it is just another tactic of the movement that hates Jews and wishes to wipe Israel off the map. The constant drumbeat of misinformation about oppression of Palestinians in Israel is growing tiresome.
Every democracy in the world also demands that people be allowed to live in peace and security and not be threatened by external forces that are determined to destroy their very existence. Where is the Palestinian voice that asks Hamas, Hezbollah, and Iran to recognize Israel as a democratic nation and assists in the ending of missile attacks on Israeli civilians? Where are the other Middle East nations who have a historical connection to the Palestinian people and why are they only making this Israel’s problem? Where is the Palestinian voice that demands these Middle East nations invest in their economic development rather than bombs and missiles intended to destroy Israel? Israel’s peace and security must be guaranteed and recognized and the other Middle East nations must take an active, helpful role to bring peace to the region.  Divestment in Israel would be an insidious and underhanded effort that will only hurt the Palestinian people who rely on the Israeli economy for their economic livelihood.
Hi Steve,
Whenever UN resolutions have been passed and on many other occasions, Iran and Hammas (and Hezbollah I think) have repeatedly voted for a two-state solution which would RECOGNIZE ISRAEL AS A DEMOCRATIC STATE.  The trouble comes when Israel tries to claim to be a Jewish State, by and for Jewish people, which necessitates the marginalization of non-Jewish people.
Democracy is Israel’s for the taking if that is indeed what it wants.  If Israel did choose to be a democratic state instead of a Jewish one, 95% of violence targeted against Israel would stop immediately and people could live in peace.
Max, 
First of all, I think you need to get your facts straight. As far as I’m concerned Hamas has never been able to vote on a UN Resolution, I don’t see how they could considering that no Palestinian state is a member of the United Nations. Furthermore, Hamas has never voted on or agreed to a two-state solution. 
Now that that is cleared up… 
Why is it that other democratic countries in the world can call themselves Islamic democratic states, Christian democratic states, etc. and yet Israel, the one and only Jewish state, cannot refer to itself as a Jewish democratic state? 
I think it needs to be clear that Israel is not a theocratic state, Jewish laws are not enforced as state law. However, Israel is called a Jewish state because it has Jewish influence. This doesn’t mean that only Jews can live there or that anyone who isn’t Jewish is marginalized. All Israeli citizens have equal rights according to Israel’s Declaration of Independence which reads that the State of Israel “will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, race or sex…” Now I can’t say that everyone in Israel is treated equally, but I can’t say that of any current democracy, including the United States (I mean it took almost 100 years for black people to given the right to vote, and they still aren’t treated equally). This is something that every democracy strives for, just like Israel. 
Israel can be a Jewish Democratic state that strives for all its’ citizens to have equal rights under the law and has the ability to exercise those rights. Israel has every right to call itself a Jewish state or a national homeland for the Jewish people, and just like every other democracy they have the right to decide who can become a citizen of that country.
I hope one day the Palestinians have a democratic state called Palestine and that the people currently residing in the West Bank and Gaza strip, Jews and Arabs alike, will be grants citizenship and given equal rights. 
Democratic countries can have a religious influence and background and still be a democracy, it doesn’t have to be one or the other. The United States is one clear example of this. 
I think you need to think long and hard about why Israel is really the target of so much violence. Is it really because it isn’t democratic? or is it simply because it is called a Jewish state? Jews have been persecuted throughout history in nearly every place they’ve lived, why would Israel be any different? The only difference is that it comes from beyond our borders and not from within.
I already tried once to respond to this nonsense, and my comment was removed by the moderator. Perhaps this is because we aren’t allowed to post links to other articles as part of our comments? In any event, here’s my previous comment, as best I can remember, sans links to the supporting articles in the Wall Street Journal and Haaretz.
Though Hamas has never voted in the United Nations, it’s not difficult to assess their support for the two-state solution roughly outlined by international consensus. One only has to search “Hamas 1967 borders” to find evidence of this support. Conversely, one only has to search “Likud platform” to find evidence of the opposite position, openly advocated without even the slightest hint of protest. Moreover, the point should be obvious. The suggestion that anyone, even those who cloak their motives in the language of a militant interpretation of Islam, after being granted a state in accordance with basic international law, would still be interested in a military conflict with the overwhelming hegemon in the Middle East (Israel) and the World (the U.S.), is absolutely ridiculous. The suggestion that the Iranian regime would seriously attempt an attack of any kind, nuclear or otherwise, on Israel is equally ridiculous. You should be embarrassed to have made such statements publicly. 
Meanwhile, actual policies of extreme aggression are being carried out right in front of you, and this somehow eludes the same outrage directed at the rhetorical flourishes of an impotent and rather opportunistic politician in Iran.
Max:
Perhaps a well read individual in the UK can enlighten you. I’m sure you would take the position that Israel is a ‘rogue’ state in this debate but I guess it depends how you define ‘rogue’. Mr. Latner’s position will hopefully get the hatred of Israel as a Jewish nation out of your system.
___________________________________________________
The Cambridge Union Society held a debate on the motion that ”
 Israel is a rogue state” on
October 21st.
The debater, Gabriel Latner, gave a copy of his speech to
 Mondoweiss with the request that it not be edited. I am
reproducing it here, only by adding paragraph spacing and slight grammatical
corrections where it seemed appropriate. The square bracket comments were
his, written afterwards.
  _____  
This is a war of ideals, and the other speakers here tonight are rightfully,
idealists. I’m not. I’m a realist. I’m here to win. I have a single goal
this evening – to have at least a plurality of you walk out of the ‘Aye’
door. I face a singular challenge – most, if not all, of you have already
made up your minds.
This issue is too polarizing for the vast majority of you not to already
have a set opinion. I’d be willing to bet that half of you strongly support
the motion, and half of you strongly oppose it. I want to win, and we’re
destined for a tie. I’m tempted to do what my fellow speakers are going to
do – simply rehash every bad thing the Israeli government has ever done in
an attempt to satisfy those of you who agree with them. And perhaps they’ll
even guilt one of you rare undecided into voting for the proposition, or
more accurately, against Israel. It would be so easy to twist the meaning
and significance of international ‘laws’ to make Israel look like a criminal
state. But that’s been done to death. It would be easier still to play to
your sympathy, with personalised stories of Palestinian suffering. And they
can give very eloquent speeches on those issues. But the truth is, that
treating people badly, whether they’re your citizens or an occupied nation,
does not make a state’ rogue’. If it did, Canada, the US, and Australia
would all be rogue states based on how they treat their indigenous
populations. Britain’s treatment of the Irish would easily qualify them to
wear this sobriquet. These arguments, while emotionally satisfying, lack
intellectual rigour.
More importantly, I just don’t think we can win with those arguments. It
won’t change the numbers. Half of you will agree with them, half of you
won’t. So I’m going to try something different, something a little
unorthodox. I’m going to try and convince the die-hard Zionists and Israel
supporters here tonight, to vote for the proposition. By the end of my
speech – I will have presented 5 pro-Israel arguments that show Israel is,
if not a ‘rogue state’ than at least ‘rogueish’. 
Let me be clear. I will not be arguing that Israel is ‘bad’. I will not be
arguing that it doesn’t deserve to exist. I won’t be arguing that it behaves
worse than every other country. I will only be arguing that Israel is
‘rogue’. 
The word ‘rogue’ has come to have exceptionally damning connotations. But
the word itself is value-neutral. The OED defines rogue as ‘Aberrant,
anomalous; misplaced, occurring (esp. in isolation) at an unexpected place
or time ‘, while a dictionary from a far greater institution gives this
definition ‘behaving in ways that are not expected or not normal, often in a
destructive way ‘. These definitions, and others, centre on the idea of
anomaly – the unexpected or uncommon. Using this definition, a rogue state
is one that acts in an unexpected, uncommon or aberrant manner. A state that
behaves exactly like Israel. 
The first argument is statistical. The fact that Israel is a Jewish state
alone makes it anomalous enough to be dubbed a rogue state: There are 195
countries in the world. Some are Christian, some Muslim, some are secular.
Israel is the only country in the world that is Jewish. Or, to speak mathmo
for a moment, the chance of any randomly chosen state being Jewish is
0.0051% . In comparison the chance of a UK lotto ticket winning at least £10
is 0.017% – more than twice as likely. Israel’s Jewishness is a statistical
abberation. 
The second argument concerns Israel’s humanitarianism, in
particular,Israel’s response to a refugee crisis. Not the Palestinian
refugee crisis – for I am sure that the other speakers will cover that – but
the issue of Darfurian refugees. Everyone knows that what happened, and is
still happening in Darfur, is genocide, whether or not the UN and the Arab
League will call it such. [I actually hoped that Mr Massih would be able
speak about this – he’s actually somewhat of an expert on the Crisis in
Darfur, in fact it’s his expertise that has called him away to represent the
former Dictator of Sudan while he is being investigated by the ICC.] There
has been a mass exodus from Darfur as the oppressed seek safety. They have
not had much luck. Many have gone north to Egypt – where they are treated
despicably. The brave make a run through the desert in a bid to make it to
Israel. Not only do they face the natural threats of the Sinai, they are
also used for target practice by the Egyptian soldiers patrolling the
border. Why would they take the risk? Because in Israel they are treated
with compassion – they are treated as the refugees that they are – and
perhaps Israel’s cultural memory of genocide is to blame. The Israeli
government has even gone so far as to grant several hundred Darfurian
refugees Citizenship. This alone sets Israel apart from the rest of the
world. 
But the real point of distinction is this: The IDF sends out soldiers and
medics to patrol the Egyptian border. They are sent looking for refugees
attempting to cross into Israel. Not to send them back into Egypt, but to
save them from dehydration, heat exhaustion, and Egyptian bullets. Compare
that to the US’s reaction to illegal immigration across their border with
Mexico. The American government has arrested private individuals for giving
water to border crossers who were dying of thirst – and here the Israeli
government is sending out its soldiers to save illegal immigrants. To call
that sort of behavior anomalous is an understatement. 
My Third argument is that the Israeli government engages in an activity
which the rest of the world shuns — it negotiates with terrorists. Forget
the late PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat, a man who died with blood all over his
hands – they’re in the process of negotiating with terrorists as we speak.
Yasser Abed Rabbo is one of the lead PLO negotiators that has been sent to
the peace talks with Israel. Abed Rabbo also used to be a leader of the
PFLP- an organisation of ‘freedom fighters’ that, under Abed Rabbo’s
leadership, engaged in such freedom promoting activities as killing 22
Israeli high school students. And the Israeli government is sending
delegates to sit at a table with this man, and talk about peace. And the
world applauds. You would never see the Spanish government in peace talks
with the leaders of the ETA – the British government would never negotiate
with Thomas Murphy. And if President Obama were to sit down and talk about
peace with Osama Bin Laden, the world would view this as insanity. But
Israel can do the exact same thing – and earn international praise in the
process. That is the dictionary definition of rogue – behaving in a way that
is unexpected, or not normal. 
Another part of dictionary definition is behaviour or activity ‘occuring at
an unexpected place or time’. When you compare Israel to its regional
neighbours, it becomes clear just how roguish Israel is. And here is the
fourth argument: Israel has a better human rights record than any of its
neighbours. At no point in history, has there ever been a liberal democratic
state in the Middle East- except for Israel. Of all the countries in the
Middle East, Israel is the only one where the LGBT community enjoys even a
small measure of equality. In Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, and Syria,
homosexual conduct is punishable by flogging, imprisonment, or both. But
homosexuals there get off pretty lightly compared to their counterparts in
Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen, who are put to death. Israeli homosexuals can
adopt, openly serve in the army, enter civil unions, and are protected by
exceptionally strongly worded ant-discrimination legislation. Beats a death
sentence. In fact, it beats America. 
Israel’s protection of its citizens’ civil liberties has earned
international recognition. Freedom House is an NGO that releases an annual
report on democracy and civil liberties in each of the 195 countries in the
world. It ranks each country as ‘Free’ ‘Partly Free’ or ‘Not Free’. In the
Middle East, Israel is the only country that has earned designation as a
‘free’ country. Not surprising given the level of freedom afforded to
citizens in say, Lebanon- a country designated ‘partly free’, where there
are laws against reporters criticizing not only the Lebanese government, but
the Syrian regime as well. [I’m hoping Ms Booth will speak about this, given
her experience working as a ‘journalist’ for Iran,] Iran is a country given
the rating of ‘not free’, putting it alongside China, Zimbabwe, North Korea,
and Myanmar. In Iran, [as Ms Booth I hoped would have said in her speech],
there is a special ‘Press Court’ which prosecutes journalists for such
heinous offences as criticizing the ayatollah, reporting on stories damaging
the ‘foundations of the Islamic republic’ , using ‘suspicious (i.e. western)
sources’, or insulting islam. Iran is the world leader in terms of jailed
journalists, with 39 reporters (that we know of) in prison as of 2009. They
also kicked out almost every Western journalist during the 2009 election. [I
don’t know if Ms Booth was affected by that] I guess we can’t really expect
more from a theocracy. Which is what most countries in the Middle East are.
Theocracies and Autocracies. But Israel is the sole, the only, the rogue,
democracy. Out of every country in the Middle East, only in Israel do
anti-government protests and reporting go unquashed and uncensored. 
I have one final argument – the last nail in the opposition’s coffin- and
its sitting right across the aisle. Mr Ran Gidor’s presence here is the all
evidence any of us should need to confidently call Israel a rogue state. For
those of you who have never heard of him, Mr Gidor is a political counsellor
attached to Israel’s embassy in London. He’s the guy the Israeli government
sent to represent them to the UN. He knows what he’s doing. And he’s here
tonight. And it’s incredible. Consider, for a moment, what his presence here
means. The Israeli government has signed off,to allow one of their senior
diplomatic representatives to participate in a debate on their very
legitimacy. That’s remarkable. Do you think for a minute, that any other
country would do the same? If the Yale University Debating Society were to
have a debate where the motion was ‘This house believes Britain is a racist,
totalitarian state that has done irrevocable harm to the peoples of the
world’, that Britain would allow any of its officials to participate? No.
Would China participate in a debate about the status of Taiwan? Never. And
there is no chance in hell that an American government official would ever
be permitted to argue in a debate concerning its treatment of prisoners at
Guantanamo Bay. But Israel has sent Mr Ran Gidor to argue tonight against [a
‘journalist’ come reality TV star, and myself,] a 19 year old law student
who is entirely unqualified to speak on the issue at hand. 
Every government in the world should be laughing at Israel right now-
because it forgot rule number one. You never add credence to crackpots by
engaging with them. It’s the same reason you won’t see Stephen Hawking or
Richard Dawkins debate David Icke. But Israel is doing precisely that. Once
again, behaving in a way that is unexpected, or not normal. Behaving like a
rogue state. 
That’s five arguments that have been directed at the supporters of Israel.
But I have a minute or two left. And here’s an argument for all of you –
Israel willfully and forcefully disregards international law. In 1981 Israel
destroyed OSIRAK – Sadam Hussein’s nuclear bomb lab. Every government in the
world knew that Hussein was building a bomb. And they did nothing. Except
for Israel. Yes, in doing so they broke international law and custom. But
they also saved us all from a nuclear Iraq. That rogue action should earn
Israel a place of respect in the eyes of all freedom loving peoples. But it
hasn’t. But tonight, while you listen to us prattle on, I want you to
remember something; while you’re here, Khomeini’s Iran is working towards
the Bomb. And if you’re honest with yourself, you know that Israel is the
only country that can, and will, do something about it. Israel will, out of
necessity act in a way that is the not the norm, and you’d better hope that
they do it in a destructive manner. Any sane person would rather a rogue
Israel than a Nuclear Iran. [Except Ms Booth]
Boycott Israeli Apartheid.
Recently, the United Nations investigative report on the flotilla massacre came out with the following findings:
-The force Israel used “was unnecessary, disproportionate, excessive and inappropriate and resulted in the wholly avoidable killing and maiming of a large number of civilian passengers.”
-“at least six of the killings can be characterized as extra-legal, arbitrary and summary executions.”
-The Huffington Post: “The report says Dogan had apparently been “lying on the deck in a conscious or semi-conscious, state for some time” before being shot in his face.”
-Contrary to Israeli claims that their soldiers only responded with live ammunition to an immediate and deadly threat, “live ammunition was used from the helicopter onto the top deck prior to the descent of the soldiers.”
Join the divestment campaign and stop these atrocities.
Thank you! The human rights of Palestinians are worth at least this much.
Israel has 300 atomic bombs and is not in any danger from this campus.
However, Israel’s ability to freely massacre Gaza is in danger from this campaign– and that’s good.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
After teaching at the Marshall School of Business for more than 25 years, a marketing professor has been appointed editor-in-chief of the Journal of Marketing, a prestigious academic journal published by the American Marketing Association.
Beginning July 1, 2011, Gary Frazier will assume the role under a three-year contract.
Back in business · Gary Frazier, a professor at the Marshall School of Business, has been chosen as editor of the Journal of Marketing. - Photo courtesy of Gary Frazier
“My goal is to publish the best work we get. I want the Journal to continue to publish groundbreaking work,” Frazier said.
Frazier first began teaching at the Marshall in 1984. Since then, he’s taught at all levels and is currently teaching MBA and undergraduate students in the marketing department.
“I’ve loved every minute of it. The culture is so great — the students, faculty and the interactions I have with all of them are so incredible,” Frazier said.
In conjunction with teaching, Frazier has been conducting his own research at Marshall, focusing on how knowledge is transferred either through integration in the company or among sales people.
“We’re asking how [companies] ensure the information they want [sales people] to transfer to the consumer is being transferred,” Frazier said.
Before coming to USC, Frazier worked as a consultant for various companies, including General Electric, Coca-Cola and Microsoft, providing expert testimony for these organizations.
“I had reasonable business experience, but my consulting experience has been the most helpful in really learning how marketing is practiced,” Frazier said.
Frazier has been involved with the Journal of Marketing since 1980, when he first began reviewing articles. After serving on the editorial review board for the Journal for 24 years, Frazier became co-editor in 2009.
“All of my reviewing experience and role as a co-editor has been really critical in helping me attain the role I have now as editor,” Frazier said.
As editor of the Journal of Marketing, Frazier will assign three to four reviewers to all submitted articles, where there are several rounds of reviews, edits and recommendations. Ultimately, Frazier will read all articles that are recommended by the reviewers and make the final decision on whether they will be published.
Frazier said his goals for the journal include building its already strong platform, creating a more diverse readership by reaching out to the practitioner audience and being a spokesperson for the journal at conferences worldwide.
“[Frazier] wants to broaden the Journal in terms of getting the word out about what is going on in the marketing world and the important work that’s being done in the field,” said Christopher Bartone, managing editor of journals at the American Marketing Association.
One challenge that Frazier faces, however, is filling six issues a year with nine strong articles in each issue.
“I can’t publish weak articles, but I can’t be too conservative in what I publish either. We have to publish about 10 percent of what we get sent,” Frazier said.
Although Frazier said working under pressure might be one of his biggest fears, his peers believe he can handle the responsibility.
“[Frazier’s] really ambitious approach to the Journal will bring a sense of energy; he’s always engaged with the editors and authors,” Bartone said.
Richard Lutz, vice president of Publications at the American Marketing Association, said Frazier’s vision will help guide the publication and bridge the gap between academics and practitioners.
“[He’s] providing intellectual leadership by having some ideas about the kinds of papers he wants to see,” Lutz said.
With this new position as editor, Frazier said he will have to cut back his teaching schedule at USC, though he will not stop teaching altogether.
“I don’t want to give up teaching; I don’t want to lose touch with students,” Frazier said.
After his three years as editor are completed, Frazier said he plans on teaching at USC again full-time. He said that working as editor will enhance his teaching because he will be learning on the job.
“I’m so charged up about this job,” Frazier said. “This is the best thing that’s happened in my career so far.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
USC’s Institute for Creative Technologies is gearing up for a variety of projects in the upcoming year, which it will organize from a new home — a new building that opened last week.
ICT works to create new and innovative technologies, particularly in the field of virtual reality sector. The institute recently moved from its old Marina Del Rey, Calif., facility into a new building in Playa Vista, a housing and corporate development just north of Los Angeles International Airport.
ICT was started in 1999 in conjunction with the U.S. Army to explore the opportunities for the military by combining fields such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality technologies, the entertainment industry and the game industry.
“One of the unique things about ICT is that we are multidisciplinary — it is truly a place that has engineers and artists housed together, and … a lot of good things are coming out of it,” said Randall Hill Jr., executive director of ICT.
The Army was drawn to USC because of its proximity to Hollywood and the entertainment industry as well as its academic expertise, especially in technical fields, said Todd Richmond, ICT project director.
“ICT is unique … [because] USC is unique,” Richmond said. “It is home to [an] entertainment community, [and it combines] critical mass of not only traditional technical expertise but also creative [expertise].”
Today, ICT is still primarily funded by the military. Its goals include basic and applied research for virtual reality technologies, including designing prototypes and generally trying to create as “real” of experiences as possible in the virtual world, Richmond said.
“Realism doesn’t necessarily mean that it has to be super high-def video and audio … It’s about engagement. [We aim to] create experiences that engage the learner,” Richmond said.
Hill highlighted the institute’s connections with the entertainment industry through its use of storytelling to create a real environment for viewers.
“What we want to do is create experiences that are memorable, and stories are the way people have been doing it since the beginning,” Hill said.
ICT received an acknowledgement from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for its work in the movie industry. Light Stage technologies developed by ICT have been used in movies such as Avatar, King Kong and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
The institute is working on a variety of projects for the upcoming year, focusing on issues from healthcare and social work to movie technology.
On the healthcare and military side, virtual technologies are being used to help treat soldiers with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental conditions. Avatars created by ICT are used to train soldiers at Camp Pendleton and other military training bases.
Projects such as these will not only save money for the military, Richmond said, they will also be essential in saving people’s lives. Hill added that the future of virtual technologies is infinite, and ICT’s work is helping pave the way for a multidisciplinary approach to virtual reality.
ICT is primarily a research institute, meaning it doesn’t offer courses or degrees. Faculty members from many different university departments hold positions at ICT, however, and undergraduates are exposed to the center through their professors.
“A lot of our strength has come from collaborations we’ve had with schools from USC,” Hill said.
The institute also works with student groups on campus and offers a summer internship program for undergraduates. Graduate students have the opportunity to become directly involved with the program through their research.
“We really love the energy that students bring to the place,” Hill said.
Students and faculty will be able to access the new facilities located at the Hughes Aircraft Facility, a building that has a long history of technological innovation, Richmond said.
The facility is a LEED-certified green building and has many cutting edge features. One of the highlights is a projector that displays images in 3-D without the necessity of 3-D glasses for viewers.
The space is very open, Hill said, and is designed for meetings and collaboration. To encourage collaboration, each cubicle has a whiteboard for employees to brainstorm while working.
“It’s a fairly kinetic environment where people are always messing around with things,” Richmond said.
In addition, the facility has more spaces for conferences, meetings and workshops, including a 130-person theater and a variety of open meeting spaces.
The institute also has a satellite location that is more focused on lab space. At this facility, games that mix virtual and physical realities, such as a Wild West Gunslinger game, are created and tested.
“[That location is for] prototyping and projects that need a bigger space — it’s like a big sandbox [for] mixing the physical world and digital world,” Richmond said.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Dan Doperalski | Daily Trojan 
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
This week, consider USC’s school colors to be cardinal, gold and pink —  Victoria’s Secret PINK, that is.
The fashion line is holding clothing drives on campus as part of its “Happy Project,” a nationwide drive intended to help victims of domestic abuse that is taking place at colleges across the country.
Although the drive helps to promote PINK, USC’s efforts are aimed mainly toward helping women in need in Los Angeles.
Clothes for a cause · USC’s donations for the Happy Project will go toward the Downtown Women’s Center, which aids Los Angeles’ homeless. - courtesy of USC Victoria’s Secret Pink Campus Representatives  
All donations made toward the charity will be collected at the end of the week and brought to the Downtown Women’s Center, USC’s specific charity.
The DWC is “a nationally recognized nonprofit organization that provides over 50,000 meals, 47 permanent supportive housing apartments, and a wide array of health, education, and other supportive services to more than 2500 homeless and very low-income women each year,” according to the center’s mission statement. Though the project is mainly a women’s clothing drive, it has been collecting men’s clothing, as well, along with other housing items, such as linens, toiletries and canned goods.
Juniors Lindsey Mathias (public relations) and Riannon Trutanich (broadcast and digital journalism) — the “Pink Campus Representatives” for USC — that they hope the clothing drive will increase student involvement in philanthropy.
Trutanich said she hopes that the campaign can motivate to help out.
“Eighty percent of the women [at the center] are under age 30, so it is a great way to support our local community,” she said.
The way the Happy Project works is simple: Students can drop off their donations at bins located across campus. In exchange for clothing donations, students get free merchandise from the PINK line.
Mathias and Trutanich are in charge of the event on campus, and making sure that students stay engaged and consistent in their donations.. And although the drive has been going on since Oct. 11, the pair is working very hard to make sure the last week is the biggest one yet.
Along with organizing the clothing drive, Mathias and Trutanich are coordinating a variety of activities around campus. The two are trying to generate as much interest in the charity as possible, and are doing so in a variety of ways to attract those who might not usually be willing to donate.
Their main strategy? School spirit.
As an added incentive for donations, the Happy Project is also hosting a competition between USC and UCLA.
The school with the most donations at the end of the project will receive a huge PINK bash sponsored by Victoria’s Secret during the week of the USC-UCLA football game, Mathias said.
Thus far, Mathias and Trutanich have rallied support for the project through its Facebook page and speaking at sorority Monday night dinners. On Wednesday, with the help of their PINK team, they will hold a staffed event in the lobby of New/North residential colleges where students can receive more merchandise in exchange for donations.
“We currently have between 400 and 500 donations,” Mathias said. As of now, other universities across the nation have around 2,000 to 3,000 donations each, according to Mathias.
Although these numbers are not particularly promising for USC’s efforts, the campus representatives hope that the USC student body will be motivated by its deep-rooted competitive spirit to beat the Bruins and will get out and make the donations.
Mathias and Trutanich urged students to keep an eye out for the PINK collection bins around campus, clear some space in their closets and give the Trojans one more bragging right over the Bruins.
As the Happy Project’s Facebook page sums it up: “Give love, get Pink and beat UCLA.”
Thanks for all of the support with the Happy Project! We love USC & VS PINK!!!
Way to go Riannon :)
Great job girls!  What an awesome way to represent USC!!  Fight on Victoria’s Secret.!!!
Good for you Lindsey!!! I”m so proud of you!! Keep up the good work!!! xoxoxoxo
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Dear James Franco,
Look at how far you’ve come. First it was that stint on Judd Apatow’s short-lived Freaks and Geeks. Then you surprised us with some commendable method acting in James Dean. And you did some decent work in your role as Harry Osborn in the Spider-Man trilogy — well, maybe not the third movie.
Photo courtesy of Fox Searchlight
But with all that success, we thought you might have lost your way: Tristan and Isolde, James? Annapolis? Perhaps James Dean was a bit of a flash in the pan, some said. We can’t lie; sometimes it seemed that you had grown content walking the path of the pretty-boy lead man. No one would have blamed you.
It was with a slight surprise that we noticed you in Judd Apatow’s film Pineapple Express. You, as a happy-go-lucky weed dealer, prone to bumbling moments and silliness involving innovations in joint technology? It was new. And we liked it.
Milk was another surprise. We didn’t necessarily pin you as being perfect for the role of politician Harvey Milk’s gay lover, but it happened. And you pulled it off.
But nothing could have prepared us for your role as Aron Ralston in Danny Boyle’s new film 127 Hours. Ralston’s true-life story of being trapped in the Utah desert — arm pinned by a boulder — needed a powerhouse performance to work on screen.
As the only major character in the film, whoever played Ralston needed a fearless performance to captivate audiences for the entire ride. We needed to love the character. And you, James, you stepped up to the plate and delivered the performance of a lifetime.
Congrats.
Let’s face it. This movie could have fallen flat on its face. Being a true story, everyone already knew the ending: Ralston went hiking, fell into a crevice and got his arm pinned forcing him to take drastic action. 127 Hours really wasn’t going to be about what happened; it was going to be about Ralston’s experience.
This is where you stepped in. From the minute you arrived on screen, it just felt right. Ralston’s life-on-the-edge, no-strings-attached attitude was perfectly played, all bright eyes and smiles.
But you also communicated Ralston’s desperation, his anxiety and his wild-eyed paranoia. You somehow effortlessly managed to pair your own agony with chuckle-inducing, cornball laughs. And that bloodied, spittle-laced finale was the stuff of legend. We all knew what was coming, but the triumph still lifted our hearts into the stratosphere.
And how was working with director Danny Boyle? Not to take anything away from you, but Boyle’s filmmaking was simply astonishing, which in turn let your performance shine as bright as it could. Not just any director can be so courageous with his stylistic decisions, after all. The editing, effects and cinematography could have teetered over into the abyss of the pretentious. But it didn’t.
Instead, Boyle’s directing expertly framed Ralston’s subjective affair, pulling depths of emotion and history seemingly out of nowhere. The little details — an imaginary laugh track as Ralston pretends to be on a talk show, or the intricate, seamless cross-cutting of past and present — made it possible for us to sympathize with Ralston’s perspective.
And so when his mind stumbles into the schizophrenic, we are right there, gasping, cringing and laughing with you on screen. The suspense could have been suffocating but instead was managed by slivers of comedy. And piece by piece, Boyle reveals your character to us, simultaneously mirroring Ralston’s own self-discovery.
So many directors these days can’t seem to understand that style and form alone is meaningless. We are thankful that Boyle displayed that he is not one of these clueless filmmakers, poring over jump cuts and filters without finding a purpose for such effort. It felt good watching a movie that worked on both levels: as a piece of entertainment and as a piece of critical art. It’s not something that should be taken for granted.
Consider, for instance, all those clever metaphors. The Nalgene bottle sitting in the sink, overflowing with water. That eternally present camcorder, a self-reflexive nod to the art of filmmaking. The montages of crowds in motion that bookended the film. The crow that regularly flew over Ralston’s head.
Did Boyle ever mention all these little clues to you, James? Don’t worry, you don’t have to tell us what they mean. It’s not a bad thing for the audience to have to think once in a while.
By the time the credits rolled, it felt like this movie came together exactly how it was supposed to. It’s a rare thing when real-life stories can be told so honestly without overreaching their realistic boundaries, as some Hollywood films do.
We have you, Boyle, and all parties involved to thank for bringing Ralston’s astounding story to the big screen.
But best of all, 127 Hours wasn’t just about Ralston. It taught us a little about our own intricate moments of brilliance, along with our failures as human beings. Selfishness alongside determination alongside stubbornness alongside revelation.
It probably wasn’t an easy film to make, and it certainly wasn’t an effortless film to watch. At the end of the day, however, you were the key to the execution of it all. And you made it happen, James. Thanks.
Sincerely,
The audience
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Like its famously unshorn heroine, Disney’s soon-to-be-released Tangled is long on heart and charm, just as you might expect. Unlike Rapunzel, however, Tangled is definitely not in need of a cut: Every minute of the movie delivers on the promise of fast-paced entertainment made early on by the film’s ad campaign.
Hairy · Tangled is a revision of the classic Rapunzel fairy tale. - Photo courtesy of Walt Disney Pictures 
Disney took considerable liberties with its source material when adapting Tangled, which was given an exclusive advance screening Sunday at Norris Cinema Theatre, and the final product is all the more engaging for its deviations from the well-trodden plot of the original fairy tale.
Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm’s names might follow screenwriter Dan Fogelman’s in the writing credits for the movie, but true responsibility for the film’s liveliness and undeniable charm lies not with the fairy-tale-writing Brothers Grimm, but with the well-oiled hit machine that is Walt Disney Animation Studios.
Rakish bandit Flynn Ryder (voice by Zachary Levi of NBC’s Chuck) opens the movie with a revisionist backstory to the familiar tale of Rapunzel. In co-directors Nathan Greno and Byron Howard’s version, an old hag with a serious magic flower habit abducts the newborn Rapunzel from her parents, the king and queen, after discovering that strands of the baby’s uncut hair had become the only place she could get her age-defying fix (much to said hag’s dismay, the magic flower was uprooted to save the queen’s life during childbirth, which gives Rapunzel’s hair the flower power).
Bent on protecting her newly acquired source of eternal youth, the wicked Mother Gothel (Donna Murphy) sequesters young Rapunzel (Mandy Moore) in a tall tower and tends to her as one would with a home garden but without the pruning — cutting her hair, it turns out, nullifies its magic restorative properties.
Flynn’s and Rapunzel’s paths cross when the thief seeks refuge from pursuing authorities in Rapunzel’s tower, and the cooped-up one-time princess convinces him to be her guide on a “forbidden road trip” to the kingdom.
Although Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm would have been very low-hassle collaborators in any case — you can only be so protective of your story after having been dead for more than a century — they likely would have been particularly at ease putting one of their most familiar folk tales in such capable hands as those of executive producer John Lasseter and composer Alan Menken, two established Disney veterans.
Lasseter, a longtime Pixar producer dating back to some of the company’s earliest shorts, and Menken, the man behind the Academy Award-winning scores from The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin and Pocahontas, have time and again proved their Midas touch on every Disney project with which they’ve been involved.
Their influence is strongly felt and consistent with earlier work.
Menken’s songs often hark back to his earlier work, especially The Little Mermaid — Rapunzel’s opening tune, a pining-for-freedom pop number called “When Will My Life Begin?” clearly evokes Ariel’s lamentation of her leglessness, “Part of Your World,” just as Mother Gothel’s menacing “Mother Knows Best” is an almost perfect match for sea witch Ursula’s unforgettable “Poor Unfortunate Souls.”
And Lasseter brings his Pixar-ian sensibilities to the Disney movie, which somehow results in the world of Tangled resembling the land of Far, Far Away from Dreamworks’ Shrek franchise. The animation was definitely enhanced by the movie’s 3-D effects, which might represent the most tasteful and effective execution of 3-D to date in any movie.
All aesthetic similarities to those computer-animated Barbie movies aside, Tangled is replete with innovations all its own. Tangled represents Disney’s first all-out exploitation of the comedic potential of horses and chameleons; Maximus, the white stallion ridden by one of the palace guards, is a sleuth bloodhound trapped in a horse’s body, and Rapunzel’s lone companion in her tower is a chameleon named Pascal, whose quick-shifting color changes are good for more than a few laughs throughout the movie.
In the role of Mother Gothel, Murphy offers another innovation with her all-new take on the “evil stepmother” stock character. Admittedly, she’s more of an evil hostage-taking child-abductor than an evil stepmother, but her passive-aggressive brand of comedy is perhaps even more off-putting than the straight villain.
Those who might be holding out for a return to the two-dimensional animation that earned Disney its reputation for consistently terrific entertainment in the first place probably shouldn’t hold their breath: The Princess and the Frog’s less-than-stellar reception suggests that computer-generated 3-D fare such as Tangled might comprise the majority of Disney’s offerings from here on out.
But Tangled is a heavy-hitter in its own right: Engaging characters and fast-paced, all-ages comedy make for what’s sure to be part of the new batch of Disney classics.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Life is a journey. At least, that’s the message Jolene seems to be trying to get across; unfortunately, it misses the mark.
Directed by Dan Ireland, Jolene is based on the Jolene: A Life by novelist E.L. Doctorow (Ragtime, The March). The film follows the adventures of Jolene (Jessica Chastain) on her 10-year journey across America in pursuit of love and happiness.
The film explores the relationships and tumultuous events of her life on the road. Over the course of the movie, Jolene is repeatedly beset by adversity, overcoming one challenge only to be faced with another hardship shortly there after. Her  journey is filled with lovers, engagements, weddings and deaths. The film leaves the viewer wondering if things can get any worse for this poor woman.
The movie’s structure is heavily episodic, with each event involving a different set of characters, relationships and situations.
The audience first meets Jolene when she is 15 years old. The beautiful redhead marries the genuine Mickey (Zeb Newman), a man  deeply in love with her. The two move in with Mickey’s Aunt Kay (Theresa Russell) and Uncle Phil (Dermot Mulroney).
Family life proves difficult for Jolene to fit into. Uncle Phil quickly becomes attracted to Jolene. and the two begin a steamy relationship behind Mickey’s back before they are discovered and she is thrown out of the house.
Jolene is sent to a juvenile detention center, where she begins a relationship with lesbian prison guard, Cindy (Frances Fisher). Cindy helps her escape with the hope that the two will have a committed relationship outside jail confines.
Jolene becomes bored with their relationship and moves to Phoenix where she becomes a roller-skating waitress at a hamburger stand. There she meets and marries the drug-dealing, tattoo parlor owner Coco Leger (Rupert Friend). The relationship quickly ends in heartbreak and Jolene moves on to another man.
The next chapter of Jolene’s life takes place in Vegas where she meets rich mobster Sal Fontaine (Chazz Palminteri), who provides her with anything she wants. This is just the latest in the long string of relationships, and by this point, the film’s tedious and repetitive format begins to wear on the audience.
All of Jolene’s relationships are similar. Her lovers are entranced by her beauty and convince her that they can provide for her. And although the downfall of each relationship is different, it feels as if the audience has seen this all before.
Where the film does not grow predictable is in the suffering Jolene goes through. It continues to surprise throughout its duration; just as you think things can’t get any more depressing and strange, you are forced to witness yet another tragedy in Jolene’s life. In a scene near the end of the film where she is on a date with one character, Jolene utters the words, “This is getting too strange,” which summarizes the entire film.
Although the plot was outlandish and melodramatic, this is not the only reason the film fails to capture the audience. It also fails to connect in making audience members sympathize with the eponymous lead.
Her marriages of convenience make her seem foolish. Jolene constantly gets herself into situations with men that can only lead to terrible consequences and her poor judgment gets her mixed up in situations that just lead to more grief.
Through her narration she reveals that she doesn’t really love the men she’s involved with, yet she continues to pursue relationships with them.
It is difficult to sympathize with a character who knowingly gets herself into such outlandishly pitiable situations. If Ireland had shown that Jolene falls prey to these men and women through no fault of her own, her story would evoke a more compassionate response.
The only moment that sparks a sense of sympathy comes when Jolene is 25 and working in Hollywood. Her appearance has changed drastically, making her seem much older and wiser than when we first met her.
This scene is a glimpse of her new life as “just another day in the office.” There is a moment where she looks down at her drawings, all of things from her past. This brief moment resonates well with the audience, evoking a feeling of nostalgia. This reflective scene stands out as one of the few moments in the film where the plot threads seem connected and not merely episodic.
Other than this contemplative scene, the film as a whole is disappointing. Parts of the film were uncomfortable to watch and make you squirm in your seat and the implausible plot twists didn’t help.
Jolene tries to be a kind of character epic, showing one woman’s growth from her teenage years to adulthood. Unfortunately, it devolves into a sadistic film, torturing both its titular character and the audience, as the repetition and aimless meandering wear down even the most invested of viewers.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Matt & Kim fans, celebrate. The band’s new album Sidewalks, released this past Tuesday, brings back the characteristically upbeat sound of Matt Johnson and Kim Schifino with a twist. In 2009, the band’s independently produced Grand (recorded in Johnson’s childhood Vermont home) won listeners with its energy and basic combination of drums and keyboard.
Photo courtesy of Fader Label
This third album, based on a uniquely punk-like sound that made every track catchy, gave the band widespread success. Songs such as “Daylight,” featured in a Bacardi commercial and various television shows, exposed Matt & Kim to a wider audience.
Sidewalks is a natural progression from Grand — with added studio help and instrumental accompaniment, the new album has more vigor and variety.
Granted, some of the homemade, human appeal of Matt & Kim previous albums is lost in the increased texture and polish of the new album.
Yet, the addition of horns on the single “Cameras,” and the synthetic claps on “Block After Block” give more depth to the music and distinguish the album from Grand in a positive way. Those who found Grand’s relentless energy and repetitive melodies uninteresting after a few listens will be pleased with Sidewalks’ variety.
Matt & Kim also stay true to their nostalgic, corny lyrics, helping them retain their small-town feel. The track “Wires” tells listeners to reset your clocks / and rewrite your thoughts. And while slightly different, the core of the music is the same — its goal is to make listeners smile with pounding drum lines and fast-paced melodies.
“Block After Block” is the first track on the album and opens with Johnson saying Now this is all me followed by an exhilarating hook by the familiar keyboard and drum combination. It warms up listeners for the highly energetic tracks to come and the catchy, fast-paced chorus is easy to sing along to.
“AM/FM Sound” is a little more restrained than typical Matt & Kim, but a playful chorus without any lyrics, just Johnson belting out oh eh oh eh oh … lightens up the more mature addition of layered horns, keyboards and drums. It’s sure to get fans moving in the crowd and put a grin on their faces.
Probably the most reflective of Matt & Kim’s new style, “Cameras” is the next track and first single off the album. It begins with a horn line and beat that is more reminiscent of rap than indie pop, but the humorously cheesy lyrics are unique to the band: Every single car alarm we hear / we’ll steal and throw through their window.
“Red Paint” follows “Cameras,”  doubling Johnson’s voice in parts of the song and introducing a synthesized flute that threads throughout clutters the singer’s earnest melody. It’s one of the weaker tracks on the album, but fans will still appreciate the carefree message in the lyrics: Hands in red paint, let’s make a mark.
“Where You’re Coming From” continues the album, with the delicately fast-paced keyboard and drum combination mixed with again-doubled vocals makes the track reminiscent of an Arcade Fire song. This and the slow-paced “Good For Great” are both melancholy and optimistic, both reminiscing about home but looking toward the future.
“Northeast” is similar to “Turn This Boat Around” from their previous album and is a nearly-3-minute block of nostalgia. Exaggerated and slow to the point of becoming disinteresting, the track will resonate with those from the northeast, especially with the description of New York City summer nights: Can breathe again / and your bones, they feel alive.
The bouncing beat of “Wires” begins after “Northeast” and is well placed in the album order because it grabs the listeners’ attention and revamps the band’s energy. “Wires” is one of the simplest tracks on the album and is catchy enough to get the crowd singing along to its pounding chorus.
Following this is “Silver Tiles,” which will make listeners tap their feet — if not jump — along with the song.
“Ice Melts” closes out the album. The song is a celebratory statement with horns adding to the appeal of the simple track. It’s easy to picture Johnson performing this song, pounding away at the keyboard.
Sidewalks is a great third album — Matt & Kim fans should not miss it. In it, the duo shows that it has developed its sound while staying true to the buoyant, partying atmosphere that made them so popular before.
The band’s insanely positive attitude — relayed through the energetic lyrics and instrumentals — is only strengthened by the addition of more instruments and varying voicing.
Don’t panic and think that Matt & Kim have lost their raw happiness in this more polished album — their music will again leave listeners humming along to the tracks with smiles on their faces.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
After a long day of fighting the wind, the USC men’s golf team sits in sixth place out of 12 at the Gifford Collegiate Championships in San Martin, Calif.
The Trojans scored a 23-over-par 378 in the first round of play, three strokes behind fifth-place Oregon and 11 behind first-place UCLA. Also competing are Augusta State, Arizona, Lamar, Long Beach State, Northwestern, Oklahoma, San Diego, Stanford and Washington.
For the first time this season, no USC golfers scored under par in the opening round, but because of the strong winds, they were not alone in falling short — only three golfers participating in the tournament achieved the feat.
On the rise · Junior Steve Lim recorded a 1-over-par 72 to place him in a tie for fifth place after day one of the Gifford Collegiate Championship in San Martin, Calif. The Trojans sit in sixth place overall at a 23-over-par 378, 11 shots behind first-place UCLA. - Photo courtesy of USC Sports Information 
Sophomore Martin Trainer attributes the high scores across the board mostly to the terrible conditions.
“It was really windy out there, it made it hard,” he said. “You’ve got to play great to shoot under par.”
Because of the tournament’s “best five out of six” format, USC is facing a 12-team, 76-man field — one of the largest they’ve seen all season.
The Trojans leader, junior Steve Lim, is locked in a six-way tie for fifth place at 1-over-par 72. Lim had four bogeys and three birdies on the day.
While  Lim is the USC leader after the first round, his opening round didn’t keep pace with his recent success ­— the junior started off the last tournament with two 3-under-par rounds.
Trainer posted the second-best score for the Trojans. The sophomore is just one stroke behind Lim at a 2-over-par 73, but sits six places behind in a two-man tie for 11th place. Trainer hit four bogeys and two birdies in his round.
Trainer said he was happy with his play despite the rocky start for the team, and is optimistic about the rest of the tournament.
“I actually had a really good round going until the end, where I had a couple bogeys,” Trainer said. “Hopefully I can do as good or better tomorrow, and break into the top ten.”
Sophomore T.J. Vogel placed third for the team and 25th overall.
Vogel is tied with eight other golfers at 4-over-par 75. His round was the most tumultuous he’s played all season, with two double bogeys, four bogeys and four birdies.
The next three golfers for USC — freshman Jeffery Kang, freshman Ramsey Sahyoun and senior Bo DeHuff — did not fare as well: all are caught in a 10-way tie for 59th place, at 8-over-par 79.
Dehuff, playing in his first tournament this season for the Trojans, recorded three double bogeys, three bogeys and a single birdie.
Dehuff had a rough first nine holes, going 5-over par before entering the back nine. He was able to rally for the second half of the round, hitting just 3-over-par.
Sayhoun hit two double bogeys, five bogeys and a birdie. The freshman started off last tournament with a high score but was able to bounce back and post lower ones in later rounds.
Kang, who has been one of the squad’s most consistent golfers of late, had one of the most turbulent rounds he has seen this season, with one double bogey, nine bogeys and three birdies. Six of his nine bogeys came on the last nine holes.
The action continues today and Wednesday.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
All of the work that the USC women’s soccer team put in this season finally mounted to one thing Monday — a spot in the 2010 NCAA tournament.
United · USC will face Illinois in the opening round of the NCAA tournament, where it has a chance to recapture the title it won in 2007. - Brandon Hui | Daily Trojan 
The Women of Troy (12-5-3) were rewarded with the spot on ESPNU’s selection special Monday afternoon and soon after found out that they will face Illinois (13-4-1) in the first round on Nov. 12.
“I’m nervous but really, really excited,” freshman goalkeeper Shelby Church said. “We have a really good opportunity ahead of us, so hopefully we take advantage of it.”
The Women of Troy ran into some trouble early last weekend against Arizona State, finding themselves unable to come back from an early deficit. Although they lost 3-0 to the Sun Devils, the Women of Troy closed out the season on a high note, scoring five goals against Arizona — the highest total of the season — and recording a shutout in the process.
USC coach Ali Khosroshahin said he felt that the Arizona State loss was a good test for his squad.
“It was important that we respond after not doing so well on Friday,” he said. “The way we [played] Sunday spoke volumes about the character of this group.”
The Women of Troy have now made the NCAA tournament six straight years and look to defend the championship they won in 2007.
The team made it to the third round of play in 2008 after defeating Boston University 2-0 and Brigham Young University in penalty kicks 4-2, but it was ousted by rival UCLA 1-0 in a closely contested match. In 2009, the Women of Troy opened the tournament by taking Oklahoma State into overtime and then penalty kicks but ultimately fell 5-4 in the shootout.
Despite the team’s deflating exits in seasons past, Khosroshahin said he remains confident about this year’s squad.
“I have a lot of confidence in this group and [we’ve] experienced a lot of things this year that have prepared us well,” he said. “Now, it’s the final stage of the season, so let’s see what we’re made of.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
By the time the USC women’s basketball team opens conference play this season, the Women of Troy will have played four ranked opponents.
Tonight’s exhibition game against Biola University is not one of those games. But that doesn’t mean the players, particularly the freshmen, aren’t looking forward to starting the season.
“I’ve always wanted to play Division I basketball, so this is like a dream come true,” freshman guard Len’Nique Brown said. “But I’m just going to take [the season] one day at a time.”
Floor vision · Junior guard Briana Gilbreath and the Women of Troy will face off against Biola in an exhibition game to start the season. - Dieuwertje Kast | Daily Trojan 
That attitude should help USC as it prepares for a challenging non-conference slate. Coach Michael Cooper expects at least two of his freshmen, Brown and forward Cassie Harberts, to make an immediate impact. But the players will need time to come together as a team.
“I think [tonight] is about building chemistry and cleaning everything up: our defensive rotations, our offense, cutting down our turnovers,” Harberts said.
At least one symbiotic relationship has already developed this season. Brown said she and junior guard Ashley Corral, who set a school record last season with 85 3-pointers, work well together.
“She’s a good shooter, and I’m a better passer than I am a shooter,” Brown said. “Me getting Ashley the ball helps her out, and her making shots helps me out.”
Already, the freshmen have noticed a significant difference between high school and college basketball. Harberts said she was surprised at how much work it took just to compete during practice.
“The college game is a lot harder,” she said. “It’s faster and everyone is stronger. The girls are so much better than they were in high school, so it’s a big adjustment.”
Biola is not a Division I program, but the Women of Troy don’t expect their opponent to roll over without resistance. The Eagles enter the game ranked No. 13 in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics preseason poll. Still, tonight’s game is primarily about getting ready for the regular season.
“We’re focusing on [Biola], but we’re also focusing on Duke and the other highly ranked teams,” Harberts said. “We’re definitely going to come out hard against Biola though.”
Brown and Harberts both said they felt jitters about their first game, although Brown was quick to qualify her nerves.
“I’ll be nervous until I hit the floor,” she said.
Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m. at the Galen Center.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Football teams are something special.
In few other places will you find a tighter-knit group of 60-70 young men, growing together, sharing victory and defeat and learning from one another.
Football teams are like good TV shows: They are driven by the characters. Every team, whether it is a championship contender or a bottom-feeder, is a fusion of personalities, each personality a distinct part of the whole.
Test time · USC coach Lane Kiffin has seemed to loosen up a bit in front of the media, going as far as quipping about USC’s special teams woes. - Tim Tran | Daily Trojan 
The Trojans have a regular cast that is as entertaining as they come. And for a season that lacks a lot of real stakes for the Trojans, a group of appealing characters keeps the plot moving.
Here’s a look into the USC football team through the lens of a primetime TV series:
Coach Lane Kiffin, the new lead role
I wrote at the beginning of this season that Kiffin came off closed and defensive in interviews. He was the old supporting character from the cast, thrust back onto the scene to carry the show after the departure of the lead role. Naturally, it took him some time to get comfortable.
Kiffin has loosened up quite a bit since those first interviews. He jokes a lot more and seems to be able to handle criticism much better than his predecessor. His players have bought into his mentality.
He is a coach who accepts no nonsense and a father-figure that puts tough love into practice. But there is no question that he cares about his guys.
After senior kicker Joe Houston’s heroics last Saturday, the player was one of the players selected to talk to reporters at the press conference.
“I see times have changed around here,” Kiffin quipped as he sat down. “Joe goes 1-for-3, makes a 29-yard field goal and he gets to come up here in front of everybody.”
Even after losses, Kiffin has let some humor slip through.
After his team got pounded by Oregon but was called for only three penalties, a reporter asked Kiffin if he felt as if the Trojans had turned a corner in terms of drawing costly flags.
Kiffin responded, without malice: “You found something positive about today. I appreciate you.”
It might have taken him half the season, but Kiffin finally appears comfortable in his role as the leading character.
Senior cornerback Shareece Wright, the psychologist
Dr. Wright is the guy people would go to when they need advice. Wright seems to have the best handle on the pulse of the team. He’s a veteran and a natural leader.
Before the defense’s breakout performance against California, he was the one who gave the key motivational speech that whipped the defense in line.
What’s great about Wright is that he never dodges a question or a reporter’s eyes. And you’ll never hear an excuse come out of his mouth.
Wright was one of the only Trojans to admit that fatigue was a factor down the stretch against Oregon. When asked how Arizona State’s LeQuan Lewis escaped his grasp en route to a 100-yard kickoff return, Wright was straightforward.
“I don’t even know what happened, honestly,” he said.
Wright is a trustworthy and classy guy, and his role as a leader and guide has been indispensible to the Trojans in a season where viewership in the Coliseum has dwindled.
Senior placekicker Joe Houston, the comeback kid
Every good drama requires an up-and-down story of redemption. Houston, who missed two early field goals against the Sun Devils, would’ve probably been the scapegoat had USC not pulled off the win.
But lucky for him, he got the chance to redeem himself with a go-ahead field goal with three minutes remaining.
Some USC fans were calling for his head after his 40-yard try against Washington boinked off the upright, opening the door for the Huskies’ upset. All was good again for Houston because he finally came through when it mattered.
Houston still seemed nervous at the press conference, almost as if he still didn’t know what to make of it all.
But he surely made up for his past sins and will be seen in future episodes.
Freshman receiver Robert Woods, the future star
Woods has started all season as a true freshman and has already starred in a few episodes of his own.
What strikes you about him is how excited he seems to be there. The glamour of the big stage has not worn off.
Woods acts, well, like a freshman: energized about every future experience and aware of his role in the social hierarchy.
It’s only his performance on the field that is un-freshman-like.
No one smiles more in an interview than Woods. When asked after the Cal game why he doesn’t celebrate more after big plays, he said it is because God could take it away at any time.
“And plus, coach Kiffin doesn’t allow that,” he obediently added.
There you have it, the star-in-the-making deferring to the lead role.
USC’s season might lack any real drama because there will be no bowl game at the end of the tunnel, but the team’s characters will keep people tuned in week after week.
“Middle Ground” runs Tuesdays. To comment on this article, visit dailytrojan.com or e-mail Josh at jjovanel@usc.edu.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Saturday night. You’re with your friends doing what you love, mingling at a party, having dinner at a nicer-than-usual restaurant, driving around the city. You might have slacked off on your reading, thinking that you can catch up later or that classes don’t rule your life because you know what you’re doing. Or maybe you have done your homework and are now reveling in the fact that you’ve got things under control.
Either way, you look around the scene you’re a part of and think, “Life doesn’t get much better than this.”
For those of you with graduation on the mind, you’re probably planning for that next step. From job interviews to graduate school applications to “just winging it,” all students strive to keep the freedom they’ve experienced in college going, to make sure good times never end. The world’s ours once we’re done here.
Right?
Sadly, that’s not the case for most of us, especially in this economy. We might think we’re definitely not moving back home after graduation, but being part of the “Boomerang Generation,” it’s a reality many of us will face as we deal with periods of unemployment or entry-level jobs that don’t pay enough. Many getting those jobs will think of them as temporary, telling ourselves we have bigger dreams, only to find ourselves staying there year after year in a listless rut.
Graduate school is a nice way to avoid the real world for a few more years, but unless one’s work involves cutting-edge research with tons of funding, graduate students often find employers reluctant to hire them and universities sending them through a rat race for hopelessly out-of-reach faculty jobs.
It’s not that we’re graduating to find nothing: It’s that many of us are graduating to realities our studies haven’t quite prepared us for. The world is seemingly ours for the taking, but the world also seems a little temperamental right now.
Coined the “quarter-life crisis,” this condition of anxiety in 20-somethings describes a contradictory reality where those who’ve experienced success throughout their school lives graduate only to find a poisonous banality taking root. With the task of maintaining a three-point-something grade point average throughout college as a fairly common achievement, it’s easy to fall into an unreliable sense of security that good grades will be rewarded with good careers.
Expectations students build up during school (100K starting salary, finding your soulmate, etc.) are being crushed now more than ever because of increased competition and the rebuilding the economy. Many students maintain their expectations with a sense of hope in a merit-based society and, thus, upon graduating and spending a few years in jobs they don’t consider careers, feel a deep sense of disappointment when those expectations aren’t met.
This sense of disappointment causes a painful confusion and stagnant lifestyle that makes many 20-somethings sigh dozens of times a day. Young people are supposed to take life by storm, but it’s difficult because of the option overload that threatens one’s sense of identity and desires.
This overload contributes to the stressful illusion that we can do anything — study for the Graduate Record Examination, write a book, apply to the Peace Corps — and fills us with shame when we don’t do it all.
More than ever in today’s state of affairs, students should realize that their education isn’t the primary ticket to their dreams. To avoid this crushing anxiety of the quarter-life crisis, students should see the resources they possess — youth, freedom, hopeful creativity, independence — not as innate advantages in the job market but rather as tools that need to be sharpened, that will evolve once they’re no longer in their 20s.
We need to battle the expectations that often suffocate self-esteem, which will involve making solid and detailed plans to reach the dream goal and asking for help when needed. Goal-setting and doing one thing at a time is key to overcoming the pressures of having all this freedom and independence upon graduating and avoiding being the person who lives in his parent’s basement.
At the root of all this planning, students should think about how to define for themselves the ideas of happiness and fulfillment to avoid a vicious cycle of self-pity.
I like to lift up my drink while I’m having fun and think how life is really sweet at 20-something. Then I like to think how I love the work I’m doing and how I can’t wait to do more of it.
Victor Luo is a senior majoring in English.
You are sharpening your writing tool! Way to go. Well said.
As a parent of 4 twenty somethings, I believe in you guys!
A lot of us parents entered the working world in a very similar economic state as today. We all are a resilient bunch and you Gen Yers do indeed have “youth, creativity and hope” on your side! Stay healthy, keep your glass half full, network like crazy, say please and thank you, and keep learning! Congratulations and good luck!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
It seemed clear throughout the last few weeks, as Meg Whitman struggled to clean up the mess her maid left and attempted to convince voters of her financial savvy while wildly blowing through $142 million of her own money, that California was leaning Brown.
Now that he’s been elected, the focus is shifting away from the amusement of the gubernatorial race and instead settling on the number of promises that Governor-elect Jerry Brown made during his campaign.
Among those promises was the decisive investment of time and money in a clean-energy jobs plan.
Rita Yeung | Daily Trojan
“Over the next decade, the market for renewable energy will triple to more than $2 trillion,” Brown said. “California must be at the forefront of this 21st century economic engine. We led the way once, and I know how to put California first again.”
It’s easy enough to hope that such an agenda will quickly rise to the forefront of state policy and be subsequently snapped up by an enlightened federal government. Exciting a prospect as that might be, many Californians aren’t likely to be surprised should the advancement of that plan quietly take a backseat to the long-reigning paramounts of education, budget and healthcare — as voters, we’ve been burned before.
But there are hopeful indications that California’s commitment to clean-energy jobs might prove to be more than just another unfilled campaign promise or short-lived publicity strategy.
Brown’s eight-point plan, building from the cornerstones of renewable energy and efficiency, is ambitious but not entirely unrealistic; he has already garnered a battalion of supporters in Silicon Valley — Google, Apple and Bill Gates all did their part in the policy tug of war against companies such as Valero and Tesoro oil that was Proposition 23.
It’s more than an optimistic naivety that has California’s best and brightest standing by Brown as he works to advance the precedents in his environmental agenda. They might not have endorsed Brown personally, as have organizations such as the Sierra Club, but they do recognize that from a business perspective they stand a lot to gain from a government that promotes clean energy.
Dovetailing interests between a determined leader and a score of high-profile constituents can carry a platform a long way. And California, as the nation’s self-proclaimed trailblazer, is just progressive enough to be the state that doesn’t let its environmental agenda go the way of the dinosaur.
Still, in-state support is a far cry from implementation of a clean-energy jobs plan on the federal level that will be needed to ensure it’s not forgotten, especially once Brown’s term is up. It also isn’t likely to help that half of the new Republican members of Congress are “climate change skeptics,” according to an analysis by the Center for American Progress.
Despite the size of California’s economy, industry and voting population, the state is not always a powerful enough force to drag the rest of the nation behind it; there are an incalculable number of promising initiatives born in California that were not taken up in other state policies. For the clean-energy jobs plan to be different, Brown will first need to concentrate on expanding his base of support in California — for now, at least, we should keep our focus within state lines.
Holding off on expanding the concept of clean-energy jobs outside California is not an admission of defeat; for the time being, it’s a sound tactic of demonstrating to the rest of the country just how successfully we can integrate environmentally friendly policies into our economy and thus inspire them to follow suit in their own time.
“Investments in clean energy produce two to three times as many jobs per dollar as gas, oil or coal. And dollars invested in clean energy tend to stay in California, instead of going to other states or other countries,” Brown said at the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
Should the clean-energy jobs plan prove a boon to California’s economy, we’ll be able to see the remaining states recognize its value and implement similar plans of their own accord.
Kastalia Medrano is a sophomore majoring in print and digital journalism and editorial director of the Daily Trojan. Her column, “Green Piece,” runs Tuesdays.
Brown’s statement, “Investments in clean energy produce two to three times as many jobs per dollar as gas, oil or coal. And dollars invested in clean energy tend to stay in California, instead of going to other states or other countries,” is wishful thinking. Many alternative energy businesses (even those started under Jimmy Carter) are subsidy farms. You can tell they are, because, every time the subsidies are threatened, the industry laments the end of alternative energy.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
It’s always difficult to follow up episode one of any fledgling series.
But for AMC and The Walking Dead, the results couldn’t be any better.
The show premiered Halloween night with a heavy dose of zombie gore, unexpected sentimentality and layer upon layer of psychological depth. On Sunday, the viewer warnings became more frequent, the supply of fake blood abounded and viewers got a taste of what is to come for the next season — and so did AMC. The show is officially slated for another season, perhaps thanks to last night’s 4.7 million viewers.
The show broke a record for its tremendous ratings the first week and will probably only continue to grasp viewers by the collar in a frenzy of gore and emotional turmoil.
The majority of the show’s characters may be dead, but the series is far from it.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
In a game that had a combined 77 points, you would have been hard pressed to find a defensive star in USC’s nail-biting 34-33 victory over ASU on Saturday night.
But USC’s sophomore safety T.J. McDonald- son of former-Trojan All-American Tim McDonald- had the kind of night, regardless of the score, the Pac 10 conference couldn’t overlook.
Highlighted by his second quarter blocked punt from Sun Devils’ kicker Thomas Weber, McDonald was relentless all night both on special teams and at defensive end.
In addition to his electrifying block, the newly announced Pac 10 Player of the Week downed a punt inside the four-yard line, led the team with 13 tackles and also had a deflection on a punt by Weber late in the contest.
McDonald’s big night should come as no surprise, as he leads the Trojans in tackles and interceptions, with three and 68 respectively on the year.
The Fresno-native is now the third USC player to be honored with the conference’s weekly awards, joining sophomore quarterback Matt Barkley and redshirt senior kicker Joe Houston.  Both players were awarded top honors for their performances in the Trojans’ 48-14 rout of Cal Berkley on Oct. 16.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Los Angeles Unified School District refused an offer from celebrity chef Jamie Oliver to have its schools featured on his reality television show Food Revolution.
The show, which will come to Los Angeles for its second season, aims to make school lunches healthier for children and teach them about proper nutrition.
LAUSD wrote a letter to Joe Coleman, the supervising producer of the show, on Oct. 25, thanking him for the opportunity but ultimately declining the offer.
“While we appreciate your interest in our school meal program, we believe our direct work with nutrition experts, health advocates, the community, schools and students is the most effective strategy for our continued success and improvement,” Melissa Infusino, the director of partnerships in the superintendent’s office, wrote in the letter, reported by the Los Angeles Times.
The letter also cited how the show would be too time consuming for students and staff, which would only compound other problems, such as the shortened school year.
“Due to these budgetary challenges, participation in the Food Revolution program would prevent us from committing 100% of our efforts to our students,” the letter said.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Seven of California’s 713 death row inmates are eligible for execution after exhausting their appeals, including one man who was sentenced for his crimes in a 1978 spree that included the shooting and beating death of USC graduate student Rosemary Cobbs.
Stevie Lamar Fields, now 54, had been on parole from a manslaughter conviction for two weeks when he began a three-week crime spree that included three rapes, a robbery and two kidnappings in addition to Cobbs’ death.
According to the San Francisco Chronicle, trial records show Fields tied 26-year-old Cobbs to the rails of his bed, forced her to write checks made out to him, ordered her into a car and then shot her six times before beating her to death.
Also according to the Chronicle, Fields appealed his conviction several times. His sentence was first overturned in 2000 by a federal judge who determined he should get a new penalty trial because the jury foreman had cited biblical teachings to the rest of the jury.
In September 2007, a federal appeals court reinstated Fields’ death sentence. Fields made his final appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, which denied review of the case in April 2008.
Executions have been suspended in the state while lethal-injection policies were revised. Fields — along with the six other death row inmates who have exhausted their appeals — will be eligible for execution after the new procedures are approved by a federal judge.
California has the largest death row population in the nation, though there have only been 13 executions since the penalty was reinstated in 1977.
i hope he burns in hell
good god, that man sounds horrible. but i still don’t think he should be put to death.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
A few months ago, it looked as if a lot of big name movies were in trouble. MGM Studios had suffered a serious financial crisis, forcing it to declare bankruptcy. This effectively killed two of the studio’s biggest movies: The Hobbit and the 23rd James Bond film.
Yet, something seems to have changed at MGM. In less than a month, both films have been restarted, with pre-production and release dates set. The Hobbit went from wallowing on the brink of development hell to fully cast in under two weeks, with Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson returning to to Middle-Earth.
Now James Bond is back. With the 23rd film now scheduled for a November 2012 release, it looks like production is going to go on the fast track. Writers Neal Purvis and Robert Wade had been working on a script before things fell apart.
No director is attached, but Daniel Craig is set to return.
Welcome back, 007.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Defensive end Steve Dillon, ranked the #46 defensive end in the class of 2011 by Rivals.com, committed over the weekend to play for USC next season.
Dillon is a senior at nearby Palmdale High, where he has made a name for himself on the defensive side of the ball.
The 6’3″, 260-pound lineman points to his visit during the USC-Washington game earlier this season as the turning point in his recruiting process. After the game, he was offered a scholarship by USC assistant coach James Cregg. Since then, he has attended every home game at the Coliseum.
“I love going to the games because I have never heard a louder stadium than USC. It’s so amazing; the whole crowd gets up and is all into it making noise,” said Dillon.
Dillon was offered scholarships by most of the Pac-10 schools as well as Utah, who will be joining the Trojans in the new Pac-12 conference next year.
The defensive end chose USC over the rest of his suiters because of the university’s academic prestige, location, and the chance it gives Dillon to play under defensive coordinator Ed Orgeron, who also serves as the team’s defensive line coach.
“When you are messing up he will let you know, and when you are doing good he will let you know,” he said of Orgeron. “I like coaches like that.”
“I just wonder how it is going to be on the field in my pads and stuff, just hearing the crowd go crazy,” said Dillon. “That’s going to be a great experience.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Freshman Sophia Popov’s victory helped the No. 3 USC Women’s golf team make up for the absence of three-time All-American junior Lizette Salas.
Unfortunately, it wasn’t enough for the team to keep up.
Despite Popov’s first-place performance, the Women of Troy finished third in a field of 21 teams at the Pac-10/SEC Challenge at the Stanford Golf Course in Palo Alto, Calif.
Popov, fresh off pacing the German national team at the World Amateur in Argentina, fired a six-under-par 207 (72-68-67).
“I was really relaxed out there and I hit the ball really well,” Popov said.
She had her best round last, which helped the team climb the leader board during the rain-delayed final round. Five birdies and only one bogey helped Popov move from fifth the first place, giving the freshman her first collegiate victory on Sunday.
UCLA won the tournament at six-over-par 856 (285-281-290), 11 strokes above No. 1 Alabama at 15-over 867 (289-286-292) and 19 strokes ahead of USC at 875 (294-291-290). The Women of Troy were as low as 10th going into the final round, but a strong final day boosted them to a fourth-consecutive top-three finish for the fall season.
USC coach Andrea Gaston said she was pleased with the final day.
“I know we left a lot of shots and a lot of putts out there, but it’s nice to make a huge move,” Gaston said. “Being back in 10th place and ending up in third is a huge move.”
Joining Popov in the top 10 was junior Lisa McCloskey. McCloskey tied for 10th at three-over 216 (69-73-74), continuing her streak of top-10 finishes. Tenth place is her lowest finish since arriving at USC for this season. The two-time All-American, who represented Columbia at the World Amateur in October, was on the front nine in her final round, but couldn’t overcome a double bogey on her way to a three-over-par final nine.
Sophomore Cyna Rodriguez tied for 24th at nine-over-par 222 (76-73-73). Her final round of four birdies was undone by four bogeys and a double bogeys, though a final round 73 was good enough to bring her from 45th place to 24th on the final day.
Junior Inah Park tied for 79th with a consistent tournament at 21-over-par 234 (77-79-78). A double bogey on her second hole was compounded by seven bogeys with only two birdies on the final day.
Freshman Rachel Morris rounded out the Women of Troy in 89th place at 23-over-par 236 (83-77-76). Her best round, on Sunday, suffered from a stretch of five bogeys in six holes.
The team played without Salas for the first time this season, presenting an interesting opportunity for the team to examine its depth.  A third-place finish without Salas is encouraging, according to Gaston.
Beyond naming a team and individual winner, the tournament sought to pit the two most powerful conferences in women’s golf against each other, a concept East and West Coast fans have long dreamed about in college football. The Pac-10 took the title with teams finishing first, third, fourth and tied for sixth.
USC has finished its fall season, and now has until Feb. 14 before playing in the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge at the Palos Verdes Golf Club in Palos Verdes, Calif. Until then, the team will work to improve their chances of getting its first victory of the season.
“I’ll try to get ready for spring season, because that one matters more,” Popov said.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
After spending a few days up north, the No. 7 Women of Troy can return to practice knowing they have a lot to be proud of — but also a lot of work ahead of them before postseason play begins in just a few weeks.
Since Stanford handed the Women of Troy their only home loss this season, USC was looking for redemption this weekend up in Palo Alto. Unfortunately for USC, the end result was the same, as the No. 3 Cardinal (20-2, 11-2) swept the Women of Troy (20-4, 9-4) in three sets, 25-19. 25-21, 25-19.
“They were much more alert than we were,” said USC coach Mick Haley.
A number of Stanford players had impressive performances on Sunday, including outside hitter Alix Klineman, who recorded 15 kills. Outside hitter Hayley Spelman added another 11 kills for Stanford.
Despite these impressive numbers, when examining the reasons for the loss, Haley refrained from looking at Stanford’s performance and rather turned to what his team did wrong.
“We didn’t do well on our transition game at all and we’re very disappointed in that. We have to look at the net blocking to start with and go from there. This was the first time we’ve gotten out dug in a long time,” Haley said.
Haley also noted the struggles of several players in the match, including his left side hitters, who did not score nearly as many points as they typically do.
“We had some very bad performances from some of the people we count on and our people have to understand how to prepare for each match as if it’s a new match,” said Haley.
Sophomore opposite hitter Katie Fuller led the Women of Troy with nine kills. 
After Sunday’s loss, USC is once again reminded of how difficult it is to play on the road in the Pac-10. Three of USC’s four losses have come away from the Galen Center, and the Women of Troy will play on the road in two of the final three weekends of the regular season.
“It’s just playing on the road again, and we were not able to get comfortable, even after we played so well Friday night at Cal,” Haley said.
Friday’s match against California was a completely different story, as the Women of Troy knocked off the No. 2 Golden Bears in four sets, 25-21, 20-25, 25-20, 25-18.
This was the second time USC beat California this season, an accomplishment no other team can come even close to claiming. Not only has no other program beaten the Golden Bears twice this season, no team besides USC has beaten them at all.
“We match up real well against them, and that’s one of the reasons we play well against them,” Haley said.
A number of players stood out in Friday’s match, including freshman outside hitter Falyn Fonoimoana, who ended up with 20 kills and a career-high 13 digs. She was just one of several players Haley was eager to praise after USC’s impressive upset victory.
“Falyn was outstanding. Alex [Jupiter] was good. Kendall [Bateman] was good. Natalie [Hagglund] was good,” Haley said.
Not only did Bateman record 58 assists, but the setter also had three kills, which ties a career best. Jupiter put up 17 kills, 11 digs and five blocks in the match.
Haley says his young team is taking this weekend’s matches, especially the loss against Stanford, as a learning opportunity as the team moves into the final weeks of the regular season.
“It’s just another step for us. We have to be able to learn to do this back-to-back with a day in between like the Final Four,” Haley said.
The Women of Troy remain in third place in the Pac-10 standings with a conference record of 9-4. Sunday’s loss broke USC’s six-match winning streak.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Senior Maria Sanchez was a force to be reckoned with at the ITA Indoor Championships this weekend, upsetting a higher-ranked opponent in the finals of the tournament and taking home first place, making her the national indoor champion.
No. 7 Sanchez defeated No. 2-seeded Jana Juricova of Cal in the final match with a 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 win, and took away the championship trophy from the defending champion.
“Jana’s a great player and has beaten me quite a few times, so I’m really happy to get this win,” Sanchez said. “It’s such a great feeling.”
USC coach Richard Gallien also expressed his happiness with a Trojan victory at the Indoor Championships, which took place at the site of the US Open in Flushing, N.Y.
“To have one of our players go to a tournament back East, with a different time zone and indoors, and then win is a real accomplishment,” Gallien said.
The Women of Troy were well represented in the tournament, with three other players participating in the tourney as well. The doubles pair of juniors Alison Ramos and Valeria Pulido made it to the quarterfinals of the tournament but was narrowly defeated by the No. 3-ranked pair from Clemson. Sophomore Danielle Lao also faced a loss in the singles round of 32 to No. 5 Denise Dy of Washington.
Gallien isn’t disheartened, however, by the team’s performance as a whole. In fact, he said he was proud of the Women of Troy’s performance at the Indoor Championships, in which only the top-ranked players in the country can participate.
“We had doubles team that will be ranked in the top 8 in the nation at the end of this, and there’re a lot of people who didn’t even get to play in this tourney,” Gallien said.
With the accompaniment of USC assistant coach West Nott, the women’s tennis team had a good showing at the ITA indoor championships as a whole. Gallien attributed a lot of the team’s success to Nott’s efforts.
“I feel like I owe a great debt to West. He does a super great job with the girls,” Gallien said.
With their last tournament out of the way until early next year, the Women of Troy will now get a chance to take a breather before they start Pac-10 play. The next time the team plays will be on Jan. 28 at the ITA Kick Off Weekend in Ann Arbor, Mich.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 404
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
