Today’s game kicks off at 5:00 on the West Coast.  All updates will be timestamped with game time. Be sure to check out our Twitter feed for instant info at http://www.twitter.com/dailytrojan
6:54 4th Quarter. Stanford 34-28.
USC is unable to score on the drive following Stanford’s touchdown. The offense hasn’t been able to get its running game going much but Barkley has been doing well. He completed to big third down passes on that drive, but stalled at the Cardinal 33 yard line when his passes on 3rd and 4th down fell incomplete down the left sideline looking for Johnson. The defense now has to do something it hasn’t done all half, stop the Stanford offense.
11:11 4th Quarter. Stanford 34-28.
TOUCHDOWN USC! The Trojans tie the game on a 6-yard pass by Barkley to Woods in 4th and 2. USC lined up with everyone on the line of scrimmage and Barkley play-actioned to Bradford before throwing off his backfoot to a wide-open Woods. The Trojans were stuffed on 3rd and 1 when Tyler got the carry instead of Bradford.
However, on the ensuing kickoff Stanford returned it to the Trojans 9 yard line and three plays later, Luck found a wide-open Doug Baldwin on a 7-yard pass across the middle for a STANFORD TOUCHDOWN. The Cardinal missed the extra point.
14:51 4th Quarter. Stanford 28-21.
Touchdown Stanford. Luck threw a 2-yard pass to tight-end Konrad Reuland after scrambling for a while to extend the play. The Cardinal drove 82-yards down the field in just 6 plays, but were helped by the Trojans. In what has been a theme of this game, on 3rd and 4, Luck completed a 29-yard pass to Wilkerson to get down to the USC 33 yard line and then on the next play completed a 25-yard pass down to the 8.
USC then committed another pass interference penalty in the end zone on a Shareece Wright interception and then Luck threw the touchdown. That makes it twice USC bailed Stanford out and committed a pass interference penalty in the end zone on a pass that wasn’t going to be complete. The defense needs to stop the Cardinal on third down and no shoot itself in the foot. This game could come down to who gets the ball last.
2:59 3rd Quarter. 21-21.
TOUCHDOWN USC! Robert Woods catches a pass wide open across the middle and makes a beautiful move to juke out a defender before racing 61 yards down the sideline for the score. The freshman now has 9 catches for 200 yards and I have a feeling he’s not done. The offense needed just five plays for the score, but it took a third down conversion when Barkley hit Johnson on a short out route for the 1st down. If the defense can get a stop or turnover here, that would be big for the Trojans.
A few note on defense: Junior Shane Horton has been playing for Malcolm Smith at linebacker this half (and most of the first half) because it appears Smith is injured. Junior Chris Galippo is also getting a lot of playing time at middle linebacker for Devon Kennard. Could this be the change the defense needed? Defensive end Wes Horton is out for the second game in a row.
5:39 3rd Quarter. Stanford 21-14.
Touchdown Stanford. The Cardinal cap a 14-play, 92 yard drive with a one-yard dive over the top by Stepfan Taylor. The Trojans appeared to stop the Cardinal on their six yard line when a pass from Luck fell incomplete in the end-zone, but a pass interference penalty was called and Stanford got three more cracks. The defense has played better than it has all year at times, but it allowed multiple third-down conversions. We’ll see if the offense, which punted on its opening possession can counter.
14, 92
Halftime. 14-14.
It’s halftime here at Stanford Stadium and it’s been about the big plays. When Stanford has gotten it’s running game going, it’s had very little opposition. But give credit to the Trojan defense for coming up with some big plays. The defense has stuffed Stanford a few times on third down and has forced two fumbles (both of which we recovered) after forcing just one through the first five games.
As far as the offense is concerned, it’s operating okay but there’s been some questionable play calling from Kiffin. Kiffin decided to run the ball with 20 seconds left when the Trojans had 2 timeouts and the ball at the Stanford 40 yard line. Needless to say, the Trojans didn’t get any points on the final drive. Freshman receiver Robert Woods is the star of the first half, 7 catches for 117 yards and one touchdown. He is lighting up the Cardinal. Barkley is looking fine and Bradford is running over people. As long as the offense stays turnover free it should be able to stick with Stanford. The USC defense has shown at times it can be tough and has played its best football of the year, but other times it looks terrible. Hopefully for the Trojans, they can get that sorted out for the second half.
8:33 2nd Quarter. Stanford 14-7.
Touchdown Stanford. Sorry there’s spotty internet access up here. Cardinal running back Anthony Wilkerson runs to the right for a six-yard touchdown run. It’s too easy for Stanford to run the ball down the field. The USC defense has missed so many tackles after an impressive first series, and then a sack/fumble by Nick Perry. But the Trojans gave it right back when Baxter handed off to fullback Stanley Havili inside the redzone who subsequently fumbled it. The only way it appears USC can win this game is if it can score with Stanford.
8:17 1st Quarter. USC 7-0.
TOUCHDOWN USC! Freshman running back Dillon Baxter gets his first touchdown with a 8-yard touchdown run out of the wildcat formation. After much hype, Baxter struggled early and admitted this week that he wasn’t giving 100 percent effort thus far. But he said the three practices this week were his three best practices and it just showed. Last week, Marc Tyler got the majority of the carries out of the wildcat but coach Lane Kiffin is showing faith in the freshman.
Baxter’s touchdown run comes after a methodical drive by the Trojans where they mixed short passes, runs with Allen Bradford and one long sideline pass to Brice Butler. USC got the ball when it stopped Stanford on three-and-out on its first series, something that has rarely been seen this year from the Trojan defense. Linebacker Malcolm Smith made a tackle in the backfield on third-and-one.  Strong start by the Trojans.
40 mins to kickoff- Hey guys, Kenny here and we are getting ready for this matchup of 5-1 teams. Both teams are coming off of a tough loss and don’t want to start Pac-10 play 1-2. Stanford is the favorite, but USC still should never be counted out. It’s a beautiful day here in Palo Alto, 77 degrees with a slight breeze. Perfect football weather. There’s a bunch of USC fans (mostly students) here for the weekender and they have been tailgaiting a long time and ready to see USC come out with the victory. Should be a great game. Stay tuned for more info.
Excellent game, Trojans. Keep fighting on! We love you!
[…] Read the rest of this news story here […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
