The  USC women’s basketball team captured the 2010 Women of Troy Basketball  Tournament title behind 23 points from junior guard Ashley Corral,  knocking off San Diego State 74-64.
Corral  opened the game on fire for USC (7-4), scoring 13 of the team’s first  15 points and pacing the Women of Troy to an early 15-4 lead.  USC  pushed the advantage to as many as 15 points in the first half and never  trailed en route to the title and their third straight victory.
USC  seemed poised to cruise to victory after taking a 42-25 lead into  halftime, but the Aztecs (4-5) rallied in the early stages of the second  half to make it interesting.  San Diego State closed the gap to 62-58  with four minutes remaining before USC ended the game with a 12-6 run.
Corral  knocked down her first five shots of the game and finished 7-14 from  the floor.  She added six assists and five rebounds to fill out an  impressive stat line.  Sophomore forward Christina Marinacci came off  the bench to score 14 points and grab eight rebounds
Redshirt  senior guard Jacki Gemelos and junior guard Briana Gilbreath added 13  points apiece for the Women of Troy, who shot just 40 percent from the  floor, but made up for it by connecting on 17 of their 21 free throw  attempts.
Gilbreath  earned MVP honors of the tournament after posting averages of 13.5  points, 7 rebounds and 3 steals.  Backcourt mate Gilbreath joined her on  the All-Tournament team.
Paris Johnson and Coco Davis paced San Diego State with 18 and 16 points, respectively.
For  the second straight game, turnovers by the opposition helped the Women  of Troy pull out the victory.  San Diego State turned the ball over 19  times against USC.
In  the opening game of the tournament, USC parlayed a swarming defensive effort into a  double-digit victory Sunday night over future conference foe Colorado.   The Women of Troy forced 24 turnovers in the game, led by Gilbreath’s  five steals.
Gilbreath and Corral scored 14 points apiece for USC, who held the Buffaloes to just 32 percent shooting.
The Women of Troy have Christmas off before resuming play Dec. 29 at Fresno State.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
