USC researchers are hoping to play a leading role in solving the water crisis in Los Angeles.
This month, USC held its first ever “Water Retreat.” Run by the Office of the Vice Provost for Research, the retreat brought together faculty experts from various departments to discuss the problems of the city’s current water infrastructure and to propose solutions that could benefit Los Angeles and eventually the rest of the world.
“We mainly want to look at the acquisition, use and disposal of water,” said David Caron, a marine and environmental biology professor and one of the organizers of the retreat. “We consider Southern California as a microcosm of the water system, and we’re interested in using Los Angeles as a test bed for water use and reuse.”
According to Caron, Los Angeles uses a lot of water, and methods need to be found to acquire water more locally and efficiently.
Some of the main problems researchers discussed were the city’s conservation and reuse of water. According to Caron, nearly one billion of the planet’s inhabitants lack clean water.
The retreat gave researchers a chance to discuss solutions, develop awareness of priorities and formulate strategic recommendations as to how the university can take on a leadership role in Los Angeles.
“Faculty were able to come together and discuss the strengths of water-related research,” said Gaurav Sukhatme, a professor of computer science and one of the retreat’s main organizers. “We all, [as] researchers, look at pieces of the problem, and now this conference allows us to look at the issues jointly.”
Researchers presented possible solutions and ideas related to their specific area of research, including underwater robotics, water distribution systems, climate change, pollution, rainfall patterns and deep ocean research.
According to Caron, the retreat was the first step in assessing the level of interest in water issues among the USC community.
“We are now pursuing funding to expand and develop that interest within the university and to fully assess what expertise is present,” Caron said.
With further conferences planned and ongoing projects underway, USC researchers hope to be able to contribute fundamentally to the solution to several water-related issues. Faculty members are also encouraging students to get involved with water-related research.
“We hope that both graduate and undergraduate students will want to be a part of various research projects on the strengths of water, including relations with robotics and sensing,” Sukhatme said.
The conference was the first in a sequence of meetings that will continue in the future.
“Water is a complex topic, so a sequence of discussions are necessary,” Sukhatme said. “The first meeting went well with bringing together everybody’s strengths, but the next ones will be on focused subjects.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
USC’s Center for Religion and Civic Culture recently announced the recipients of $3.5 million in grants for research on the growth of Pentecostalism and charismatic Christianity.
The center, founded in 1996, has managed more than $25 million in grant-funded research from corporations, foundations and government agencies. Its mission is “to create, translate and disseminate scholarship on the civic role of religion in a globalizing world.”
The $3.5 million grant was divided among 16 individual scholars and five regional centers, which will research both the history and the current state of Pentecostalism and charismatic Christianity. The research will be conducted in 23 different countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
Pentecostalism and charismatic Christianity are two terms often used interchangeably to describe a social movement within Protestant Christianity that emphasizes a personal connection with God through the Holy Spirit. They differ slightly in that Pentecostalism is most times regarded as a religion and charismatic Christianity as a movement.
Richard Flory, the senior research associate at the USC Center for Religion and Civic Culture, said this is an important time to be looking into the growth and effects of Pentecostalism.
“It’s a timely type of project and grant in the scheme of world religions because it is growing fast,” said Flory, who is currently researching Pentecostalism in the L.A. area.
The average size of the grant for individual researchers was between $80,000 and $100,000. Regional centers were given between $350,000 and $500,000.
Donald Miller, executive director of the center said it wanted to fund the study of Pentecostalism because it has had a large impact.
“It’s the fastest growing religious movement in the world, and it’s important to document why it’s growing and what its social and political impact is,” Miller said.
Miller said that although research on Pentecostalism in the United States and Europe has already been done, the center saw the opportunity to fund research in the Southern Hemisphere, specifically in developing countries.
“The location of Christianity is almost switching from the Northern Hemisphere to the Southern Hemisphere,” Miller said. “The focal point of Christianity is not so much the numbers, but it is increasing, particularly in Africa and Latin America.”
The research will focus first on defining Pentecostalism and the practices associated with it and second on discerning where it is growing most rapidly and what sort of social impact it might have.
To fund this research on Pentecostalism, the center submitted proposals to the John Templeton Foundation and received the research grants that it could then distribute to its researchers.
After receiving the grant from the John Templeton Foundation, the center released 40,000 brochures worldwide that attracted 450 letters of intent, submitted by researchers and research centers from all over the world. The letters went through a selective screening, and 100 of the 450 applicants were asked to write full proposals for the research they would like to do. A panel of experts then cut down the competition from 100 to the final 23 grant recipients.
Proposals were submitted by a variety of scholars, including anthropologists, sociologists, political scientists and economists. The researchers are from different universities all over the United States and centers from around the world. The recipients were notified of their grant April 1, but research will not officially begin until summer at the earliest.
“I feel really lucky after I saw the number of how many people applied and the actual people who received the grant and how amazing their project sounded,” said Febe Armanios, an assistant professor of history at Middlebury College and recipient of one of the 23 grants.
Chad Bauman, an associate professor of religion at Butler University and another recipient of the grant, said the money is very helpful. The grant will allow Bauman to work with sociologists, travel to India and go on a full-year sabbatical.
“I’m really excited, in my case, because the grant will allow me to have a full year instead of a half,” Bauman said. “It really makes a difference.”
Karen Brison, a professor of anthropology at Union College and a grant recipient, said she was excited to receive the funding, and she is glad to be a part of this project.
“The grants pay for all my travel, and I am delighted and very happy,” Brison said. “I’m really interested in the fact that there’s a big group of people who are interested in Pentecostalism. We can compare our research.”
According to Miller, the center has never funded any project so large.
“I think it’s fair to say that there’s never been any research project on Pentecostalism of the size and scope of this particular project,” he said.
[…] Read this article: USC doles out grants for large-scale study | Daily Trojan […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The incoming Graduate and Professional Student Senate hopes to make better use of its increased revenue next year and use this year’s leftover funds to repay and grow its endowment.
GPSS scored a major victory in August 2009 when it expanded its budget by almost $250,000. Before the 2009-2010 school year, graduate students taking fewer than six units were exempt from the $31 fee that students pay to GPSS each semester. Now, all 17,000 or so graduate students pay $31 per semester, regardless of course load.
“That programming fee is our sole source of revenue,” said Johannes Schmitt, the current GPSS president. “We found that many students who weren’t paying the fee were using its fund, so we’ve been working for that fee expansion for the last four or five years.”
The expansion, however, came with an administrative requirement: 80 percent of the additional revenue had to be allocated to the Conference Travel Fund, which pays for graduate students to attend events such as leadership conferences and case competitions around the United States.
“The Conference Travel Fund was expanded by almost $200,000 this year,” Schmitt said. “We won’t spend even half of that — a conservative estimate is $75,000 — so we’re waiting to see whether we’ll have that 80 percent requirement again next year.”
Irfan Elahi, the finance chair-elect, said he hopes to use that leftover money to help pay back and increase the endowment fund.
GPSS borrowed $67,000 from the endowment fund three years ago and currently owes $32,000. In addition to paying that debt, Elahi wants to expand the endowment fund from $118,000 to $250,000 before the next school year begins.
“My goal is to not only reverse that deficit but also increase the endowment, so we can earn interest and grow it further,” Elahi said.
If the administrative requirement is lifted, GPSS also hopes to reduce the amount of money given to the Conference Travel Fund.
Other aspects of the proposed budget include adding a Senator Leadership Development Fund, which will pay for $500 of travel for each of GPSS’ 70 senators to attend leadership conferences. The Senate has yet to approve the new fund.
GPSS has also purchased $200,000 naming rights to a lounge in the Ronald Tutor Campus Center, which opens next fall. They plan to pay at least $40,000 next year, with the possibility of also allocating leftover funds to the new lounge.
“We’ve said we’ll pay it back in five years, but with leftover funds in this new plan, we could do it in about two,” Elahi said.
Elahi said the fee expansion has prevented any major cuts in GPSS funding avenues.
“The increase in revenue has really allowed us to expand our budgets and create additional outflow,” Elahi said. “We’re not really cutting any areas next year because of the fee increase.”
Expanding the Conference Travel Fund also allowed Elahi to expand the qualifications for reimbursement so more students can apply and receive funds.
“I think it’s great that the funds are available, but I’ve found the application process difficult to navigate,” said Eli Lipmen, vice president of finance for the Annenberg School of Communication Masters Association. “I’ve been happy with the level of funding — we couldn’t have had our events without GPSS funds — but the process can be confusing.”
Elahi is aware of the concerns about the reimbursement processes and has his own goals for its improvement.
“Today’s chief complaint is that people say it takes five weeks to get approved and another five to get reimbursed,” he said. “We’re going to change those processes drastically next year. I want to get the approval processes down to two weeks and the reimbursement process to one week.”
The new GPSS will ratify the budget in August 2010. Elahi will select the rest of his finance committee in early September.
“We’ve just started discussing the new budget,” Elahi said. “I think we have great possibilities for improvement next year.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
A new study by USC’s Center for Urban Education found that few Latinos who attend four-year universities are entering science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) fields, and many say they see this trend at USC.
The three-year study, funded by the National Science Foundation, examined the pathways Latino students take to earn bachelor’s degrees in STEM fields.
The number of Latinos in STEM fields has risen, but it has neither kept pace with the growth in the general population nor has that number grown as fast as the number of Latino students in non-STEM fields.
In 2007, 38,546 Latino students graduated with a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field, while 86,241 graduated with a bachelor’s degree in a non-STEM field.
“This is a system-wide problem,” said Alicia Dowd, co-director for the Center for Urban Education. “The first step is to look at the data and the racial and economic discrepancies.”
For Latinos in community college and four-year institutions, the decision to enter the STEM fields starts long before they enter college, according to Kevin Meza, transfer coordinator at Glendale College.
“Many Latinos do not have an awareness of what a career in the science means. [There is] a lack of role models in the sciences and lack of academic services,” Meza said.
Part of the problem, Dowd said, is that diversity among faculty is very limited. Less than 5 percent of faculty in the STEM fields are Latinos.
“To this day, I have never come across an American Latino in physics, either as a student or as a professor,” said Jorge Rodriguez, a junior majoring in physics. “One might understand how this can be discouraging.”
Rodriguez said he does, in fact, feel like a minority in his major.
“I believe there are only about 10 or so physics majors in the class of 2011, and I know that I am the only one that is Latino,” he said.
He noted that it can be hard for Latino students to become interested in STEM fields because few members of the Latino community work in those fields.
“It seems that science often appears too abstract, and few members of the Latino community have any direct experience with people who work in scientific fields,” Rodriguez said.
Meza noted that some Latino students are the first in their family to attend college, so the expectation to enter into a STEM program is absent.
“They need constant support,” Meza said. “They need a mentor or people who have been successful or came from a similar background to help pave a realistic pathway for students to follow.”
Other Latino students said the lack of resources is a reason they choose not to enter STEM fields.
“I don’t feel there are resources here at USC for minorities who want to pursue a career in the health sciences,” said Daniela Rodriguez, a senior majoring in health promotion and disease prevention. “It’s easy to get discouraged, and if you already have things against you, who is going to be the positive influence in your life? That is where I think USC can have some resources for minority students.”
Others say lack of support and family obligations are vital factors in explaining why few Latinos enter STEM programs.
“I think that is what many people don’t understand … you should be able to do the same thing because you are given the same opportunities,” Rodriguez said. “We all start the race at the same time, but we start at difference places.”
The study also found that the role of community colleges has largely been overlooked as a way to increase the number of Latinos in STEM careers.
Latinos are more likely to attend community college than are members of other ethnic groups, and nearly 60 percent of all Latinos enrolled in postsecondary education attend a community college, Dowd said. A way to increase the number of Latinos in STEM programs could be to create a better relationship between community colleges and four-year universities by having faculty interact and nurture an open dialogue.
“There are different programs at community college that try to encourage minorities to enter the sciences,” Meza said. “But many Latino students think the sciences are not a option for them.”
The study also suggested that one solution might be to give scholarships for Latino students entering the STEM fields.
The study estimates that science and engineering jobs are expected to grow by 26 percent from 2004 to 2014. Additionally, Latinos are projected to compose nearly 30 percent of the entire U.S. population by 2040 and will soon be the largest demographic group in several Southwestern states.
“We need the talent,” Dowd said. “In a democratic society we need to have every community be represented. “
A timely blog post since this area is the focus of a variety of recent research on minorities and STEM fields. I’ve written about this topic many times via my blog.
Given the decreasing population growth and the increasing diversity of our population, assuring a more diversified STEM pipeline is important to our long-term economic vitality. There are many issues associated with this problem – lack of role models, lack of minority faculty, lack of support, etc. However, each of these factors can be addressed by incorporating a comprehensive educational commitment (starting from K-6) to make students aware of STEM careers and fields. In most cases, students are exposed to these fields much too late. Great article.
[…] johnmartin1 wrote an interesting post today. Here’s a quick excerpt“It seems that science often appears too abstract, and few members of the Latino community have any direct experience with people who work in scientific fields,” Rodriguez said. Meza noted that some Latino students are the first in … […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Many students walking down Trousdale Parkway on Monday paused to view a large wall set up between the Von KleinSmid Center and Taper Hall that read, “Israel: The Politics of Genocide.”
Divided · A student walking down Trousdale Parkway stops to view a separation wall set up by Students for Justice in Palestine on Monday. The wall, which will remain on Trousdale until Tuesday night, was originally built by students from UC Irvine. - Brandon Hui | Daily Trojan 
The wall, set up by USC’s Students for Justice in Palestine, caught the eyes of a number of passers-by and drew reactions ranging from appreciation to anger.
The wall was originally built by students from UC Irvine and has since traveled to other campuses. SJP rented the wall, which will stand on USC’s main thoroughfare until Tuesday night.
“It’s a very symbolic gesture to have this wall right in the middle of campus,” said Marwa Katbi, a member of SJP and a junior majoring in creative writing. “It’s very visible.”
Members of SJP said they hope the wall will inform students about the conflict taking place between Israel and Palestine.
“It’s supposed to be a model for the wall that’s currently in the West Bank,” said Shaimaa Abdelhamid, a member of SJP and a junior majoring in history and political science. “Basically, we hope to raise some awareness to the Palestinian side of the conflict in terms of statistics and stories not in the media.”
Several students cast curious glances as they passed the separation wall.
“It’s certainly a strong message, and I think to have it be so in your face — if you’re trying to send a message, what better way than to erect a wall such as one that might exist in the region that they are talking about?” said Daniela Montiel, a graduate student studying public diplomacy who stopped to read information posted on the wall.
Some students said they feel the media portrays Israel in a favorable light and were happy to see another side of the issue presented.
“I’m glad that people are actually presenting the other side of the story,” said Kiah Carr, a freshman majoring in business administration. “People deserve to see [it].”
A number of students who stopped to view the wall said they are interested in learning more about the conflict.
“The message is to pay closer attention to international affairs,” said Max Skeen, a senior majoring in fine art.
Skeen said he wants USC to host lectures on the conflict between Israel and Palestine.
“It would be nice to hear more,” he said.
Dan Shaer, a graduate student studying public health, agreed.
“Everybody should be reminded every once in a while about what’s really going on,” he said. “It’s just sad that this is still going on … All the ways that people are trying to help are not effective.”
For Shaer, the situation is one that hits close to home. He moved to the United States from Lebanon five years ago.
“We’ve been through this too,” he said. “We had a war with Israel in 2006. Most of our country was bombed.”
Though some students thought the wall was a good way to raise awareness, members of ’SC Students for Israel said they were upset that SJP chose to erect the wall the day after Holocaust Remembrance Day.
“It’s a very low blow that this wall is coinciding with the end of Holocaust Remembrance Day,” said Shanel Melamed, the president of ’SC Students for Israel. “It was very disrespectful … There are no words to describe the horrific nature of the timing.”
Melamed, who said she saw the separation wall from afar, said many Jewish students were adversely affected by its presence at USC.
“People were shaking because who they are, their identity, their core was affected,” she said.
SJP members said their goal was to illustrate the problem overseas for the USC community.
“It’s important for people who are offended by this wall to know that there is really a wall of separation in Israel-Palestine,” Katbi said. “That is what they really should be offended about.”
I don’t know why nobody mentions the two-state solution. It seems everyone in the world save Israel, the US, and other countries that wish for US esteem agree to it. While everyone fixates on Hamas or Israel putting down its weapons, no mention is made of how if Israel simply agreed to the two state solution, the conflict would stop. I find Israel’s refusal to compromise and accept a two-state solution that isn’t completely one-sided towards Israel most telling. Of course, one reason for this lack of discussion could be Israel’s adamant refusal to consider the two-state solution, which might simply be assumed to be permanent.
There was a sparsely attended SJP event a few weeks ago about Jews of Arab descent in Israel/Palestine. I think the discussion there, about the endemic discrimination present, is very enlightening pertaining to this discussion. Essentially, Arab Jews there (mizrahi is the common term) must deny all aspects of their Arab heritage and culture to succeed in Israeli society.
As for discussion of democracy/freedom, free elections held by Palestinians have recognized their own governments (some election in the 2000s, can’t quite remember, but all observers agreed it was free; I know one was Jimmy Carter).
As for the anti-Semitism, it is truly unfortunate. While I don’t doubt it’s presence in the Middle East, I’m pretty sure most pro-Palestine supporters in the US don’t object to Jews, but Israel’s actions. I would also venture to guess that a lot of the anti-Semitism in the Middle East is due to an association with Jews as a whole and Zionism, which is grossly untrue. Thus, the distinction between Zionism and Judaism.
To Oh Please:
Thank you!!  
But dont forget that its not just Hamas that glorifies death and severely restricts the rights of their own citizens….nearly every Arab country does the same!!!!
Hmmm, should i side with a democratic, free society like Israel?  Or should I support the side of the brutal Arab dictators and theocracies that treat their own citizens like dogs??  
Easy choice :D
sincerely,
Another supposedly dirty, cruel, racist ZIONIST
Israel is an oppressor? Yet it is one of the few countries in the middle east were an arab is allowed to vote for government.
!עַם  יִשְׂרָאֵל  חַי
oh please… HANI and the rest of you guys need to pull your head out of the sand and quit reading al jezeera….
ARE YOU AWARE THAT ARABS CAN AND DO HOLD PUBLIC OFFICE IN ISRAEL?
WE’RE not your enemies. go take your problems up with your corrupt government
israel has a right to exist, please just leave us alone
if you go to israel, i promise you’ll have a wonderful time, regardless of your faith. You can enjoy the culture, good food, good night-life, etc. But if you go to gaza, (women) please try walking around with your face showing. you’ll probably get stoned to death! 
Call me stupid/ignorant/a zionist, but i think its in the best interest of humanity to support free societies.
yours truly,
a dirty, ignorant, stupid, cruel ZIONIST
p.s., nice showing at our picnic, SJP
you can support and love freedom but also oppose racism and ethnic cleansing.
just as i love america and thus oppose the invasion and occupation of iraq, i can also love israel and the freedom it allows its jewish citizens while opposing its discrimination against its palestinian citizens and its military occupation.
just because a place is nice and has nice clubs, good, etc- does not make its policies right.
and your idea of life in gaza is sort of crazy… having been there personally, i can tell you that women show their face and are an active part of the workforce and education. its confusing to me how your points about freedom in israel, very often correct, are coupled with extremely incorrect assertions about life in arab countries.. why do you shoot yourself in the foot like that?
absolutely LOVE what West said. that’s all that had to be said.
Yes hani, you love oversimplification, emotional incitement, and pure pandering. The truth and an in-depth analysis is too much to handle for you, because it exposes all of the flaws in your argument.  Making ridiculous comparisons that no one supports is much easier than really learning what has happened and what is going on.
For those who think that Israel would halt it’s unceasing and multifaceted assault on the people of Palestine if a few militants would only lay down their arms and surrender — you have no concept of the nature of abuse.
Should a woman being raped give up her struggles?
Should we allow greedy companies to deplete the world’s resources until there is nothing left?
Should the indigenous peoples of America have allowed Europeans to slaughter them by the millions?
For those of you deluded enough to believe that Palestine is the oppressor, here is a little test:  Which side has more power?
The rapist or the woman?
The multinational companies, or the forests?
The invading Europeans or the Native Americans?
Israel or Palestine?
Israel will not stop persecuting its neighbors just because they surrender.  That is not how oppressors operate.  An oppressor will invent whatever excuses are required until they get what they want.
Very nice strategy West.  Paint Israel as the bigger power and the stronger side, and people will naturally want to side with who is perceived as the group with less power.  Paint Israel as a big bad imperialist power, and it becomes popular to dislike it.  Too bad none of this stands up to reality.  What is it that Israel wants that it “oppresses” the Palestinians?  Maybe instead of filling your head with passion and an ‘us vs them’ mentality, you should spend some time considering the other side and the fact that nothing is ever as simple as you want it to be.
Consider this…if Israel had at any point put its weapons down and stopped, it would have been annihilated by Hamas.  If Hamas at any point had put its weapons down, there would have been peace.  Since 1948, Israel has dealt with attack after attack, war after war.  Arab countries around it have tried to destroy Israel numerous times, and the only reason Israel still exists is because it was strong enough to fend them off.  Terror groups in Gaza and Lebanon are now trying to do what the Arab countries failed to do in previous conventional wars. Hamas’s charter and foundation is based on destroying Israel and never making peace, no matter the cost or how long it takes.  Hamas does not give a damn how many Palestinians die in this cause.  Nor do the Arab dictators of the region care what happens to the Palestinians.  The goal is to take out Israel, and then maybe care for the Palestinians.   Israel deals with these threats every day while at the same time concerning itself with civilian casualties and collateral damage.  No other country in the world shows the restraint Israel does when dealing with similar threats to its very existence.  If any other country in the world were to have rockets fired at it by a terrorist group sworn to its destruction, there wouldn’t be a second thought before just bombing the entire area to oblivion.
As for your test of who is stronger and who is weaker determining who is morally justified, it is a play on emotions and fear but doesn’t hold true at all.  The only reason Israel has survived and exists is because it has managed to maintain a military edge out of necessity, but this wasn’t always the case but thankfully Israel survived the close calls.  It is ridiculous to assume that because Israel is conventionally stronger, it is the aggressor and is at fault for the violence.  That is basically a false justification for violence in any form anywhere in the world as long as you are the side that is perceived to have less power.  It is a terribly simplistic view and I hope you have put more thought into the conflict than this.   
Appealing to raw emotions by drawing false analogies and portraying one side as the victim and one side as the evil aggressor works on people only for a very short time until they realize that you are intentionally oversimplifying and misrepresenting reality and decide to seek the truth, something which you seem too one-sided to offer.
what does “put its weapons down and stopped” mean? you have absolutely no idea what you’re talking about
thanks D.
and How many rockets has israel shot into gaza? oh right, it’s uncountable, but numbers in the millions.
and how many palestinian dead? oh right, you don’t even care.
stfu Racist filth.
Yet you dont care that Hamas fires rockets from schools and hospitals, and hides in residential building when the retaliation from Israel comes.  Hamas intentionally hides behind civilians so that they get killed, and Israel gets bad PR.  It is a genius ploy by a group that glorifies death because a)less of them die when Israel must hold back collateral damage and b)if Israel does attack and civilians die, Hamas can claim Israel murdered them.  
Remember that if Hamas and the terrorists put down their weapons, we would have peace.  If Israel put down its weapons, it would be massacred by Islamic fanatics. 
You need to step back from what you have been told to believe with passion and emotion and anger.  Think about how many more thousands upon thousands of Arabs and Muslims that are killed by other Arabs and Muslims than by Israel, yet Israel and only israel is despised and attacked on a daily basis.  Grow up, get over your childlike emotions of us vs them, and realize what is actually going on here.  That way, maybe you can advocate for peace and actually help the Palestinians instead of condemning them to a lifetime of “resistance”
, but yours are baseless claims. Find a single shred of evidence, not produced by the IDF, that Hamas used either schools or hospitals as locations from which to fire rockets. Find a single shred of evidence produced by a respected independent organization that Hamas “intentionally hides behind civilians so that they get killed”. Please, produce this evidence, and then, once you’ve produced this evidence, which will prove rather difficult since it doesn’t exist, ask yourself this question: when the Germans began their bombing of London in the fall of 1940, did we lament that the Churchill gang’s insistence upon hiding in densely populated civilian centers endangered the population of London and forced the Luftwaffe to reluctantly murder civilians? Was that the reaction?
Great analogy.  But before we get to that, I hope you know there are copious amounts of evidence that Hamas uses civilians as human shields and intentionally draws casualties as a part of their PR strategy produced by the IDF, independent organizations within Israel, international human rights organizations, and think tank groups.  The fact that you do not know or refuse to believe this is very troubling, and I would be more than happy to show you the reports and evidence. Hopefully then you will be willing to understand that the suffering in Gaza is terrible but not at all the fault of Israel as you seem to think it is.
As for your analogy, it is so obviously eroneous that it feels odd to even respond and dissect it, but since you must have had such a hard time thinking of this far fetched point I might as well tell you why its wrong.  Israel does not indiscriminantly bomb civilian areas or even non civilian areas.  Its bombings are targeted, meticulous, and scarce and aim to pinpoint either fighters who had attacked or are going to attack, or sometimes targetted killings of senior terrorists.  Israel does not and has never just bombed and bombed in order to cause damage and kill…. to suggest anything like that is just a lie. Also, was “Churchill’s gang” a group of Islamist terrorists that sent suicide bombers and rockets at a democratic, peace seeking Germany?  Israel is neither the aggressor nor does it use even a fraction of the force that ti easily could if its goal was to inflict damage or cause destruction.  I can’t even think of one thing about your analogy that matches up with the conflict we are talking about except that there was fighting going on…..  
I know its very hard to portray reality so that it fits your agenda, but this isn’t even an intelligent attempt. Come on, you can do better than that right?
If you were capable of producing a report by an independent organization regarding a conflict in the last two decades from which one could reasonably draw the conclusion that “the suffering in Gaza is… not at all the fault of Israel”, then I might take you seriously; however, you’ve clearly never reviewed any of these reports. If you had, what you would have found is that both the international human rights organizations, by which I presume you’re chiefly referring to HRW and Amnesty Intl., and groups within Israel, B’Tselem most prominently, make it quite clear that, while both sides have committed war crimes, Israel is the chief offender, quite literally by orders of magnitude. The most recent foray into Gaza provides a particularly grotesque example of this, where, for example, over 1,000 Palestinian civilians were killed (a conservative estimate) while 3 Israeli civilians were killed. One would be rather hard put to explain these 1,000 or more civilian deaths as the collateral damage resulting from “targeted, meticulous” bombings. Also, regarding this particular conflict, there’s simply no evidence to support the claim that Hamas used schools and hospitals as bases for combat operation, except for a single second party source produced by the IDF. Further examination of all the existing documentation on this event only reinforces my points, though, of course, I encourage you to investigate for yourself.
Regarding your attempt to refine the analogy, virtually every point you make is completely false. Israel does, in fact, indiscriminately bomb civilian areas, as is meticulously documented in the extensive literature on the topic, which you refuse to read. It’s very difficult to explain a civilian to combatant ratio of 4 to 1 as the result of “targeted, meticulous” bombings, a fact that would have occurred to you had you read the reports to which you refer, albeit vaguely. You seem to suggest that, during the second World War, England did not commit any war crimes. Incidentally, carpet-bombing of heavily populated civilian centers is not excused under international law no matter how “undemocratic” the state in question is, contrary to your suggestion. And, most absurdly, you state that “Israel is [not] the aggressor.” Now, it is exactly and precisely because Israel is the aggressor, and has been for decades, that your description and understanding of the situation is completely meaningless. In fact, the most basic principle of international law is the unacceptability of acquiring territory through force, the very definition of aggression, considered the ultimate violation of international law, for obvious reasons, and one which the U.N., excluding of course the U.S.and Israel (and a few tiny island states), has repeatedly and even annually accused Israel of committing, regularly calling on them to immediately withdraw from what are quite appropriately called the occupied territories. Let’s consider another analogy. When Germany invaded Poland, did it have the legitimate right of self defense against Partisan (anti-fascist Polish resistance) terror, which was, incidentally, much worse than any crimes the Palestinians have committed? When Russia commits its crimes in Chechnya, do we call that the legitimate reaction to Chechen terror, again more severe than Palestinian terror? Israel has the right to defend itself in the sense that any military aggressor and occupier has the right to defend itself against the population they’re crushing, namely by immediately withdrawing from the occupied territory.
Since Israel’s disengagement from the Gaza Strip in 2005,  as of 2008, over 4000
Kassam rockets have been fired from Gaza into the Western Negev region of Israel.
Each time a Kassam is launched, Israelis have only 15 seconds to seek
shelter. Many of these rockets have been aimed at the town of Sderot,
where between 70% and 94% of children exhibit signs of posttraumatic
stress disorder.    
The author should have presented a more balanced article.   
Interesting how the media can sometimes report inaccuracies:
UPDATED: (Some) Media Backtrack After “Dead” Palestinian Teen Emerges Alive
April 7, 2010
A Palestinian teen reportedly shot dead by Israeli troops was in fact arrested by police in Egypt after he crossed into that country from Gaza, leaving the news media that reported on the supposed killing with a dilemma: Inform misled readers, or just ignore the new information?
It seems that the word zionist, as used above here, in a hateful and derogatory manner is rather just a codeword for “Jew”.
More specifically, it means “Jew who doesn’t behave”. Liberals LOOOOVE jews, blacks, hispanics, women, etc… as long as they hold “correct” opinions. They can call for the destruction of Israel, and with self-hating Jews on their side, simultaneously convince themselves that they’re not anti-semites. If a Jew should dare suggest he has a right to exist, though, he’s a “zionist” and anything is justifiable to bring him into line. Murdering him and his children included.
haha sooo true.  I think they’re so mad that there is a Jewish state that they won’t even say the word and have to replace it with Zionist.  That, or its a smokescreen so they can claim not to be the bigoted, prejudiced, hateful group that they are.
Zionist bullying in the united states?! Did you read about that in the protocols of zion?! Even calling the situation in Israel a genocide is a gross missrepresentation that lacks connection with the definition of the word. If this group wants “justice” in “Palestine” they should start by giving an equal and nuanced representation of both sides, instead of attacking one side with argumentation techniques that can best be described as propagande. Justice must mean treating both sides equally, not favoring one side. In light of this I suggest your interest group change its name to “Students for Palestine”, in order to better reflect its agenda. 
When I then see people here writing about “zionist bullying” I wonder if what really bothers them are the human rights issues or just the fact that Israel is a jewish state.
Interesting how some comments concentrate on the Palestinians doing the killing. Remember they lived there before Jews from Poland and the US.  They were killed and massacred first to make room.  Of course, Zionists now must protect themselves from the persecuted. What strange reasoning by the Zionists but when you have the weapons and the strength you can make the rules, right?
Yeah, well the Jews lived in Israel before the Palestinians came there from the arab peninsula. Second, no Palestinians were “massacred” to “make room”, and any serious historian will agree with me. Your representation of the conflict lacks anything that can be compared to an overall understanding of the situation and seems to be a gross simplication á la “The Jews/Zionists stole the palestinians land. Therefore they are evil. Because the jews/zionists are the top dogs (for once in history might I add) they are automatically evil as everyone in power is evil”.
could you please enlighten us to what the “zionists” (I think you mean to say Jews) are, as you imply that Americans will call them by something particular one day?
If you really care about the Palestinians, why are you not demonstrating against the arab countries that hold millions of Palestinians in refugee camps?! (as a way to put pressure on Israel might I add) This is after all a crime against international law, as international law in practice requires that refugees be assimilated into any country that accepts them.
WRONG.  Learn some history.  Jews have been living in Israel for thousands of years.  Just because many immigrated from Europe does not mean that this isn’t true.  
Second, what are these widespread killings and massacres you are referring to???? There were a few isolated incidents which were tragic but have been blown waaaaay out of proportion.  The Israeli left at the time of Israel’s establishment sought to try and exagerate one such massacre to use it as a PR tool against the standing leaders.  The Arabs at the time exagerated it in order to instill fear in Palestinians and get them to move out of the Arabs way as they went to attack Israel.  
That is just a snippet of the entire story, but your bogus claims of killings and massacres are terribly wrong. 
We should be thankful that Israel has the means to defend itself among a sea of hateful and aggressive neighbors.
You and the white supremacists should have a playdate soon.
I have no symphathy for a zionist who was “shaking”.  If they care about human pain and suffering they would shake when they remember how Palestinians were massacred to make room for Zionists. They would shake when they think of how the Palestinians are humiliated every day in Israel.  The SJP is a great group and someday, Americans will call the Israelis for what they are, and not be shy because of  Zionist bullying techniques here in the US.
WHAT MASSACRES????
The Zionist bullies are here to kill all the Palestinians and rape the world of all its money!! Quick, hide from those dirty dirty Zionists!!!
Congradulations on becoming a fully brainwashed member of the crazies.  Too bad there are no rehab facilities for this kind of thing.
Well done Ms. Kyriacou! I applaud a very well-written article on a controversial topic. Since this was an event put on by SJP with minimal SCSI interference, I don’t understand why more SCSI people would have been interviewed? I am happy with the coverage…
SCSI didnt “interfere” out of sheer class. SJP makes me sick.
iloveusc,
“Sheer class”? This is the same sheer class that interrupted a funeral march for last year, right?
Of course you are.  Its not often that your convoluted, malicious attacks against Israel get taken seriously by anyone :D
Wow… you people need to seriously reconsider your priorities. The DT is biased… yet we hear little about what was written on the board itself in the real world and mainstream media. 
And Joe, I wasn’t sure before, but now I know you’re actually a sarcastic troll.
The Daily Trojan disappoints yet again. This article is horribly one sided, and the author’s bias is clearly visible by the placement of the quote at the end. Christianna, you should be embarrassed by your lack of journalistic integrity. Please understand that there are two sides to this conflict, and giving the other side one quote, taken horribly out of context, and then strategically placing another to counter it, does not present the sides in equal light.
I just graduated from UCI and was hoping to leave this wall behind….guess it’ll follow me to USC too…
This nonsensical bigotry is polluting campuses all over the US….just a couple months ago anti-Israel demonstators yelled and yelled at the Israeli AMBASSADOR who had come to speak at Irvine and silenced him so that he would not even have a chance to speak.
The pro-Palestinian fringe students are terrible examples of academic honesty and integrity.  They are a disgraceful bunch of hateful hypocritcs.
We learned after the David Horowitz event that CHRISTIANNA KYRIACOU cannot write unbiased articles about Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Why assign her another article on this topic?
This article is absolutely not what a news piece should be- objective.
5 people were interviewed about their views that SJP’s wall was rightfully erected in order to show the “true” side of the issue. Only 1 person with an opposing or Pro-Israel view was interviewed, when in reality, there are at least hundreds of students on campus who disagree with SJP’s position the issue. Therefore, the article shed a overly biased light on the issue, making it difficult for the Pro-Israel population on campus to dig themselves out of the hole SJP and this article have dug for them.
In order to put the background of this article into perspective, here’s an example that can directly hit the issue home for USC students:
Hamas (a terrorist Palestinian organization) sent rockets for 8 years into civilians cities in Israel without being provoked. Israel did not respond strongly and allowed the rockets to hit homes and civilians for 8 whole years.
– Let’s say people in Orange County were shooting rockets aimed to hit USC dorms every day for 8 years. One day the rocket would hit the intersection between Figueroa and Exposition. The next day it would hit parking lot X, and the day after, it would hit rooms in Birnkrant, Pardee, and New/North, wounding several students. (8 years of this hit or miss panic.) USC would have to declare these areas uninhabitable and the residents would have to evacuate because their safety would be at stake.
Would it be wrong for the USC administration to build a wall in order to stop the rockets from reaching the students? Would it be wrong for USC to protect its students?
Also, much of the oppression in Gaza is due to the Palestinian leaders rather than the Israelis. When Hamas agrees to stop the attacks on Israel, Fatah might not. So it’s a never-ending cycle which directly affects that welfare of the Palestinian people in Gaza.
So a lot of these wrongs could really be resolved by the Palestinian leaders. They just will not agree to work with Israel.
well said.
That is not the same situation as what’s happening over there. To make a better comparison, USC administrators should bring the students to OC and claim half of their county as USC property. Of course any OC residents in the claimed territory must be kicked out and their homes have to be bulldozed.
Your comment here is exactly why there is not peace in the holy land….too many Palestinians have been brainwashed into believing that Israel has no right to the land and just took it away from the poor Palestinians…
Revisionist history is not history at all.  Learn the truth about what you speak and then you will realize that this conflict is about Islamic fanatics and power hungry dictators wanting to harm Israel and drive it into the sea.  Their supporters have become very good at learning the language of politics and human rights in order to forward this goal.
Israel will never roll over and die.  Keep trying.
I have no problem with Isreal building a wall, provided that they erect it on their land/ and not using land siezed in violation of all International Law.  The wall in its current location is seen more as a land grab and economic destroyer than it is about border security.
There is no such thing as international law. It’s a fabrication that dictators and liberals use to attack American and Israel. The only real international law is: If you can defend yourself, you will. If not, you’re toast.
Uhhmm…the war in which Israel seized the land in 1967 was fully legal in accordance with international law Ius Cogens (that is there is no legal document describing this rule, but is is held as a rule by the international community) It was anticipatory self-defence, which is allowed in international law. Since Jordan (who did in fact seize the land illegally in a war of agression), from who the land was seized has since given up all claims to it, it is questionable if Israel has any legal obligation to give the land to anyone. In my opinion its hard to give arguments based on legality in accordance with international law because noone here knows enough of international law to challenge it if it is incorrect (Ive only taken one 4 unit class in international law) and therefore it is also intelectually dishonest.
It absolutely is a legal wall, and while it is unfortunate that it must be there, it is the Palestinian terrorists who blew themselves up in cafes and movie theatres who are responsible.  If you are mad about the wall, go yell at the mindless murderers who caused it…not the democratic and free society which is just trying to protect itself.
Israel has every right in the world to defend itself.  Were America or any other country in the world to be attacked by a terrorist group on its border, it would just flatten the entire area that the terrorists resided in.  Israel shows great restraint and humanity, despite the propoganda of the Arabs who want to destroy it.
This wall is another sad reminder of what happens when people allow supernatural and fairy tale religion to drive policies and practice into the real material world. I do not care if you believe in God but when you become overcome with religion and wish to impose your credulous beliefs onto other – then you have the paradise known as the Israeli-Palestine relationship. The conflict between these people stem from a belief in God – that is where they first went wrong.
The conflict is tribal, not religious. You think that if the “Palestinians” started reading Richard Dawkins books and became atheists, they’d suddenly stop wanting to murder the Jews? Why? What is it about atheism that’s so life changing?
I agree Joe, this has nothing to do with religion. No one likes being dispossessed of their ancestral land and no one likes being subjected to a humiliating decades-long military occupation, no matter what religious doctrine, if any, they subscribe to.
Norman Finkelstein is the son of Holocaust survivors. He is not a Holocaust-denier and calling him such is blatantly ignorant. If you had taken time out of your busy schedule to actually attend the event, you would know that he did not speak once about the Holocaust; he spoke about Israel’s invasion of Gaza last year.
However, more importantly, the wall is not about the Holocaust at all. It is about the human rights atrocities that Israel commits against the Palestinian people using the $3 billion they receive in US aid every year. The Wall they are building, that rips apart entire communities, is illegal, their treatment of the Palestinians is illegal, and blaming Palestinians for defending themselves against tanks, this wall, and the Israeli army is ludicrous.
actually, to expect us to take your bombings and not strike back is ludicrous. maybe you should take your head out of the sand and quit relying on al jezeera as a source of information. 
Your anger should be directed at your tyrannical leaders, who are responsible for the unfortunate living conditions of gaza, not the israelis.
Don’t forget that these are the same people who danced in the streets in celebration and handed out candy when our country was attacked on 9/11… They hate the USA just as much as they hate Israel and would like to see our beautiful nation whipped off the face of the earth.
They hate freedom, democracy, human rights, and progressive thought.  They seek power, death, and fanatisicm.  There is a reason martyrdom is so important to these brainwashed fools.
SJP is the same organization that brought a holocaust-denying speaker to campus earlier this semester (daily trojan wrote an article about the incident). They used USG money (from the programing fee in our tuition) to finance the event.
That is an outrage. The SJP should be kicked off campus immedietally for their anti-semtiic agenda.
damn anti-semtiic agenda
The 2 brothers, Issaac & Ishmael are still fighting it out…even to this day.
Their Father Abraham must’ve leaned his lesson: Trust in God for your offspring
(from his wife, Sarah-mother of Issaac) and not in a “washer woman” (Hagar-mother of Ishmael).
Hagar’s son, Ishmael, is illegitimate … & his anger, hate, + ENVY has spread and defined an entire race of people.
How pathetic. They are un-forgiving, relentless, un-productive, contentious, un-compromising and spiteful. 
It is said that: ” A Good Tree bears Good Fruit” …
the descendants of Hagar bear ONLY rotten fruit as evidenced by their actions.
Their only defense is to attack their brother & his offspring + make life miserable for the rest of us.
Interesting how folks like Old Domer choose to completely ignore the indiscriminate bombings, targeted shootings, home destructions and general abuse carried out against the Palestinians by the IDF. Would you want to live in peace with your neighbor if that neighbor occupied the greater part of your land, stole portions of it every year and treated you and others as second class citizens? I don’t think so.
I’m not condoning attacks on Israelis or any civilians for that matter. That kind of conduct is immoral when ANYONE commits it. But seriously, when people portray Israel as the innocent little neighbor being attacked by bloodthirsty Arabs, I have to laugh. It would be like the pilgrims protesting after being attacked by the Native Americans, and we all know how the former got things going.
Probably because Old Domer lives in the real world and reads the newspaper, instead of wallowing in anti-semitic web communities and burning US and Israeli flags. When you attempt to murder a nation’s innocent civilians and children, they have the right to shoot back. Even if it results in collateral damage. It’s sad that innocent Palestinians are killed in the fighting (often used as human shields by the terrorists) but the lesson there is, don’t hang out with terrorists if you don’t want to get hit by the crossfire.
When you attempt to murder a nation’s innocent civilians and children, they have the right to shoot back. Even if it results in collateral damage. It’s sad that innocent Israelis are killed in the fighting (often used as human shields by the terrorists) but the lesson there is, don’t hang out with terrorists if you don’t want to get hit by the crossfire.
Switch the actors in your statement, and it makes perfect sense. Seriously, think for just a second.
Come on man, all the actions the IDF takes is in response or preemption to the Islamists of Hamas and others.  I am from Iran and I know the idiots and murderers that these fanatic Muslims and their backers are, with their martyrdom ideology that glorifies death and destruction.  Hamas is a terrorist organization that kidnaps, kills, maims, destroys, all for its violent cause.  We must oppose these fanatics wherever and whenever we see them.  In Gaza, in Iran, in Iran, in Lebanon, in Pakistan. EVERYWHER!!
Maybe someone could explain why the Israelis had to build a wall to keep  people who like to murder women and children out of the country?
Maybe if the leadership in Gaza and other places would stop launching rockets and sending murderers into peaceful crowds of civilians, then the wall could come down.
The Middle East will have peace on the day that the Palestinian leadership decides to live in peace with the Jews, not until then.
Very well put.
Maybe if the leadership in Israel would stop bombing innocent civilians and blockading entire cities to the point of starvation, and maybe if they would put an end to the longest military occupation in modern history, then the rockets would stop.
The Middle East will have peace on the day that the Israeli leadership decides to live in peace with the Palestinians, not until then.
right…….
I wonder what Lane Kiffin had to say about this.
[…] Wall provokes discussion and, for some, anger | Daily Trojan […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
For USC head basketball coach Kevin O’Neill, replacing the backcourt tandem of Mike Gerrity and Dwight Lewis might not be so hard after all, as two of the Trojans’ recruits in the class of 2010, Bryce Jones of Woodland Hills, Calif., and Maurice Jones of Saginaw, Mich., appear poised to make a significant impact next season after impressive senior seasons.
But it won’t be easy. Last season, Lewis, who became USC’s all-time leader in games played, led the Trojans in scoring with 13.8 points per game, and Gerrity was the lone player to post a positive assist-to-turnover ratio of 1.8/1. Replacing that kind of production will be a challenge, but by the sound of things, it seems as if the Joneses might be up to the challenge.
Last week, Bryce Jones, who played his senior season at Taft High School in nearby Woodland Hills received the 2010 John R. Wooden Award for the City Section, which is annually presented to the area’s most valuable player. Jones, who averaged 16.9 points and 7.5 rebounds per game in route to leading Taft to the L.A. City title game against Weschester, joins the ranks of former recipients and future NBA standouts Tyson Chandler, Baron Davis and Tayshaun Prince.
Yet, while such accolades are certainly impressive, fellow recruit Maurice Jones of Arthur Hill High School had an equally noteworthy senior campaign.
The 5-foot-8 Jones, who has drawn comparisons to the reigning Pac-10 Player of the Year Jerome Randle from Cal, was named Associated Press Class A Player of the Year for the state of Michigan.
While leading Arthur Hill to the Class A quarterfinals, Jones posted some of the best individual numbers in state history with 30 points, 12 assists, five rebounds and four steals per game.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
As the end of the spring semester approaches, students often fall victim to a sense of wanderlust as they stare out at the L.A. sunshine. Hungry for a taste of the famed California summer romanticized in ’60s surfer movies, Beach Boys songs and old travel posters, students search out quintessential Californian fare wherever they can find it. Here are, in no particular order, some of the most “California” places to grab a bite – and perhaps, play a little hooky.
1. Neptune’s Net
42505 Pacific Coast Hwy
Malibu, CA 90265
(310) 457-3095
This biker bar-cum-tourist trap is minutes away from Malibu’s coursing waves and is right off the main rode. Come to munch on onion rings and sip a beer next to packs of large, ruddy men with muttonchops and leather vests. An added bonus: Their fancy flushable portable potties are surprisingly clean.
2. Beach House Restaurant
619 Sleepy Hollow Lane
Laguna Beach, CA 92651
(949) 494-9707
Once the home of silent actor Slim Summerville, this charmingly quaint beach house is famous for its weekend brunch. With a sun-exposed patio right next to the crashing waves of the Pacific Ocean, it’s a perfect spot to enjoy lavish meals of crabcakes benedict with watermelon mint salads, watered down with pitcher-sized Bloody Marys — complete with cocktail shrimp.
3. Hot Dog On A Stick
1633 Ocean Front Walk
Santa Monica, CA 90401
If you’ve never had the pleasure of looking bemusedly at a teenager make lemonade by jumping up and down, in between dunking racks of battered cheese and beef into deep fryers, then roll on over to the original stand of this summer favorite. Go ahead, soak in the sunshine and the saturated fat. And add extra mustard!
4. The Apple Pan
10801 West Pico Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA 90064
(310) 475-3585
Definitely don some cardinal and gold before walking into this Westwood-area restaurant, which just celebrated its 63rd anniversary. With big burgers, generous slices of pie and a menu that puts “Everything” in parentheses, it’s the picture of retro California charm.
5. Bob’s Big Boy
4211 W Riverside Dr.
Burbank, CA 91505
(818) 843-9334
With its large, neon sign and still-standing statue of Bob’s eerie big boy, complete with moussed-up brown hair, suspenders and Pleasantville grill, this landmark embodies the quintessential California coffee shop style: large, open kitchen, Formica countertops and asymmetrical shape. So go ahead motorist, pull over and park. Who knows? Maybe you’ll see the ghost of an original waitress, roller skates and all.
6. Clifton’s Cafeteria
648 South Broadway
Los Angeles, CA 90014
(213) 627-1673
This Yosemite-themed blast from the past hidden in between old theaters and jewelry marts features colored lights, a waterfall and a giant wooden bear snarling in front of a forest of fake trees. The food isn’t so bad, either – and there is a lot of it. Choose from a dizzying array of Jell-o salads, assorted meat-and-potatoes dishes, pies, salads, yams and other treats served by friendly ladies in hairnets who may have been there since the location’s opening more than 60 years ago.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
With two hit CDs, millions in digital sales, an upcoming concert tour, a performance at the White House during its annual Easter Egg Roll and a career-validating Oprah appearance, the Glee phenomenon has truly taken over.
In harmony · Fox’s popular series Glee follows New Directions, a recently reinvigorated high school glee club. - Photos courtesy of FOX Flash 
But the cast and crew of the show aren’t the only ones with something to be gleeful about: Glee fans all over the nation are gearing up for the spring premiere of the hit T.V. show tonight at 9:30 p.m. on Fox.
After a four-month hiatus, the McKinley High glee club is back in session, continuing season one with the remaining nine episodes that promise even more sabotaging schemes, romantic twists and, above all, the music that has revived the traditional high school musical.
Since the show’s debut in May 2009, Glee has centered on the New Directions glee club at McKinley High School in Lima, Ohio. Spanish teacher Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison), decided to take over the club, giving it a new name and revitalizing its image.
Early episodes primarily revolved around Will’s attempts to recruit singers for the club, pitching it as a creative alternative for students who usually join the popular and successful cheerleading and football teams at the school. Will’s efforts to make the club successful are constantly challenged by Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch), coach of the school’s cheerleading team, the Cheerios.
Refusing to give up, Will puts together a diverse team of budding performers headed by the fame-obsessed Rachel Berry (Lea Michele) and quarterback Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith).
Will struggles to keep the club together throughout most of the season, trying to change the image of a group previously defined as the “loser club.” The show portrays stereotypical high school drama, with students throwing slushies at the rejects of the glee club.
Against all odds and in spite of the devious scheming of Sue, last season ended with New Directions’ victory at sectionals and its preparations for regionals. Sue gets suspended for her attempts to sabotage New Directions’ performance at sectionals by leaking its set list to the competing teams.
After his marriage failed and he learned his wife was faking her pregnancy, Will kissed school guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays) in an attempt to stop her from leaving the school.
With relationships taking exciting turns and the glee club’s win at sectionals, the remainder of the season promises to keep the thrills coming and maintain the drama and entertainment Glee has come to be known for.
With tonight’s spring premiere, fans can expect even more exciting music with songs by AC/DC, Lionel Richie, the Beatles, Olivia Newton-John and Madonna in the remaining episodes. Without giving too much away, the show’s return episode “Hell-O” features several songs playing on the title, including “Hello” by Richie, “Gives You Hell” by All-American Rejects and “Hello, Goodbye” by the Beatles.
Although the music is certainly the most awaited aspect of the show, the episode will also introduce two new characters and the return of Sue, ready to challenge the glee club once again with her underhanded plans.
With the amount of hype the show garners, however, Glee definitely has a lot to live up to. Ahead of television favorites The Office and 30 Rock, Glee took home the best T.V. series, comedy or musical, award at the Golden Globes in January. Although Michele, Lynch and Morrison did not win the best actress, best supporting actress or best actor awards, respectively, their nominations speak for themselves and definitely set the bar high.
Whether it’s the amusing relationship drama, intense competition or fun-filled musical performances, the show offers a little bit of everything for viewers. With the “Glee Live” concerts this summer and highly anticipated spring premiere, the Glee phenomenon is definitely here to stay.
Be sure to catch “Hell-O” tonight — and if high school drama and slushie fights aren’t your thing, the music will surely not disappoint.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
April in Southern California brings three certain, oft-dreaded events: rainstorms, tax day and Coachella.
Currently in its 11th year, the formerly two-day-, once one-day- and now three-day-long Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival is an annual mecca for area music fans.
In its relatively short tenure, Coachella has become a local staple. But what started in 1999 as a more formal extension of Pearl Jam’s Ticketmaster-boycotting 1993 concert at Indio’s Empire Polo Field is now run by concert-promoter powerhouse Goldenvoice and subsists on lackluster-yet-chart-topping headliners instead of the anti-capitalistic ethos on which it was originally founded.
Although it brands itself as an “indie” music event, the festival has become a larger-minded, mainstream-tailored affair. And year after year, Coachella consistently caters to the seemingly bottomless pockets of its 20-something audience.
But, with the exception of the pop-rock machine Vans Warped Tour and the return of the feminist-minded Lilith Fair, Coachella is the only large-scale festival for Southern California rock enthusiasts.
Even if you’re attending for the chart-topping headliners or the over-priced opportunity to party in the desert ambiance, try arriving before 10 p.m. to catch the slightly less mainstream artists that weren’t paid the ridiculously big bucks to make an appearance.
Friday
With the likes of rock supergroup Them Crooked Vultures (which includes Nirvana drummer/Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl, Led Zeppelin member John Paul Jones and Queens of the Stone Age founder Josh Homme), post-punk outfit Public Image Limited (helmed by former Sex Pistols’ icon John Lyndon) and Echo & the Bunnymen (which has been whittled down over the years to a two-piece),  Friday’s lineup teems with has-beens attempting to cash in on their former fame.
An electro-rock outfit that won over beat-lovers’ hearts with its epic ballads and band name-dropping in tracks “Daft Punk is Playing in My House” and every audiophile’s nerd anthem “Losing My Edge,” LCD Soundsystem is the highest-billed act that will stir the most entertainment. Yet known as a club band and best suited for low-ceilinged venues with the right amount of dance-floor space, LCD Soundsystem will most likely be out of its element playing the mainstage.
She & Him is sure to deliver cutesy folk-pop and equally-as-cute eye-candy with its members, Zooey Deschanel and M. Ward, while North Carolina-based The Avett Brothers will bring a little less cutesy and a little more punk to the festival’s folk stage.
Yeasayer, a psych-pop outfit hailing from Brooklyn, adds a bit of Odd Blood with its swirling instrumentals, while the up-and-coming Portland group Hockey charges the festival with a high-voltage shock of dance-rock.
Saturday
Saturday’s lineup overflows with an excess of electronic acts, 2009 buzz bands and 2009 electro-buzz bands.
Although the XX would have been the must-see band before the 2010 Winter Olympics, which frequently aired an AT&T commercial that utilized the group’s “Intro,” Beach House has usurped the XX for the top dream-pop spot.
L.A. locals Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros provide sunny, jam-band tracks appropriate for the desert location, while laptop musician Flying Lotus delivers the hard and heavy Dublab beats.
And it might be worth it to stick out MGMT’s set to hear tracks from its latest album Congratulations, which shamelessly departs from the duo’s sugarcoated electro-pop debut and ventures into sunny psychedelic rock.
Sunday
With its highly publicized reunion tour and the March release of its compilation album, Pavement, the undeniable godfathers of indie rock, is easily the most anticipated act in Sunday’s lineup, save for those who really want to hear the Gorillaz play “Sunshine in a Bag.” Yet with its recent resurgence among youngsters who were barely toddlers when Pavement released its gritty rock gems — Slanted and Enchanted and Wowee Zowee — in the early ’90s, and the group’s sudden, money-grabbing reunion 10 years after it disbanded, it’s doubtful that Pavement’s notoriously rebellious spirit has hardly stayed intact. Riding on the wave of success of her third full-length album IRM, Charlotte Gainsbourg will back up her French sex appeal with breathy vocals and a darkly pop sensibility. And if you want to get away from the old folks, Deerhunter, a contemporary, less grimey-sounding Pavement just returning from a recent hiatus, will deliver straightforward indie rock.
You completely ignored some of the best acts on the lineup. Where is Fever Ray or Florence and the Machine or Sleigh Bells or Yo La Tengo? What about some classic acts like Devo or Gary Numan?
As usual, a lack of research from the Daily Trojan’s wannabe writers. Try looking outside the hipster-approved bullshit next time.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Moviegoers might have been surprised this weekend to hear that a comedy about a bored married couple’s night out on the town was neck and neck with the epic Clash of the Titans at the box office. However, once you suspend your disbelief that two yuppies like Phil and Claire Foster could get caught up in a power struggle between thugs, you can sit back, relax and enjoy the silly ride that is Date Night.
S.O.S. · In Date Night, Phil and Claire Foster (Steve Carell and Tina Fey) attempt to rekindle their romance by going out on a date. Instead, they become embroiled in a high-stakes case of mistaken identity. - Photos courtesy of 20th Century Fox 
Steve Carell, who we know and love as bumbling manager Michael Scott in The Office, stars as Phil Foster, a man very much in love with his wife but bored with the day-to-day routine of his marriage. Tina Fey, writer, producer and star of 30 Rock, plays Phil’s workaholic wife, Claire, who refuses to let Phil take on some of her household chores.
Though the two try to spice things up with occasional date nights, they usually sit in their regular booth, more interested in the dates of other couples around them than they are in each other.
After hearing that two of their friends are getting divorced, Phil and Claire decide to take a night off to do something different. They drive into the city, bust into a chic Manhattan restaurant and take the reservation of a no-show couple. In the middle of dinner, two thugs mistake Phil and Claire for the Tripplehorns — the party under whose name the table reservation was made — and press the couple for an important flash drive that belongs to their boss. Phil and Claire escape and set out to find the real Tripplehorns and the “McGuffin”-like flash drive in order to save their lives in a wild cat-and-mouse chase across New York City.
Director Shawn Levy (Cheaper by the Dozen, Night at the Museum) transformed the simple story of a married couple’s attempt to reignite the flame by adding a flare of urban charm and middle class wit. Date Night is actually something of a buddy movie — think Pineapple Express but with a middle-aged husband and wife in the place of desperate stoners.
Carell and Fey play the boring couple from Jersey with such wonderful comedic chemistry that it’s hard to believe the two aren’t actually married. The two were given the liberty to improvise during many of the scenes — you can see some of the outtakes if you stick around for the end credits.
When watching Date Night, it’s clear the filmmakers’ primary goal was to highlight the performances of Carell and Fey. Levy deftly inserts beats where the actors speak and respond to the funny dialogue and situations ­— the actor’s facial response sometimes got more laughs than the line that inspired it. Although it’s not as laugh-out-loud funny as some might have hoped, Date Night certainly has its moments of hilarity.
Date Night moves fast, running at about an hour and a half, with plenty of action to boot. In one particularly exciting sequence, Steve Carell drives a sports car into the front of a taxi, locking the two vehicles’ hoods together just before the couple is chased throughout the city.
There is as much physical comedy as hilarious dialogue, as Phil and Claire get roughed up, harassed and even thrown into some compromising situations. It’s watching these two that really keeps our attention, as the plot seems to move simply because the characters get an idea or fall into some trouble.
The film has several big name stars, each with his own comedic shtick. Mark Wahlberg has one of the film’s larger cameos as Holbrooke Grant, a rich, beefy high-tech guy who refuses to put on a shirt. Ray Liotta once again reprises his role as a tough, intimidating mobster. Mark Ruffalo, Kristin Wiig, James Franco and Mila Kunis all have minor spots reminiscent of their stints on Saturday Night Live and FunnyOrDie.com.
Date Night strives to attract a younger audience, though it actually seems to entertain the adults who can relate to the stress and delight of married life. Phil and Claire’s date night turns out to be a true test of their relationship as each saves the other from danger. In the end, we see they’ve spent the night like a couple of reckless teenagers, a true testament that married life can stay young and fresh.
The success of Date Night is carried by its desire to tell a simple story with plenty of heart. Ultimately, it’s the performances of Steve Carell and Tina Fey that delight us, as the plot moves basically because they’re moving, too. Audiences will enjoy this film if they go in not expecting to laugh every moment but simply to appreciate the work of two wonderful comedians in the industry today.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The USC Fashion Industry Association was in full swing for its sixth annual fashion show, sponsored by high-end denim label Paige Premium Denim. Held on campus in Town and Gown, the black-carpeted runway stretched across the building and was surrounded on both sides by rows of chairs, a full bar and media platform.
The student-run show boasted 13 designer collections running the gamut from fresh student designers and local talents to established brands and celebrity lines. Among the night’s honorees were designs courtesy of Madcute, Bloomingdale’s Aqua, Moods of Norway and I.Am by Black Eyed Peas’ will.i.am.
Also present were USC-groomed designers Michael Ward (’09), a graduate of the USC School of Architecture; Kathleen Coltman, a junior majoring in business administration; and Kimberly Mhanna, a junior majoring in economics.
In his self-titled collection, Ward impressed with his simple yet sophisticated men’s wear designs made up of two-tone, color-block button downs and skinny pants. His women’s wear was a bit more exuberant — towering models strutted down the catwalk in intricate silk-ruffled gowns paired with cropped metallic coats. A female model paused and ripped off the bottom layer of a well-tailored coat worn by another model to reveal a crowd-favorite sequined skirt beneath — a true showstopper.
In Kathleen Coltman’s collection — inspired by mid-20th century American lingerie and burlesque costumes — a floor-length nude-colored gown stood out among black and fuchsia-toned corsets and slip gowns. Flowing gowns and flirty crop tops in black, yellow and cream patterns summed up Kimberly Mhanna’s “Mhanna,” which perfectly captured the essence of elegant evening wear with a touch of casualness.
Also on hand for the evening was a fleet of well-groomed, fierce student and professional models.
Backstage before the show, aspiring model Rachel Silverman experienced a shade of last-minute anxiety.
“It’s always a mix of nerves and excitement,” Silverman said. “It’s hectic and tiring at times, but I can’t wait to get out there.”
Teddy Glickman, a sophomore majoring in communication, had a slightly different perspective.
“This is the first thing I’ve done with modeling, so it feels good to be a part of the show,” Glickman said. “Everything is new, but we practiced and did some run-throughs before.”
A boutique model for Moods of Norway and contestant on the Internet-based reality show If I Can Dream, aspiring high-fashion model Giglianne Braga also graced the runway multiple times for a segment to be aired on the show.
Powerhouse designs by Moods of Norway and Formative brought some of the show’s most interesting collections to the spotlight. The Norwegian designers behind Moods of Norway presented blazers, cherry-printed button-downs and uniquely colored suit-and-vest combinations for the men’s collection, complemented by surprisingly formal gowns for the ladies. Using soft spring colors throughout, Formative showed off a Grecian-meets-Gaga-inspired line, channeling intricate drapery with asymmetrical necklines, star cutouts, leotards and futuristic sunglasses. Both garnered praise from the audience.
On its turn down the catwalk, Bloomingdale’s Aqua fashions flaunted flirty skirts and dresses in basic floral prints coupled with boyfriend blazers in neutral tones.
Graduating from the Otis College of Art and Design this May, another showcasing designer Candy Winters described her pieces, including tweed jackets and patterned tops, as “fun and feminine.” She plans to continue working on her line more this summer.
Rounding out the night were eclectic showings of swimsuits and footwear by Tyler Rose Swimwear, Taiwo, Report shoes and Android shoes.
With not a loose stitch throughout, the FIA Board did well in delivering a high-production level show to its packed crowd of hip students, proud parents, friends and VIP guests. Lead sponsors for the show, Paige Adams-Geller, a USC Annenberg alumna and founder of Paige Premium Denim, provided totes filled with swag from other big-name sponsors like OPI, Ben Sherman and Stila makeup.
With beats by Alex Perliter and Greg Shin of Delivery to an intermission performance by the USC Chamber Ballet Company, the show boasted strong variety from its lineup of designers and exceeded expectations for a conventional student operation.
With events like Sunday’s design showcase, FIA hopes to continue bringing fashion industry exposure to its members and the USC populations. Sophia Yoo, a sophomore majoring in communication and FIA’s vice president of special events, was pleased with the outcome of the event.
“I’m really happy with how everything turned out,” Yoo said. “I think the biggest challenge going into next year is finding an even more impressive list of designers and just building off our momentum.”
Allison Krause, vice president of public relations for FIA, was also impressed with the outcome.
“Persistence is key,” Krause said. “We had to call a lot of people, keep asking and pursue those relationships. I think the hard work paid off in the end.”
just FYI the designers of Formative are also USC groomed designers! fight on!
[…] more information, read the article in the Daily Trojan: “Walk It Out” by Christopher […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Are Asian Americans a minority?
USC has come a long way in diversifying the student body. According to Amanda Pillon’s article on April 8, “Admissions more selective than ever,” the ethnic makeup of the class of 2014 has increased from the year prior to being 20 percent “minorities.”
I bet you are asking why I put “minorities” in quotation marks. After reading the article, I noticed that a major racial category was left out of who is considered a “minority.” Asian Americans were not included in the 20 percent of admitted students that identified themselves as a “minority,” which included “African Americans, Latino, Native American [and] Pacific Islanders.” Why are we left out as being identified minorities? Some might argue that there is a large population of Asian Americans on this campus, there are other marginalized and underrepresented communities, or even that Asians make up the majority in the world. To this I have to call shenanigans.
Asian Americans have suffered years of discrimination and degradation from the Naturalization Act of 1870, which expanded citizenship to African Americans but excluded Asian immigrants; the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which effectively barred Chinese from entering the United States; the California Alien Land Laws of 1913, which denied “aliens ineligible for citizenship” to own land; the Asian Exclusion Act of 1924, which prohibited East Asians and South Asians the right to own land or achieve naturalized citizenship; the Tydings-McDuffe Act of 1934, which severely restricted Filipino immigration to the United States after 39 years of American colonization; and Japanese American internment during World War II. Still making up roughly 5 percent of the US. population according to the U.S. Census Bureau, Asian Americans are a minority in this country.
If the word “minority” was to mean underrepresented communities, then also I have to take issue with that. Although Chinese Americans, Korean Americans, Indian Americans and Japanese Americans make up the bulk of the Asian American community at USC, students of Southeast Asian descent that should be considered “underrepresented,” such as Vietnamese, Cambodians, Hmong, Laotians, Thai and Filipinos, as well as other South Asian Americans, such as Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankans, are left out and enveloped into the larger groups when it comes to aid and recognition.
I don’t aim to degrade the status of increasing diversity within these other groups as entering freshmen. I applaud the efforts of USC reaching out to all communities. The issue here is that we as Asian Americans are seen as the invisible minority.
Asian Americans are seen as successful economically and in education, which in effect leads to the notion that Asian Americans are either not really a minority or even as “honorary whites.” Because of that, Asian Americans are left out of the discussion in regards to many pertinent social issues, such as immigration, discrimination and poverty. I have seen the progress of the Asian American community, whether it be in government, the media or academia. But this lack of recognition proves that there is a long way to go in including Asian Americans in these dialogues. We are here and we want to be equally heard.
Kevin Cheung
Junior, Business Administration
President, Student Coalition for Asian Pacific Empowerment
Although I am not compelled to agree with Joe’s overall viewpoint – I do agree with his premise: that Asian Americans are often not “counted” as minorities because of their relative success and integration into American society.  
Now let me make clear that this comment is in no way meant as nor should be construed as a claim that, through some fault of their own, other minorities remain relatively impoverished and uneducated.  I will not debate whether this is their fault or the fault of society for “keeping them in check.”  However, it is a simple fact that the per capita income of African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans is significantly lower than the average per capita income in the United States.
I, as a socially moderate Asian-American, would classify Joe’s comments as showing a somewhat conservative viewpoint on race in America.  And, I think that seeing conservative America’s overwhelmingly positive opinion of Asian-Americans is encouraging.
I think it shows that Asian-Americans have become the first ethnicity to enter into a post-racial America.  Asian-Americans have the respect of all ethnic groups, for the most part.  Furthermore, they are respected by social liberals and conservatives alike.  On the other hand, many social conservatives are resentful of blacks, many of which they feel are lazy individuals that drain off of America’s welfare systems.  Similarly, social conservatives decry illegal immigrants and Hispanics that “don’t know English” as breaking some sorts of implicit or explicit “rules.”  These types of things create tension, and thus a hyper-racial world exists to this day.
Now, I am by no means saying that there aren’t still completely hateful racists out there.  I am simply saying that racism for racism’s sake is a rare thing in America today.  Most perceived “racist” sentiment comes from social conservatives who think that it is unfair that traditional minorities, in their opinion, are lazy and game the system.  
But somehow, Asian Americans have steered clear of these currents.  As the author said, Asian Americans are typically seen as well educated, hard working, upper-middle class Americans.  Social Conservatives can identify with them, as they believe these values are important and show overall good character.  This stereotype leads to the benefit of the doubt being extended to ALL Asian-Americans, regardless of how affluent or hard-working they ACTUALLY are.  
Asian-Americans still keep their own cultural and racial identity.  Over the generations, these identities do fade, and younger Asian-Americans may abandon this culture in favor of a totally American culture.  The important thing is that Asian-Americans are largely not resented for keeping their own cultural or racial identity, if they choose to do so.  And, even those young Asian-Americans who wholly adopt “American” culture can find consolation in the fact that now they will contribute to their new culture and find joy from it.
I grew up in rural Pennsylvania, in an almost totally Caucasian area.  Through many of my years in Middle and High school, I was the only minority in my class at the local Parochial school.  In fact, I distinctly remember a day in my 9th grade year, where our homeroom teacher was doing a mandatory diocesan survey of the ethnic makeup of our class.  Mr. Burd, the teacher, asked everyone who was “Caucasian”  to raise their hands.  Literally, every kid except me did so.  Under the impression that everyone had raised their hands, Mr. Burd went to put the sheet away.  Then someone said, “What about Andrew?”  It wasn’t that Mr. Burd didn’t know me [I had known him for three years before then].  It’s just that my race was never a big issue with my classmates and teachers.  Even in that moment, when my race had become a slight aberration to distinguish me from the norm, I didn’t feel uncomfortable.  I literally just looked around the class, with everyone looking at me, possibly realizing for the first time that I was the only non-Caucasian and the only non-Catholic in the whole class, and laughed at the spontaneous hilarity of it all.
You see, my classmates, many of whom I still count among my friends, gave me the benefit of the doubt when they met me, possibly because I was Asian American and not a “minority” in the fullest sense.  Thus, they got to know me and, viola, they knew me as Andrew, their friend, an affable, intelligent, likable person.  They did not know me as Andrew, the only minority in the class.  Both they and I never looked at me as a minority or thought of me as a minority.  Skin color was just that, a color, and who worries about colors outside of art class, right?
And this is what I mean by a post-racial America.  This is what Asian-Americans are starting.
An America where almost everyone will not prejudge you based on your skin color.  Where they will not even care about your skin color, but instead get to meet you and see what type of person you are before judging you.  Unfortunately, America is built on stereotypes.  The current stereotype for Asian-Americans is favorable enough that Caucasians give us the benefit of the doubt, identify with us, and can connect with us [and us with them] on a post-racial plane.  On the other hand, both liberal and conservative Caucasians often fudge up relationships with African Americans or Hispanics.  There is either a prejudgment or an overcompensation for that prejudgment in these dealings.  As a result, the actual person to person relationship is shrouded by a veil of negative stereotypes or political correctness, and is thus degraded.  
In essence, two things are needed in order to guarantee a post-racial America.  First, positive stereotypes of every racial group – this allows conservatives to extend the benefit of the doubt to all individuals within that racial group.  And Second, a passive indifference to skin-color from both sides (majority-minority) in day to day individual relationships between whites and minorities.  
Asians successfully have fulfilled both of these criteria for themselves.  And this is why we live in a relatively post-racial state.  The lack of addressing Asian-Americans at all is, I feel, a side-effect of America’s evolution from a race-centric society to a post-racial one.
Ultimately, I hope for a day where not only Asian-Americans, but all minorities, are not seen as “minorities,” but for the individuals they are.  A day where noone will ever think about skin color or care much about such an innane and superficial difference.  This is not to say America will be of a homogeneous culture, or of only an Anglo-Saxon culture.  This is to say that each person will practice the religion and the culture they want to, each person will enjoy their racial heritage, but at the same time see every other person as another individual, so totally unique in his own right, as an individual, that to label him a black individual, an Asian individual , or a white individual is practically an insult to his own individuality.
Some might call me an idealist for hoping for this.  However, I think that idealists like myself can take consolation in the realization that Asian-Americans are crossing the threshold into such a post-racial America.  Where they are waiting for the rest of the country to catch up.
Maybe Asian Americans aren’t counted as minorities because, by and large, they aren’t racists demanding handouts and payoffs on the basis of their skin color. Most Asian Americans seem to be hard-working, moral people who just want to exercise their freedoms to seek education, work, and build their families. Perhaps you should be honored to have been apparently forgotten in the enumeration of racial-guilt-mongers. You got into USC *despite* racist admission policies, not because of them.
Kevin,
Specious article my friend.  Asian people will be heard when they start acting more assertive instead of hyper-assimilating with white people i.e. acting so whitewashed; reluctant to make waves; and avoiding racist confrontation, no matter how subtle, when the occassion arises. Turning the other cheek doesn’t work.
The admissions here probably used “minority” to imply those ethnic groups that are underrepresented; experience socioeconomic hardships; and aren’t instilled with the value that a college education is imperative, hence the label “first time college.” It’s an equivocal term, “minority,” but in that context it implies those who don’t have as great of a chance to attend university because “Asian Americans are seen as successful economically and in education.” You said it, not me. USC is trying to shed its old school WASPY-snob image with their aggressive recruitment of underrepresented minorities. 
We don’t need a Vincent Chin; A&F ‘2 wongs can make it white’; Details magazine “Gay or Asian,” and the likes to put our feet down.
AMST378,
First of all, thanks for reading this and writing a response to this. True, I do agree with you on the first point. Many Asian Americans seem to fear the discussion of race. Engagement of Asian American students in learning the history and how to understand the their own identity is the goal.
But in regards to admission’s implied meaning, minority is such a loaded term. Especially with Southeast Asian American and other South Asian American groups, the rates are so low, that some don’t even get to identify themselves with a box, thus lumping them together with the many Chinese, Korean, Indian and Japanese Americans who make up most of the Asian American admits. These groups get  ignored and don’t have as many resources to foster their development in universities, or even get outreached to. 
In regards to how “Asian Americans are seen as successful economically and in education,” this perception is that model minority myth which holds down many Asian Americans from feeling equal in in issues that regard Black and Latino/a students. Even the with the data, ethnic break down of education and poverty rates for many Southeast Asian American groups are far below average of both, making the numbers over-inflated.
What I guess I’m trying to say is that much of the issue comes down to the implied meaning of not including Asian Americans in the minority category hurts much of the progress that Asian Americans have overcome. It isn’t fair to exclude this huge and diverse community which makes up 1/20th of the US population in something which has much implied meaning. If Asians Americans are not a minority and not White, what are we?
[…] Daily Trojan by Sumi Pendakur, the awesome director of the Asian Pacific American Student Services, I decided to write to the DT about this lack of representation, albeit intentional or […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Over the weekend, California swept the Trojans baseball team at Dedeaux Field for the first time in school history. USC’s record dropped to 15-17 on the season, including a dismal 2-7 in Pac-10 play.
To make matters worse, USC coach Chad Kreuter reached a milestone no coach wants to encounter in his fifth season on the job. Friday’s 16-9 loss to the Golden Bears marked loss No. 100 for Kreuter. By the time the weekend was finished, that number had climbed to 102.
Unlike many, I don’t think finding a new coach is the team’s most pressing issue. USC has many other problems to figure out that actually take place, you know, on the field.
The Trojans desperately need to solidify their bullpen, and it would be nice to see some more consistent hitting up and down the lineup — unfortunately, there is only one Ricky Oropesa.
But I still feel the biggest need for the Trojans lies atop their rotation.
This season, USC is without a true No. 1 starter. The team has no ace, a problem for any baseball team wishing to contend in the strong Pac-10.
When junior starters Brad Boxberger and Robert Stock were selected in the 2009 Major League Baseball draft last June, the Trojans were left with gaping holes to fill at the top of their rotation.
Last season, Boxberger, whom the Cincinnati Reds selected as the 43rd overall pick in the draft, posted a 6-3 record with a 3.16 ERA. In 94 innings, he allowed only 69 hits, and he racked up 99 strikeouts as he held opponents to a .211 batting average against him on the season.
Stock was also a rock behind Boxberger. He tallied a 5-4 record with a 2.90 ERA and 86 strikeouts in 77 and two-third innings. The St. Louis Cardinals selected Stock 67th overall.
Struggles · Sophomore starter Andrew Triggs was pegged by USC  coach Chad Krueter to be the team’s ace, but has been inconsistent early. - Nathaniel Gonzalez | Daily Trojan 
Replacing an ace at any level of baseball is hard to do, but replacing your best two pitchers in one offseason is extremely difficult.
Still, Kreuter pointed to sophomore Andrew Triggs to pick up some of the slack vacated by his anchors from the 2009 season. Heading into 2010, Triggs was tapped as USC’s ace and rightfully so.
In his 2009 freshman campaign, the right hander was a pleasant surprise for the team. He went 5-3 with a 3.96 ERA in 75 innings pitched. He allowed 79 hits and struck out 50.
But Triggs has yet to elevate his game in 2010. He hasn’t been bad by any stretch, but he hasn’t provided the Trojans with the true No. 1 starter they need.
In eight starts, Triggs has posted a 1-5 record with a 4.19 ERA. He has improved his strikeout rate, racking up 46 in only 53 and two-thirds innings, but he hasn’t been tallying up the wins for USC.
And wins are what the game comes down to.
Triggs earned his lone win of the season in the team’s first game, a 9-4 USC victory over Cal Poly in San Luis Obispo. He pitched seven innings, tallied seven strikeouts and allowed four earned runs.
Hardly ace material, but a win is a win.
The problem is since that start, Triggs is 0-5. His 4.09 ERA in that span isn’t bad, but it’s not dazzling either. The Trojans need a shutdown starter, and Triggs hasn’t been that.
Starters Ben Mount and Chad Smith have better ERAs (3.57 and 3.65, respectively) than Triggs, but they haven’t pitched anywhere near the level that Boxberger and Stock did last season.
And senior Kevin Couture has been very unspectacular with his 6.99 ERA in nine games.
Without an established ace, USC has no pitcher to look to when they need a starter to throw up zeros all night and give their bullpen a rest.
A great staff has to start with a strong No. 1. There is still enough time left in the season for Triggs to emerge as that guy — or even for Smith, Mount or Couture to exceed expectations — but as of now, the Trojans are ace-less.
That’s quite possibly the worst of their many problems.
“Soft Hands” runs on Tuesdays. To comment on this article, visit dailytrojan.com or e-mail Jon at jhaber@usc.edu.
Please note that Kreuter is in his fourth season not fifth as your article stated. He has lost 29, 28,28 & 17 this season for the 102 total. Hopefully he will not get the chance to add to this column next year.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
USC men’s basketball coach Kevin O’Neill announced Thursday that he has chosen Dieter Horton to be an assistant coach on his new staff.
Horton previously coached for 10 seasons (1997-06) at Fullerton College, where he led the team to a state championship in 2006 while compiling a 37-0 record — the most wins in one season in California junior college history.
He spent the last four seasons (2007-10) coaching at Antelope Valley College where he had a 97-47 record before resigning in March.
“Dieter has a tremendous amount of coaching experience as a head coach, and he’ll be a valuable addition to our staff,” O’Neill said in a statement. “He has produced successful teams wherever he’s been. I’m extremely pleased he is joining us.”
This move is the latest in a slew of changes made to the coaching staff by O’Neill, which included firing assistants Gib Arnold and Phil Johnson and promoting Bob Cantu and Tony Miller to associate head coach and assistant coach, respectively.
Cantu’s promotion was also announced alongside Horton’s hiring. Cantu has spent the last nine seasons as an assistant head coach for O’Neill and former USC coaches Tim Floyd and Henry Bibby.
After leaving USC following five years of coaching for the Trojans, Arnold became the new head coach at the University of Hawai’i while Johnson opted to join Floyd at the University of Texas at El Paso.
O’Neill will be looking to improve upon his first year as head coach of the Trojans after producing a record of 16-14 in his first season and finishing tied for fifth in the Pac-10.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
In November, thousands of Californians will light up the polls in a joint effort to legalize marijuana.
Last month, proponents of the legalization of marijuana succeeded in garnering enough petition signatures to put the initiative on the ballot for the state’s upcoming November elections.
Hye You | Daily Trojan
Many breathed a sigh of relief as the final petition numbers were counted and added up to around 690,000  signatures, well over the 433,000 required to put the initiative on the ballot. If the bill is passed into law, any adult in California will be able to buy marijuana legally, possess up to an ounce of it and even grow up to 25 square feet of it in their backyards. Spawning a whole new generation of motivated gardeners, this bill is a good thing for sunny California.
So what’s the big deal?
Before rejoicing just yet, marijuana fans on campus should know that not much will change at USC.
Currently, Department of Public Safety officers on our campus are instructed to enforce state laws when it comes to marijuana possession and use.
“If a student is found with less than an ounce of marijuana, they are cited; if they have more than an ounce, they are arrested,” said DPS Capt. David Carlisle. “In both situations, the case is given to the L.A. Superior Court to decide a punishment.”
Under the new law, these same rules would be enforced. The official Regulate, Control and Tax Cannabis Act of 2010 “prohibits people from possessing marijuana on school grounds, using it in public, smoking it while minors are present, or providing it to anyone under 21 years old.”
These guidelines ensure that, if the initiative is voted into law, it will still be just as illegal to possess it on USC grounds, even for students over 21.
To be blunt, not much will officially change on our campus.
Kevin Harlow, a sophomore majoring in industrial and systems engineering, agrees with that conclusion for a different reason.
“I don’t really think [the marijuana initiative] will affect our campus much because I rarely see DPS actually catching people using or possessing the drug,” he said.
If anything, a final benefit to college students in California is that prospective employers will not be able to drug test for marijuana any longer. Those who do not currently use the drug will get to avoid the inconvenience of being subjected to multiple urine tests, while those who do currently use the drug will avoid the even larger inconvenience of being unemployed.
The truth is, even though official policy on campus will not see many differences, this piece of legislation is blazing a trail that will profoundly change the way marijuana is viewed in California. Once regulated sales are legalized, marijuana will be available for purchase in any store that chooses to sell it. Yes, it will be heavily taxed, but prices will still be much lower than current black market prices because of increased competition and economies of scale.
Eventually, the same 21-year-old students who are now able to buy alcohol legally would be able to legally buy marijuana. Consequently, there would probably be a larger amount of the drug on campus if the bill is passed. Regardless of what policies DPS decides on, marijuana users should expect more options and variety without much change in risk.
One of the biggest driving factors behind this legislation’s popularity is a financial one. The California Board of Equalization estimates that regulated sales of marijuana will generate $1.3 billion in annual tax revenue for our state. Additionally, we will save countless millions more in law enforcement and prison costs. It makes little sense to put away people for using or selling a substance that multiple studies have found to be less dangerous than both cigarettes and alcohol; our precious resources are going up in smoke.
Unlike alcohol, marijuana is not the sort of substance that has the potential to induce violent behavior. It is high time for our state to stop wasting money on marijuana consumption and possession cases and start spending that same money on violent crimes.
Opponents of the initiative cite gateway drug arguments and explain how legalizing a substance decreases the perception of risk for youth. The new law would, however, regulate the sales to only adults over 21. As drug dealers are put out of business from lower corporate prices, younger children might have even less access to the herb than they do now.
At the end of the day, it will continue to be used behind closed doors as it is now, and the school administration will have the option of whether or not to change DPS’ policy in reaction to the increased amount of marijuana.
This bill could be a financial boost in a much-needed time for California; for now, it has little relevance for the law at USC.
Gokul Agrawal is a senior majoring in business administration.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Sophomore Jennifer Song finished second in her final regular season collegiate tournament as the No. 4 USC women’s golf team took third place at the PING/ASU Invitational.
Bumpy run · After shooting a first-round 70, senior Belen Mozo struggled at times during the final two rounds of the PING/ASU Invitational at Karsten Golf Course in Tempe, Ariz., finishing tied for 51st. - Photo courtesy of USC Sports Information 
The No. 2 golfer in the country led the tournament with two holes to play, but eventual winner Stephanie Kono of UCLA birdied the final two holes, while Song made two pars.
Song finished at 8-under-par 208 (69-70-69).
“I had some solid rounds, but I could’ve had about another 10 birdies,” Song said. “I didn’t make all the putts that were crucial.”
Song’s second-place finish is her fourth top-two finish this season, including two victories from the fall season. Her two rounds in the 60s gave her 14 for her USC career, surpassing teammate Belen Mozo for the career record by one.
Junior Lizette Salas continued her recent hot streak with a tie for sixth place at 5-under-par 211 (69-72-70). That finish gives Salas four top-six finishes in her last five tournaments as she prepares for postseason play. The No. 12 golfer in the country will be a crucial part of USC’s postseason run, as she is one of three players remaining from the 2008 national championship team.
Also remaining are Mozo and senior Stephanie Endstrasser. Like Salas, they know what it takes to win a national championship, and like Song and Salas, they are All-Americans. Mozo, looking for her fourth All-American award to cap her senior season, tied for 51st at 9-over-par 225 (70-80-75). Endstrasser finished tied for 46th at 8-over-par 224 (73-76-75) and helped the team’s final round rally with two birdies on the final two holes.
Besting her two senior All-American teammates was freshman Cyna Rodriguez at 5-over-par 221, good for a 37th place finish. Rodriguez, a highly touted amateur, has played herself into a postseason spot for the present, according to USC coach Andrea Gaston. Song, Salas and Mozo are all set to compete this weekend, while the fifth and final spot is up for grabs. Endstrasser, senior Caroline Kim and sophomore Inah Park are in contention for the final spot.
The team finished at 6-under-par 858 in third place. The Women of Troy had been in second place after the first and second rounds, only to have No. 2 UCLA and No. 1 Arizona State overtake them in the final round. USC finished one stroke back of the Sun Devils and two strokes back of the Bruins.
USC will get another shot at ASU and UCLA next weekend in Eugene, Ore., to compete in the Pac-10 championships from April 19 to 21. Before that, the Women of Troy have five more days to fix any potential problems with their seven golfers.
“[We could] put in any five players and have a pretty solid lineup,” Gaston said. “But we stay in the present so that [we] don’t allow ourselves to get ahead and think about the outcome.”
Belén, siempre la más guapa.  Me encanta.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
By way of high school tradition, we are all too familiar with the juvenile concept of campus hierarchy.
In 2010, the range of groups to pick on has expanded to another social minority.
For homosexuals, the divisions have been drawn deeper at some schools in recent weeks, as members of the oppressed social group have experienced a more intense wave of discrimination from administrators and fellow students more serious than your common playground joke.
The problem isn’t anything unlike similar issues seen on college campuses throughout the nation. During the last decade, USC has worked hard to combat any discriminatory sentiments and establish itself as a gay-friendly campus.
Three years ago, USC was recognized with a top “five-star rating” by the Campus Climate Index for its “inclusive, welcoming and respectful” environment and placed in the Top 20 Best of the Best LGBT Friendly Colleges and Universities in The Advocate College Guide for LGBT Students.
These accomplishments have been achieved because of the university’s willingness to bring visibility to gay issues within the student community. Through open discussion and efforts to keep gay-themed topics from becoming taboo, a liberalization of administrative goals has occurred.
Perhaps at the high school level, however, the opportunity to engage in this discussion is missing.
Last week in Greenbrier, Tenn., an openly gay 15-year-old Cole Goforth was sent home for wearing a shirt that read “I Love Lady Gay Gay” in support of his own orientation as well as his favorite pop star. After hearing about the incident, Lady Gaga, a new advocate for gay rights, took to her Twitter to express her disapproval with the school saying, “I love you Cole, you just be yourself.”
Another situation in Mississippi has played out before the media since March, prompting Hollywood stars and national organizations like the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation to throw in their support. High school student Constance McMillen was prohibited from bringing her female date to the prom by the local school district, and after she resisted, the district canceled the entire event altogether. With her lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union, McMillen sued, and the court ruled in her favor.
Rita Yeung | Daily Trojan
But her troubles weren’t over as the backlash was just beginning. Her upset peers created a Facebook group called “Constance quit yer cryin,” where classmates expressed their anger toward McMillen. Through personal attacks and alleged death threats, the page became a digital vehicle for hate speech.
Nonetheless, the school refused to reinstate the event, so the parents of the students decided to organize one on their own. Unfortunately, McMillen, her date and five other students — two of whom had learning disabilities — were maliciously sent by event organizers to a phony prom separate from her schoolmates.
The level of ridicule and humiliation and lack of tolerance involved is shocking. In today’s modern-day setting, a common misnomer is that young people are more socially accepting of the LGBT community.
In reality, children are more likely to grow up and adopt the socialized views they are taught by their parents and exist in their households. When parents take  part in the hate antics, it is more apparent that school systems and other strands of society lack necessary protections for certain groups who are unjustly treated.
Exercising their social and political muscles, gay celebrities have rushed to McMillen’s defense, engaging themselves in the discussion. Talk show hosts Wanda Sykes and Ellen Degeneres and celebrity blogger Perez Hilton have all publicly announced their admiration for McMillen while Lance Bass and Green Day are some of the names sponsoring a gay-friendly prom in Mississippi next month. In support of McMillen, the event is geared toward gay high school students but is open to everyone.
These encouraging actions closely mirror ones being taken on our own campus. This Friday, the Gay Lesbian Bisexual Transgender Student Assembly will hold its annual Second Chance Prom, a yearly event for LGBT and ally undergraduate and graduate students. Titled “Under the Sea: Into the Future,” the prom is just one of many transformative events held on campus in support of greater acceptance among students.
The organization’s Welcome Back Barbeque and National Coming Out Month activities not only spread awareness but help new students experience the kind of tolerant campus USC is trying to define.
Even with its fair amount of healthy debate, dissent and discourse, USC and its students are in the right direction — one that other schools should learn from and follow.
Christopher Agutos is a junior majoring in political science and public relations.  His column “Pop Life” runs every other Tuesday.
Good Article! Fight for Gay rights!
ok joe, what the mississippi school’s parents have done by publicly humiliating those students was not just offensive, but it was outright cruel and disgusting. you need to reevaluate your perception of what is “offensive.”
Gays aren’t an “oppressed social group” and making fun of them is just part of “tolerance”. In our culture, gays have a right to exist, and to live their lives however they want. They don’t have the “right to not be offended” any more than anyone else does.
“In today’s modern-day setting, a common misnomer is that young people are more socially accepting of the LGBT community.”
I think you meant “misconception,” not “misnomer.”  Don’t forget what your third grade teacher taught you; look up the definition of a word before you use it in a sentence.
Another great article!
Kindof equating the LGBT movement with the gay movement, aren’t we? And no mention of Juin Baize…
also, s/misnomer/misconception/
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 404
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
