Today’s game kicks off at 7:30 p.m. on the West Coast.  All updates  will be timestamped with game time. Be sure to check out our Twitter  feed for instant info @dailytrojan
4th Quarter:
4:25, USC 21, UCLA 7: Richard Brehaut’s fourth-down pass to the endzone falls incomplete, all but ensuring the USC victory. It may not have been pretty, but it looks like the Trojans are going to at least end their forgettable 2010 season with a win over their cross-town rivals.
11:17, USC 21, UCLA 7: Barkley hits Allen Bradford on a swing pass and Bradford turns it up for a 47-yard score. After a sloppy third quarter, this was welcome news for a USC offense that has been inconsistent tonight.
Bradford’s catch capped a 97-yard, 9-play drive. Bradford has been a work horse tonight, carrying the ball 26 times for 131 yards. He’s been about the only reliable thing about the Trojans.
3rd Quarter:
2:50, USC 14, UCLA 7: The turnover frenzy continues, with Barkley throwing another errant pass that is intercepted by Aaron Hester. UCLA again has the ball inside USC territory.
8:00, USC 14, UCLA 7: The Trojans and Bruins can’t help but the give the ball back to each other.
Cornerback Nickell Robey intercepts Richard Brehaut’s pass and the Trojans take over at their own 16-yardline. Robey makes up for a missing a sure interception and probable touchdown earlier in this drive.
But Barkley gives it right back to the Bruins when Tony Dye steps in front of his pass. Barkley has been so-so up to this point (10-for-18, 123 yards).
A few plays later, Malcolm Smith recovered a UCLA fumble, swinging the momentum back to the USC sideline. Let’s see if the Trojans can hold onto it on this drive as they look to extend their lead.
2nd Quarter:
0:00, USC 14, UCLA 7: The Trojans hold the Bruins on their final drive of the half after a UCLA delay of game penalty on fourth down. USC hands the ball to Allen Bradford and lets the off-beat first half expire.
2:31, USC 14, UCLA 7: UCLA was driving to take the lead and the Trojans were in desperate need for a momentum changing play. Malcolm Smith provided just that, scooping up a Jonathan Franklin fumble and returning it 68 yards for a touchdown.
It was a much-needed boost for the Trojans, whose first-half mistakes have already cost them at least 10 points.
6:49, USC 7, UCLA 7: Rather than settle for a 35-yard field goal, USC runs a bizarre fake-field goal. The Trojans initially lined up for the field goal, then shifted, with holder Mitch Mustain at quarterback. Mustain’s pass fell incomplete, falling nowhere near a USC receiver.
A Robert Woods touchdown was called back two plays earlier when Kristofer O’Dowd was flagged for holding.
The Trojans are 1-for-3 on fourth-down conversions tonight. The Trojans drove the ball 78 yards before turning the ball over on downs for the second time.
Despite the failed fake field goal, the Trojans did find some offensive rhythm on this drive, especially on the ground. After gaining only 47 yards rushing the first half, the Trojans gained 57 on this drive alone.
1st QUARTER:
0:00, USC 7, UCLA 7: The first quarter comes to a close with the score tied. The Trojans have been able to move the ball, gaining seven first downs. Other than Fraklin’s long run, UCLA has only gained 41 yards on offense.
3:47, USC 7, UCLA 7: Jonathan Franklin bursts through the USC defense untouched for a 59-yard touchdown run. It only took two plays and 65 yards for the Bruins to even the score.
A big play was just what the Bruins’ fans needed to get back into the game. Defense breakdowns continue to hinder the Trojans.
4:39, USC 7, UCLA 0: Out of the wildcat formation, Dillon  Baxter hits Rhett Ellison on a five-yard TD pass. Baxter, who played  quarterback in high school, shares wildcat duties with Marc Tyler.
In three passes out of the wildcat this season, the Trojans have  completed two. Baxter completed a short pass to Ronald Johnson last week  against Notre Dame.
UCLA has yet to gain a first down on offense.
9:01, USC 0, UCLA 0: The Trojans turn the ball over on downs when Marc Tyler is stopped behind the line on a fourth-and-one. The Trojans were moving the ball with ease on their first possession before stalling at the UCLA 22-yardline.
The Bruins take over on offense for the second time tonight.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
