Over the course of the final 14 minutes of Saturday’s contest against New Mexico, the USC men’s basketball team held the Lobos without a field goal.
But that didn’t necessarily equate to a win.
Watching a narrow one-point lead whittle away, the Trojans’ late surge was undone as New Mexico converted all four free-throw attempts in the final 90 seconds to pull out a 44-41 victory at the Galen Center.
“We played hard, with great effort,” USC coach Kevin O’Neill said. “We hung in and got the lead, but we couldn’t finish.”
When the Trojans (4-6) opened the game with just 15 points in the opening half, their lowest total in any half all season, any chances of mounting a comeback seemed bleak. After all, entering the contest, USC ranked 334th nationally in points per game at 55.1.
But defensively at least, the team held the Lobos to 21 points in the second half, putting itself in a position to notch what would have been its fifth victory of the season. And over the final 14-minute stretch, it limited New Mexico to just eight shot attempts, forcing 10 turnovers as well.
“We’re not making shots,” O’Neill said of his team, which shot 33 percent from the field. “It’s been like that for the entire year.”
Toward the end, however, USC made enough shots — or so it seemed — to beat visiting New Mexico (7-2).
Trailing 40-38 with just under two minutes left to play, sophomore center Dewayne Dedmon grabbed a rebound following a missed 3-point attempt from sophomore forward Evan Smith and scored on a layup, to knot the score at 40 apiece, energizing much of the announced crowd of 3,863. A subsequent free throw from Dedmon gave USC a 41-40 lead — its first since it led 6-5 less than five minutes into the first half.
Moments later, Smith, who was making his first appearance of the season and first since Dec. 11, 2009, was called for a flagrant foul after attempting to block a layup attempt from New Mexico guard Tony Snell.
The pair of free throws, which were the Lobos’ first points since Snell scored with 14:16 remaining in the second half, gave them a lead they would not relinquish. The 44 points scored, collectively, also marked a season low for New Mexico.
“Our defense is way ahead of where I thought we’d be,” O’Neill said. “I’m happy with what we’re doing. We’re just not able to get wins.”
This was USC’s third loss at home, all of which have come by six points or fewer.
“We’re not getting good starts to the game,” said Dedmon, who was held to seven points. “Every game we start slow. Every game we start from behind.”
Sophomore guard Maurice Jones was the only USC player to finish with double-digit point totals, scoring 19 points and converting seven of 18 attempts from the field. Jones, who is listed at 5-foot-7, also led the Trojans in rebounding with five — tied with Dedmon and junior forward Aaron Fuller.
Jones had one last chance to give USC a chance in the waning moments.
On the final possession of the game, Jones launched a desperation heave from just beyond the arc, which would have forced overtime, but it failed to hit the rim.
“We’re frustrated, tired of losing,” Jones said of the Trojans’ third loss in the last five games. “We’ve got to fix it.”
Following the game, USC’s offensive numbers dipped even further, as it now averages 53.7 points per game.
“Of course we’re behind offensively,” O’Neill said. “The day [senior guard] Jio [Fontan] tore his knee in Brazil, we were behind offensively. Our guys need to find a better feel for the game.”
USC’s next game is Dec. 17 at home against Georgia, which holds a 4-5 overall record after dropping its last four games. It has not won since Nov. 22.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
