His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet, wearing a USC hat with matching cardinal and gold robes, spoke at the “Secular Ethics, Human Values and Society” event at the USC Galen Center on Tuesday, presenting his message that secularism is not opposed to religion but something to be respected and valued.
The Dalai Lama’s visit — his first to USC — was co-hosted by The Dalai Lama Foundation and the Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values. More than 4,800 USC students and members of the community attended the event.
Photo courtesy of USC Communications
“To achieve a happy life, we not only have to take care of the physical but also the mind,” the Dalai Lama said. “Everyone has the same right to be a happy person.”
The Dalai Lama stressed the importance of individual happiness, which in turn creates a happy family, a happy community and a happy world. He said, however, that religious activities are not necessarily the key to a happiness.
“I don’t think that a happy world can be achieved through prayer,” the Dalai Lama said.
He also stressed the importance of education and compassion.
“Faith and reason must go together,” the Dalai Lama said.
Students said they enjoyed how personable the Dalai Lama was during his talk.
“I wish I could have a conversation with him one-on-one,” said Nichole Lighthall, a graduate student studying gerontology. “He was surprisingly open-minded about how society should be run… He seems like a genuinely good person, through and through.”
Some students, however, said the Dalai Lama’s message was somewhat dampened by acoustic problems in the arena.
“[His talk] was hard to hear because there was so much echo in the center and there was the language barrier,” said Raymond Penaia, a sophomore majoring in communication. “But I still feel like I was able to capture the meaning of his message.”
Despite minor difficulties, most students left inspired.
“He’s an important figure and it’s nice to see someone of his holiness come speak to us,” said Chris Manasserian, a senior majoring in public policy, management and planning. “He was very charismatic and funny. It surprised me.”
The Dalai Lama’s appearances at UCLA on Monday were canceled because of ill health.
@Ian Swift
Rights have to come from somewhere.  It does not come from another human (as you state) or governments.  Maybe Brian’s point is that the Dali Lama believes that God exists, or that God does not exist.  So then if God does not exist, then where does the right to be happy come from?  If God does exist, then that right comes from God.  My apologies Brian if that is not where you were going.
The speech was great. But I had a hard time understanding some of what he said. Anyone have any idea if transcripts and/or video will be available?
Come to think of it, I wasn’t very happy yesterday! I just imagined having a “real” conversation with A. Eistein or Mother Theresa, but could not hear or understand their spoken words because of lawnmower or leaf blower! 
I understand the sound of his delighful laughter, but I could not understand most of everything that the Dali Lama said (it was not a result of His accent, either)!
 There were times when I felt so disappointed because of substandard acoustics that I wanted to find another seat, but a sore back prevented this. I’ve contacted the ticket office about my concerns.
http://www.dalailama.com/webcasts/post/183-secular-ethics-human-values-and-society
Here is video and audio of it.
What I found interesting and a little surprising, especially coming from a religious/spiritual leader, was that people involved in organized religion should not blindly pursue their religion’s doctrine, but that people should occasionally step back and question their faith.  Is this the right behavior for me and my faith?  How does it impact others?
If more people were to practice this approach the world would REALLY be a better place.
He doesn’t quite explain where this right to be happy comes from, does he?
We are all human and therefore equally deserving of happiness.
@Brian 
hold the phone. are you telling me that in order for me to be able to have a specific feeling, other humans have to first approve of it and allow me to have that feeling?  what a joke…talking about the ‘right to be happy’.
I loved his genuine humanity. I also loved when he rocked that Trojan hat!!!!
[…] but also the mind. Everyone has the same right to be a happy person.” (Read a report on the event here, via the USC Daily […]
[…] but also the mind. Everyone has the same right to be a happy person.” (Read a report on the event here, via the USC Daily […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
