USC junior left tackle Matt Kalil has decided to forgo his senior season and enter the 2012 NFL draft, the school announced Friday.
Kalil, who did not allow a sack last season, is projected by several scouting services to be the first offensive tackle selected in next April’s draft.
“The decision to leave USC after my junior year was not an easy one to make,” Kalil said in a statement. “I love this university. That’s why it took a while to decide. I wanted to look at both sides of the decision and talk to a number of people.”
Carlo Acenas | Daily Trojan
ESPN’s Chris Mortensen first reported Kalil’s decision Thursday night.
In 2011, Kalil led a USC offensive line that allowed the fewest sacks of any unit in the country.
The 6-foot-7 junior has started the last two seasons at left tackle for the Trojans, after serving as a backup to Charles Brown in 2009 and redshirting in 2008 — his first year with the program.
“I realize that if I came back to USC next season, I could be part of some special things here and potentially win a national championship,” Kalil said. “That was very tempting. But in my research, I came to the conclusion that I can be the No. 1 tackle drafted and you can’t go any higher than that. Now is the right time to go.”
Kalil is among four draft-eligible juniors contemplating whether to turn or pro or return to USC. Quarterback Matt Barkley, safety T.J. McDonald and defensive end Nick Perry have not, however, announced their decisions. Though a report from ESPNLosAngeles.com on Friday indicated that Perry has signed with an agent and will head to the professional ranks. Underclassmen have until Jan. 15 to declare for the draft.
USC coach Lane Kiffin remains in support of Kalil’s decision to leave school.
“Matt was thorough in his research and made a decision that is the right one for him,” Kiffin said in a statement Friday. “We fully support that decision and we told him so. He is ready for the NFL. He will be a very high draft pick and will have a long, successful career.”
Kalil is the younger brother of former USC center Ryan Kalil, who was selected by the Carolina Panthers with the 59th overall pick in the 2007 NFL draft. The elder Kalil signed a six-year $49-million contract extension last August, making him the highest-paid center in the league.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
