With college football on the horizon, several awards have released watch lists to recognize players expected to perform at a high level during the season. Although USC experienced a somewhat down year in 2010 with an 8-5 finish, the roster is still filled with players who are garnering national recognition.
Junior quarterback Matt Barkley was named to the Walter Camp Award (top player), the Maxwell Award (top player) and the O’Brien Award (top quarterback) watch lists. Barkley threw for 26 touchdowns and 12 interceptions last season, completing 62.6 percent of his passes for 2,791 yards.
Senior tight end Rhett Ellison figures to vie for the Mackey Award (top tight end). Despite a strong crop of young talent at tight end, Ellison will start and provide veteran leadership at the position. He has 19 career starts under his belt, and caught 21 passes for 239 yards and three touchdowns in 2010.
Despite missing 2011 spring practice with a back injury, senior linebacker Chris Galippo was named to the Butkus Award (top linebacker) watch list. The line backing corps struggled to find consistency in 2010, but Galippo came on strong to end the season. In five starts at middle linebacker, he recorded 29 tackles, one sack, two interceptions and three forced fumbles.
Junior center Khaled Holmes and junior offensive tackle Matt Kalil are in the running for the Outland Trophy (top interior lineman). Kalil also found himself on the Playboy 2011 pre-season All-American first team and the watch list for the Lombardi Award (top linemen/linebackers). Both returning starters figure to anchor a thin offensive line for the team in the coming year.
Junior safety T.J. McDonald leads the Trojans in preseason accolades. He was named to the Nagurski Trophy (top defensive player), the Bednarik Award (top defensive player), the Thorpe Award (top defensive back) and the Lott Trophy (top defensive impact player) watch lists. He was also added to the Athlon 2011 pre-season All-American first team. McDonald finished last season with 89 tackles, one sack and three interceptions.
Junior defensive end Nick Perry, who finished with 25 tackles (7.5 for a loss), four sacks and two forced fumbles last season, will compete for the Lombardi Award (top linemen/linebackers) award.
Sophomore wide receiver Robert Woods is a strong candidate for both the Maxwell Award and the Biletnikoff Award (top wide receiver). As a true freshman, he nabbed 65 passes for 792 yards and six touchdowns. Woods also turned in prolific performances on special teams.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
