The calendar year may have changed, but the Women of Troy (10-3, 2-0) continued their stellar play with a 60-51 victory over the Washington Huskies (5-6, 0-2), giving them their best start since the 1993-94 season.
It was a tough win against a talented team,” junior Briana Gilbreath said.  “We didn’t do all the things we expected ourselves to do, but we pulled it out.”
Gilbreath led USC in scoring as she recorded 13 points and pulled down six rebounds.
Similar to the last game against Washington State, USC fell behind early in the opening minutes.
But about midway through the first half, the Women of Troy used a 14-4 run that saw five different players score to seize a nine-point lead at 24-15.
Though USC shot just over 32 percent from the field in the first half, they used a stingy defense to force nine Washington turnovers, and managed to go into halftime leading 30-24.
The second half would be no different as the Women of Troy still struggled to put the ball in the basket.
An early 6-0 Washington run in the opening minutes of the second half even cut the USC lead to a single basket at 32-30, and midway through the half, the Huskies clawed to within a single point.
But each time they threatened to take the lead, the Women of Troy responded right back.
“We forced some turnovers at some crucial times and that’s what changed the game around,” Gilbreath said, who finished with three steals and three blocked shots.
The Huskies would get no closer than a single point as the Women of Troy managed to hold on down the stretch for their fourth consecutive road victory and sixth consecutive victory overall.
Despite shooting a shade over 28 percent from the field overall, USC hounded Washington’s do-everything guard Kristi Kingma into a 6-for-19 shooting night, forced a total of 15 turnovers and outrebounded the Huskies 52-40.
“Our rebounding and hustle on defense helped us win this game,” sophomore forward Christina Marinacci said.  “I think that was the [key] for us.”
Marinacci came off the bench and scored six points, while also grabbing a game-high 12 rebounds.
Redshirt senior guard Jacki Gemelos chipped in with 11 points, five rebounds and four assists, and freshman forward Cassie Harberts just barely missed her second consecutive double-double with 11 points and nine rebounds.
“I think we’re starting to come together and the freshmen are learning,” Gilbreath said.  “We’re all starting to gel now and I think that’s what’s helping us now.”
The Women of Troy now head home before taking on crosstown rival UCLA at Pauley Pavilion in Westwood on Saturday, Jan. 8th.
Tip-off is scheduled for 1:30 pm.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
