It wasn’t flawless, but a win is a win and the USC men’s tennis team will take it.
No. 6 USC (11-2) hosted the No. 3 Texas Longhorns Friday in a match that certainly had its ups and downs. Doubles play was particularly difficult as the Trojans went 1-2, losing at No. 1 and No. 2.
Freshman Ray Sarmiento, playing with junior captain Steve Johnson, fell to Texas’ Ed Corrie and Jean Anderson 5-8, and Sarmiento had to retire early due to wrist injury from his singles match against Daniel Whitehead after being down 5-7, 0-2.
Junior Daniel Nguyen and freshman Emilio Gomez were the two Trojans to manage a doubles victory, squeezing out an 8-6 win over Whitehead and Ben Chen.
“It was a tough doubles point. A few guys were sick and we were unsure of ourselves,” Nguyen said. “We started a little slow and were a little tentative. Our rhythm was off and we weren’t aggressive.”
Nguyen, who had been battling the flu all week, was the first USC player off the courts in singles play, after a 6-2, 6-2 statement win at the No. 3 spot.
“I think we wanted it more than them and started playing smarter,” he said.
The Longhorns’ momentum from doubles play did not transfer to their singles matches as USC edged out Texas 5-1 in singles play to land a 5-2 win overall.
Coming off of his wildcard play at the Paribas Open at Indian Wells, Johnson beat Corrie 6-2, 6-3, to keep his No. 1 ranking.
Senior captain Jaak Poldma continued his strong play as well, beating Kellen Damico 7-5, 6-2.
Gomez and freshman Michael Grant rounded out the Trojans’ victories with 6-3, 6-2 and 7-5, 6-1 wins against Chen and David Holiner, respectively.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
