Many teams across the country celebrated the opening day of official NCAA men’s basketball practices by hosting Midnight Madness pep rallies – often consisting of little more than dunk contests and three-point shootouts.
USC, however, went through a grueling practice that lasted nearly three hours.
“We want to make sure that we get straight to work,” said coach Kevin O’Neill. “We have a lot of new guys.”
Sophomore guard Maurice Jones, who averaged 9.9 points last season, and sophomore forward Garrett Jackson, who contributed an average of 3.2 points per game, are the only two returning players who scored a point for USC last season.
Freshman guard Danilo Dragovic, as well as transfers Ari Stewart and Eric Wise, practiced officially with the team for the first time. Stewart and Wise will not be eligible to compete until the 2012-2013 season.
Sophomore forward Dewayne Dedmon, who sustained a non-displaced fracture of his right hand, was limited but practiced with a large cast.
Senior guard Jio Fontan, who suffered an ACL tear during the exhibition games in Brazil, and sophomore forward Curtis Washington, who has a torn labrum, did not practice. Both could be sidelined the entire season.
“We are going to experiment with a lot of [rotations],” O’Neill said. “We need to figure out this team over the next month-and-a-half to two months.”
The Trojans open the season at home Nov. 11 against Cal State Northridge.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
