The No. 1 USC men’s volleyball team showed why it was voted as the top team in the nation.
In the Trojans’ season opener at Galen Center Wednesday night, USC notched its first win of the season in an exhibition match, sweeping Canadian Interuniversity Sport’s No. 2 Alberta Golden Bears in straight sets, 25-19, 25-22, 25-18.
“If we start off fast and show everybody what we can do, we’re probably not going to lose very many matches this year,” junior outside hitter Tony Ciarelli said.
The Bears were expected to pull out all the stops against the Trojans after losing to both Long Beach State and Pepperdine on Alberta’s three-game Southern California exhibition series.
And they did come out to play, at first.
The 25-19  score belies the swing of momentum changes that occurred in the first  set. While the Bears were without a block the entire set, outside hitter Jay Olmstead’s five kills and quick tips from setter Tanner Nault kept the Bears close.
That was until senior middle blocker Austin Zahn destroyed any optimism in the Bears’ small lead with five kills and three blocks in the first set.
“It’s always really important to come out make a statement let the other team know that we’re going to be dominant the rest of the game,” Zahn said.
Zahn’s statement was clear for all to see, especially to the five other Trojans on the court, who rallied around his good play to close out the first set.
“He had a monster night, attacking and blocking. He’s a big kid so when’s he’s there he’s going to get to play more often than not,” coach Bill Ferguson said.
In the second set, senior opposite hitter Murphy Troy sealed the Canadian’s fate with a sharp diagonal kill that would have made a geometry teacher proud.
Aside from a few missed digs and scrappy plays, the Bears’ lack of communication gave the Trojans an advantage. USC switched to an outside game that let Ciarelli free, who was hitting .818 in the first two sets.
In the final set, USC’s urgency blew past Alberta, grabbing a 9-2 lead quickly. Poor defense led the Golden Bears to drop their heads a little lower with each Trojan kill. When the Bears were down 11-3 and got the next point, few of the Bears celebrated.
But four Trojan serving errors and a few shanked passes later, USC’s lead closed to 20-16.
USC continued to hit hard and go up for blocks through the end, and a missed serve packed Alberta’s bags.
“We just wanted to start the season right,” Ciarelli said.
The Trojans hope to grab their second win against the Cal State Northridge Matadors at home next Wednesday, Jan. 12.
Gjj
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
