My Week With Marilyn, the new feature adaptation of Colin Clark’s memoir of the same name, has been receiving a lot of buzz prior to its debut today — especially in terms of its leading lady, Michelle Williams, in the title role of Marilyn Monroe.
First-time feature director Simon Curtis at the Screen Actor’s Guild screening said he “could not have been more proud of Michelle.” The movie follows the true story of Colin Clark as a 23-year-old Brit who longing to work in Hollywood, lands a gig on the set of The Prince and The Showgirl (1957), starring Marilyn Monroe and Sir Laurence Olivier (Kenneth Branagh).
As the director put it, the film exposes three sides of Marilyn: the character of Elsie in The Prince and The Showgirl, the public Marilyn and the very private Marilyn whom Clark got to know on set for the shoot and very intimately for one week in real life.
Not your typical biopic, the movie seems at its most candid as it portrays a story seen only through Colin’s eager and innocent eyes. And with his pure gaze, he, as well as we, fall in love with Marilyn, only to be afflicted by the pitfalls and tragedy of her story.
Beautifully shot in the picturesque landscapes of the English countryside and elegant metropolis of London, the director painted a very bleak, old-world England, still wounded by the devastation of war as a comparable contrast to the color and glamour that Marilyn infuses.
Although many had their reservations before seeing the film about whether Michelle Williams would be able to capture Marilyn, arguably the most iconic Hollywood star of all time, Williams so elegantly and faithfully portrayed her that the entire theater was beaming with Oscar nomination predictions.
Kenneth Branagh was equally fantastic as the aging Sir Laurence Olivier, who, at first, hoping to absorb some of Marilyn’s youth and star, becomes her biggest rival on set. He captured Olivier so wittily and spot on he was unrecognizable. In the lead as the star-struck Colin, Eddie Redmayne was excellent as the sensitive and endearing heart of the film, his performance on par with the rest of the expert cast: Judi Dench, Julia Ormond and Emma Watson. Curtis interpreted My Week With Marilyn as an actor’s film. What attracted him to the piece was not specifically that it was about Marilyn Monroe, but that it demanded great nuances in its portrayal of actors. Monroe is the star who cannot escape the photographers and the cameras and desperately longs to be a great actress, while Olivier, the great actor, longs to be a star, to possess that organic quality Monroe had by just being in front of the camera. The film explores different types of acting meeting and conflicting: Monroe’s Hollywood method and Olivier’s English theater pantomimic background, as well as, the hardships of being a performer. Not only does Marilyn have her struggles, but so do Olivier and his wife, Vivien Leigh (Ormond). An homage to actors, the picture is clearly an actor’s game, expecting the most subtle differences from Williams in depicting the three shades of Marilyn. The piece is extremely character-driven and a wonderful taste of Old Hollywood history. Evidently destined for fans of Marilyn Monroe and Old Hollywood in general, the piece is extremely enjoyable for those seeking moving, character-driven English melodramas and features a dash of dry English humor.
 
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
