A left ankle injury limited junior guard Ashley Corral to 12 minutes in the game against Stanford.
Against  Cal, the ankle — and her shot — looked just fine, as Corral sparked USC  to an 80-67 victory over Cal (14-12, 6-9) by knocking down three-pointers on the  Women of Troy’s first two possessions.
Her  fourth three-pointer — in four attempts — gave USC (16-9, 8-6) a 25-11 lead midway  through the first half.
Minutes later, USC’s all-time leading  three-point shooter knocked down a corner three to give the Women of  Troy a 32-13 lead.
“[My  shot] felt good but they were all created by my teammates,” Corral said. “They set great picks for me and Jacki [Gemelos] was great getting me the  ball in transition.”
Corral  wasn’t the only player who came out hot for USC though. The Women of Troy  jumped out to a 19-6 lead by connecting on eight of their first nine  possessions and the lead swelled to as many as 21 points in the half.
Even   with the hot shooting, what stood out most was the intensity USC played  with.
Three times in the first half, senior center Kari LaPlante beat  every other player down the court for a layup.
On one possession, the  6’5″ center missed a contested layup, but the effort was fitting of a  team  fighting for its postseason life.
“[Cal’s]  post players are a lot bigger so they’re focused on rebounding,” LaPlante said. “I focused on getting out in transition.  [I love] running  the floor and getting layups.”
As  well as USC shot in the first half, the Golden Bears kept the game from  getting out of hand by dialing up their defensive pressure.
Cal forced  the Women of Troy into eight turnovers and took advantage of their size  on the offensive glass, but USC led 50-33 going into the break.
“Ever  since the UCLA loss [at home] I think our team has gotten better,” said  USC coach Michael Cooper. “If you want to call it peaking, now is the  right time to be peaking, but we looked very good.”
In  the first half, Corral paced USC with 18 points, including six-of-seven  from beyond the arc. LaPlante and redshirt senior guard Jacki Gemelos  added nine points apiece for the Women of Troy.
With  Corral lighting it up from outside, junior guard Briana Gilbreath took  on the role of playmaker and handed out six assists.
For the half, USC  shot 65 percent from the field and held Cal to 34 percent shooting.
Coming  out of halftime, the Golden Bears quickly trimmed the margin to 12  points on a three-pointer by guard Lindsay Sherbert. But Corral stole  an outlet pass on Cal’s next possession and buried a jumper to slow down  the rally.
Cal  got no closer than 10 points the rest of the way, as the Women of Troy  maintained and kept pace with Arizona State for third place in the Pac-10  conference.
Corral  led USC with a season-high 26 points on 9-of-12 shooting, Gemelos added  16 points and five rebounds and LaPlante rounded out the double-digit  scoring with a season-high 15 points.
“Kari’s  a great presence in the middle for us, both offensively and  defensively,” Cooper said.  “She doesn’t get the notoriety that some of  the other players get, but she’s very important to our success.”
As a team, USC shot 54 percent for the game.
Next  up for the Women of Troy is an important road series against the  Arizona schools.
Arizona State is tied with USC in the Pac-10 standings, but  eked out a 62-61 win earlier this season at the Galen Center.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
