Now in the quarterfinals of the Women’s National Invitational Tournament, the USC women’s basketball team is peaking at the right time.
Unfortunately for the Women of Troy, their opponent is too.
Sunday’s game against Colorado will be a match-up of two teams on a roll.  USC (22-12) dominated the second half on Wednesday against BYU, and the Buffaloes have won their last two games by at least 12 points.
“Everybody is playing their best basketball right now,” said junior guard Briana Gilbreath.  “[Colorado] is a team that’s really confident right now and playing well.”
One of those double-digit victories was an 81-65 win over Cal, which split a pair of games with USC this season. According to Gilbreath, that win showed the Women of Troy that Colorado (18-15) is a different team.
“The team we saw earlier this year couldn’t have beat Cal,” she said.
USC beat Colorado 68-54 earlier this season in the Women of Troy tournament, but neither the players or coaches are putting much stock in that victory.
“You can’t take any team for granted no matter what [happened] in the regular season,” said USC coach Michael Cooper. “This is a totally different time of the year.”
Like Colorado, USC is a different team at this point in the season. The biggest difference has been the lineup change brought about by junior guard Ashley Corral’s suspension. In the five games since her return, Corral has given the team another scorer off the bench.
“She’s been logging heavy minutes for us at the point guard position,” Cooper said. “Now we can really utilize what she does best, which is shoot the basketball without being too tired.”
If the Women of Troy want to win on Sunday, they will need to avoid the kind of slow start that has hurt them at times this season.
USC trailed BYU at halftime on Wednesday before outscoring them by 18 points in the second half.
“For some reason we haven’t gotten it going in the first half,” Cooper said. “It seems like the second half has been the key to our success. In order to win the WNIT championship, we’re going to have to put together a good 40-minute game.”
Also key to USC’s success will be slowing down forward Brittany Spears, who leads the Buffaloes with 19 points and eight rebounds per game.
“Our post defense has gotten a lot better,” said senior center Kari LaPlante. “She’s a lot smaller than us, so we’ll take her to the hoop on offense.”
One thing USC doesn’t need to worry about is motivation. Cooper said his team is eager to test itself again, and LaPlante and Gilbreath both mentioned the excitement of advancing farther.
“If we lose, that’s it,” LaPlante said. “That’s a big motivator for all of us to focus and get our stuff together.”
Tip-off is scheduled for noon in Boulder, Colo.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
