A year ago in Lawrence, Kan., the USC men’s basketball team was narrowly edged by the host Jayhawks by two points following a late 3-pointer from guard Josh Selby with 26 seconds left in the game.
Thursday’s rematch wasn’t as close.
USC finished with a season-low 13 points in the first half before eventually falling to No. 12 Kansas, 63-47, in front of a crowd of an announced crowd of 6,431 at the Galen Center.
“The stage was a bit big for our guys,” USC coach Kevin O’Neill said. “We looked slow. We looked bad. And we didn’t shoot well.”
The Trojans (5-8) stumbled out of the gate, shooting just 23 percent from the field in addition to 13 turnovers in the opening half. No player finished with more than four points, and no player scored a field goal in the last five minutes of the half.
“We turned the ball over way too much and our defense was soft,” junior forward Aaron Fuller said. “We didn’t match their intensity. That’s why we were blown out.”
Kansas closed the first half on a 14-3 run, building a 12-point halftime lead that proved to be insurmountable for the Trojans, who would finish with 18 turnovers – the most since their season opener against Cal State Northridge on Nov. 11.
Trailing, USC relied heavily on Fuller in the second half, as he finished with a game-high 19 points – 15 coming in the final 20 minutes of the contest. It was also a season-high for the 6-foot-6 forward, who collected 19 points during a Nov. 22 contest against Morgan State.
“We were really trying to establish an inside game,” Fuller said. “I got it going in the second half so [O’Neill] kept wanting to feed me the ball.”
Outside of Fuller’s efforts, however, USC couldn’t keep pace with Kansas, which saw four of its players finish in double-figures, including Naismith Award candidate forward Thomas Robinson, who finished with a near-double-double with 10 points and nine rebounds.
Sophomore guard Maurice Jones, who led USC in scoring with 15.6 points per game entering the contest, finished with seven points over 36 minutes.
Perhaps, even more frustrating for O’Neill, sophomore center Dewayne Dedmon was held scoreless until about six minutes left to play in the second half. He would finish with only one basket.
“He’s a developing young player,” O’Neill said of Dedmon, who also finished with four fouls and just two rebounds. “He’s got to play harder. If you’re not getting points, you have to get more offensive rebounds. It’s going to take him time. He’s not ready.”
Dedmon, who has been in foul trouble several games this season and played just 20 minutes Thursday, expressed similar sentiments.
“I have to play aggressive without fouling,” Dedmon said. “I have to learn how to do that.”
The Trojans are not scheduled to practice until Monday, and they do not play again until Dec. 29, when they open Pac-12 play at California at Haas Pavilion in Berkeley, Calif. The Golden Bears (10-2) are undefeated in nine games at home this season.
Following another road matchup at Stanford on New Year’s Eve, USC will return to the Galen Center on Jan. 5 to host Arizona State at 7:30 p.m.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
