No. 10 USC (9-2, 6-2) closes out the 2011 campaign against crosstown rival UCLA (6-5, 5-3) after an emotional 38-35 victory over then No. 4 Oregon. The Trojans have defeated the Bruins in 11 of the last 12 meetings, and UCLA has not won at the LA Coliseum since 1997.
Can Robert Woods make a strong push for the Biletnikoff award?
Woods stormed out of the gate at a blistering pace, recording 17 catches for 177 yards and three touchdowns in the season opener. The sophomore wide out continued his pace for much of the season, but his production has dropped off considerably the last two weeks due to injury. He recorded two catches for five yards against Washington, and reeled in seven catches for only 53 yards at Oregon. Woods is one of three finalists for the Biletnikoff award, given to the nation’s best receiver, and will need to turn in an impressive performance to beat out Justin Blackmon (Oklahoma State) and Ryan Broyles (Oklahoma).
Which running game will prove to be more productive?
For UCLA, Johnathan Franklin ran for a season high 162 yards on 15 carries against Colorado last week. The junior tailback averages 6.1 yards per carry on the year, and he is tough to bring down. A year ago, Franklin ran for 109 yards on 13 carries against a struggling USC defense. Meanwhile, the Trojans ran for 139 yards against a stout Oregon defense last week behind the strength of Curtis McNeal and Marc Tyler. The Bruins have been horrific in trying to stop the run. They allow an average of 180.8 yards per game (84th nationally). In contrast, the Trojans allow 110.3 yards per game on the ground (15th nationally).
Will UCLA sport an aerial attack?
For the majority of the season, UCLA has focused on running the ball and pounding games out on the ground. However, USC presents a formidable front line, and UCLA might be forced to throw more often than they are used to. Junior quarterback Kevin Prince showed signs of life last week against Colorado. He threw four touchdowns as he completed 15 of his 19 passes for 225 yards. The Trojans will have all hands on deck in the secondary, and depth will not be an issue.
Is Saturday Matt Barkley’s final game at USC?
Outside of a shaky performance at Arizona State, junior quarterback Matt Barkley has been phenomenal in 2011. He has completed 67.6 percent of his passes for 3105 yards for 33 touchdowns and only seven interceptions. The third-year starter will put the final touches on his best year to date on Saturday, but it might also be the final time he suits up in a Trojan uniform. Barkley has improved his draft stock dramatically over the last few weeks, and some pundits believe he could be a top five pick in April’s NFL draft if he decides to leave one year early. Junior offfensive tackle Matt Kalil, a projected top five pick himself, told the Los Angeles Times he believes he and Barkley will either stay or leave as a package deal. If both come back, USC would likely be ranked very highly to begin the 2012 season.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
