President Barack Obama wrapped up his two-day tour through California at a rally in Los Angeles Friday morning.
During  his speech at Sony Picture Studios in Culver City, which drew a crowd  of approximately 2,500, Obama attempted to rejuvenate the core  Democratic base and acknowledged the vital role it played in his 2008  election.
Obama  conceded that his administration has not been able to accomplish  everything it indented to, but he reassured voters that he is prepared  for the 2012 election and worthy of a second term in office.
“We’ve got more work to do…. There are some folks who want to dismantle it,” Obama said. “We have to protect it.”
Prior  to the President’s stop in Los Angeles, Obama attended a town hall-style event  with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg at Facebook’s headquarters in  Palo Alto and a fundraiser in San Francisco.
The  fundraiser was briefly interrupted by protestors who were angered by  the administration’s handling of the solider believed to be responsible  for handing over thousands of pages of classified and sensitive  intelligence information to WikiLeaks.
The  President also attended three fundraisers in the greater Los Angeles  area. Guests included Steven Spielberg, Gov. Jerry Brown and Tom Hanks.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
