Senior wide receiver Brandon Carswell caught a deep pass from junior quarterback Matt Barkley, drawing approval from media and family along the sidelines.
And it wasn’t the only play that was impressive. As a whole, the USC football team started and finished the first day of fall camp with a renewed energy noticed by the coaching staff.
“We look different,” USC coach Lane Kiffin said. “We look bigger, we look stronger, we look faster. I know it’s day one, but I love where they’re at physically and mentally.”
—
Although several players did not attend practice to focus on summer school, there were those ready with starting jobs up for grabs.
Running backs Dillon Baxter, D.J. Morgan and Amir Carlisle, who are all competing to start at tailback after senior running back Marc Tyler’s recent problems, showed speed and shifty moves out of the backfield.
“Dillon [Baxter] is definitely bigger, stronger and faster,” Kiffin said. “There’s no doubt about that. You can see that in individual drills. He’s a different guy attitude-wise and a different guy physically.”
Although USC has no clear-cut No. 2 wide receiver opposite sophomore Robert Woods, freshman wide receivers Marquise Lee and George Farmer looked sharp in team drills.
“Today showed an unbelievable job by our strength staff in the offseason and our players committed to doing things right,” Kiffin said.
—
Although depth and health was a concerning issue last year, only freshman offensive lineman Cody Temple was sidelined during Thursday’s practice with a back injury.
Redshirt freshman wide receiver Kyle Prater, junior safety Drew McAllister and senior defensive tackle Christian Tupou all participated and looked good in drills.
Senior defensive end Armon Armstead was limited. He missed spring ball, but is still undergoing tests about an unspecified medical condition.
Kiffin, however, stressed that Armstead does not have a heart condition. He is expected to return and be ready by the season opener.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
