Michael L. Jackson, vice president of student affairs, sent an email to the USC community Friday regarding the Kappa Sigma email that has gone viral around campus and beyond the university.
“I write to express that the University of Southern California (USC) administration and I are appalled by the anonymous email that has circulated in our community,” Jackson wrote in the email. “It expresses repulsive views, its sentiments and language demean women, and it contradicts the values and standards of our university.”
Jackson said students who were disturbed by the email made the Office of Student Affairs aware of the viral email in early March.
“Once received, we began an immediate investigation into its origin,” Jackson wrote. “We spoke with the leadership of the USC chapter of Kappa Sigma, the group to which the email was originally sent, we consulted with the Kappa Sigma national fraternity, and we questioned the student who was associated with this email.”
Jackson said the university learned through the investigation a USC student did not create the email, and a friend at a university on the east coast forwarded it to the student who sent it to the USC Kappa Sigma listserv. The email was originally sent to the members of Kappa Sigma in November.
“The student responsible for circulating this email has been interviewed,” Jackson wrote. “He has apologized and expressed sincere regret for the incident.”
USC’s Kappa Sigma’s chapter operations have been temporarily suspended so the fraternity can investigate how the email circulated on its listserv and why immediate action was not taken to remove the email.
Jackson said USC Student Affairs’ MenCare program, which began in 2005, will be “[used] to address this situation.”
The letter to students and faculty states the opinions expressed in the viral email are not representative of the university or its values.
“We will continue to work to promote healthy relationships, open dialogue, and respect among the members of the Trojan Family — and, as an extension of our mission, to encourage the treatment of all people with dignity and respect,” Jackson wrote.
Hey Daily Trojan, for those of your readership who are not regularly up to date with campus happenings, how about some reporting on what that email was exactly?
As an editor, how do you not pick up on that? Give yourselves a slap on the wrist for that one.
Jackson’s letter also said,
“Chapter operations have been suspended so the fraternity can learn how the email was placed on its listserv and why it was not deleted immediately.”
> “how the email was placed on its listserv?”
I think the admin needs IT/internet lessons.  
I have idea about how this made it to the listserv: a member of the listserv *sent* the email.  The offending party sent the email; the offending fraternity houses him (and the misogyny the letter communicates).
> “why it was not deleted immediately [from the listserv? from all the members’ email inboxes? not sure].”
Again, rudimentary IT lessons appear to be needed.
And why should it have been immediately deleted/recalled (if possible)?  So the sender can be protected?
Not that I’m shocked a fraternity is objectifying women — I expect that — but this is so absurd my mind is blown.
m
Who cares? That email was hilarious, everyone needs to stop being so sensitive
Nice fake name!
Please Mr. Jackson, be part of the solution and not just another cog in the cover-up!
Sorry Mr. Jackson, that was my second personality kicking in again.  I’ll try to stop stirring up controversy, I just need to try and hold myself back from the keyboard (very difficult though).
Mr. Jackson,
Why do you take the word of  Kappa Sigma and the IFC who have no creditability in this matter?  Your statement, much like the IFC statement, is filled with “lawyer speak” and half truths.  You may not honestly know the truth but why to do you repeat what nearly everyone knows is not true?   Everyone knows the email was written here and not at some university on the east coast.   
Please see that some independent body answers the following questions.  Otherwise you are just another powerful male denying women equal justice!
1) Why was Elliot one of the Social Chairs for a house he was not a member of?
2) How was Elliot able to mass email all members of Kappa Sig when he was not a member?
3) How much dues did Elliot pay to Kappa Sig since he transferred to SC?
4) Why did Elliot get kicked out of a house he was not a member of?
5) How many “unregistered” members does Kappa Sig have?
6) Why didn’t IFC or Kappa Sig release any proof the email came from Harvard?
7) Why does the email mention “distinguished gentlemen of Kappa Sigma” when there is no Kappa Sigma at Harvard? Also the email ends with “AEKDB…” same as the bottom of the Kappa Sigma Crest – AEKD(Delta)B
8) Who is the mystery girl at SC that proofed the email for Elliot back in January?
9) Why did Kappa Sig and Elliot ask the mystery girl not to talk with the media?
10) How many minutes did IFC investigate the email and Elliot’s membership status at Kappa Sig before issuing their statement?
At last, I am recognized as a powerful male!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
