Experts presented research at a Sol Price School of Public Policy seminar Wednesday about local attitudes toward the Metro’s Expo Line, which runs along USC’s South border on Exposition Boulevard. The seminar was part of a series hosted by METRANS, a partnership of USC and Cal State Long Beach, to address transportation challenges in Los Angeles.
UC Irvine Ph.D. candidate Steve Spears presented research from his dissertation on the effect of psycho-sociological factors and neighborhood demographics on the use of public transit. Spears discussed his research methods and results afterward with graduate students at the Price School.
Spears conducted his research with USC Professor Marlon Boarnet, the director of the Price school’s graduate programs in urban planning.
Boarnet hopes to advance the transit planning by evaluating it on a local level.
“Urban planning is 50 years behind other fields of social science,” he said.
For his doctoral research, Spears aimed to quantify these attitudes toward and perceptions of public transportation. He conducted surveys of 284 households near the new Expo line before and after its opening. The survey asked residents questions regarding their perceptions of public transportation safety and convenience, their environmental concerns and their household structure and demographic.
The participants also filled out a seven-day travel log and were outfitted with GPS tracking devices to verify and augment the information from the logs. Statistical analysis of the first survey identified several factors that affect transit usage, including education level, household composition, age, vehicle usage and characteristics of the neighborhood such as traffic and proximity to stores and banks.
Though the data from the second survey — conducted after the Expo line opened — are still being analyzed, Spears presented his hypothesis about how perceptions of the metro line might change. He hypothesized local residents make decisions about using public transportation based on their perceptions of the system and the neighborhood, but they also adapt their perceptions about transit when they are more exposed to it.
Some students said they related to the link between perception and usage from personal experience.
“I always make the excuse not to use public transportation because I say it’s not always accessible,” said Katie Jagodka, a freshman majoring in policy, planning and development. “But this presentation made me realize that’s not true.”
Spears believes that instead of letting transit planning decisions be dictated by top-down regulations, local governments should be innovative in the ways transit can better serve their communities, which requires a community-level approach to looking at transit usage. Analyzing social trends and traits in planning public transportation could be a start to this kind of planning, he said.
“Socio-psychological factors have been largely ignored in looking at travel behavior in the United States,” Spears said. “In Europe, there has been more emphasis on these attitudinal influences on travel.”
USC Senior Associate Dean for Research and Technology Genevieve Giuliano, the director of METRANS, encouraged students afterward to learn from Spears’ research methods.
“We are more and more interested in the microlevel when making planning decisions — we are looking at neighborhoods, households and individuals,” Giuliano said. “This is really neat research to me because it’s right at the edge of where this field is going.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Since the Planning and Land Use Management Committee approved USC’s $1 billion plan for renovating the University Village on Oct. 10, students remain split on whether the project will be a positive addition to the surrounding community or a strain on university finances and residents who depend on the UV for retail services and jobs.
Neighbors · Though some students look forward to the renovations of the University Village, others say they are fond of the current complex. – Ricardo Galvez | Daily Trojan
The Village at USC, which plans to add restaurants, shops and 3,000 new spaces for students in university housing, is expected to receive final approval from the Los Angeles City Council in November. By May, all but two of the 45 independent tenants in the UV will be on month-to-month leases, and construction on the project could begin as early as this summer, according to USC’s Real Estate and Asset Management Department.
David Galaviz, executive director of local government relations, said that The Village at USC would benefit the school and the local community by providing more jobs for residents in the new development and retail spaces to be used by locals and students. He also said the project would spur economic development in the area.
Vanessa Sterrett, a junior majoring in economics, agreed with Galaviz, saying that the new housing and shopping opportunities the renovations will provide are a necessary addition to the university’s surrounding area.
“We are in need of housing closer to the campus, and if USC could provide that, we wouldn’t have to deal with the leasers that are sort of taking advantage of USC students right now,” Sterrett said. “If you look at other universities, a lot of them have a general university campus area right outside their main campus, and I think that that’s something USC has been lacking.”
Many students said they hope The Village at USC will include a wider variety of dining options, a grocery store, entertainment options such as movie theaters and bowling alleys and large discount stores like Target.
Several small business owners have recently voiced their concerns over the fate of their businesses at the City Council’s Planning and Land Use Management meetings. An addendum that was added to the plan on Oct. 5 requires USC to negotiate with tenants and pursue good faith efforts to retain their businesses in the new Village.
Some business owners said at the meetings that the university has offered to provide an expert in relocating business to help them move during the construction process. The university has also agreed to a 30 percent local hiring goal for permanent University Village jobs.
Some students, like Orrin Barrow, a junior majoring in policy, planning and development, however, believe that these efforts are not enough to justify the displacement of several existing UV businesses during the construction process and the use of such a large amount of university funds.
“It’s nice in concept: They want to make this area more student-friendly and student-accessible. But in terms of their accommodation for the locals, I think it’s kind of poor, and I don’t believe it’s justified,” Barrow said. “The things they have there now are not up to date, but they do provide a central service in terms of groceries and other amenities for the locals. … It might be a necessity to add housing, but a billion-dollar project might be a bit much too. Housing doesn’t take a billion dollars.”
Jacob Flores, a junior majoring in philosophy, feels the funds that will be used to redevelop the University Village could be better spent on campus.
“If USC was actually about making things better for their students, they would renovate the housing that they already have, they would renovate the libraries and they would use money toward making classes more efficient,” Flores said.
USC must be proud that you are turning out such paragons of civility and refinement such as George,Gabriel and Tex.
When confronted with unpleasant facts, kill the messenger.
Hey Lady,
You never answered the question.   How many cats do you have?
I’d put the over/under at 4.5
@ North University Park,
You are a broken record lady.  No one cares you have a DT article from 1999.  The World is a completely different place today than it was in 1999.   Get a life lady!  No wonder your man left you!
When logic doesn’t work, try insults, the cheapest trick in the books. 
 The 1999 DT article was reprinted from the archives just a few days ago. Someone at the DT must have thought it pertinent.
No doubt the world has changed. What has not changed are the facts.
Your comments and perspective are better suited for the LA Times with the other ancient relics.
Old, man-less and ugly is no way to go through life.
@ NUP,
How many cats do you currently have?
Just a few days ago the DT published an 11 year old article from the archives. In that article University spokespersons denied that USC had any ulterior motives in purchasing the UV which was built with CRA redevelopment help, supposedly to benefit the community.
The land for the UV was acquired by eminent domain.
Lady, I am sure 11 years ago you looked much better than today.  I won’t hold that against you either.
Insults don’t quite make up for the fact that the gist of the DT article was ignored. Actually the archived article dates from 1999 which was 13 years ago. That means that USC has owned the UV for the past 13 years and if it is rundown who was the landlord?
By giving only short term leases when they came up for renewal, USC’s true intent was telegraphed years ago.
A shopping center that was acquired by eminent domain for community benefit now will benefit only the landlord, USC.
Blah blah blah….No thanks, you are not my type….Blah blah blah
Only USC benefits? Wow. Your complaints about the 30 year old eminent domain acquisition (UV was built in the 70s) might carry more weight if your view wasn’t so myopic. Are you arguing that the UV should always stay as is?  Doesn’t it make more sense to create an urban, pedestrian focused development with lots of student beds above and new retail below?
Yes for 2 years of construction those current businesses will have to leave for the improvements to happen. And they may or may not come back to the UV. For that I have sympathy but not so much as to declare that the outdated UV should remain. It’s main face to the community is parking lots, for goodness sake! And the new jobs have a 30% local hiring requirement.  This world doesn’t guarantee a lot to us, so that’s a pretty good deal for the COMMUNITY that needs jobs.
The new Village will serve the community and the University better. It’s way past time to make a change and make progress here.  I hope you support it and set aside whatever old resentments you have.
No, I don’t argue that there should never be a change. I do say that USC has not been honest and forthcoming since the 1999 DT article states that the university intended to upgrade and maintain the UV. Instead it let it fall into disrepair which made demolition and rebuilding more acceptable. The fact that the land was acquired by eminent domain for community benefit can not be overstated. It remains to be seen what community benefit will result from the makeover. I expect to see a fortress UV instead of a community welcoming UV. Only time will tell.
Another dopey DT article about the UV.   How about an article about the BCS and how we keep getting the short stick?  Why not write an article about the lack of gender neutral restrooms at SC?  Come on DT, write some interesting!
Anyone who is against the UV renovation plan on the grounds expressed in this article is mentally deficient. I don’t understand why the Daily Trojan keeps running these articles. Just come out and say what everyone is thinking: the UV sucks, the new UV sounds awesome, and anyone who opposes its construction in order to save the shady UV businesses is putting complacency and acceptance of a decrepit status quo ahead of progress.
It seems like a barely-different iteration of the same article comes out every week.
They even follow roughly the same format:
[Background on the renovations]
[Reasons why the new UV provides more jobs, housing, small business opportunities. The g-word, “gentrification,” is never mentioned, even if it’s both appropriate and not necessarily a bad thing.]
[Out of touch student giving reasons why the currently decrepit UV should be left alone, despite the fact that USC has made its intentions to renovate clear for over a decade]
[Closing statement]
City Council’s going to give the final approval. The new UV will be built. In four years we’ll probably get a retrospective article on current tenants and where they are now.
I am “Fond” of some ex-girlfriends but you have to move on and live for today and the future. I understand change can be harder for some–but again, the new UV is a No Brainer. Really?–there is a case for leaving this pathetic structure in place–for how long, ten more years, 50 more years until it falls down? 
Time to replace it is now–and we all know this. Suck up the negatives and get on with it emotionally as well as physically. Enough with the whining.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
A team of researchers from USC and Aarhus University in Denmark has discovered bacteria with the ability to transmit electrons over large distances. They published their discovery in the science journal Nature on Wednesday.
They found that Desulfobulbus bacterial cells have the ability to transmit electrons as far as 1 centimeter, or thousands of cell lengths away, as part of their respiration and ingestion processes.
“To move electrons over these enormous distances in an entirely biological system would have been thought impossible,” Moh El-Naggar, assistant professor of physics at USC and co-author of the paper, said in a release.
Research began after Aarhus scientists discovered an electric current on the sea floor several years ago. The experiments conducted by USC and Aarhus researchers found that the apparently inexplicable currents were created by unknown multicellular bacteria that function as living power cables.
The cells survive through a chemical reaction: the cells that live in an oxygen-deficient zone oxidize hydrogen sulfide, a process that provides oxygen for other cells on the top.
“You have feeder cells on one end and breather cells on the other, allowing the whole living cable to survive,” El-Naggar said in a release.
Researchers from both universities collaborated on physical evaluations of this long-distance electron transfer. El-Naggar and his colleagues had previously used some of the methods he used in his research, including scanning-probe microscopy and nanofabrication.
El-Naggar was recently named one of the Popular Science magazine’s article “Ten Young Geniuses Shaking Up Science Today.” He collaborated on the paper with Lars Peter Nielsen from the Aarhus University Department of Bioscience. The paper was funded by the European Research Council, the Danish National Research Foundation, the Danish Foundation for Independent Research and the German Max Planck Society.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
To protest the labor practices involved in producing USC apparel, students — dressed in recycled materials ranging from newspapers to plastic bags — assembled in front of Tommy Trojan for a runway show Wednesday.
Fashion statement · USC’s Student Coalition Against Labor Exploitation holds an alternative fashion show on campus Wednesday to raise awareness of unfair labor practices. – Maddy Campion | Daily Trojan
Student Coalition Against Labor Exploitation  wants the university to use an independent monitor to audit factories that produce USC apparel, according to the event’s organizer Sarah Newell, who is a sophomore majoring in business administration.
“We want the students to know this,” Newell said, “so we can gather as a student body and pressure USC to sign on to the Workers Rights Consortium … which would monitor USC’s factories fairly and ensure that all the workers there are being treated fairly.”
The fashion show, in which students walked down a runway in what Newell called “garbage clothes,” meant to show the students’ dislike for clothes produced in sweatshops.
“This year we wanted to send a message that we would rather wear garbage than wear USC sweatshop clothing,” Newell said. “We would rather wear newspapers and trash bags and the stuff I found in the back of my closet than USC sweatshop clothing.”
Curran said the university opposes sweatshop labor and has taken measures to prevent its usage. In 2008, USC instituted new policies for its licensees, which led to about 130 licensees leaving the program because they could not or did not want to comply with the new regulations.
“There’s been a long history of working to try and address the issue of sweatshop labor,” Curran said. “Obviously, it’s something the university does not support and we agreed with SCALE that we are all against it.”
Currently, the university requires licensed companies producing USC products to sign a code of conduct and hire third-party auditors to review their factories. According to Matt Curran, director of USC’s licensing and trademark programs, requirements such as these limit the amount of licensees the university approves.
“On average in a given year, we will receive over 100 license applications,” Curran said. “Right around 15 percent meet the criteria to become a licensee and really a large part of that is due to the social responsibility standards and requirements we have.”
Newell said the group feels that relying on private third-party auditors can lead to inadequate reviews. She said these monitors are often unreliable and their reports are not always accurate.
“They are using four monitors right now that are all funded by the brands they are monitoring,” Newell said. “Nike is funding the company monitoring Nike factories, so obviously you get things like factory visits that are planned in advance so they can clean up all the stuff at the factory.”
Curran said the university is informed when issues appear in audits.
“That information is shared with us and if there are issues, they are identified,” Curran said. “We do expect the licensees to work with the factories and any other stakeholders to try and make those corrections and make sure they are addressed.”
The rally was a response to a 10-year agreement USC signed with Silver Star Merchandising, a Dallas Cowboys subsidiary, last year to produce the university’s athletic apparel. Newell said Silver Star Merchandising, known as 289c Apparel, has a history of labor violations.
Curran, however, said the agreement deal will cause USC apparel to be produced in fewer factories, allowing for greater oversight, The agreement also came with a commitment that 289c Apparel will increase its efforts to improve working conditions.
“As a result, they have added additional, dedicated staff and are actively in discussions with industry experts and industry organizations to develop and implement programs to positively impact factory working conditions,” Curran wrote in an email.
SCALE believes that if USC joins the Workers Rights Consortium, an independent monitor for collegiate apparel, conditions in factories producing USC apparel will improve. One hundred and seventy five other universities have signed onto the consortium, according to the WRC’s website.
“All of the Ivies, all of the UCs, all of the Cal States — every other major university, for the most part — have signed on,” Newell said.
Josh Sepulveda, a spring admit who will be joining the sophomore class, joined the demonstration because USC has not signed on to the WRC. Sepulveda, who wore shorts and a shirt made entirely of plastic bags, said he heard about SCALE because of a semi-nude protest they held last year.
“It seems like they made a big ruckus around campus [last year],” Sepulveda said. “And I’m all for making ruckuses and making chaos, but for a good cause.”
Last year, administrators met with SCALE to get more information about USC joining the WRC.
“Dating back to last year, we gave them a set of questions and requests for more detailed information on how the WRC operates, and we did that to try to evaluate the associated costs, the tangible value that a WRC membership would bring to our social responsibility programming beyond our current efforts,” Curran said.
According to Curran, students in SCALE are currently researching and gathering the information that administrators requested.
“We believe an ongoing, open dialogue is the most constructive way for us to work together,” Curran wrote in an e-mail.
Well, I learned today that many “alums” still don’t know what fear mongering and a strawman argument are. Hopefully these people don’t claim to represent USC outside this forum, as that would just be embarrassing…
funny to watch the geezers get all butthurt
They also don’t quite understand what Marxism is, I think.
I expect nothing good to come from any of these self-absorbed SCALE people.   They might be the SC version of the black bandana crowd that break windows and causes untold mayhem.   Sad these people don’t give a damn about Americans
Even coming from someone not affiliated with this organization, your assumptions are outstanding. And why don’t they give a damn about Americans, in your “mind”? 
Your post is just proof that not everyone coming out of USC really deserved to.
I’ll take “outstanding” as a compliment and I must be hitting a little to close to the truth.
Maybe you need stop keying BMWs to prove you are down with the cause?
You would probably be more comfortable at Berkeley but likely the “America Haters named Manny” quota was filled when you applied.
Maybe spell “too” right before you try to discredit me. It must be difficult for you to watch this, knowing there’s nothing you can do but post dumb posts online – I don’t even support this group, yet the uninformed loathing for it is laughable to me. You still haven’t answered my question, but I expected that.
Manuel,
SCALE is lucky to have you protecting the internet!   Obviously, you can’t let the truth get out that you are small inconsequential leftist hate group operating behind enemy lines at USC.
We laugh at you, your cause and especially your silly group!
As a point of clarification, SCALE also runs a local campaign that focuses on helping workers in America. In addition to their mission to help workers abroad, they work hard to make sure that USC workers here in America are treated fairly and have humane working conditions.
Pull down the bandana so we can see your face
‘the black bandana crowd’?? Hahahaha.
Wow… why is this group considered communist? Just because they are behind better working conditions? I guess all you angry vets fought for “free speech” – that is, one can speak as long as it’s in line with what you vets want. Let’s understand, gentleman, that this isn’t free at all.
I don’t expect you to have the maturity at 18 or 19 to understand that your freedom came a heavy price to the men of my generation.
Speak all you want because no one is listening.
You assume I’m still in college. Quite the fallacy. And you haven’t answered my question. I get that freedom has a price, but if you think the true freedom is the one that is most convenient for a group like yours, then you still don’t get it.
I suppose sticking your head in the sand is one way to go, John. You claim to fight for free speech and then call those that choose to benefit from it entitled and communists and get all your vet buddies on here to attack a cause that has nothing to do with you, all because for whatever reason you don’t agree with their premise.
Don’t you love the irony that trying to quiet groups you don’t seem to like actually gives them more publicity? Hmmm… Quieting a group, aka suppressing them, because they don’t share your viewpoint… all after you fought against it. Makes you sound like a bit of a hypocrite, don’t you agree?
It really is a pity watching you try to tell current students like me what to do. It’s not advice, mind you, just ordering and suppression. “Speak all you want because no one is listening”… Sounds a bit like how these SCALE members (and myself, independently) will treat your worthless, confused, and out of touch diatribes.
There has to be a way to keep these old people from posting.  They are making us look terrible on the internet.
Ryan and other SCALE members.  I truly speak to you with a truthful heart.  Listen, think, and change.
What I see here is the eventual outcome of the corruption of the european-capitalist construct.  Ryan, Sam and Gabe you were programmed from birth to believe in a false premise.  That you, through work and achievement, earned merit.  What your parents did not tell you is that the system is fixed.  Heads you win.  Tails we lose.  Deep in your hearts you know that what you have has been stolen.  What you have has been historically hoodwinked from others.  It is this that compels you to frivolous causes like SCALE. 
You see the injustice in your hearts.  You react to injustice throught the prism of priviledge.
If you intend to make me feel bad, you have failed. Let’s be real—Africa is not central to much of anything, and it will remain that way for the foreseeable future. Your ancestors should have joined mine in walking north millennia ago.
I am very surprised at the level of vitriol in this discussion.   I would hope as fellow Trojans and proud members of rival Greek organizations that you could meet and resolve your issues as members of the Trojan Family.   My son, a current student, and I have been watching the discussion descending into name calling and slurs against men who have proudly served our country.   Nothing could be lower in our opinion.   We hope all can be resolved with handshakes and sincerely apologies among righteous men.
God Bless!
I must say I am stunned by all this…. Many of these posts are all emotional, but only a few stand on an actual base of informative opinion…This is USC, and we are all a part of it…Trojan family that sticks to the Trojan way…we are Faithful,Scholarly, Skillful, Courageous, and Ambitious. Please remember that when commenting on here. We are entitled to our opinion and it hurts me to see you all talking so offensively to one another. If you are here at USC it is because you are believed to be able to hold such morals. Whether you are a student or an administrator or alumni…it all comes down to this question, is USC following their Codes of Ethics? USC stands for something amazing, and to be part of it means alot to me. So why are we all fighting like this and disrespecting ourselves because a group wants to make sure that everything that has to do with USC follows their morals and codes of conduct? I would be offended if this group took a stand for something such as going against other groups such as LGBT or Women’s Assembly…etc…No one is being harmed, in fact it appears that the main goal is to minimize harm being caused in making something simple such as clothing for USC apparell…So what is the actual problem here? We live in an economic world anyways where one thing will always affect another.
Thanks for pointing out Ryan and the others are all emotion and no substance.
If you’re looking for substance, might I suggest attending a meeting? SCALE meets 6:30 every Wednesday in VKC 102.
You meet every week?  What possibly could discuss every week?  Sounds boring!
Very well put, Sam. Attacking current USC students because they disagree with your views is, ironically, sophomoric. But replying in emotional language that descends to that level is unworthy of the level of discourse those same current students want to promote.
I can say, on a personal basis, that the undergraduates involved in SCALE are amongst the very best informed, passionate, and intellectually curious in the student body. They show a commitment to improve both their campus and the world that should be applauded, not attacked. USC could use a lot more activism: religious and secular, Democrat and Republican, and on a variety of issues.
On the issues in question, there is much to be said for labor in the developing world exporting products to the developed world. Multinational wages tend to pay higher than local industries. But what SCALE are talking about are some of the most basic of decent working conditions. This is a view supported by labor unions, the Catholic Church, and a large swathe of public opinion. So before ignorantly labeling people ‘Communists’, perhaps you might pick some bigger targets first?
Anyway, here is to more and higher quality debate both online and on campus.
I am also angry about these offensive internet posts and the communist clothing show on campus intended to offend veterans.   You should all be ashamed!
Before you air-condition the third world why not do some good here in American.  There are plenty of good people on hard times who could use an air-conditioner in their home.
Do some good here in our country first!
What about this group is intended to offend veterans? Are you implying that veterans are wholeheartedly and actively in support of sub-standard working conditions outside of America?
While I agree with you about focusing on America and its people, I certainly don’t think the focus on other lives outside our own is mutually exclusive, ESPECIALLY if America is going to try and be a global moral police directly (Iraq) or indirectly (Libya).
Let’s not belabor this last point of mine – answer my first questions. I’m honestly curious as to why so many veterans (to whom I am thankful for their service in whatever amount) are offended by this.
Oh, no doubt there is a lot that could be done for our fellow Americans in these difficult times.  That’s why SCALE is as committed to working for worker’s rights here in the US as well as abroad. 
I personally am not a communist. I’m not sure if you’ll believe me; you seem pretty convinced otherwise. I have no idea if there are any communists in SCALE. We don’t ask our members to disclose their political beliefs before joining. But I can speak for myself when I say that I am in fact a devoted capitalist who furthermore believes that capitalism can be one of the strongest forces for freedom and progress — not to mention prosperity — all around the world. I think you’ll find that most people in SCALE merely ask that within the capitalist system everybody play by the rules. In some of the countries where USC apparel is made, the conditions of the factories directly violate the laws of those nations, not to mention USC’s own code of conduct. I also think it’s not impossible to believe in the tenets of capitalism while balancing it with a desire for basic human rights and dignity.
Moving on to matters significantly weightier than my political affiliation and philosophy, I’m not sure how SCALE has taken on this sudden reputation for being anti-veteran. I feel safer asserting that neither I nor anyone in SCALE has anything but utmost respect for anyone who’s willing to lay down their life to defend their country. I owe a debt of gratitude to every veteran for protecting the same American rights that allow us to participate in SCALE in the first place. God knows there are loads of countries still today where a student demonstration like this one wouldn’t fly. I assure you that anything that has given the impression that SCALE feels any sense of antipathy towards the troops has been misinterpreted.
Sounds like more poppycock if you ask me.   Regardless, your belated half-hearted apology is accepted by me but I obviously don’t speak for all veterans and those that honorably served this great nation.   Next time try not to offend those that made your freedom to dress up like a fool in garbage bags possible.   
“Hauck” is German Catholic I believe.  My oldest brother Clarance died on a beach in Anzio at the hands of your brethren in January, 1944.  He was killed by 20mm fire from ME109 that strafed his position on the beach.  His entire platoon was wiped out in seconds.   He and his mates are buried in Italy (that is where Anzio is) at the American Cemetery in Florence.  Clarance didn’t deserve or want to get killed for you but he did anyway.
Sounds like claptrap if you ask me. Regardless, your belated half-hearted apology is accepted by me but I obviously don’t speak for all veterans and those that honorably served this great nation.  Next time try not to offend those that made your freedom to dress up like a clown in garbage bags possible.
“Hauck” is German I believe.  My oldest brother Clarence died on a beach in Anzio at the hands of your brethren in January, 1944.  He was killed by 20mm fire from ME109 that strafed his position on the beach.  His entire platoon was wiped out in seconds.  He and his mates are buried in Italy (that is where Anzio is) at the American Cemetery in Florence.  Clarence didn’t deserve or want to get killed for you but he did anyway.
Hauck is in fact German but it was actually the name of my grandfather’s step-father. His mother had him take it before he enlisted so she could claim his remains in case he didn’t come back.
Convenient
How unbelievably self-righteous. I am all for supporting the troops, but you’re just starting to take advantage of it now. You seriously associated this guy because of his supposed nationality with Nazis from the 40’s by implying they’re his “brethren.” How out of touch can you get? I too come from German heritage. Does that make me the enemy?
I am very disappointed to learn of the anti-US posts to this website and offensive remarks about GIs and veterans by current students and this scale group.   This type of offensive posting has no place at USC.  Why any school paper allows communist groups get promotion is beyond me.   
Your communist ideology has joined the dust heap of history and it’s time you people got some respect for those that fought and died for you!  
Disappointed Alum
My God, are you listening to yourself? What about this group is communist? Again, I don’t have support one way or another regarding this article, but your dribble is no better.
So can i ask why the Greek system has not been allowed to participate in this fundraiser?
As a member of the Panhellenic council we would be interested in holding an event to support CASE. We could involve the IFC and maybe do an all night dance a thon?? Or a part
y called drink a case for CASE??
Ryan Hauck = Raczist
SCALE + Priviledge = Frivolous 
Let me break it down for you. Ryan and SCALE have revealed themselves for who they really are through their sometimes ANONYMOUS and sometimes NOT posts. But it doesn’t surprise me that even the suburban leftists of this very white and historically moneyed University are themselves the oppressors that will soon demand that we bend a knee.  Ryan get real or get lost.
Afrocentricity = what the hell are you talking about?
Obviously this is an issue which inspires a lot of emotion. So for anybody who’s against SCALE, you have my full name. Message me on Facebook, and the next time I’m on campus I give you my address so you can come and hit me in the face if that makes you feel better. And I’ll just take it. But if anyone here insults Sarah Newell, I will hit back, because I’ve never met another person more incredible or passionate than her.
I’m your huckleberry!
Ryan,
I am not sure what the purpose is to allow yourself to beaten up by others.   I believe men have every right to defend themselves against transgressors and non-believers.   Further, I am not sure why the African American gentlemen is calling you a racist.  Sometimes those people simmer with such rage against our country which has given so much blood and treasure to ease the pain of past injustice to their race.
My son is fellow student of yours.  I spoke with him last night and asked if he knew who were since you gave out your last name, Hauck.   Though he does not know you personally and you are not listed as a member of a Greek organization we both prayed for you last night.   We prayed that you might find peace in His Word and follow the path toward salvation.
My son has found ultimate peace in His Word and ministers the faith to other students and members of his fraternity.   As did I many years ago, he is Christian missionary and preaches to the poor of the Third World.   Last year he spent the entire summer in Indonesia on a mission.   If you don’t know, Indonesia is an island in the far southwest Pacific.  Without a doubt he saved many from damnation on his summer mission.
Not to belittle your efforts here but don’t you think having fashion shows in Los Angeles is helping the poor in far away places like Indonesia.   These people overseas have plenty of work but lack the peace that comes from knowing His Word.  My son says they have all the necessities to live (tv’s, radios, cars, food and yes air-conditioning) but not a Bible in their local language.   You might better serve these people overseas by helping to spread His Word.
God Bless!
SC Mom,
Naturally taking a punch isn’t my idea of a good time. It was more to make a point about the level of hatred that this issue has inspired instead of the civil debate that it deserves (not that I’m blameless on this front; however I doubt that anyone who comes to the table thinking I’m a communist or — bizarrely — a racist is going to be persuaded). Quite simply, if somebody is willing to hit another person in the face because they don’t agree with them, I think it’s rather telling, but I’m more than happy to oblige. A lot of these students clearly just need to get something out of their system.
Now I think we can both agree that the world would be a better place if everyone followed Jesus’ example of caring for the poor and needy. I don’t think the fashion show that SCALE put on directly helped any worker in the third world. I doubt that anyone thinks that. I think our greatest chance to make a real impact is to inspire change at USC’s administrative level. But in terms of raising publicity for our cause, I would say that based on this comment thread the event was a rousing success.
Oh, and I almost forgot to thank you and your son for your prayers.
Protests? Fashion Shows?  Workers rights? SCALE? What a bunch of nonsense.  How about hitting the books or visiting the library with all this free time on your hands?  You might also consider joining a social club or fraternity as an outlet for all your extra energy.  Where and how USC  acquires its clothing is none of your business.  Start your own University if you don’t agree, but don’t criticize my alma mater.
One more thing.  I could care less what the “ivies” do.  This is USC and we do it our way.  Or at least we did when I was in school.
Well I responded to this before but I guess it didn’t show up, so I’ll try to reproduce that response as best I can.
If you aren’t a current USC student, than you have no place lecturing current students what they should and shouldn’t concern themselves with. After all, when your generation was in school, racism was still institutionalized.
SCALE is the best “social club” I’ve ever been a member of. And as far as “hitting the books” goes, I’ll have you know I have a 3.75 and I’m studying abroad at the London School of Economics. So unless you served in WWII (which I bet you got out of on an academic deferment. And this is coming from someone who plans on serving his country) I think I have you beat.
And I thought the elder generations were supposed to be wise.
Oh, my first response finally showed up. I apologize for posting twice, but not for anything else.
Alright, I have to ask what the deal is with the Daily Trojan comments thread. I make a comment, it shows up, it’s gone, it shows up again, it’s gone again. So now my first post is once again not showing up. It’s a pity because my second one contains what in retrospect is a pretty stupid comment about academic deferments which I’m fairly certain weren’t awarded during WWII. I feel as if I owe an apology to any veterans who left school to fight in the war or who only got the opportunity to attend school on the GI bill. That being said, for the most part it’s irrelevant to my little dialogue with TrojanSig here, because I’ve realized at this point that he really has nothing worthwhile to say.
Other point missing from my second comment that was in the first: I’m proud to be at SC. Personally I’ve always thought we were better than the ivies anyway. So let’s start acting like it.
Dear Current Student, Commies and Malcontents,
I was on the SC Vets webpage checking in on old friends and saw a link button to this worthless article and your comments about GIs and veterans.  I’m so mad at you kids, I don’t know what I won’t do or say.  I’m not alone either!
Men fought and died for lily livered punks like you to post trash on the internet.   Your generation with your overly entitled parents’ generation has nearly destroyed this country. 
USC was once a great institution where people worked hard to get good grades and succeeded in life through those same values.   Today, you kids are all about taking things you never earned.   Give me, give me, give me…because I want it!
I have made a lot of money in my time by working hard, saving, investing and a little luck.   Most things you kids likely don’t understand and never will.   Up until a few years ago I made regular large donations to USC.   I gave less during the Obama years (soon to be over) as my rate of return dropped to almost nothing but I still gave more than I should.  Now after reading your comments and this dribble about the poor and unwashed of the third world needing air-conditioned factories and longer lunch breaks, I want to vomit.  
I’m keeping my money until they clean the trash out of USC!   Get rid of these thankless spoiled children with nothing to offer.
John K.
Proud American!
SC Trojan ’55
187th Airborne Regimental Combat Team Retired – Korean War Vet
Husband, Father and Grandfather, etc…
More than you’ll ever be, Punk!
Generalize much, John ’55? Look, there’s always going to be “trash” students in every generation. Trust me, I went to school with quite the litter in some areas. However, there are plenty of bright, hard-working students like myself who don’t ask for special treatment and even take it as an insult if it is given to them.
I ask both young and old Trojans trashing this group: what is wrong with this group called SCALE? Why do you take it so personally (other than to troll), instructing everyone to “hit the books” (TrojanSig ’48) instead or calling it a bunch of “stupid stunts” (Gabriel)? These groups aren’t imposing on you, so what do you care? They’re just out to get behind a cause. I don’t support nor condemn this group (hell, I just read about it now), but I feel every member has a right to this protest – isn’t that what you vets out there fought for: freedom of speech? In addition, every college student’s experience is different. I, for one, was heavily academic and pretty athletic, but there are plenty of students out there who go to USC for other reasons: music, art, etc. No one’s experience is the same. So to just condemn this group as a waste of time (you old farts) is a waste of breath – they’re not going to just stop because you said so, nor should they have to. You have your own life; quit imposing on and judging theirs.
And John, quit acting like the world is ending because of “our generation.” Our generation is about to be handed a large debt bill courtesy of those older than us, like yourself, who cannot seem to control spending, and will probably never see the Social Security dollars we dole out that people like you benefit from. And enough with the generalization that our generation is the only entitled one. The past decade has been one of entitlement for all generations – it’s the consumer culture, which, by the way, is exporting this type of tough labor to other countries to lower costs and maintain availability to feed our country’s material appetites.
And let me get this straight: you want to “vomit” at other countries having decent (I won’t say humane because I don’t want to get into this whole argument) working conditions? If this procedure was done in America, would you feel the same way? My guess is no, especially considering all the men and women in uniform (thank you and them for your and their service, by the way) that have to take many of these manufacturing jobs because our veteran work system structure is flimsy and because there aren’t many jobs out there anyway in most sectors.
Why do you consider this article “worthless,” anyway? Is it because you don’t agree with the premise or group? If so, fine, but to condemn anything against your hard-headed beliefs is pathetic, as is going on some ignorant rant against those in our generation. Are some of the posts here garbage? Yes, but yours is no better. You certainly don’t represent a “mature, unentitled” generation very well.
3.75 GPA? Does that make you a proud little guy? The pot smoking professors of this generation hand out grades like they are handing out candy on Halloween.  You have earned nothing until you do it in the real world.  And yes I have been very successful.  And I deserve it. And the last time I checked, the Daily Trojan is for everyone not just sniveling current students like yourself.
It does actually. I’m not quite at the age that anything I do in the real world counts, but I look forward to making a far larger impact than you ever did.
At the very least I’m glad to have the whole of my life in front of me, instead of behind me like an aging waste of oxygen with nothing better to do but read his old college newspaper online.
I’m a senior in Viterbi with a higher GPA than yours and it’s total bs. Nothing to be proud of. Let’s be real—grades are easy, and they don’t count for anything.
Just because you claim your major is harder than is doesn’t mean it is.
No, I actually agree with Anonymous, for the first time about anything that my 3.75 gpa is pretty meaningless. I kind of do feel a need to apologize about all of my comments towards Trojan, not because I disagree with SCALE, but mostly because the more I realize that he’s actually a veteran, the worst I feel about the way I treated him. My comments were mostly a combination of resentment of his discounting of my achievements/intelligence and a Freudian  sense of anger towards the death of my grandfather who was a WWII veteran who I imagine had very similar ideas with TrojanSig. I do in fact believe in the concept of the Greatest Generation and this sense of entitlement that my own generation has, but I don’t believe my involvement with SCALE is a result of that of that sense but rather a resistance towards it. Look, TrojanSig and I have very different opinions, but the more obvious it becomes that he was a veteran, the more I respect him. I felt this way for a couple days, but resisted against admitting it because of the satisfaction I knew it would bring Anonymous, who I still think is a terribly annoying person.
(1) My GPA as a senior in a major far harder than yours is higher than yours. By your logic, I win.
(2) Why should I have any respect for LSE? The whole scandal that led to Davies’ resignation demonstration their total lack of institutional control. And as for Satoshi Kanazawa… enough said.
Someone just likes to be a contrarian, or maybe just a troll. I’m in Viterbi as well, but my major isn’t a cakewalk. I do the hard work, learn a lot, and get rewarded. And what might be yours?
By the way, Sig is the most disgusting institution on campus today. I hope you’re proud.
I am proud. It’s you and your kind that disgust me.  Grow up.  Take a shower.  Go to class. And shut up.
I’m not sure what the problem is here.   Air-conditioning units are not that expensive.   I worked as a Christian missionary in Central American in the 80s and we installed those a/c units in all sorts of houses and buildings for free.   Usually the biggest problem was finding a working electrical outlet.  Best of luck in helping these people not work in such hot places!
You know what I see?  I see a lot of rich, privileged white kids and their half-baked cracker parents laying down noise that does not address the true issues of justice and reparations. You want to stand up for air conditioning and workers rights over there?  Well let me show you how America was built, understand.  With STOLEN labor on STOLEN land.  You need to fix what you stole and broke right here!
Agitate, educate, organize!
If you are implying that the land here was stolen, you are wrong; it was conquered. If you are implying that slaves here were stolen, you are also wrong; they were purchased by the slavers in Africa. In neither case is there any justification for reparations of any kind.
Oh yes.  Post behind your anonymity.  Hide in the shadows with your white flowing sheets.  Cover your head with a hood to hide your shame.  Your lack of fundamental historical context reveals your deep seated ignorance and hate.
You can’t rightfully purchase humans. You disgust me.
Of course you can’t now, and to suggest that one should have the right to do so today in a civilized society would be absurd. As an admirer of Boas, however, I reject the initial contention that reparations are warranted as penance for the actions of others in the past.
Matt Curran, I am so disappointed in you. Instead of doing the right thing, you’re espousing the same mistruths your predecessors have been parroting for over a decade. 
The University of Texas finally decided to stop the excuses and to sign onto the WRC just last summer; why won’t you side with students in demanding humane conditions for workers, instead of repeating the empty excuses in defense of serial abusers of human rights? The Dallas Cowboys have no leverage in its contracted factories to change sweatshop conditions. I’d like to see public records exposing the relationship between your salary and that of other USC administrators and the size of these grandiose sweatshop licensing contracts.
EDC Staff,
Please make sure to delete comment 83425 as it includes defamatory statements.  These nuts need to get a life!
You have no clue what you are talking about. There’s nothing in Teresa’s statement that could be considered defamatory. It’s all either opinion or the truth as far as she knows. 
It seems to me that you’d rather just have this forum wiped of any opinion which you disagree with.
And posting under the name “Admin 2307b” doesn’t make your post look official like you might hope. It makes it look desperate.
I’m so sick of these third world bashing SCALE people and their stupid stunts. 
DT Staff, it’s time to stop promoting these fools and start covering more LGBTQ issues.
First of all, I do not speak for SCALE as a whole, but I think it is important to note that it is NOT our intention to end the livelihood of other individuals–“third world,” (as you say) or not. 
We simply seek to make sure that conditions in the places where USC clothing are made are good FOR workers. Often it requires no more than making sure local laws–or the USC Workplace Code of Conduct–are being followed.
I couldn’t agree more that there are OTHER equally–if not more–important issues to discuss; and these are often interrelated. However, I do not think that an article on this event takes away from how the DT covers any other topic! If anything I’d feel safer saying a lot of us in SCALE care about many other issues and would agree with you here on a lack of LGBTQ coverage!
@ Ray and the rest of the SCALE Fools,
Why don’t you go and break some windows at Starbucks to show everyone how you fight the Man?
Don’t pigeonhole us as radicals, George. Nothing makes me sicker than individuals who commit acts of vandalism in the name of some misguided Leftist vision which they can neither articulate nor grasp.
But if you consider standing up for the basic rights of all humans — no matter if they live in LA or southeast Asia — to be radical, then I guess I’m guilty as charged.
Just for fun,
Go back and read the previous SCALE articles in the DT.   You will not see a more insecure bunch of wacky Marxist (SCALE) who must respond to every comment about what they do and their motives.   They apparently are very concerned about their propaganda being taken seriously and they think people read this crap.
Ryan, I dare you not to respond!  Show me you are above this and can control yourself.   
BTW:  Check those bad sunglasses you wear and tell me where they were made… 
Hypocrite!
I was tempting to reply critically, but I’d rather prove you wrong Gabriel.
You’re free to disagree with SCALE, but I would just like to let you know that long before I was involved in economic causes, I was counterprotesting the Westboro Baptist Church on behalf of the LGBTQ community.
*Tempted. My bad mate, I’m awful tired/can’t type right at the moment it seems.
To “Anonymous.”
Whether or not sweatshops are truly beneficial to the third world is a debate I think we could all benefit from. But after the bizarrely personal tone of your comment your extremely offensive use of the word “retarded,” I think we can all agree that it would be incredibly beneficial to the US for you to go and work in a sweatshop.
Cheers.
*and
Don’t be a retard. It’s only an offensive word to people with the most uptight of sensibilities, and those people suck.
Thank you.
Ok, so you would be comfortable explaining to a mother of a child with mental delays that using the word “retarded” to refer to people who Anonymous in this case thinks are stupid or uninformed is only offensive to people who are uptight? Because it seems to me that Anonymous is associating SCALE with a certain group of people to disparage both.
There is a difference between being overly politically correct and being respectful. I’m willing to concede that there are times when it goes too far. This isn’t one of them.
I would feel comfortable explaining that. I do not believe that all people have the same inherent value, and I do not believe that they will all contribute to society equally. Mentally retarded individuals and retards like the Marxists in SCALE will both have the same impact: nothing. I don’t mean that maliciously; it is simply the truth.
Amen Bro!
Oh, the maturity of 18 year olds like you. You must know everything.
People like this are retarded. Sweatshops are incredibly beneficial to third-world countries. Take an economics class and grow up.
Go SCALE!
It’s unfortunate that our school isn’t displaying the kind of leadership necessary to stop sweatshops and protect the global Trojan Family.  USC, we believe you can do better!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The USC women’s soccer team came into this season with one of the program’s youngest rosters in recent history, with 16 freshmen and only four seniors on the 34-member squad.
Bright spot · Junior midfielder Jordan Marada, a transfer from Saint Mary’s College, leads USC in all major offensive statistical categories. – Ricardo Galvez | Daily Trojan
“For sure, this is the youngest team I’ve had here, and we’ve had growing pains,” said USC coach Ali Khosroshahin, who has coached the team for six years. “We’ve had inconsistency by individuals in the group … it’s something we’ve been talking quite a bit about.”
Last weekend was a microcosm of the team’s inconsistency; USC (5-8-3, 2-4-2) snapped a five-game winless streak on Friday by beating Utah, which was in fifth place in the Pac-12 before the match and is riding the bubble of the NCAA tournament.
But the Women of Troy followed that up with a disappointing loss Sunday to last-place Colorado.
Had the Women of Troy beat the Buffaloes, they would have moved into a tie for fourth place in the conference. Instead, they sit in eighth.
“Result-wise, [this season has] definitely not been what I expected,” junior midfielder Elizabeth Eddy said. “I was hoping for a lot more wins and better soccer, bottom line.”
USC’s season isn’t quite in the books yet — but the remaining schedule is daunting, and if the team won any of its last three games, it’d be a major upset.
On Friday, No. 1 Stanford (14-1-1, 8-0-0), the defending national champion, comes to town to play the Women of Troy at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.
Two days later, USC faces off against No. 21 California (14-3-0, 7-1-0), winners of eight straight matches, at McAlister Field.
Then, to close out the regular season, USC will host No. 3 UCLA (14-0-2, 7-0-1) next Friday. The Bruins have ony allowed six goals this season.
Even if the team reeled off three wins against those powerhouses, USC’s record would still sit at 8-8-3. Last year, five Pac-12 teams received berths to the 64-team NCAA tournament, and Cal had the worst record at 12-6-2.
And though victories over the Cardinal, Golden Bears and Bruins would surely impress the selection committee, USC’s losses to unranked Minnesota, San Diego and Portland would serve major causes for concern — and those are just the bad results from nonconference play.
Because of those reasons, plus the fact that USC has a ratings power index of just 126, the Women of Troy will probably watch postseason play from their couches for the second straight season.
But the squad is still holding out hope.
“Mathematically, yes, we have a shot,” Khosroshahin said. “But we have to get results from here on out. We’d have to win out, then sit and wait on selection day.”
Even if they don’t end up qualifying for the NCAA tournament, the team has shown that there’s plenty of hope for next season and beyond.
Junior midfielder Jordan Marada, who transferred from Saint Mary’s before this season, leads the team in nearly every offensive category — goals, assists, points, shots, shots on goal — and is one of only two players to start every game this year.
The other is freshman forward Jamie Fink, who combines with fellow freshmen Katie Johnson and Megan Borman to give USC a formidable offensive unit for years to come.
“Fink has been very consistent for us throughout the year,” Khosroshahin said. “Borman shows flashes of what she’s capable of, and [Johnson] shows flashes as well … That experience is going to pay off really well.”
Despite giving up a conference-worst 1.88 goals per game, the Women of Troy have some bright spots on defense, too.
USC leads the conference with 5.69 saves per game, which means sophomore goalkeeper Caroline Stanley has done her fair share to keep opponents from scoring.
The rest of the defense has been crippled by injuries all season long; senior Kristina Noriega (concussion), redshirt sophomore Mia Bruno (quad strain) and sophomore Alex Quincey (foot) have all missed at least six games, and the trio hasn’t been on the field together during a match this season.
As a result, freshmen defenders Marlee Carrillo and Erin Owen have been relied on more than was expected.
“I think they’ve done really well,” Khosroshahin said. “Erin Owen has solidified herself as a solid, dependable defender, and Marlee Carrillo has really come on over the past five or six games and improved herself.”
There’s little question that the Women of Troy have gone through some growing pains this season. But Khosroshahin thinks the last two years have just been bumps in the road, not a sign of a program in decline.
“This year, it’s just rebuilding because of the number of new people we had to bring in,” Khosroshahin said. “We’re excited about the group that we have [for next year]… I think if we get a full spring with them, it’ll bode really well for us.”
USC has a few opportunities coming up to build some major momentum towards next year.
But if this young team is going to take advantage of them, they’ll have to start growing up — fast.
 
“Chin Music” runs every other Thursday. If you would like to comment on this story, visit DailyTrojan.com or email Will at wlaws@usc.edu.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
After nearly a month since its last home game, the No. 1 USC men’s water polo team will play at UC Irvine before returning home to McDonald’s Swim Stadium for six of its final seven regular season matches.
“It’s nice to be able to come back home this weekend,” USC coach Jovan Vavic said. “We have all our long road trips behind us now, with our big wins over Stanford and in the NorCal tournament, so we are looking forward to staying close to home.”
Thursday’s contest will be a rematch of this year’s SoCal tournament semifinals, a game in which the Trojans (17-0, 2-0) won 10-5. In that game, UCI (14-5, 0-2) had the score even at 3-3 at the end of the first quarter. The Trojans expect a similar fighting spirit in this week’s matchup.
“They have a really good all-around team,” senior two-meter Matt Burton said. “They always come out hard and just work. They’re going to come out with a ton of energy at their home pool and hopefully we can match that energy and play with the poise and experience that we have.”
Over the course of the team’s four-year run of dominance, players have grown accustomed to opponents’ energy. USC’s reputation precedes it, and everybody strives to unseat the kings.
“Whenever you’re the number one team, everyone’s always excited to play against you,” Burton said. “We look forward to it. That’s where you like to be, in that number one spot.”
At present, the Anteaters are reeling, having lost four of their last six games, including each of their first two games of Mountain Pacific Sports Federation play. Coach Vavic expects UCI to come out with a sense of urgency given its early conference struggles.
“I had a meeting with the guys yesterday and brought up the example of Stanford’s football team beating us [in 2006] when they were ranked very, very low in the national rankings, and they beat us,” Vavic said. “The point was that everybody can beat anybody, and UCI is not a team to take lightly. They can be dangerous.”
The Trojans’ defense is focused on UCI’s multiple scoring options. The Anteaters have two drivers, Bojan Hrlec and Mitch Wise, who have scored 52 and 47 goals respectively this season, and three others who have scored at least 20 goals in 2012.
“They have just an overall very good attack,” senior driver Tobias Preuss said. “They have great drivers that are very explosive. They get themselves into very good finishing positions and can be extremely dangerous if you’re not prepared.”
USC has won its last 19 games dating back to last season. But the team is still focused on ways it can improve.
“We still have a lot of space to improve,” Preuss said. “There are lots of things to improve on. But that’s OK, as long as we go game by game and really analyze what we did right and what we did wrong, we’ll be in a good spot when all is said and done.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Sophomores Yannick Hanfmann and Eric Johnson notched their second doubles title together, claiming the ITA Southwest Regional Doubles Championship on Tuesday.
Design by Christina Ellis and Razan Al Marzouqi
Hanfmann and Johnson defeated fellow Trojans Max de Vroome and Roberto Quiroz 8-6 at Marks Stadium to add a doubles crown next to their Battle of the Bay title from nine days prior.
After Hanfmann and Johnson pulled ahead 7-4, freshman de Vroome and sophomore Quiroz broke Hanfmann and rallied back to make it 7-6.
“The match overall was pretty up-and-down, so there were a lot of breaks,” Hanfmann said. “After I got broken at 7-5, we still didn’t really back down.”
Johnson then served for the match, and the two were able to finish off their top-seeded Trojan teammates and keep their doubles record together perfect this year.
“We know their games. We know that Roberto and Max have good serves,” Hanfmann said. “Our gameplan was to make them play at the net and serve at their bodies because they’re both tall.”
The two Trojan pairs took the finals match back to USC after five rounds of doubles play at UC Irvine, the official site of the tournament.
“It was nice not having to drive, but it was a much more different atmosphere than the rest of the week,” Johnson said.
After a first-round bye, Hanfmann and Johnson defeated pairs from San Diego State and UC Santa Barbara before upsetting UCLA’s No. 2 seeds Marcos Giron and Dennis Novikov 8-4 in the quarterfinals.
Hanfmann and Johnson then defeated No. 7 seeds Nicholas Bjerke and Sebastian Bustamante from Loyola Marymount 8-5 to set up the title match against de Vroome and Quiroz back at Marks Stadium.
“We actually don’t have much experience against them, but we know both of their games individually, and we’ve seen them play throughout the week, so we had a set gameplan going in,” Johnson said.
In singles play at the ITA Regionals, Johnson and Quiroz both advanced to the semifinals Monday, but fell to their respective opponents.
Johnson, who had upset the No. 1 seed Finn Tearney from Pepperdine in straight sets in the Round of 16, lost 4-6, 4-6 to Giron, while Quiroz fell 7-5, 3-6, 1-6 to UCLA’s Dennis Mkrtchian.
USC sophomore Jonny Wang also saw his singles tournament run end at the hands of Mkrtchian in the quarterfinals. Wang had upset the No. 2 seed  Novikov in the second round of the tournament.
Hanfmann and Johnson, who are currently unranked as a doubles pair in the preseason ITA rankings, hope to establish themselves as a legitimate threat in the doubles field.
“We play really well together, and we have some really good chemistry,” Johnson said. “We just need to keep up our performance.”
Hanfmann, who also holds a No. 25 rank in singles, agreed that the chemistry they’re building now will serve them well going into the regular season.
“It’s nice to have these tournament wins with Eric. It will help him and it will help me. There’s still a long way to go, but I’m feeling pretty comfortable with him,” Hanfmann said.
USC, which claimed its fourth consecutive team championship last year, will continue its preseason tournament schedule with the Clay Court Invitational in Orlando, Fla. from Oct. 31 to Nov. 4.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Dusk-to-Dawn Horrorthon
Saturday, Oct. 27 at 7:30 p.m.
Aero Theatre, Santa Monica
Another October weekend, another fright-fest. This Saturday, all Halloween-crazed thrill seekers should make their way to the Aero Theatre for an all-night (and early morning!) marathon of six oldie-but-goodie horror films.
The Devil’s Rain (1985) and Hellraiser (1987) are but two of the night’s features , which will be shown with spooky shorts and trailers in between.
A special student rate of $18 will make this your cheapest movie outing all semester. Add to that free food and fun giveaways, and you’ve got yourself a Halloween weekend that may feel more like Christmas.
 
2012 Día de los Muertos
Saturday, Oct. 27 at 12 p.m.
Hollywood Forever Cemetery
Where better than the Hollywood Forever Cemetery to host one of Los Angeles’ premier Halloween events? Angelenos flock to the venue’s storied grounds to add some cultural flair and morbid fun to their Halloween experience.
Dressing as acalaca, those painted skeletons traditional to Día de los Muertos celebrations, is recommended. Arrive after 4 p.m., when children are no longer allowed into the cemetery for free, and you can outfit yourself in a truly scary costume.
Admission is $10.
 
Blackout Haunted House
Friday, Oct. 26 – Wednesday, Oct. 31
Various Downtown locations
If you’re looking for more thrilling Halloween fare than the seasonal pumpkin patch or mediocre costume party, the Blackout Haunted House might cater to your tastes. “No one under 18 is admitted, and you must walk through alone,” says the Blackout Haunted House’s website. But perhaps this is because the attraction isn’t really a haunted house. By preventing patrons from enjoying the safety that comes from travelling with a large group of friends, Blackout Haunted House ups the ante and, ultimately, the scare factor.
Blackout’s employees ask partakers to sign a waiver before leading them through a series of violent, sexual scenarios designed to disturb and confuse even the least faint of heart. Actors have full permission to frighten participants through any means necessary — Blackout-goers check personal space at the door — and though yelling “safety” can get participants out of an uncomfortable situation, there’s no refund for being too scared to hack it.
For those who think they can take it, however, Blackout House provides a more extreme Halloween option.
A limited amount of tickets are available for selected nights.
 
Ghostbusters
Friday, Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m.
Egyptian Theater
“Who ya gonna call?”
Settling down on a Friday evening with this classic 1984 film might be a great way to relax into a comfortable, scare-free Halloween holiday. Directed by Ivan Reitman, Ghostbusters follows the hilariously entertaining story of three parapsychologists determined to save New York from pesky poltergeists. Enjoying this award-winning film at the historic Egyptian Theater will provide a more upscale way of viewing an iconic piece of cinema.
Just make sure to buy tickets on the Egyptian Theater’s website before heading to Hollywood Boulevard.
Non-member tickets are $11.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Every now and then, an inspirational quote comes along and knocks your socks right off. Trying to find some inspiration and guidance in my life, I googled “quotes about love” and this Dr. Seuss gem popped up: “You know you’re in love when you can’t fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.”
If I had read this quote a few weeks ago, I probably would have swooned and sighed and done all the things that are expected of a 20-year-old girl. But times, they are a-changing, and instead of saying, “One day I will be happy!” I shook my head in disappointment.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m a fierce advocate of love, and I’m all for taking a leap and seeing if things work out with your crush (that’s where the heartbreaking rejection column came from). But do I sit idly by, waiting for Prince Charming to come and sweep me off of my feet? No, thank you. Do I stand around, crafting the image of my perfect man and hoping that I finally meet him sometime soon? Bucket for my vomit, please.
When did love stop being something that pleasantly falls in front of us and become something that we must actively pursue? I understand that everyone gets lonely sometimes. I understand that being in love is the greatest feeling on earth. But what I don’t understand is how people are willing to sacrifice their happiness in the present for a hypothetical future.
Seriously, when did we all stop getting strong and start getting psychotic? When did Facebook-stalking your crush become the norm? Oh my god! He likes 30 Rock? I totally heart Liz Lemon — we’re soulmates! And how often have we sat in the Cinema Library stacks — a dungeon of infinite proportions — in order to casually “run into” that cutie from 190?
Folks, I sense a problem here. Instead of living our lives individually and being pleasantly surprised by meeting our soulmate at any given time, we’ve decided to embark on a quest to find them. And no matter how romantic you think Edward was in Twilight when he basically stalked Bella — if not for his attractive looks, he would probably be given a restraining order — it’s not a good look on the rest of us.
And frankly, it’s also not a good start for a relationship, either.
It might sound incredibly hackneyed but love — true, encompassing, we’re-definitely-soulmates love — happens when you’re least expecting it. It hits you, and then it forms organically — with no force needed.
Unfortunately we’ve become a bit too antsy, and instead of living our lives freely, we’re waiting around with a target on our forehead screaming “Hey! Soulmate! I’m over here, duh!” And though you might think that you’re ready for a relationship, the universe might have a different plan in store for you.
So get that preconceived notion of love out of your head. Erase all hopes of finally meeting “the one” at the 9-0/a rave/a crowded airport terminal. Start living your life according to what you want to do. Study, have fun, hang out with your friends, explore the world. When you start being happy with yourself, that happiness will attract others.
Being desperate is pathetic. It’s not sexy, it’s not cute, it’s just plain sad. You know what sexy is? Seeing that person who’s so happy that a light radiates off them with the power of a thousand Apollos, or meeting someone who has their life so put together that you know they must be an incredible person.
I know what you’re thinking: What if I’ll only be happy when I’m with someone? To answer that, I will channel our Vice President Joe Biden and say, “Now that’s just a load of malarkey.” As great as love is, it’s impossible to love someone else completely without loving yourself first. You need to embrace the single life and be OK on your own before you bring someone else’s life into it.
If that doesn’t sway you, just think about all the things that you can do when you’re single that you can’t do when you’re in a relationship. First, you can fool around with many different people. You can also have an extreme nighttime grooming routine that keeps you looking suave but would be embarrassing if anyone ever caught you applying  that acne spot treatment and heel therapy — complete with special socks — at night.
Being single gives you the chance and the freedom to live for you and only you. You have the rest of your life for a relationship, but only a few years to get a little crazy in college.
I don’t mean to bash those who are in successful relationships right now. As I previously mentioned, love is great. But ask any of these happy couples how they got together. I bet you that at least 75 percent will say that A) they had just gotten out of a relationship and then BAM!, B) they were going out, having fun and then BAM!, C) they were trying to focus on school/work/taking care of my pet beta fish and then BAM! or D) some variation of the three.
Remember, Love Happens isn’t just the name of a horrendous (and I don’t use that word lightly) Jennifer Aniston movie. Love does happen.
You just have to let it.
 
Sheridan Watson is a junior majoring in critical studies. Her column “Lovegame” runs Thursdays.
 
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Almost two years after the pop-country star’s third album, Speak Now, Taylor Swift returns to the music scene with Red, an album that reflects the singer-songwriter’s ever-evolving musical identity.
Though Swift herself is clearly recognizable as the starry-eyed, hopelessly romantic darling of the music world, much of her career has reflected a certain musical ambiguity. Her eponymous 2006 album firmly categorized her as a country artist with songs such as “Tim McGraw” and “Picture to Burn,” featuring allusions to iconic country singers and descriptions of “Georgia stars” and “pick-up trucks” — all standard country music tropes.
But Swift’s follow-up releases Fearless and Speak Now illustrated a crossover to the pop charts. Hits such as “Love Story” and “Speak Now” might have featured Swift’s characteristic, light-hearted country vocals, but up-tempo percussion beats and plodding guitar lines also hinted at subtle rock influences. Though Swift possesses six Country Music Awards, her success in the genre hardly seems appropriate: She doesn’t fit into that box quite so neatly.
Red seems just as musically diverse but not in a bad way. The 16-track album dabbles in multiple genres and succeeds in just about all of them. Swift’s latest release is unpredictable — at least in terms of musical style.
“I Knew You Were Trouble” stands out as decidedly electronic. Though the song begins with a pop-rock guitar riff, it quickly shifts to a danceable vibe when the beat drops in the chorus. Swift enhances the head-bobbing quality of the song with impressive vocals that shift effortlessly between high and low notes. Even if “I Knew You Were Trouble” provides a different tone than the rest of Red, it calls attention to itself as one of the album’s best tracks and should garner attention as a single in the not-so-distant future.
Still, this dance-inspired track comes after Swift has introduced several other genres on her latest work. Opener “State of Grace” jumpstarts the album with a hard-rock tone. Driving drum beats dominate soft instrumentals before a lazy guitar line echoes Swift’s drawn-out vocal melodies. There’s a definite energy in the first song of Red, as crashing cymbals and the syncopated vocals of background singers enhance a track that’s already kicked off the album to a nice pace. Here, Swift proves she handles rock well, paying homage to the genre’s major characteristics even as she maintains her own signature charm.
But by the time she hits track three, Swift has switched back to her country roots. “Treacherous” slows things down with repetitive acoustic guitar chords that put the focus on Swift’s drawling vocals and well-crafted lyrics. Perfectly timed decrescendos ease Swift back into verses where she describes sexually-charged scenes through lines, such as “I’ll do anything you say / if you say it with your hands,” and “All we are is skin and bone / trained to get along.”
There’s a subtle maturity on tracks like “Treacherous” and the similarly descriptive songs “All Too Well” and “Sad Beautiful Tragic.” Swift has gone from channeling fairy-tale metaphors of princes and white horses to crafting her own moments of amorous danger. It’s a welcome change from a singer notorious for recording the exact beginning, middle and end of her short-lived relationships with a diary-style openness. On Red, Swift has broken her habit of relying on the names of her beaus (“Hey Stephen,” “Dear John”) in favor of capturing the emotional intensity of her romantic encounters.
But even as she demonstrates lyrical and musical growth, Swift has managed to maintain characteristic schoolgirl charm and unabashed innocence. “Red,” the album’s titular track, features an appropriate blend of Swift’s idealism and mature complexity. The song contains some of Red’s most clever lyrics, demonstrating Swift’s newfound ability to capture a wide range of emotions in a just a few measures.
“Losing him was blue, like I’d never known / missing him was dark gray, all alone / forgetting him was like trying to know somebody you’ve never met / but loving him was red,” Swift sings, stringing together a series of simple but effective metaphors. On tracks like these, it’s easy to believe Swift is channeling a variety of life-changing romantic experiences instead of a series of shallow, high-school-crush episodes.
Swift truly impresses with the album’s tenth track, “The Last Time” (featuring Gary Lightbody of Snow Patrol). Swift’s even mezzo meshes perfectly with Lightbody’s hazy intonation in a series of chilling vocal harmonies underscored by violins and dragging drums.
“This is the last time I’m asking you this,” Swift and Lightbody sing. “Put my name at the top of your list / This is the last time I’m asking you why / you break my heart in the blink of an eye.”
With this track, Swift provides a clear glimpse into the future of her music: lyrically profound, melodically haunting and comfortably adult.
Still, with Red, Swift hasn’t quite solidified her more mature image. Tracks like “22” and “Starlight” are downright goofy and careless. Poppy, synth-tinged instrumentals underscore Swift’s half-shouted-half-sung vocals while forgettable lyrics like “I said oh my, what a marvelous tune / it was the best night” fail to hold the listener’s attention.
The same rings true for Red’s first single “We Are Never Getting Back Together.” Though the track debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100, it contains all of the immaturity of former hits like “Mean” and “The Story of Us,” but lacks the vengeful spite of “Picture to Burn” and “Better Than Revenge.”
“So he calls me up, and he’s like, ‘I still love you,’ gushes Swift valley girl-style in a faux-phone conversation. “I mean this is exhausting, you know? Like we are never getting back together. Like, ever.”
But the childishness of “We Are Never Getting Back Together,” “22” and “Starlight” does serve a higher purpose on Red.
“This album is about the other kinds of love that I’ve recently fallen in and out of,” Swift writes in the prologue included in the Red’s CD booklet. “Love that was treacherous, sad, beautiful, and tragic. But most of all, this record is about love that was red.”
If Swift’s goal here was to chronicle the multifarious nature of love, she succeeded. With her fourth album, Swift proves that she is capable of successfully relating a wide variety of emotions and experiences — including the immature ones.
Red proves to be a more than worthy addition to Swift’s discography, and we can bet that it certainly won’t be “The Last Time” she pleasantly surprises us.
[…] more from the original source: Swift provides girlish charm, subtle maturity on Red | Daily Trojan      ← Delaney Davidson and Marlon Williams Announce Album Release […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Something about the song “G#” creates a feeling of uneasiness even as it reels you in. From the first screeching riffs to the beautifully ghostly vocal line, the song launches into a genre difficult to pinpoint.
Free from labels · Though some might want to define Kitten’s music as indie rock, the band’s haunting, emotionally driven songs defy categorization. Still, listeners will notice trends among the band’s subject matter. – | Photo courtesy of Press Here Publicity
That’s the allure of music made by Kitten, a young quartet unafraid to make multi-layered, emotionally complex tracks. With a sound that combines hazy, dreamlike tones with bona-fide, hard-rock tunes, the band’s music seems to come at just the right moment. As the music world continues to look for a new direction, Kitten brings its own innovative sound to the table even as it takes from a variety of influences.
Take, for instance, the sound of lead singer Chloe Chaidez’s voice. At 17 years old, the chanteuse serves as the bandleader for songs, matching changes in tempo with otherworldly yelps and swooning, ethereal melodies. Everyone in the band is between 17 and 22 years old, something that makes Kitten especially impressive.
The band met through mutual friends and eventually Chaidez, Lukas Frank, Bryan DeLeon and Waylon Rector joined to create Kitten. After a residency at the Bootleg Bar and the release of its EP Cut it Out, the band is at a very special place.
“We jelled a lot more as a band and after jelling on the road, we were able to bring a lot of what we learned on the road to the studio and the chemistry blossomed there,” Chaidez said.
Even with her young age, Chaidez has a clear sense of where she’s going. When she’s finished with her home-schooling, Chaidez  plans to play for Kitten full time, just as the rest of the band’s members do.
“This is my life. I want to set my goals high,” Chaidez said. “I know some people think we’re an indie band, but I don’t have an indie mindset at all. I want to be playing at the Staples Center.”
Naturally, a complicated sound like Kitten’s makes labelling difficult. And while it’s easy to fall into categories like “hipster” and “indie,” for Chaidez the band and its music move past that.
“I don’t necessarily mind it, I just don’t think I’m confined to that title,” she said. “I don’t necessarily think we make indie music.”
The band’s sound doesn’t echo that of a top-40 hit, but when you listen closely, the themes overlap. Topics such as lost love, city life and money get a twist with Kitten’s poetic lyrics and dreamlike sounds.
The chorus of “G#” makes it easy to sing along, but the lyrics don’t prove easy to digest as Chaidez croons, “Through teardrops and haze / from violence to grace / we’ll see you all / we’ll see you all again.”
Another song, “Christina,” focuses on a love story made especially poignant by Chaidez’s vocal chops.
“It’s just a nostalgic love story,” she said. “I feel like it’s always romantic when you use a girl’s name in a song. I do that a lot. But the beginning is actually a reference to a New Order song — it’s about a love triangle.”
Yet the emotional subject matter and sometimes lulling songs of the band transform entirely during the live show. Chaidez utilizes the stage like a true showwoman, and the band’s riffs become even louder.
“It’s a very intense live show,” she said. “I like to do gimmicks like handstands, and I really like to climb on stuff. People wouldn’t get that idea immediately out of us live when they hear our music, but it’s a pretty good show, I guess. Not intentionally, but it happens.”
On Facebook, Kitten interacts with fans and keeps them posted on the latest developments, which include attention from the radio station KROQ and upcoming shows. As Kitten continues to grow, Chaidez only becomes more excited about the possibilities.
“The last night of our Bootleg residency was great because it was over capacity and there was a huge line outside … so people weren’t able to get in,” Chaidez said. “It was such a cool feeling to know all those people are there for you.”
But that doesn’t mean that Chaidez is looking for a huge number of fans. Ultimately, a personal connection to listeners means more to the artist.
“My only goal in what I’m doing is to be able to touch people and build a fan base I can lean toward,” she said. “I’m perfectly content with touching 100 people every night or just connecting with the fans I have and building new ones that have a connection with me and aren’t just like, ‘Oh, I saw your music on a blog today,’ but that they are really dedicated to what we are doing.”
For now, the band continues working on the album and touring in the hopes of reaching out to more people. And if their live shows and recording are any indication, they certainly will.
 
Kitten will play at the Echo on Oct. 25 at 8 p.m. For more information, visit KittenTheBand.com.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Tax policy numbers don’t lie
Though both candidates have claimed roles as champions of the middle class in the recent presidential debates, I thought we better look at the facts hidden in both parties’ tax policy plans.
The Democratic plan extends all the current income tax rates except for the top individual rate. In other words, this plan allows the income tax rates to return to what they were under the Clinton Administration. In addition, it extends all the tax provisions of the 2009 stimulus. The Democratic plan would ensure that the bottom 90 percent of Americans will see no increase in taxes in this tough economy.
The Republican plan extends all current income tax rates, including the cuts for the highest income earners left over from the Bush Administration. Second, and most importantly, it lets certain low-income provisions of the 2009 Stimulus expire.
Under the Republican proposal, every change, or decrease, in after-tax income applies to the bottom 95 percent of income earners. Hardest hit are the bottom 20 percent of income earners, who will see an average decrease in after-tax income of 1.5 percent ($194). In contrast, the top 1 percent and 0.1 percent are the only income groups who see absolutely no tax increase.
Both our political parties adamantly claim to be fighting for the middle class, but the numbers indicate that only one is. The Democratic plan defends the tax provisions aimed at middle and lower income earners. In this respect, President Barack Obama is correct when he argues that middle class Americans’ checkbooks  are being held hostage until the top 1 percent sees their tax cuts extended. Republicans can continue to portray themselves as the protectors of the middle class (I certainly expect they will) -— however, the beautiful thing about numbers, as opposed to our current representatives, is that they do not lie.
Alex Blow
Junior, international relations
Messaging Director, USC Trojans for Obama
 
Romney’s tax policy is best for Americans
Many questions have been raised about the next four years, but very few answers have been given.
One fundamental issue we must address in this election is the proportionality of the tax burden: If there are those among us who, by virtue of their success and entrepreneurship, must pay more. As Shakespeare said, “One may smile and smile, and be a villain.” So Mr. President has told us about Obama’s America: where the price of hard work and the enjoyment of the fruits of your labor are higher taxes and stringent regulations in order to finance the idealist vision of state-run enterprises. Research by GQ and my own obtained from President Barack Obama’s campaign website have indicated that welfare payments from the federal government have ballooned in the last four years.
On the other hand, there is another candidate who knows full well that Obama’s America is not the America we know. It is not the America our parents knew; it is not the America we really believe in. Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney will not single out a class of citizens for their perseverance, nor the middle class with the Alternative Minimum Tax, as Obama has done for the past four years. From the last three debates, we have seen that a vote for Romney is the vote for a fair budget, fair taxes, an investment in the protection of Syria (bayonets included), our partnership with Israel and a better economy.
John Merritt
Freshman, history
Member, USC College Republicans
Joe, it seems like you have been reading solely within the Republican noise machine and have been taken in by their spin. Here are a few errors (I don’t blame you; they are pushed and pushed on people like you):
a) Only 3% of small business file as individuals and make over $250,000 a year. So it won’t really affect small businesses but would help to close the deficit.
b) If you raise taxes you are not necessarily ‘killing jobs’. Corporate profits are at an all-time high under Obama but what we have is a demand problem. We need to get money into the hands of working families so that they can pay down debts and starting buying things again. That might mean raising revenue elsewhere and the very wealthy tend to save more than they spend, so it would help growth and jobs to raise revenue there and allow middle class families to spend more. Extend the Bush tax cuts for the middle class and end them for the wealthy.
c) Cutting Obamacare would make our healthcare inflation worse and therefore would harm the deficit
d) Cutting foodstamps? Do you want people to starve to death?
e) The poor are not ‘losers’. A mark of a civilized society is how a country tries to bring people out of poverty. We could be doing a lot more. The US has the worst social mobility in the OECD. The American Dream is dying. And the GOP’s policies, as enacted under Bush and possibly under President Romney, are aimed squarely at making a bad problem much, much worse.
And for the record, the Democrat party is NOT fighting for the middle class; they are fighting for the LOW class and impoverished. The whole facade is fairly evident when they fight tooth and nail for more welfare, food stamps, and programs for the poor. Earth to America: Democrats care ONLY about the losers in society.
What these “experts” on tax policy do not understand is that small businesses, which employ over 60% of the American workforce, file taxes as income tax, which leaves them as the top percent of earners. If you raise taxes, you are killing jobs and effectively undermining the already anemic recovery that our country is attempting to jumpstart. Taxes are ALREADY high enough on high-income earners; you want a 75% marginal tax rate on the wealthy, GO TO FRANCE. Instead of taking money rightfully earned by hardworking Americans, how about we cut Obama phones, Obamacare, and food stamps. Its high time the taxpayers took back this country from the parasites.
Hmmm. Ignorance certainly is bliss, but only when it is complete.
Take a look at the last time the Middle Class was truly doing well in this country. It was during the Eisenhower Administration. He has been the only politician to understand that the best way to make this country successful is to encourage growth here at home by growing a larger, stronger Middle Class. Take a good look at how he did that. (Clue: look at percentage of taxation on the wealthy, as well as on the Middle Class.) Honestly. Check it out. I think you will be surprised on a number of fronts.
Also, I would love to see you get some real education and knowledge about what is really going on out there. Read up on the Bilderberg Group, and check out the Tri-Lateral Commission’s own web site. If it does not wake your fascist, elitist mind up, then you truly are the complete person, and blissful to boot. Good luck!
Fascist? Elitist? It seems your own ignorance is only exceeded by your presumptuousness. Take a good look back at the ’50s and you’ll notice that, though the tax rates were high on the books, nearly everyone was able to deduct such a significant portion of their income that effective tax rates never hovered above 20%. And far from your ignorant notions that free market capitalism = fascism, I believe that everyone is entitled to the fruit of their own labor and stand in the way of your government-mandated (fascist) redistribution of my hard-earned money. Get a job. Get a life. Because you’re not taking the fruits of mine
I can only surmise that the second letter is performance art designed to satirize the sorry state of GOP ‘thinking’. GQ? lol.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Seattle Times came under fire last week for running a full-page, color advertisement supporting Republican gubernatorial candidate Rob McKenna. More than 100 Times staff members signed a protest in response and some readers called to cancel their subscriptions. Underneath the advertisement, these words were written: “Paid for by The Seattle Times Company.”
Kate Wong | Daily Trojan
News reporting is supposed to be unbiased and informative. For The Seattle Times Company to pay for and publish a political commercial advertisement is irresponsible and an example of bad journalism. But the deeper, more significant controversy is the weight a newspaper’s support of a candidate should carry.
Reporters have a duty to maintain an unbiased stance and objectivity, especially during an election. How, then, can the public trust a publication to support one candidate over another without sacrificing its integrity?
We can’t — even reputable publications are prone to letting bias influence the way they report the news. As voters, we must be wary of the potential agendas of news outlets no matter how professional they seem, or we risk making a misinformed decision when we cast our ballots on Nov. 6.
To be fair, the Times’ mistake wasn’t entirely the newspaper or journalists’ fault. Executive Editor David Boardman wrote a column addressing the advertisement, explaining the decision was made by the business side of The Seattle Times Company. Because of a lack of communication, Boardman said he was unable to stop the advertisement from printing.
The newspaper’s editorial section, however, had previously professed its support for McKenna with an endorsement in June, so it was no secret which candidate The Seattle Times supported. Readers, though, should have been able to trust the newspaper to continue fairly reporting on both sides of the election.
By paying for a political ad, the Times Company went beyond an endorsement and compromised its newspaper’s integrity as well as its readers’ trust. So, the company crossed a line between a necessary separation of news media and politics. It’s permissible for a newspaper to publish an editorial arguing for or against a candidate, to run advertisements paid for by the campaigns themselves or to endorse a candidate. It is not permissible, however, for a newspaper to sacrifice its independence by paying for a political ad.
The Times Company’s mistake should serve as a reminder to all of us, especially during election season, that newspapers are not always as married to their ideals as they might seem. Impartiality remains crucial for a newspaper to maintain, but any publication that strives to be objective and impartial still carries opinions.
In the upcoming election, voters must remember that we need to watch the watchdogs. Just because a newspaper claims to objectively report on the plans and policies of both candidates equally doesn’t mean the information isn’t subtly biased one way or another.
Moreover, voters should keep in mind that even a newspaper’s official endorsement of a candidate is not the end-all-be-all; endorsements are quite limited in their influence. We often choose the media that reflect our beliefs and political leanings, so endorsements generally change few reader opinions. Endorsements theoretically have the potential to cause a real impact in swing states, but there is little research on the extent to which they actually sway voters.
Whether we like it or not, we rely on the news media heavily during election season to stay informed. As news consumers and voters, it’s important to keep in mind that the information we’re exposed to can shape how we view a candidate. The best way to become an educated voter is to keep a healthy skepticism when making voting decisions in the days until the election — whether it’s obvious or subtle, bias has a way of interfering with good reporting.
 
Burke Gibson is a sophomore majoring in economics and is the Daily Trojan’s Chief Copy Editor. His column “Press Pass” runs every other Thursday.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Super Bowl halftime show is set to get another boost from a pop superstar after it was confirmed Tuesday that Beyoncé will be headlining the performance.
While there had been some speculation that the former Destiny’s Child frontwoman would be the next to
perform at one of America’s largest televised events, the Associated Press was able to confirm the news
after the singer posted a picture of herself sporting eye black emblazoned with the date of Super Bowl
XLVII on her Tumblr page.
The last Super Bowl featured Madonna performing with guests CeeLo Green, Nicki Minaj, LMFAO and M.I.A., and according to the Nielsen Co. her performance was seen by 114 million people, or nearly 3 million more than the actual game itself. Beyoncé’s show could potentially top those staggering numbers – which were the highest ever for a Super Bowl halftime show – especially if she brings in guest performers like husband Jay-Z or former Destiny’s Child bandmates Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams.
The choice shows that Super Bowl organizers may have finally begun to move past 2004’s infamous “wardrobe malfunction” incident with Janet Jackson, after which they went through a six-year string of old-timers with a lesser chance of controversy, including Paul McCartney, Tom Petty and Bruce Springsteen.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 404
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
