USC junior wide receiver Robert Woods has been named to the Biletnikoff Award preseason watch list, the Tallahassee Quarterback Club Foundation, Inc. announced Tuesday.
The award, which annually honors college football’s most outstanding receiver, is named after Fred Biletnikoff, a member of the pro and college football halls of fame. In his 14-year career with the Oakland Raiders, Biletnikoff caught 589 passes for 8,974 yards and 76 touchdowns.
Woods, who fell short to Oklahoma State wide receiver Justin Blackmon for the award last season, is among a list of 48 receivers on the 2012 watch list. The foundation will proceed to announce 10 semifinalists on Nov. 12, before narrowing the list down to three finalists one week later on Nov. 19. The finalists will earn invitations to The Home Depot College Football Awards Show on Dec. 6 where the winner will be announced.
Despite battling a nagging ankle injury which sapped him of some of his explosiveness, Woods was a consensus 2011 All-American, breaking Keyshawn Johnson’s USC and Pac-12 single season receptions record with 111 catches and 15 touchdowns. Returning as a starter for his third consecutive season, Woods will seek to become USC’s all-time career receiving and kickoff return records holder in 2012.
The nomination marks Woods’ second appearance on a watch list this offseason, having already been named to the Maxwell Award watch list.
Fellow Trojan wideout Marqise Lee, who was named Pac-12 Co-Offensive Freshman of the Year a season ago after catching 73 passes for 1,143 and 11 touchdowns, was not included on the list.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
