Steve A. Kay, a biology professor from UC San Diego, was appointed the 21st Dean of the Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences on Tuesday. Kay will also hold the Anna H. Bing Dean’s Chair. The selection was announced in a letter sent electronically to Dornsife faculty, staff, students, alumni and supporters. The letter was sent by Elizabeth Garrett, provost and senior vice president for academic affairs.
During his time at UCSD, Kay developed experience as a researcher and as an administrator. Kay served as dean of the Division of Biological Sciences at UCSD and has held the Richard C. Atkinson Chair in Biological Sciences since 2007.
Kay, whose background is in genetics and genomics, serves as Distinguished Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology at UCSD. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Bristol. Kay has also held positions at Rockefeller University, the University of Virginia and the Scripps Research Institute.
Garrett’s letter also highlighted Kay’s research, which aims to understand the regulatory networks of cells.
“Applications of his discoveries include development of novel drugs, agricultural biotechnology and bioenergy production,” Garrett wrote in the letter. “He has published over 200 papers and is named by [Information Sciences Institute] as a highly cited scientist.”
His research was cited in Science magazine’s “Breakthroughs of the Year” in 1997, 1998 and 2002, according to the letter.
Kay has received several awards and honors, including his election as a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 2008 and his election as a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2009. Additionally, he was the recipient of the UCSD Chancellor’s Associates Faculty Award for Excellence in Research in 2010.
Kay will effectively assume his post Oct. 1, according to the letter. Current Dornsife dean Howard Gillman plans to step down from the position June 30. Executive Vice Provost Michael Quick will take on the dean’s responsibilities in the interim. The letter said Quick will be aided during the transition by the college’s Vice Deans Steven Lamy, George Sanchez and Donal Manahan.
In the letter, Garrett thanked Gillman for his work as dean of Dornsife since 2007.
“During his tenure, graduation rates increased, improvements were made to the quality of Ph.D. programs, non-tenure-track faculty promotion pathways were created, and many outstanding new faculty member at all ranks were recruited,” Garrett wrote in the letter.
Really disappointing choice. Only in one national academy?
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
