USC dropped its third straight conference game in a 62-53 loss to Arizona State. The Trojans returned to the Galen Center Thursday night following road losses to California and Stanford to host the first of three straight home games.
Despite trailing the Sun Devils by as much as 12 points in the first half, the Trojans managed to force 18 turnovers on an Arizona State team that played only six scholarship players.
“We did a great job at forcing 18 turnovers, 20 more shots than your opponents but we didn’t have the energy to start the game and finish plays that we normally have” USC coach Kevin O’Neill said.
Arizona State had suspended three rotation players, including leading scorer Keala King. O’Neill stated after the game that the news of the suspension did not change the game plan set for USC.
“Have to give ASU credit, they suspend a couple of guys, band together and play their best game of the year; they deserved to win” O’Neill said. “They outplayed us and that happens a lot of times.”
Sophomore guard Maurice Jones played the entire game against the Sun Devils. Jones leads the country in minutes, and before Thursday, was averaging 38 minutes per game.
“I’m sure he was tired, playing that amount of minutes, but we don’t really have any choice” O’Neill said. “I’d like to put him on the bench a little bit, but we need him out there.”
Maurice Jones finished the contest with 13 points, 4 assists, 2 rebounds and 3 steals. Jones also was 4 for 4 at the free throw line. “We go where Mo [Jones] goes” O’Neill said. “It didn’t go well for him tonight and it didn’t go well for our team either.”
Junior forward Aaron Fuller posted 14 points for the USC, leading the team.
“Once they got us down, they [controlled] the tempo of the game, making us work for everything” O’Neill said. “They did a good job at running their offense and we weren’t able to generate enough offense on our end to win the game.”
USC falls to 5-11 overall and 0-3 in Pac-12 conference play. The Trojans will host the Arizona Wildcats on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. The Wildcats (10-5, 1-1) are coming off of a 65-58 loss to UCLA. The game will be televised on Fox Sports Net.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
