In a statement Monday, USC Athletic Director Pat Haden urged all fans to remember the victims affected by the child sexual abuse scandal involving former Penn State coach Jerry Sandusky, calling the ordeal “unfortunate and tragic.”
Earlier, the NCAA announced penalties against Penn State, including a $60 million fine and a four-year postseason ban, as a result of the school’s failure to report allegations against Sandusky that originated in 1998.
The punishment for the football program also includes a reduction of 10 scholarships each year over the next four years and a vacation of 111 wins from 1998-2011. As a result, Joe Paterno no longer stands as college football’s winningest head coach.
“We can’t speak to how these sanctions are going to impact the Penn State program,” Haden said. “At USC, we found that the most difficult part of our NCAA sanctions has been the reduction of scholarships.”
USC was hit with NCAA sanctions in June 2010 because of a “lack of instutitional control” after two former student-athletes, running back Reggie Bush and a basketball player, O.J. Mayo, received improper benefits. The program, as a result, suffered a loss of 30 scholarships over three years and must carry no more than 75 scholarship players beginning with the 2012 season through 2014. Teams are allowed to carry a maximum of 85 scholarship players per year.
“We are fortunate to have an outstanding group of coaches and a plan in place to deal with our sanctions,” Haden added. “You have to be very judicious in recruiting, you have to be lucky with injuries and you have to guard your roster from players being recruited by other schools. It is an inexact science and you have to do the best you can. Our coaches have handled these challenges extremely well.”
Like USC did in the months following sanctions, the Nittany Lions’ program now faces questions whether it can remain among college football’s elite programs.
Where does the $60 million fine go? Hopefully to charity and not the NCAA’s coffers.
It is going to a charity that benefits children/victims of child abuse. Seems appropriate.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
