Former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and USC President C.L Max Nikias announced Wednesday the formation of the USC Schwarzenegger Institute for State and Global Policy. The institute will be a part of the Sol Price School of Public Policy and focus on policy and social issues in five main areas: energy and the environment, fiscal and economic policy, health and human wellness, education and political reform.
The foremost goal of the institute is to promote bipartisanship in policymaking and civic engagement at all levels of government. A $20 million endowment from Schwarzenegger, including a personal donation as well as fundraising money, will be used to fund the policy program.
“We are delighted to partner with Gov. Schwarzenegger in establishing this vital institute,” Nikias said in a statement. “The University of Southern California is committed to promoting civic engagement both nationally and internationally, and the new Schwarzenegger Institute will advance this mission with the understanding that policy decisions should be evidence-based and best derived through critical analysis and mutual respect for competing well-reasoned positions. This is the only way we can achieve the best possible outcomes for our shared, global future.”
The bipartisan Board of Advisors, which includes leaders in business, politics and education, will be chaired by Schwarzenegger himself. Mr. Schwarzenegger will serve as the inaugural holder of the Governor Downey Professor of State and Global Policy at USC, named for the first immigrant Governor of California and a co-founder of USC.
“One of the great lessons I learned as governor of California was that the best solutions to common problems could only be found when each side was willing to engage thoughtfully and respectfully with each other,” Schwarzenegger said in a statement. “This institute is dedicated to promoting a new era of post-partisanship, where solutions are the result of intelligent and civil discussion between people with deeply held principles who understand the need to work through their disagreements to achieve real solutions.”
The Schwarzenegger Institute will be co-led by Bonnie Reiss, global director, and Nancy Staudt, academic director. Ms. Reiss was a senior advisor to former governor Schwarzenegger from 2003-2007 and served as California Secretary of Education from 2010-2011. She has also founded three national nonprofit organizations and currently serves on the University of California Board of Regents. Dr. Staudt is the inaugural holder of the Edward G. Lewis Chair in Law and Public Policy and holds a joint appointment in the Gould School of Law and the Price School of Public Policy.
The institute’s first public event will be a one-day symposium that will focus on the importance of post-partisanship in modern policymaking. The event will be held on USC’s  University Park campus on Sept. 24. Mr. Schwarzenegger’s first lecture is planned for early December.
It makes me laugh that both USC and UCLA pull some silly moves in hopes of upping their game. SC gets this “Expendables” meathead, 80s action star, and disgraced governor for some academic department. UCLA recruits P. Diddy’s son for its football team, while giving him a full ride scholarship. What’s next, Kim KarTRASHian as the dean?
What an embarrassment to USC.  A man who can’t keep his hands off the household staff has no business pontificating about policy. Also he was a big disappointment as a governor.
Indeed! Thats an embarrassment… USC should think about impact on its brand image before accepting money from someone…
What a joke this will be.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
