“This Week in Photos” highlights the biggest stories of the week.
Students host panel on pot legalization>>
High law · Students for Sensible Drug Policy hosted a panel Sunday in Taper Hall to educate the community on legalization initiatives. - Ani Kolangian | Daily Trojan
 
Sleigh Bells’ sophomore effort falls flat>>
Hip sound · Sleigh Bells is composed of Derek E. Miller (left) and Alexis Krauss (right). The duo has garnered accolades for their blend of noise and power pop, especially on its 2010 studio debut album Treats. - Photo courtesy of Patrick Odell
 
Pair of Trojans win player of week honors>>
Best in the west · Freshman Roberto Quiroz was named conference player of the week after improving his record on the season to 13-2. - Chris Roman | Daily Trojan


North-Hager works toward University Park Family>>
Community · Eddie North-Hager, associate director of media relations, has created the website UniversityParkFamily.com to reverse stereotypes about South Central. - Jessica Badrous | Daily Trojan
 
Trojans drop first contest of the year in Malibu>>
Undefeated, no more. USC baseball (7-1) lost its first game of the season Tuesday, falling to Pepperdine 7-2 in Malibu. The loss came after the Trojans began their 2012 season with seven straight wins.- Katherine Montgomery | Daily Trojan
 
Proposed swim venue well-received>>
Water works · Renovations to McDonald’s Swim Stadium, expected to be completed by April 2014, will include a new sundeck and stands. - Photo courtesy of USC Athletics
 
Consult neighbors before partying>>
Hye You | Daily Trojan
 
Herakles applies modern practices to ancient play>>
The mask · Though authentic, the tragic masks used in the modern adaptation of Herakles detract from the performances and play overall. - Photo courtesy of Visions and Voices


Trojans drop eighth straight game>>
In it together · Junior center James Blasczyk and freshman guard Byron Wesley were unable to lead the Trojans to their second Pac-12 win. - Luciano Nunez | Daily Trojan
 
Center aims to evaluate security risks>>
Securing information · Stephen Hora, director of the USC Homeland Security Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events, tells students about the type of research the center conducts. - Zhiyi Feng | Daily Trojan
 
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
