No. 1 UC Irvine upended the No. 2 USC men’s volleyball team in straight sets to win the NCAA championship Saturday with scores of 25-22, 34-32 and 26-24, marking the second national title in four years for the Anteaters. An announced crowd of 9,162 made its way to the Galen Center — the third-highest in NCAA championship match history.
Nail biter · Though the Trojans lost in straight sets to No. 1 UC Irvine in the NCAA championship game, the match was a fierce back-and-forth contest from beginning to end. · Razan Al Marzouqi | Daily Trojan
Saturday’s match was a rematch of the five-set loss to the Anteaters in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation semifinals little more than a week ago and of the 2009 national championship match. The Anteaters were the preseason favorites to win the title, and the Trojans were picked to finish fifth in the conference in what was supposed to be a rebuilding year.
“People can see a three-game sweep as a blowout, but two deuce sets say otherwise,” USC senior outside hitter and co-captain Tony Ciarelli said. “We played them great. On paper we don’t match up with them — they’re the deepest team in the country and have several guys on the bench who could be ‘the guy’ anywhere else.”
The match, which was decided by a combined seven points, was a fierce back-and-forth battle from start to finish, including a 34-32 second set where USC started ahead 14-7. But a 12-4 run by UC Irvine gave the Anteaters the lead for the first time in the set at 19-18. With a series of scramble plays — including a behind-the-head shot from Ciarelli and a huge kill off of a scramble play from redshirt sophomore opposite Tanner Jansen — the emotional roller coaster of dropping a seven-point lead and losing the set after an epic finish took the wind out of the Trojans’ sails.
UC Irvine opposite and NCAA tournament Most Outstanding Player Carson Clark led all players with 22 kills earned at a phenomenal .465 hitting percentage. His strength at the service line kept the Trojan offense out of sync for most of the night, and his ability to score efficiently from all over the court proved to be too much for the Trojans.
The Anteaters are known throughout college volleyball as relentless attackers of the middle of the court through the “bic” set, a quick tempo set designed to keep opposing middle blockers at bay while deciding whether to jump with the first middle attacker, the “bic” hitter or closing to either outside spot.
“We attacked Penn State in the middle of the court relentlessly in the semifinals, and we figured USC wouldn’t let us do that tonight,” said UC Irvine coach John Speraw. “Tonight we had to be better at the pins with Clark, [Connor] Hughes and [Kevin] Tillie.”
The Trojans quelled the charge from Tillie and the “bic” as well as the middle attack, but the Anteaters’ depth proved to be too much to handle. Hughes poured in 13 kills from the outside hitter spot along with Clark’s monster day to give the Anteaters the boost they needed.
“Our goal was to stop [UC Irvine outside hitter Kevin] Tillie and we absolutely did,” Ciarelli said. “But Clark picked up his game — this was the first time he hit over .250 in probably my four years here because we’ve tried so hard to stop him in the past.”
The Trojans were not able to control the Anteaters’ serving attack, finishing with an uncharacteristic six receiving errors. As a result, the Trojans could not keep the Anteater defense honest with the quick middle attack that was so efficient for them in the past. High sets to the outside hitters became the only option on many occasions, leaving the Trojan hitters with a fully set defense to beat on many occasions.
Despite hitting into the full force of the UC Irvine defense all night long, Ciarelli, an NCAA All-Tournament selection, finished with a team-high 18 kills in a gutsy effort.
“On a broader scale, the level of play and fan support were unbelievable,” USC coach Bill Ferguson said. “I hope everyone involved understands what this does for the sport of volleyball — there has never been an atmosphere like this at a national championship game before and took college volleyball to a new level.”
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
