USC’s somewhat murky situation at running back is finally gaining some clarity.
As was widely expected, Penn State junior running back Silas Redd has decided to transfer to USC, immediately boosting a backfield that was lacking depth, according to multiple reports Tuesday afternoon.
Dave Ruden of the Stamford Advocate first reported the story.
USC has since confirmed reports.
“We welcome Silas Redd to the Trojan Family,” USC Athletic Director Pat Haden said in a statement. “He is an outstanding student and athlete. When the NCAA presented the option to transfer, Silas and his family put a lot of thought and research into making this decision.”
During his sophomore season in 2011, Redd ran for 1,241 yards and seven touchdowns. In the wake of the Penn State child sexual abuse scandal, the university has been placed on a four-year postseason ban and will face scholarship reductions that will severely limit their ability to recruit and keep players.
The NCAA also ruled that players would be allowed to transfer to other universities without sitting out a season as is the general rule.
“At USC, we’ve seen both sides of this issue, having lost a number of players to transfer due to our NCAA sanctions in 2010,” Haden said. “But Lane Kiffin and his coaches would not be doing their job if they did not try to improve our team every single day. There is a specific need here for a player like Silas Redd, so Lane and our coaches recruited him within the guidelines set up in this instance by the NCAA.”
With Redd in the backfield, the Trojans now tailback tandem with him and senior running back Curtis McNeal, who rushed for 1,005 yards and six touchdowns last season despite starting just a handful of games.
When running back Tre Madden, a converted linebacker, moved to offense in the spring, the situation at running back looked somewhat settled. He tore his anterior cruciate ligament, though, and depth behind McNeal looked thin, with sophomore D.J. Morgan being the only player with significant carries.
Redd was the focal point of the Nittany Lions’ offense last season. With the Trojans, Redd will likely be asked to do far less. USC features senior quarterback Matt Barkley, who threw a conference record 39 touchdowns last season, and two receivers who gained more than 1,000 yards in junior Robert Woods and sophomore Marqise Lee.
The Trojans season begins Sept. 1 against Hawai’i.
Woop woop, Redd will be a welcomed addition to the passing game.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
