Senior quarterback Matt Barkley, sophomore wide receiver Marqise Lee, senior tailback Curtis McNeal and junior wide receiver Robert Woods have been named to the Maxwell Award watch list, the Maxwell Football Club announced Monday.
The four USC players named to the list is more than any other school. Arkansas, Clemson and Oklahoma each have three players.
The Trojans’ quartet finished with record-setting performances a season ago. Barkley tossed 39 touchdown passes, a Pac-12 record. Lee was named the conference’s Co-Offensive Player of the Year with 73 receptions for 1,143 yards and 11 touchdowns. McNeal rushed for 1,005 yards, becoming the second Trojan in the last six years to eclipse the century mark on the ground. And Woods finished with 111 catches, besting the school and Pac-12 record of 102 set by former USC standout Keyshawn Johnson.
The Maxwell Award has been presented annually since 1937 to the best overall player in college football.
On the defensive side, three other USC players, sophomore linebacker Dion Bailey, senior safety T.J. McDonald and junior cornerback Nickell Robey, were named to the watch list for the Bednarik Award, which honors the nation’s best defensive player.
Former USC linebacker Rey Maualuga was a recipient of the award in 2008.
Semifinalists for both awards will be announced on Oct. 29, with three finalists subsequently revealed on Nov. 19. The winners will be announced on Dec. 6 as part of the Home Depot ESPNU College Football Awards Show.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
