As students flock to the University Park Campus for classes this fall, they will find new, portable bike lanes flanking Trousdale Parkway.
A joint project by the Office of Student Affairs and the Undergraduate Student Government, the bike lanes, marked with “bike sharrows,” enable students to bike up and down Trousdale without interfering with pedestrian traffic. The lanes, on either side of the Trousdale median, are one of the many new sights that returning Trojans will notice as they traverse campus.
Dept. of Public Safety officers could be seen setting up large portable metal dividers on Trousdale during move-in day. These devices, which can be moved to accommodate an increase in either cycling or pedestrian traffic, are intended to decrease the risk factor in having bicyclists and pedestrians share the walkways.
For bikers around the university, the lanes provide a much-needed departure from the preconstruction on Trousdale, which was often a dangerous and difficult area for bikers to navigate.
“Biking on Trousdale, especially when school starts, is really tough and kind of crazy,” said Adrian Pedroza, a sophomore majoring in psychology. “I’ve even seen head on collisions.”
In the past, campus cyclists like Pedroza found themselves in the way of pedestrians; they were also forbidden to ride on Trousdale during peak hours. While that rule and other safety precautions, according to USC Student Affairs, are still in effect, DPS has been instructing confused travelers about the new lanes and how to use them. As students walk or bike down Trousdale, several officers guide them to the appropriate lanes: one large for walking, one small for biking.
The campus improvements are a response to a growing support for increased bike and pedestrian safety, and also to alarming statistics that detail the treachery of pedestrian and cyclist encounters.
A survey conducted by bikeusc.org, a campus cycling information group, reports that nearly 25 percent of USC’s undergraduate student body has had a collision with a bike in the past year. The same survey reports that 20 percent of undergraduate students have had no regular cycling experience prior to biking on campus.
“The bike lanes are a great idea,” Pedroza said. “They’ll help the pedestrians know to stay away from the designated areas.”
After finally seeing them today…apparently USC doesn’t understand the difference between a “sharrow” and a “bike lane” symbol.
[…] Students Get “Portable Separated Bike Lanes” (Daily Trojan via Biking In […]
[…] custom-built bike nearly three months after it was stolen, and sold to another man. USC students get portable separated bike lanes. Glendale’s Bicycle Transportation Plan goes before the city council for final approval on […]
[…] reading here: Student Affairs, USG implement new bike lanes | Daily Trojan   This entry was posted in Blog Search and tagged bike, body, campus, collision, conducted, […]
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
