The debut of the old time favorite Barbie was unveiled in 1959 at the American International Toy Fair.
A confession most can’t make at first glance— but it is nearly impossible to ignore the darling Barbie doll.
Back in the mid-20th century when the doll was first designed, it took almost ten years to develop before it could hit store shelves across America.
Mattel Toy Company celebrated the Barbie doll’s 50th anniversary just three years ago, and has manufactured and produced the toy goods since its creation.
It was an instant success in an industry where the market for a three-dimensional-doll barely subsisted.
The Barbie Doll illustrated the ideal female body as a public image, and its place in advertising. Its marketing and modeling influence on fashion remains unparalleled to this day.
It was, also, the first women figure marketed towards the youngster generation.
The Barbie doll assumed the role of the ultimate “teenage fashion model” at its time.
Today, the difference between the body of a Barbie doll and that of a Hollywood star or a high fashion model may be minor.
Regardless of its controversial body-conventions, Barbie’s design must be respected.
Barbie is yet to skip a generational beat.
Here’s a taste of Barbie’s evolution.
The 50’s glam with a sassy pout while the 60’s brought blonde with shiny, long, straight hair and natural makeup. The 70’s Malibu babe had a glazed tan, and the first of the dolls to assume a bold forward stare as opposed to a shy, sideways glance.  The 80’s Barbie was an MTV inspired Rock and Roll star with her band mates. The 90’s “totally hair” dolled-up-look was the top grossing make in history, selling nearly ten million in one year. The 2000 millennium featured her bellybutton with an athletic physique. Lastly, in 2004 in the light of the “pop theme of girl power,” Barbie broke up with Ken—a sad time for the doll and her hubby enthusiasts.
 
My daughter loves Barbie. I get her collector Barbies for her Birthday and Christmas.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
