“This Week in Photos” highlights the biggest stories of the week.
Woods to miss all of spring practice>>
Sidelined · Junior Robert Woods led the Trojans with 15 touchdown receptions in 2011. He is recovering from offseason ankle surgery. - Chris Pham | Daily Trojan
 
Dornsife needs to become cohesive>>
Max Rubin | Daily Trojan
 
Hunger Games copes with modern issues>>
Ultimate fighter · Jennifer Lawrence (middle) stars in The Hunger Games as a girl who steps in for her sister in the annual fight to the death between citizens of the various districts in her home country of Panem. - Photo courtesy of Murray Close
 
Panel discusses implications of a federal Dream Act>>
Debate · Jonathan Wilcox (left), speechwriter for former Calif. Gov. Peter Wilson, argued against a federal Dream Act at a panel hosted by the Jesse M. Unruh Institute in the Ronald Tutor Campus Center on Tuesday. - Matthew Wunderlich | Daily Trojan
 
Building a program takes time>>
Brand new · Though 2012 is the first season women’s sand volleyball is an NCAA sport, it is unfair to expect too much of a young program. - Photo courtesy of Sports Information
 
Film reshapes perspectives on bullying>>
Victim · Much of Bully revolves around Alex Libby (above), who is constantly bullied by his peers. By illustrating the community’s lack of initative to speak up, the film hints at the subtly crucial difficulties of stopping violence. - Photo courtesy of The Weinstein Company
 
Two former executives arrested after alleged corruption>>
Financial ruin · The university is in talks with the nearly bankrupt Coliseum Commission to negotiate a 50-year master lease. - Daily Trojan file photo
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
