Senior center Khaled Holmes has been named to the Rimington Trophy preseason watch list, the Rimington Trophy committee announced Tuesday.
The award, which is annually given to the best center in college football, will be presented in December. Fifty-one players were named to the watch list for the 2012 season, including five players from the Pac-12.
Holmes, a redshirt senior from Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif., was a second team All-Pac-12 selection last season, helping guide the Trojans to a 10-2 record and a No. 6 finish in the final Associated Press top-25 poll. He has started 25 games the last two seasons, playing center in 2011 and right guard the previous year.
The 6-foot-4 center joins senior quarterback Matt Barkley, sophomore wide receiver Marqise Lee, senior tailback Curtis McNeal and junior wide receiver Robert Woods as players on the offensive side of the ball named to preseason watch lists. Barkley, Lee, McNeal and Woods were all named to the Maxwell Award watch list Monday.
Also making preseason awards lists were senior safety sophomore linebacker Dion Bailey, senior safety T.J. McDonald and junior cornerback Nickell Robey each of whom was named to the Bednarik Award list, which is given each year to the best defensive player in college football.
Thirty-three players were also named to the John Mackey Award preseason watch list on Tuesday, but no Trojans were included.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
