Movie series that spin out of control are generally groan-worthy, no matter how much you like the original film or enjoy its subsequent sequels. I, for one, love watching Captain Jack Sparrow and his antics, but when I heard about the fourth film I wanted to beat my head against the wall.
The Iron Man series, though, doesn’t seem to follow the rules of other franchises. Iron Man is generally agreed to be the best of the films leading up to Marvel’s Avengers, starring Robert Downey Jr. as the titular character. The film has brought attention to the original comic series and has been wildly successful in drawing new fans to the franchise, along with the other comic series that have been adapted into films in the Marvel universe.
Iron Man 3, which opens next Friday, promises a solid continuation of the Iron Man franchise while changing it up enough to keep the interest fresh. It’s a direct sequel to Iron Man 2 and takes place after The Avengers. This promises impressive character development for Robert Downey Jr.’s Tony Stark, a daring move given how his earlier portrayals appeal to comic aficionados and the uninitiated alike. Jon Favreau, director of the previous two Iron Man films did not return for the third film; the keys were handed to Shane Black and Drew Pearce.
The antagonist is the best-known villain from the comic series, Mandarin, though not necessarily how we may have experienced him before in the comics (inspiring a fair amount of controversy). In the comic books, Mandarin was the son of the wealthiest man in pre-revolutionary China. His parents died when he was young and all of his father’s fortune was spent in science and martial arts, leaving him broke by adulthood and the perfect antagonist to the billionaire playboy Tony Stark. Ben Kingsley plays the film rendition of Mandarin—a Sun Tzu-obsessed villain whose ethnic background is left unclear. Gwyneth Paltrow plays Stark’s girlfriend Pepper Potts, and the trailers have hinted that she is in the action sequences, giving the film a female protagonist that younger female audiences are sure to appreciate.
Whether or not you’ve read the comics, Iron Man is a superhero movie and promises action, action and more action. It’s a Marvel film, which promises a ridiculously high production value and excellent special effects. The critics have praised it highly thus far, rating it just slightly below the original but significantly better than the second according to review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. It should be a good kickoff to the summer blockbuster season (Star Trek: Into Darkness, anyone?) and, more long-term, the flurry of Marvel sequels to come over the next couple of years that includes a slate of Thor, Captain America and Avengers follow-ups.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
