USC coach Lane Kiffin has decided who will be the starting quarterback for the Trojans when they take the field Saturday against Pac-12 foe Washington State in their home opener.
After rotating redshirt sophomores Cody Kessler and Max Wittek throughout the team’s first game against Hawai’i, it sounds as though the Trojan attack will be led by just one quarterback for the entirety of USC’s matchup against the Cougars – but apparently, no one outside of the program will find out who until the Trojans’ offense takes the field at the Coliseum.
“You guys will see on Saturday who he is,” Kiffin said during a media press conference on Sunday.
Kessler and Wittek have been battling for the starting job for all of spring and fall camp. Kessler generally put up better statistics and made less mistakes in practice and team scrimmages, and earned the starting nod against Hawai’i for the team’s season opener.
But he didn’t perform with the same poise while playing the entire first half and parts of the second half against the Warriors, completing just 10 of 19 passes for 95 yards with one touchdown and one interception. Wittek eventually took over for Kessler and completed 5 of 10 passes for 77 yards, and Kiffin was noticeably less conservative in playcalling while Wittek was under center in the second half.
Wittek was allowed to attempt three passes over 40 yards, with two deep balls being dropped by USC’s receivers, including a sure touchdown reception that slipped through junior wideout Marqise Lee’s hands, and another drawing a pass interference call from Hawai’i.
Kessler, meanwhile, didn’t throw any passes more than 25 yards, and 16 of his 19 attempts traveled less than 10 yards downfield.
Follow Will on Twitter @WillLaws
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
