Heading into the 83rd meeting between crosstown rivals USC and UCLA, the focus of the game was mainly on the Trojans and interim head coach Ed Orgeron, with many viewing the game as Orgeron’s opportunity to firmly announce himself as the frontrunner to take over as USC’s permanent head coach after the season’s end.
By game’s end, however, the spotlight had undoubtedly shifted to UCLA quarterback Brett Hundley, who turned in a star’s performance in the Bruins’ 35-14 victory, their second straight win over the Trojans and first win at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum since 1997.
Hundley finished the game with 18 completions on 27 attempts for 208 yards passing, but the redshirt sophomore did most of his damage with his legs, rushing for 80 yards on 13 carries with two touchdowns.
“He’s a great playmaker,” redshirt senior outside linebacker Devon Kennard said. “We had a great gameplan, but I think it comes down to us missing tackles, and we didn’t execute as well as we can. The coaches put us in a great position. Part of it is him being as good of an athlete as he is, and part of it is us not making the plays we could have made.”
UCLA struck first midway through the first quarter on a 3-yard touchdown run by linebacker/running back Myles Jack, and extended its lead to 14-0 early in the second quarter on a 1-yard run by defensive lineman Eddie Vanderdoes. The early deficit proved to be too much for the Trojans to overcome.
“We started fast on defense, but we weren’t able to convert that to offense,” Orgeron said. “We didn’t move the chains. We felt we got behind a little bit. We played well in spurts, but the sacks really hurt us.”
The UCLA pass rush, led by outside linebacker Anthony Barr and defensive end Cassius Marsh, took advantage of a depleted USC offensive line after junior center Marcus Martin and redshirt junior offensive guard Aundrey Walker left the game in the first half with injuries. Martin suffered what was described as a serious knee injury, and Orgeron reported after the game that Walker had a broken ankle.
Barr and Marsh each finished the game with two sacks, and the Bruins had six overall.
“They did a good job rushing. When you have guys like that who are that big and strong, you’re gonna take some hits,” redshirt sophomore quarterback Cody Kessler said. “Obviously it’s never good when you lose two offensive linemen in the same game. It didn’t change [the playcalling] much. We just didn’t execute.”
Kessler completed 17 out of his 28 pass attempts and threw for 174 yards and one touchdown, but also lost a fumble late in the fourth quarter that ended what little hope remained for the Trojans to come back.
After UCLA scored on its first drive of the second half and extended the lead to 21-7, USC responded with a seven-play, 80-yard drive that ended with a 22-yard touchdown pass from Kessler to redshirt junior tight end Xavier Grimble, and the momentum appeared to be swinging the Trojans’ way.
Immediately following the touchdown, however, USC gave up a 46-yard kickoff return by UCLA return man Ishmael Adams that gave the Bruins good starting field position and led to a 5-yard touchdown run by Hundley. The kickoff return was just one of USC’s many poor plays by the special teams unit, including it the punting game. Redshirt sophomore punter Kris Albarado struggled to punt the ball deep into UCLA territory and allowed the Bruins to have good field position for most of the game.
“We knew Ishmael was really good, and we’ve faced some really good kick returners [this year] and we’ve stopped them. Tonight we didn’t,” Orgeron said. “We had a couple of bad punts. We need to correct it and open up the competition. In the past eight weeks, special teams have been lights out. Tonight was not their best game, but overall their body of work was pretty good.”
USC had a chance to cut into UCLA’s lead early in the fourth quarter, but the Trojans’ drive was squandered when redshirt sophomore running back Javorius “Buck” Allen fumbled at the Bruins’ 20-yardline with 13:36 remaining. Allen finished the game with 123 rushing yards on 20 carries and one touchdown, his 11th score in his last five games.
USC’s next two drives ended in a punt and another fumble, this one by Kessler, and UCLA was able to clinch the victory on running back Paul Perkins’ 8-yard touchdown run with under four minutes remaining, making the final score 35-14.
“I’m disappointed, but when think about the overall view and the expectations, I can’t really be that upset,” junior wide receiver Marqise Lee said. “Obviously I’m upset. We wanted to get this win against UCLA. Overall, I’m just grateful that we actually made it this far and got the opportunity to make it to a bowl game.”
Amid questions about his NFL Draft decision, Lee insisted that he would wait until after the team’s bowl game to make up his mind and would not speculate on what his decision might end up being. In a similar fashion, Orgeron declined to speculate on what his future with the program might be.
“Obviously we are disappointed, especially when you don’t beat UCLA and Notre Dame—that is what a head coach of USC is supposed to do,” Orgeron said. “What the future holds, we don’t know, but I do know this—this group of young men and coaches will always be in my heart. They have grown as a team, and I’m proud of them. Regardless of the situation, we’re Trojans, and we’re going to fight.”
 
Follow Nick on Twitter @NickSelbe
As an alum and  a current masters student how could Pat Haden bring back Steve Sarkisian?  He bailed on the school when we needed him.  Wait are we letting Reggie and OJ back too?  I am just disgusted.. Haden you should have let coach Oregeron head us up next year.  I think it is time for a new AD.
Sc needs to get out of the 20th century with the good ol network white boy pocket passer  Q.B. bs. In case they don’t know slavery ended in 1863, and it’s cool to (21st century) allow, or have a black quarterback this century. These  Pat Haden/JK Mackay dropback pocket passing white boy ain’t vogue No More. Get current (Ucla/ Brent Hundley)!!! By the way he’s black, too!!!
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
