The Los Angeles Times Festival of Books has arrived, the time of year where literature nerds can come together and freak out over their passion for all things crafted with language. Authors, publishers, professors, journalists, performers and chefs alike come together to celebrate the written word in a two-day festival that draws out even the most reclusive of book fans. As soon as the list came out, multitudes virtually sprinted to the website to plan out their assault.
Firstly, who is going to be there? If you read anything, there will almost certainly be something to catch your eye. Poetry? There’s an entire stage dedicated to its reading. Crime fiction? Panels upon panels are dedicated to the stuff. Science fiction? Orson Scott Card is just one example of the many authors on hand. Celebrities? Accomplished professionals everywhere, stuck in rooms or on stages where they cannot escape the terror of audience questions.
One of the most interesting things about this festival, though, is the lack  of authors who write fantasy novels for adults. The young adult fantasy genre is well represented, but what about the adults? There are some authors, of course (Raymond Feist and Robin Hobb among others), but they are underrepresented given the importance of fantasy in popular culture today. There are, at maximum, two fantasy panels during one of the largest book-focused events in one of the biggest cities in the United States, while there is an entire stage devoted to cooking. Cooking is great, and cookbooks are very important, but why is that deemed more important than an entire genre of literature?
There’s an audience for fantasy, as is evidenced by hit show Game of Thrones based off of the series A Song of Ice and Fire. The series has sold over sixteen million copies worldwide, and has been translated into over twenty languages. A Dance with Dragons, the most recent book in the series, debuted at the number one spot on the New York Times bestseller list and sold 298,000 copies on its day of release alone. This series’ success is just one example of a flourishing genre of fantasy literature. Why, then, does this festival largely restrict fiction to young adults?
That, however, is a small complaint. Events like the Festival of Books are wonderful; after all, how often do we all really come together to celebrate reading? Book awards don’t have the same kind of hype as film and television awards do, after all. Reading can often seen as a chore, or something that you always had to do in school and some everything that is holy that they have escaped the soul-sucking drudgery of (insert your least favourite book here). This celebration is worth the inconvenience of ridiculous quantities of tents covering our campus. Festivals like this remind us, no matter how much we read, that there is a giant world of both beautiful and terrifying alternate realities in which to throw ourselves.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
