Through USC’s first two games, one thing has been clear: no matter how poorly the offense plays, the defense can be dominant enough keep the team in the game.
USC redshirt sophomore tailback Tre Madden (23) leads the team with 102 rushing yards in the Trojan’s 35-7 victory against Boston College. – Ralf Cheung | Daily Trojan
On Saturday against Boston College, the Trojan defense again delivered, but this time the offense finally broke through. Instead of finding itself in a close game, USC enjoyed a 35-7 blowout victory at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.
“The energy on the sideline was awesome today,” redshirt junior defensive back Josh Shaw said. “It’s great knowing your offense is moving the ball. The best place for a defensive player to be is on the sidelines.”
After struggling mightily in its first two games, particularly in the loss to Washington State, the USC offense erupted on Saturday, racking up 521 yards of total offense, including 264 passing yards, a drastic improvement from last week’s woeful 54-yard performance against the Cougars.
On defense, the Trojans again were stout, allowing only 184 total yards to the Eagles. Boston College running back Andre Williams, who averaged 159 yards per game entering this week, was held to just 38 yards on 17 carries.
“We were number one worried about their running back,” USC head coach Lane Kiffin said. “We hadn’t played against a power-I offense yet. It’s very much a Stanford-like offense. Our guys really tackled well.”
Through three games, USC has allowed 131 total rushing yards and just one rushing touchdown, which came late in the game Saturday when the Trojans had most of their second-team defense on the field.
COMFORT ZONE
After being named the team’s starter for the remainder of the season, redshirt sophomore quarterback Cody Kessler was more relaxed and played with a confidence level that he did not have in the team’s first two games.
“The first two weeks, and I’m not making excuses, but you can’t really take control and be that guy to lead when you’re sharing reps,” Kessler said. “I had a whole new sense of confidence [this week]. Coach Kiffin has been talking to me all week and trusting me. I felt comfortable and relaxed, and I had a blast doing it.”
Kessler finished the day with 17 completions on 19 pass attempts for 237 yards and two touchdowns and did not have a single turnover. Entering the week as the starter, his newfound confidence was apparent to the entire team.
“Cody came out and had a great week of practice,” redshirt sophomore running back Tre Madden said. “You could just see it in his eyes, the energy he brought to the offense.”
“Just having that quarterback in there and working with him the whole week, not having to guess which quarterback is gonna be in, it really helped,” redshirt senior offensive tackle Kevin Graf said. “It definitely gave him a lot of confidence. He seemed a lot more relaxed today and really led us very well.”
BYE-BYE BOO BIRDS
Considering the ineffectiveness of the passing game against Washington State, fans’ expectations for Saturday were understandably low. But after throwing a deep pass that fell incomplete on the first play of the game, the crowd’s reaction caught many off guard.
“[The crowd cheering] was surprising,” junior wide receiver Marqise Lee said. “But then again, I know what they were cheering about. The fact that we were taking shots downfield, that’s all they wanted to see.”
Kiffin’s conservative playcalling against Washington State had been criticized all week, so seeing USC take a chance on a deep pass was an encouraging sign to many.
“That was Max Nikias’ play,” Kiffin said of the game’s first play. “He said throw deep and they’ll cheer no matter what. So that was for President Nikias.”
With all the negativity from the fans following last week’s loss, Kiffin was encouraged by the fans’ reaction to the team’s play.
“I felt like there was an effort by the fans,” Kiffin said. “We felt they came out today saying they were really going to support this team. I felt it on the Trojan Walk and down on the field. That just shows how special our fans are.”
“It wasn’t an easy week on our fans, with how passionate they are and what they had to deal with last week,” Kiffin said. “I’m happy for them to feel good today. We had good Trojan football for the most part today.”
ONE-TWO PUNCH
For the first time since 1981, a USC running back has opened the season with three consecutive 100-yard games. Madden finished the game with 102 yards on 16 carries and one touchdown. He also had two catches for 32 yards and a touchdown.
That accomplishment is impressive in and of itself, but even more so when considering that Madden has played only three collegiate games at running back.
“I’m definitely getting more comfortable as the weeks go by,” Madden said. “Everything is slowing down more as the season goes on.”
Joining Madden in pacing USC’s rushing attack is freshman tailback Justin Davis, who finished the game with 96 yards on just 10 carries and one touchdown. After rushing the ball 32 times against Washington State, Madden was relieved to split carries more evenly against Boston College.
“[Davis] is a great running back,” Madden said. “In splitting our carries, we were fresh today. That definitely helped us out.”
Davis, who enrolled in school early and participated in spring practice, had his first taste of success in front of the home fans, but believes he can still do more to impress them.
“Not really yet,” Davis said when asked if he had a break out game. “I’m planning on improving every game. I’m never satisfied with a performance, so I’m gonna try to top every performance the next game.”
QUOTE WORTHY
“The thing about the fans is, it’s USC, they’re used to winning,” Lee said. “I can’t blame them if they’re booing because we lose, because around here, winning is all they know. Once we bring that winning back, the fans, they’re gonna love it.”
 
Follow Nick on Twitter @NickSelbe
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
