It was already a given entering the 2013 season that youth and inexperience would be important factors contributing to the progress of the USC men’s volleyball team, especially with the losses of key players Tony Ciarelli and Steven Shandrick from the 2012 squad. Unfortunately, those factors have become even more glaring in a difficult and trying campaign for the Trojans.
A week-long break following a win over Pepperdine failed to generate any momentum for the Trojans, who suffered a tough five-set loss to No. 7 Cal-Baptist Thursday night in Riverside (20-25, 25-23, 19-25, 25-23, 15-10). The setback drops USC to a disappointing 5-14 record, distancing the club even further from its 26-7 record of a year ago.
“I thought we were okay passing the ball, but we didn’t do as well as we needed to serving the ball,” head coach Bill Ferguson said. “We ran into trouble there. I thought we blocked well at times, but we didn’t do it consistently enough throughout the match.”
Sophomore outside hitter Cristian Rivera again paced the Trojan attack, registering 15 kills. Redshirt freshman outside hitter Austin Rysyk contributed 14 kills, while sophomore middle blocker Robert Feathers was once again strong down the middle, recording nine kills, six blocks, and a .350 attacking percentage. But the Trojans were significantly outhit (.318 to .216) and outnumbered in digs (42 to 30), a sight that is becoming increasingly familiar with each match.
“I think, at times, we made some heads-up plays and followed the game plan, but at other times there were blown assignments,” Ferguson said. “There’s still a little bit of immaturity, and it’s unfortunate to have that at this point of the season.”
Resilience might be one positive that Ferguson and his players take away from the loss, as USC twice overcame dropped sets to tie the game. After the Lancers pulled away to take the first set by five, the Trojans came back in the second, putting together a solid run before a couple of errors awarded them the set and a 1-1 tie. The Trojans again overcame a Lancer win to take the fourth set by two points, but faltered in the final frame, hitting just .059 en route to the loss.
While the loss was disappointing, Ferguson saw the fifth set as an important source of experience for his young roster.
“The main thing is that our guys are all young, and they haven’t played a lot in the past,” Ferguson said. “This gave them some practical experience. There’s really no way to simulate this in practice, so this is going to be valuable for the development of our team.”
Success has come in small spurts for the Trojans this season. After a 2-1 start that saw them knock off reigning champion UC Irvine, the team mired itself in a dismal 2-12 skid before snapping a five-game losing streak with a victory against Pepperdine last Thursday.
“We made some lineup changes – we put Rysyk at one of the outside positions and Rivera at opposite,” Ferguson said. “With him and [sophomore setter] Micah Christenson serving on opposite sides, we were able to field our two best servers every couple of rotations.”
Serving was indeed the key to the Trojans’ upset of Pepperdine, as their 12 service aces marked their highest since notching 13 in a game against Ohio State in 2010. USC also outhit the Waves .284 to .250 and recorded 11.5 blocks.
The aforementioned losses of Ciarelli and Shandrick have thrust into the spotlight a bevy of younger players, and it’s no surprise that the likes of Rivera, Rysyk, and Feathers have stepped up in the recent absence of redshirt junior opposite Tanner Jansen. As the team enters its final stretch of matches, there will be an even greater emphasis on the need to receive consistent performances from the entire lineup.
“We obviously want to win out, but mainly we’d like to play a complete match where we execute our game plan and play smart volleyball,” Ferguson said. “We came close to that against Pepperdine, but we weren’t good enough tonight, so we just need an extended period of consistent, good volleyball.”
The Trojans will next travel to Utah, where they will square off against BYU Saturday before returning home for two matches at the Galen Center next week.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
