USC alumnus Jerry Buss, chairman and majority owner of the National Basketball Association Los Angeles Lakers, died Monday morning from kidney failure. He was 80.
The legendary owner had been hospitalized with an undisclosed form of cancer in the past 18 months, according to a statement released by the Lakers.
Buss received a Master’s of Science and a Ph.D. in physical chemistry from USC in 1957 after graduating from the University of Wyoming with a Bachelor in Science in chemistry.
Buss served as a professor at the university and was an inaugural member of the USC College Board of Councilors.
Though Buss left the university to work in the business and sports world, he conducted philanthropic work at USC. In January 2008, Buss donated $7.5 million to the Department of Chemistry to the USC College, which is now the Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, in order to expand and support chemistry education and research at the university.
The donation funded two endowed chairs in the Department of Chemistry, which were named after his USC mentors Sidney Benson and David Dows. The endowment also created a scholarship directed at chemistry graduate students.
Buss was the founding owner of the Los Angeles Strings of World TeamTennis when the team was formed in 1974. Buss bought the Lakers, the Los Angeles Kings hockey team and The Forum along with some other real estate in 1979 for $67.5 million, making it the largest transaction in sports history at the time.
Buss also operated the Women’s National Basketball Association team, the Los Angeles Sparks. In 1999, he moved the three professional sports teams to their current location at the Staples Center. He sold the Great Western Forum in the same year.
Under his management, the Lakers won ten 10 NBA championships from 1980 to 2010. Buss was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2010. Forbes magazine valued the Lakers at $1 billion in January, making it the second most profitable team in the N.B.A.
Gerald Buss was born on Jan. 28, 1933 in Salt Lake City, Utah and was raised in a coal-mining town in Wyoming during the Great Depression. After graduating from USC he worked in aerospace technology for Douglas Aircraft in California and made real estate investments during the Los Angeles real estate boom, according to the New York Times.
Ownership of the Lakers will remain with the Buss family, according to a statement from the Lakers. Funeral and memorial service arrangements are pending.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
