Trustee and Rossier School of Education namesake Barbara J. Rossier died on August 11, ending a battle with lung cancer at age 78, the university announced.
Photo courtesy of USC News
An esteemed educator and President of the Rossier Educational & Mental Health Enterprises Inc., Rossier graduated from the university with a master’s degree in educational guidance in 1962 and again in 1971 with her EdD.
A lifelong Trojan, Rossier’s involvement in the university continued well after her studies, including tenures in the USC Alumni Association Board of Governors, the USC Associates Board of Directors and the university’s Board of Trustees.
“The entire Trojan Family mourns the passing of Barbara Rossier,” President C. L. Max Nikias said in a statement. “With her extraordinary energy, unshakable integrity and abiding commitment to providing excellent educational opportunities for everyone, she was an inspiration to us all.”
Rossier, with her husband and fellow Trojan Roger Rossier, donated $20 million to the USC School of Education in September of 1998, which at the time was the largest gift ever made to an education school in the nation. Their generosity prompted the Board of Trustees to rename the school the USC Barbara J. and Roger W. Rossier School of Education.
Fifteen years later, the school ranking has risen to 17th in the nation among graduate schools of education, according to U.S. News & World Report.
“Barbara Rossier’s impact on USC Rossier is very significant, and I am so grateful for her generous commitment to the school, our students and our graduates,” Rossier Dean Karen Symms Gallagher said in a statement. “She will be missed.”
The entrepreneurial and philanthropic sprit of the Rossiers spread beyond the university. In 1980, they began a small private school for children with special needs, which eventually grew into a multi-million dollar enterprise and one of the largest special-education institutions in the state. Rossier also served as a member of the board of directors of the Orange County High School of the Arts and the Pacific Symphony Orchestra.
The memorial service will take place on August 17 at noon at Fairhaven Memorial Park and Mortuary in Santa Ana, Calif. Rossier is survived by her husband, her two sons and three grandchildren.
 
Follow Yasmeen Serhan on Twitter @YasmeenSerhan
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
