In a game of wasted offensive chances caused by poor special teams play on both sides, USC played excellently on defense and did just enough on offense to claim its third victory of the season in a sloppy 17-14 win over visiting Utah State.
A slew of penalties and missed opportunities prevented the Trojans (3-1) from turning the game into a rout in the fourth quarter, and the Aggies (2-2) hung around until the final minutes, when USC’s defense punctured Utah State’s upset hopes by stopping quarterback Chuckie Keeton on a fourth-down scramble.
“We wanted to keep [Keeton] in front of us and not let him get to the sidelines,” freshman safety Su’a Cravens said. “When I saw [Keeton] go down, I was thinking, ‘That’s exactly how we planned it.’”
SCORING SUMMARY
USC opened up the scoring on its second drive of the game on a 1-yard run from redshirt sophomore tailback Tre Madden. Later in the second quarter, after a 55-yard scamper from Utah State tailback Joey DeMartino brought the ball to the USC 8-yard line, Keeton completed a slant route to a leaping Aggie receiver to knot the score at 7.
The teams then traded three-and-outs before USC used its grinding, two-back system to temporarily open up the passing game for redshirt sophomore quarterback Cody Kessler. Seven consecutive runs – four from Madden, three from freshman Justin Davis – preceded a third-down conversion from Lee and a 30-yard touchdown pass to redshirt junior tight end Xavier Grimble, who sailed undetected past Utah State’s safeties on a picturesque seam route down the middle to give USC a 14-7 advantage.
After halftime, the Aggies showcased the explosiveness that Kiffin had been wary of in practice all week. A 9-play, 72-yard drive took just 3:23 off the clock and deadlocked the score at 14 midway through the third quarter, the first time USC had given up any points in the third quarter this year.
But after that, USC’s defense held through the end of the game, and junior kicker Andre Heidari provided the game-winning points for USC via a 25-yard field goal with 13:35 remaining.
NOT SO SPECIAL TEAMS
Outside of redshirt sophomore punter Kris Albarado, who pinned the Aggies inside their 20-yard line five times, USC’s special teams were certainly not a strength. Heidari missed a 46-yard field goal in the third quarter and the return teams failed to engineer any gamebreaking plays through junior receiver Marqise Lee.
But special teams were undoubtedly a larger issue for the Aggies. Utah State kicker Nick Diaz clanked a 37-yard field goal attempt off the right post in the first quarter to keep the Aggies from cutting into USC’s 7-0 lead, marking the fourth consecutive game that the USC defense held its opponents scoreless in the opening quarter.
The Aggies also averaged just 34 yards per punt, including a botched 12-yard punt that gifted the Trojans great field position at Utah State’s 24-yard line as the clock turned into the fourth quarter.
USC looked poised to put a touchdown on the board after a run by Madden and reception by Grimble gave the Trojans a first-and-goal opportunity at the Aggies’ 8-yard line. But the Trojans could only came away with Heidari’s field goal that edged the score to 17-14.
OFF DAY FOR OFFENSE
The USC rushing attack led by Madden and Davis that had averaged 196 yards per game and 4.5 yards per carry before Saturday could only muster 118 rushing yards and 3.0 yards per carry against the Aggies. Madden finished with 93 yards on 24 carries, snapping his streak of three games with 100-plus rushing yards.
Redshirt sophomore quarterback Cody Kessler was 13-of-27 for 164 yards and one touchdown, and also fumbled shortly before halftime to deny the Trojans a chance to build a multiple-possession lead.
The Trojans were held out of the end zone in the second half after Utah State frequently put eight men in the box in an attempt to stifle USC’s running game.
The scheme change left Lee and sophomore receiver Nelson Agholor outside with man-to-man coverage, a seemingly favorable position for the Trojans, but they failed to capitalize.
“There was a number of explosive plays in the passing game against their corners that we weren’t able to hit which would’ve dramatically changed the outcome of the game,” Kiffin said.
Lee let several deep balls slip through his hands and Kessler was off-target on a couple long attempts to keep the Trojans from blowing the game open.
“I missed some throws and we dropped some balls and had some protection issues,” Kessler said. “Obviously there is some stuff we missed and wished we had back.”
A particularly frustrating string for the Trojans saw them start three consecutive drives within Utah State’s 35-yard line, golden opportunities for USC to put the game away, only to score three total points.
“Obviously we would’ve liked to finish better offensively in second half,” USC coach Lane Kiffin said. “I did feel there was a rhythm early in the first half and for whatever reason in the second half we weren’t able to establish that. Our defense kept getting us great field position and unfortunately we weren’t able to blow the game out at that point.”
NOT ALL HE’S HYPED TO BE
Keeton was largely kept in check despite occasionally flashing the dual-threat skills that had caused some minimal Heisman whispers. The senior finished 21-of-39 for 179 yards and two touchdowns, and was held to -15 rushing yards on 12 attempts.
“That’s just all the schemes with [defensive coordinator Clancy] Pendergast, he sets us up every week to play perfect,” redshirt defensive end George Uko said. “We had a good plan going the whole week with [defensive line coach Ed Orgeron] for inside tackles to push rush and outside people to align wide and just angle in and rush tight to keep [Keeton] in a tight box.”
Utah State had averaged 49.3 points, 550.3 yards and 29 first downs in its first three games, but the Trojans held them to just 14 points, 285 yards and 13 first downs.
Follow Will on Twitter @WillLaws 
I know USC folk tend to be elitists but ease up on the reporter bias there young fella
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
