A new type of undergraduate experience will be added to the university as music icons Jimmy Iovine and Dr. Dre are together giving $70 million to establish the Jimmy Iovine and Andre Young Academy for Arts, Technology and the Business of Innovation, according to a statement made by the university.
Longtime friends Dre, born Andre Young, and Iovine co-founded Beats Electronics, a high-performance headphone and sound transmission company.
President C. L. Max Nikias said the academy, which will cover interests in fields including marketing, business entrepreneurship, computer science, engineering and audio and visual design, aims to attract students interested in revamping the future of the music industry with new art forms, technologies and business models.
“The vision and generosity of Jimmy Iovine and Andre Young will profoundly influence the way all of us perceive and experience artistic media,” Nikias said in a statement. “USC provides an extraordinary rich academic, research and artistic environment. We are committed to encouraging our students to use their intellectual and creative resources to effect change in all segments of society. Our goal is to ensure that the academy is the most collaborative educational program in the world.”
The selective four year program, which will include faculty from the Marshall School of Business, the Roski School of Fine Arts, the Viterbi School of Engineering and the Thornton School of Music, will focus primarily on core curriculum areas: Arts and Entrepreneurship, Technology, Design and Marketability, Concept and Business Platforms and Creating a Prototype.
Roski Dean and inaugural Director of the Iovine & Young Academy Erica Muhl said the curriculum was crafted in order to equip students with the tools needed to excel in multiple disciplines.
“The academy’s core education will create a common, multi-lingual literacy and fluency across essential disciplines,” Muhl said. “This ‘big picture’ knowledge and skill will equip graduates with a leadership perspective that is unparalleled in an undergraduate degree, and that will be applicable to virtually any industry.”
The students’ final year in the academy will be in an experimental setting called the “Garage,” during which students, guided by faculty or other artists and business leaders, will be grouped into self-directed teams in order to develop a prototype over the course of the year.
“The curriculum was created to take full advantage of a newly designed, revolutionary educational space that will offer students very powerful tools,” Muhl said. “Academy students will have the freedom to move easily from classroom to lab, from studio to workshop individually or in groups, and blow past any academic or structural barriers to spontaneous creativity.”
The academy is set to enroll its first class of 25 students in Fall 2014.
That is an amazing act of generosity – good on you, guys!
two of the greatest men in music history! and those raps songs made a platform for him to help thousands of kids for generations to come!while clowns LIKE MICKEY hate! go back to work and flip those burgers!
Rather than post them here, I’d urge readers to look up the lyrics of the songs these two monsters created. Their careers were built on writing, producing, and disseminating music that celebrated random killing, drug dealing, violence against women, killing police, and a well articulated disregard for anything by making money at all cost. 
This is a sad day for USC, and marks a new low for our community of people working to minimized the damage that people like Dr. Dre and Jimmy Iovine have done to our communities. USC should not enable them to by their way out of such an ugly legacy. Shame on whoever let this “gift” happen.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
