Famed Olympian, World War II veteran and lifelong Trojan, USC alumnus Louis Zamperini, ’40, died Wednesday in Los Angeles after a battle with pneumonia. He was 97.
“After a 40-day battle for his life, he peacefully passed away in the presence of his entire family, leaving behind a legacy that has touched so many lives,” Zamperini’s family said in a statement to USA TODAY. “His indomitable courage and fighting spirit were never more apparent than in these last days.”
Zamperini was recently the focus of Angelina Jolie’s upcoming film, Unbroken, which chronicles the life of the former Olympian during his performance in the 1936 Berlin Olympics, as well as his experience as a prisoner of war during World War II. The film, based on Laura Hillenbrand’s award-winning biography “Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption,” is set to hit theaters in December.
Long before Zamperini was a war hero, however, he was a Trojan. A year ago, Zamperini returned to his alma mater as part of the “5 Traits of a Trojan Speaker Series,” in which he spoke about the power of resilience throughout his time at USC and beyond.
“Life is full of problems,” Zamperini said students on March 13, 2013 in Bovard Auditorium. “Sometimes the problems are difficult, but you have to be resolute.”
Long before he spoke to current USC students, Zamperini made his mark on campus in the 1930s as an athlete, competing in the 5,000 meter run. His track career ultimately led him to the 1936 Berlin Olympics, where he made his notable 8th place finish. Following his time at USC, he went on to serve in the United States Army Air Corps. On May 27, 1944, Zamperini served as a bombardier in a rescue mission that would ultimately end in a crash-landing into the Japanese-controlled waters of the Pacific Ocean. The crash left both him and his fellow crew members stranded at sea for 47 days. Zamperini was eventually captured and served nearly two and a half years as a Japanese prisoner of war.
“Every morning I woke up and expected that this was the day,” Zamperini said of his POW experience. ‘This is the day they’re going to kill us.”
Zamperini’s service earned him numerous national accolades, including three Purple Hearts and a Prisoner of War Medal. Looking back, Zamperini said he was able to survive the war by recounting the lessons of his former track coach.
“You have to take the bull by the horns and fight ‘til the finish,” Zamperini said.
Zamperini is survived by his son, Luke, and his daughter, Cynthia Garris.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
