 
UPDATE 12:35 p.m.  — One victim was in critical condition on Saturday morning after a shooting at The Lorenzo apartments on Friday night, LAPD reported. 
LAPD’s investigation was still underway, and no possible suspects had been identified according to Sgt. Gina Holmstrom of LAPD’s Newton Community Station. 
UPDATE 3:45 a.m. — A search for the suspect in a shooting at The Lorenzo apartments was still underway at 2 a.m. on Saturday morning, officials reported. 
A Trojan Alert sent at 1:44 a.m. announced that it was safe to resume normal activities at The Lorenzo.  
“The information we have now is that there might have been some sort of argument on a fourth floor patio,” said Lt. Jon Pinto of LAPD’s Newton Community Station. 
Two gun shots were fired at the victim, who was transported to a nearby hospital and was reported to be in surgery at 2 a.m. Saturday, Pinto said.
The building was placed on lockdown while LAPD officers conducted a sweep of hallways and the parking structure. 
12:30 a.m. — USC’s Dept. of Public Safety issued a Trojans Alert at 11:37 p.m. Friday night for a shooting at The Lorenzo apartment building. The alert urged students to shelter in place until the incident was resolved.
DPS Deputy Chief David Carlisle said that one non-USC student was injured. He said the shooting occurred in an apartment that was not rented by anyone affiliated with USC.
Carlisle said a possible suspect was seen running from the location and was still at large. He added that the size of the apartment complex complicated the search.
Though little information was initially available, Carlisle said that the Los Angeles Police Department was conducting an investigation and that students should stay away from the area.
Editor’s note: This story will be updated with more information as this story develops.
Congratulations Mr. Nikias, 
You have stuffed the school with 40,000 students and only have 14,800 beds for them. So, they live in off-campus areas that I wouldn’t let my dog walk through at night.
This is on you and has been since you went on this “Bring in as Many Students as you can for the Money, Binge.”
My kids are entering college over the next few years–USC is loosing its appeal.
The security at the Lorenzo and surrounding area is not sufficient,nor effective.  Clearly noted by this shooting incident putting at risk the USC students.  USC and the Lorenzo Apartment Property Managers are now “on notice” of this condition (crime area and inadequate security) and need to take immediate remedies to ensure the safety of the USC students at this location.  Should anything happen to my son i will hold USC and the Lorenzo Apartment Property Management legal liable.  So do whatever it takes to secure the area and the premises for the safety of our kids.
How are students supposed to “stay away from the area” if the majority of this place is occupied by students? So much for living upscale. Thank you DPS for your awesome and speedy responses to noise complaints and your due diligence in giving out drinking in public citations. Don’t worry that you didn’t act on this matter efficiently, shootings aren’t nearly as dangerous to students noise and people drinking.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
