The Interfraternity Council Judicial Appeals Board upheld the ruling of the Interfraternity Council Judicial Board to expel the Delta Eta chapter of Kappa Sigma from the USC Interfraternity Council on Tuesday.
IFC President Tanner Sandoval sent a notice of Kappa Sigma’s expulsion from the IFC to members of the Interfraternity and Panhellenic Councils Wednesday. According to the notice, Kappa Sigma had a prior standing injunction on social events, as well as three previous instances this semester in which the IFC had placed judicial sanctions on the fraternity.
Austin Vogel | Daily Trojan
“[Kappa Sigma’s] sanctions originally stemmed from recruiting violations during the spring semester,” Sandoval said.
The sanctions imposed on the fraternity included a semester-long social ban, excluding events which had already been financed in advance.
“In the subsequent sanctions, they didn’t necessarily break rules set by the administration, but they failed to adhere to the sanctions that were already in place,” Sandoval said.
Prior to Tuesday’s ruling, the fraternity had been on deferred adjudication for expulsion during the semester.
As a result of the expulsion, Kappa Sigma’s relationship with the IFC will be severed indefinitely. However, Sandoval said it’s possible for the fraternity to be reinstated in “the distant future.”
“Typically the way the university handles pulling chapters, which IFC was considering modeling, the university will usually expel a chapter for five years,” Sandoval said. “It’s so that none of the original violating members of the fraternity are still there.”
Despite the IFC Judicial Board’s decision, Kappa Sigma can still be recognized as a student organization with the university pending appeal.
In response to the decision, Kappa Sigma’s Delta Eta chapter issued a statement through Jacob Courtney, the chapter’s president, Saturday. The statement acknowledged that the IFC Judicial Board’s decision came from both recruitment policy violations and one incident involving a social event violation.
“Kappa Sigma is currently appealing the IFC’s decision to the University,” the fraternity said in the statement. “There are no plans to change who resides at the Kappa Sigma chapter house in the upcoming Fall Semester.”
When contacted by the Daily Trojan, Courtney could not specify details of the violations or offer any personal comment on the matter, citing the ongoing appeals process with the university.
UPDATE, May 10, 1:15 p.m.: the statement was not issued by Kappa Sigma’s national headquarters, but instead reviewed by the national headquarters and issued by the Delta Eta chapter through fraternity president Jacob Courtney.
UPDATE, May 10, 12:48 p.m.: included comment from IFC president Tanner Sandoval and Kappa Sigma statement. Original article was posted May 9 at 12:14 a.m.
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
