Photos by Ralf Cheung.
 
If a USC football team can’t beat both, it must beat at least one of USC’s longtime rivals for its season to be a success in the eyes of some Trojan fans.
Though USC looked outmatched against crosstown foe UCLA in a 38-20 loss last week, the Trojans redeemed themselves to some degree with a dominating 49-14 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday. The bipolar highs and lows of the last two games are indicative of both the first season under head coach Steve Sarkisian and the careers of the seniors playing in the L.A. Memorial Coliseum for the final time.
“I’m happy for this [senior] class,” Sarkisian said. “Their last game in the Coliseum is something they’re obviously going to remember for a lifetime.”
Redshirt junior quarterback Cody Kessler threw six touchdowns to five different receivers, and the Trojan defense held a Fighting Irish offense that was averaging about 35 points a game to only two touchdowns.
“All three phases were just tremendous,” Sarkisian said.
The Trojans started the game on a 35-0 run. After punting on their first possession, the Trojans found the end zone on their next five. Kessler finished the day 32-40 with 372 yards and no interceptions. He at one point completed 16 passes in a row and set a career record for completions.
Kessler said the team planned on running a particularly up-tempo style and said the team executed the game plan excellently.
“Today, it was obvious how tough it was for them to get lined up against us,” Kessler said of the fast pace. “It really played to our advantage.”
Notre Dame did not advance the ball into USC territory until the second quarter. The Irish did not score until the 4:11 mark in the second half, when backup quarterback Malik Zaire replaced starter Everett Golson.
Golson finished the day 7-18 with 75 yards and one interception in the air. The dual-threat signal caller came into the game with 291 rushing yards on the season but left the game with a net -14 yards rushing after being sacked three times. The Trojans also forced one Golson fumble and finished the day with two caused turnovers.
Senior linebacker Hayes Pullard said the key was for the linebackers to get pressure on Golson, something they didn’t do the week before against UCLA quarterback Brett Hundley.
“We learned from last week, us linebackers weren’t going,” Pullard said. “We had to get after it and help our D-line. We prepared all week, [defensive coordinator Justin] Wilcox had a great plan for us.”
Trojan fans also got to see a backup in at quarterback, but under slightly different circumstances. Redshirt freshman Max Browne relieved Kessler with about 10 minutes left in the fourth quarter but did not record a passing attempt. On the Trojans’ final drive, senior Anthony Neyer, the fifth quarterback on USC’s depth chart, subbed into the game as the signal caller. He also did not record a passing attempt but did rush for five yards on two attempts.
“It was awesome,” Neyer said. “It was such a blessing to be able to come into this Saturday against Notre Dame in my last game in the Coliseum and see everybody do so well.”
As the final home game for the careers of the 13 seniors on the roster, the Trojans celebrated Senior Day by honoring each one before the game. The 13 seniors were announced individually out of the tunnel before the game and were met by family members at midfield.
The seniors honored included Neyer, Pullard, tight end/defensive end Teddy Baker, safety Gerald Bowman, linebacker Lamar Dawson, center Giovanni Di Poalo, offensive tackle Nathan Guertler, kicker Andre Heidari, cornerback Josh Shaw, linebacker J.R. Tavai, tight end Randall Telfer, guard Aundrey Walker and tight end Chris Willson.
Bowman recorded an interception and seven tackles, Pullard recorded three tackles including one for a loss and a fumble recovery, Shaw recorded a tackle and Telfer caught Kessler’s sixth touchdown pass.
The win concludes a tumultuous first regular season for Sarkisian as USC’s head coach. The Trojans were in contention for the Pac-12 South championship until losing to UCLA in their final conference game. In addition to a big defeat against UCLA, the Trojans lost convincingly out of conference to an unranked Boston College team then fell on the final drive against both Arizona State and Utah.
Sarkisian said the Arizona State loss stings particularly strongly, as the Sun Devils won the game on a miraculous hail marry pass as time expired, and Trojans would have made the Pac-12 title game if they had successfully defended that one play with all else being equal over the season.
“Those are some gut wrenching losses,” Sarkisian said looking back on the regular season. “It’s my job to figure that out so that doesn’t happen again.”
One more win in their bowl game will leave the Trojans just short of 10 wins on the season, but Sarkisian said he would nonetheless be proud to see the 8-4 Trojans finish with nine wins. Though he said he was looking forward to next year to some degree, saying, “our future is ridiculously bright,” the focus was on finishing off the season with a bowl win.
“I’m proud of the way we played,” Sarkisian said. “I think it gives us a chance to head into bowl prep with a lot of confidence.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
