Qiao Xing in 2012. | Courtesy El Rodeo yearbook
A recent USC graduate was on the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, according to the USC Chinese Student and Scholars Association.
Qiao Xing in 2012. | Courtesy El Rodeo yearbook
The group posted on its Facebook page Thursday saying that it had confirmed with the Consulate-General of P.R.C. in Los Angeles that 2012 graduate Qiao Xing was one of the 239 people on board of the flight that disappeared last Saturday.
Xing received a Masters degree in petroleum engineering from USC and began working at Shell Oil Company in Beijing last year, according to LA Weekly.
A representative from Shell Oil Company confirmed with LA Weekly that an employee was on the missing flight, but would not confirm whether the employee was Xing.
Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared last Saturday en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
 
The missing MH370…
Isn’t it quite obvious that someone is hiding something. And what “they” are hiding is because “they” also are not yet sure about it are WORMHOLES. Have a read at these NASA articles:
http://www.collective-evolution.com/2013/03/08/nasa-discovers-hidden-portals-in-earths-magnetic-field/
http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2012/29jun_hiddenportals/
http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/sunearth/news/mag-portals.html
They have already proven that there are magnetic portals or wormholes on Earth going to the Sun or who knows where in the universe. In the article written on March 2013 it said that NASA will conduct experiments on 2014. What a coincidence that flight MH370 got lost in 2014. The US is afraid it will be blamed for the plane’s disappearance because of the experiments.
Occams Razor, the simplest explanation tends to be the correct one, wormholes exist, the plane went through a wormhole! They do not know where the plane is, no contact, phones ringing but no answer, the plane just vanished?! It went through a wormhole! Mystery solved!
Please check up on this story, everyone is looking in the wrong direction, or everyone is being directed in the wrong direction! And please, so what if the public knew there are wormholes?! I think its about time we all knew that we are not alone in the universe and that we can travel in space and time. Maybe its all better for mankind to stop all the fighting and all. When was the last time something got invented like flight? The public is ready for a major event, we’ve watched so much scifi that we know it’s coming. The world is ready for what’s there in the universe.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
