When the first How to Train Your Dragon film came out in 2010, it enchanted audiences with whimsical humor, beautiful animation and, above all, emotionally deep and relatable characters. A commercial smash, the film has garnered just under $500 million in gross revenue. Far from being a mere box office hit, the film was also a critical success, and was nominated for two Academy Awards.
Considering the success of the first film, How to Train Your Dragon 2 has some incredibly high expectations to meet. Luckily for audiences worldwide, the minds at Dreamworks have exceeded those expectations, and the new film is certain to work its way into the hearts of fans both young and old.
Set five years after the original, How to Train Your Dragon 2 is still the story of Hiccup, voiced by Jay Baruchel, and the complex friendship he develops with his dragon, Toothless. As the two grow up together, Hiccup must grapple with the responsibilities of adulthood, his identity as a viking, and his place in Berk. Hiccup’s father Stoick, voiced by Gerard Butler, sees his son as next in line for chief of the village, but Hiccup is uncertain of how he can follow in his father’s footsteps.
Both the original and How to Train Your Dragon 2 set themselves apart from other animated features by dealing with issues that don’t often arise in children’s narratives. Animal cruelty, death and estranged parents are all addressed in ways that are more tasteful and meaningful than many “grown up” films.
In the film, Hiccup grew up believing that his mother had been dead for twenty years. When he discovers that she has been in hiding for all that time, however, he is forced to make a difficult decision between rejection and forgiveness.
The film’s theme of parental abandonment struck a personal note with Butler, who said in a press conference that he identified heavily with this section of the film. Butler, who had been estranged from his father from 18 months until he was 16 years old, recalled a conversation he had with his mother as a child.
“I asked my mother if I would ever see my father again, and she said ‘no,’” Butler said.
Few animated films (the first being the recent ParaNorman in 2013) have openly gay characters, so it’s nice to see How to Train Your Dragon 2 join the ranks. At one point, Hiccup’s affable mentor Gobber, voiced by Craig Ferguson, says “this is why I never got married,” which is shortly followed by a reportedly ad-libbed line in which the character hints at his own homosexuality. It’s brilliant to see more acceptance on the big screen.
As serious as How to Train Your Dragon 2 can be, it never loses sight of its ultimate goal: to entertain. With so many relationships to balance and such an epic story to tell, the film could have easily lost its way. Fun dialogue, raucous action, and stunningly gorgeous images all serve to make the almost two hour run time fly by. Most importantly, the voice acting is so spectacular that the characters (with the help of some tastefully employed 3D effects) explode off the screen and come to life.
In sharp contrast to the righteous people of Berk, the films villains are dark, dangerous and, sometimes, downright scary. Drago, voiced by Djimon Hounsou, is a truly formidable foe, and his war cry is certain to send chills down the steeliest of spines. Audiences will certainly jump when he screams to summon forth a giant “Bewilderbeast” from the icy depths of the ocean.
A slightly more lovable villain is the roguish Eret. Many adult fans will no doubt recognize Harington from his role as John Snow in the hit HBO series Game of Thrones. Eret is a master dragon catcher (and sometimes pompous jerk) who works for the evil Drago. Although he starts out as a villain, he is shown the error of his ways and quickly joins up with Hiccup and the rest of Berk, proving that people can always change.
For both fans of the first film and newcomers to the series, How to Train Your Dragon 2 is one of the must-see movies of the summer. Though it might sound hard to believe, this is one sequel that easily manages to live up to its predecessor. In many ways, it surpasses it. With an all-star cast, an epic soundtrack and a touching story, How to Train Your Dragon 2 is not simply a great animated movie – it’s a great film.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
