A 24-year-old Chinese male graduate student was found dead Thursday morning on the fourth floor of City Park Apartments on W. 30th Street and Vermont Avenue.
A 24-year-old graduate student was found dead Thursday morning on the fourth floor of City Park Apartments on W. 30th Street and Vermont Avenue. — Joseph Chen | Daily Trojan
According to LAPD Sergeant Barry Montgomery, LAPD Southwest division received a radio call from an ambulance at 7 a.m. Thursday to investigate a death. When officers arrived, they discovered the student deceased in his residence and contacted LAPD Criminal Gang and Homicide Division to begin an investigation.
Montgomery said the student “may have been the victim of an assault,” but the investigation is still in the early stages. Police have no information on a suspect, if any, at this time.
Dept. of Public Safety Deputy Chief David Carlisle said that DPS officers responded to the incident along with LAPD, but the investigation will be conducted by LAPD with assistance from DPS.
“DPS officers are assisting with the investigation by blocking traffic and protecting the crime scene, but LAPD is the lead investigator in this case,” Carlisle said.
Carlisle said they have no reason to believe there is a threat to the community. DPS will be briefed by LAPD as the investigation continues.
A letter to the community from USC Provost Elizabeth Garrett identified the student as an engineering graduate student and said he sustained a head injury.
“From all early indications, this was an isolated incident and there was and is no apparent threat to the campus community,” Garrett said in the statement. “Student Affairs is reaching out to the student’s family, roommate and friends to offer all appropriate support and counseling.”
 
UPDATE:
The student was identified in a memo from USC Viterbi Dean Yannis C. Yortsos as Xinran Ji, a second-year electrical engineering graduate student.
Xinran Ji, a second year electrical engineering graduate student, was identified as the victim. — Photo courtesy of LinkedIn
“We have spoken with Mr. Ji’s family in China and are making arrangements for them to travel to Los Angeles,” Yortsos said in the memo. “We are providing our support to them as well as other members of our campus community who knew him.”
According to Lt. Andy Neiman, an LAPD spokesperson, Ji was walking home from a study session at approximately 12:45 a.m. when he was assaulted and struck with a blunt force object in the street near 29th Street and Orchard Avenue. An unidentified associate discovered Ji, who had managed to make it back to his apartment after the assault, and called the police.
Neiman said the police have information that at least three suspects were involved but, so far, none have been identified and no description was available. A DPS crime alert identified the vehicle as a “dark colored compact sedan.”
“The investigation is continuing and will continue until those responsible are found,” Neiman said.
Neiman said the motive of the crime and the connection between the suspects and the victim is still under investigation, but there is no reason to believe this was a targeted attack. He urged the public to come forward with any information regarding the incident.
Students expressed sympathy for the loss of a member of the Trojan family.
“It makes me feel so sad that this could happen to someone who had so much going for him,” Sharada Rayan, a junior majoring in computer science and business administration and a resident of City Park Apartments, said.
Follow @dailytrojan on Twitter for live updates.
Photos by Joseph Chen.
 
 
IMO the truth is that the spineless thugs who did this consider Asians and Caucasians as easier targets than their own brethren. Of course, the liberal media and other PC folk will say that its not true but IMO this was a race related crime. I hope the thugs meet their fate one day be it rotting in jail or on death row or killed by their own brethren in another senseless crime where they are the victims.
seem like a certain demograph declare a secret war.
get a gun. its the best investment you’ll ever make.
or end up on a steel slab.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
