Maj. Gen. Harold Greene, a two-star U.S. Army general who held three advanced USC degrees, was killed in Afghanistan in an insider attack on Aug. 5. Greene, a native of upstate New York, was 55 years old.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with Maj. Gen. Harold J. Greene’s family, and the families of our soldiers who were injured today in the tragic events that took place in Afghanistan,” said Army Chief of Staff Ray Odierno in a letter of condolence on the U.S. Department of Defense website.
U.S. Maj. Gen. Harold Greene, right, was killed in an insider attack during his first combat deployment to Afghanistan. | Public domain photo courtesy of Matthew Hickman, U.S. Army
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, in which a gunman wearing an Afghan army uniform opened fire on Americans and other Afghans at Camp Qargha, a military academy 11 miles west of the Afghanistan capital of Kabul, according to ABC News.
Greene served in the U.S. military for 34 years. He is the highest ranked U.S. military officer killed in combat since 1970.
Greene was the deputy for acquisition and systems management for the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army. His first combat deployment was to Afghanistan in January, where he served as a deputy commander in charge of training Afghan soldiers.
The general’s awards included the Legion of Merit with three oak leaf clusters, the Meritorious Service Medal with a silver cluster, the Army Commendation Medal with three oak leaf clusters, the Army Achievement Medal and the Army Superior Unit Award.
Several officials said Greene displayed leadership throughout his career. During a 2009 ceremony, Lt. Gen. Stephen M. Speakes, the U.S. Army deputy chief of staff, said, “When you look at a leader like [Greene] what you’re looking at is somebody who has that singular ability to display wisdom, and wisdom is a combination of a great background, a great sense of self, a sense of humility, and the ability to work extraordinarily hard, and [Greene] has all those qualities in ample profusion and proliferation.”
Greene graduated from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. in 1980.  He went on to receive a master’s degree in engineering, a master’s degree in science and a Ph.D. in materials science from USC.
Greene is survived by his wife Sue Meyers and daughter Amelia.
Great condolences to the General’s family. The Trojan Family grieves with you.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
