USC University Professor, Distinguished Professor of Business Administration and leadership scholar Warren Bennis died on July 31 in Los Angeles. He was 89.
“Warren Bennis was a visionary whose transformational contributions to the business world have shaped the fundamental concepts of effective leadership,” USC President C. L. Max Nikias told USC News.
Bennis is widely regarded as a world-renowned authority on leadership. In 1996, Forbes named him the “dean of leadership gurus.” In addition to his work in academia, Bennis served as an adviser to CEO’s of major national and international corporations, and several United States presidents, including John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Gerald R. Ford and Ronald Reagan, according to the New York Times.
He wrote nearly 30 books on business administration, management theory and organizational leadership throughout his life. The majority of Bennis’s books were published during his tenure at USC, one of which, An Inverted Life, earned him a Pulitzer Prize nomination. Still Surprised, his memoir, was published in 2010.
Bennis was born in New York City, though he grew up in Westwood, N.J. He served in World War II as an infantry officer and was awarded both a Purple Heart and Bronze Star for his service.
Known as a lifelong scholar, Bennis received his bachelor’s degree from Antioch College in 1951 and his Ph.D from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1955. Before arriving at USC, he served as provost of the State University of New York at Buffalo and as president of the University of Cincinnati for seven years. He also held professorships at Harvard, Boston University and MIT.
In 1979, Bennis began his career at USC as a professor of business administration. In addition to his appointments of Distinguished Professor and University Professor, he received USC’s highest honor, the Presidential Medallion, in 2001
Most recently, Bennis had been working with USC President Emeritus Steve B. Sample on a book about the importance of experiencing failure in leadership. For the last 14 years, Sample and Bennis co-taught a course called, “The Art and Adventure of Leadership.”
“Warren once told me that he believed each person contained ‘many selves,’ and that the key to a successful life was to draw out our best selves and our best talents,” Dean James G. Ellis of the USC Marshall School of Business told USC News. “Rather than focusing on our shortcomings, he focused on our capacities as individuals. This belief guided his work, his relationships and his life, and is one of the main reasons that he so deeply affected everyone who had the privilege of knowing him.”
He is survived by his wife, Grace Gabe; his adult children Katherine, John and Will; and grandchildren Luke and Anya Movius, Devin Bennis, Daniel, Adam and Hanna Bennis; and stepdaughters Nina Freedman and Eden Steinberg; and step-grandchildren Nathan and Oliver Muz and Eliana and Abraham Freedman, according to USC News.
I remember Warren from my days at the USC School of Business 1980-82. I worked Ob tbe LTE for 2 years and got to know most of the undergraduate and graduate professors.  He was a visionary.  His Experiental Learning Center was awesome and on the forefront of leadership education.  God rest his soul. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
