Thousands of friends, family and guests of the 2014 graduating class gathered in front of Doheny Library Friday morning for the 131st Annual Commencement Ceremony.
Withstanding sweltering temperatures, the crowd stretched from the steps of Doheny back to Bovard Auditorium. President C.L. Max Nikias kicked off the ceremony by noting the tentative future that lie before the graduates.
Keynote speaker Marc Benioff encourages the graduating class of 2014 to give back to others and ‘Fight On’ at the 131st Annual USC Commencement Ceremony. — Joseph Chen | Daily Trojan
“The class of 2014 are graduating into times of uncertainty … but what is uncertainty?” Nikias said. “Uncertainty is the beginning of a great adventure.”
Nikias stressed that no matter where life led the students, the USC family would be by their side.
“The Trojans always seize destiny,” Nikias said. “Remember: You do not go forward alone, but with the global Trojan family.”
Nearly 16,000 students earned diplomas on Friday, and Nikias also conferred six honorary degrees to preeminent leaders in his or her respective field, including entrepreneur and philanthropist Marc Benioff, CEO and founder of salesforce.com; USC trustee and founder of Public Storage B. Wayne Hughes; television executive producer and USC alumna Shonda L. Rhimes; Nobel laureate biologist and biochemist Phillip A. Sharp; mathematician and philanthropist James A. Simons and choreographer and dancer Twlya Tharp.
Much of the ceremony took on a theme of service — stressing the importance of giving back to the surrounding community and the world at large.
The Class of 2014 Valedictorian Jana Shapiro used her speech to reflect on the past four years, and stressed that the graduates should provide change and support no matter where life takes them.
“Let’s cultivate a Trojan culture of action and spread it wherever we go,” Shapiro said.
The ceremony’s keynote address was given by entrepreneur and philanthropist Mark Benioff, best known as the CEO and founder of the cloud computing website salesforce.com.
White doves fly out from the stage following the conclusion of the 131st Annual USC Commencement Ceremony. — Joseph Chen | Daily Trojan
Benioff, a USC alumnus and trustee, reflected that after graduating from the university he took a job at Oracle Corporation, but after ten years felt lost and frustrated with his life.
“A decade went by and all of a sudden I felt kind of unmotivated, not energized, not very excited, not very inspired,” Benioff said.
He took a trip to south India with a friend of his, and during his journey he engaged with a guru who imparted wisdom on Benioff that would dictate the rest of his life.
“[She told us,] don’t forget to do something for others,” Benioff said. “I felt that I had found what I was looking for. She said that don’t forget — while we’re changing the world — don’t forget about others who are a little less well taken care of. “
That piece of advice stuck with Benioff, and it was something he stressed for the class of 2014. Referencing the university’s fencing from the outside community, he closed his speech by encouraging the graduates not to isolate themselves from those in need.
“We drove through some high fences and high gates [today] and we all know why — because only a few blocks from here are some of the most impoverished people in the world,” Benioff said.  “Don’t let those walls be a metaphor for your own life — get out there and do something for others.”
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
