Jon Walters, a freshman water polo player who contributed to USC’s record sixth straight NCAA title, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, the Orange County Register reported. He was 19.
Freshman two-meter Jon Walters, who contributed to USC’s record sixth straight NCAA title, died Wednesday. – Corey Marquetti | Daily Trojan
Walters fell into a coma on Jan. 1 and suffered a heart attack, his father told the Orange County Register.
“Jon was a great Trojan, and an outstanding young man from a wonderful family,” USC water polo head coach Jovan Vavic said in a statement. “He and his family were loved by all of us on the USC water polo team. I am deeply saddened, and I speak for our team in saying that this is a terrible loss of a friend and teammate. Our prayers go out to Jon’s family in hopes that they find comfort.”
The true freshman two-meter man contributed to USC’s title run this past season, with 17 goals on the season including two goals in a 10-3 win over St. Francis Brooklyn in the NCAA semifinal game last month. The Trojans captured their record sixth straight NCAA title on Dec. 8.
Prior to entering USC, Walters led Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif. to the 2012 CIF-Southern Section Division 1 title, was named the 2012 Player of the Year by the Orange County Register, a first team All-American and the 2012 CIF Player of the Year.
Larry Esslinger of the Orange County Sheriff’s Coroner Division told the Daily Trojan that the death certificate has yet to be signed so a cause of death cannot be determined.
“There probably won’t be an autopsy that will be done, just the doctor treating [Walters] will probably sign the death certificate,” Esslinger said.
Editor’s Note: The post has been updated to include a statement by the Orange County Sheriff’s Coroner Division.
Kate Guarino contributed to this report. 
Too young. Too soon… Rest in Peace.
Extra en Español
The student club brings together a diverse group of students weekly.
The nonprofit works with freshmen in a Marshall School of Business program. 
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
