The four defendants accused of the murder of USC graduate engineering student Xinran Ji have pleaded not guilty, according to the Los Angeles Times. 
Ji, 24, was killed after being struck with a blunt force object in the street near 29th Street and Orchard Avenue on July 24. He returned to his home on the fourth floor of City Park Apartments before succumbing to his injuries.
The teenagers charged with the murder, Jonathan Del Carmen, 19; Andrew Garcia, 18; Alberto Ochoa, 17; and Alejandra Guerrero, 16, are now being held without bail until their hearing on Sept.12.
The L.A. Times reports that it has not been decided whether the prosecution will seek the death penalty against Garcia and Del Carmen. The other two defendants, Ochoa and Guerrero, could face life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted.
Malignant and savage punks are murderers. They killed a young victim. The ages of the murderers are not excuse and licences to kill kid!
Xinran’s heart-broken parents lost their only son and have to take responsibility soothe the 80-year-old grandpas and grandmas. Think about it!
Xinran Ji is a kid of an ordinary family, the only son of his parents, and the only grandson of his grandpas and grandmas. Xinran is only 24-year-old, he is a lovely boy and outstanding student in elementary school, middle school, high school and college. His parents, grandparents and families are proud of him.
Four murder defendants kill a young life and destroy a few families. The brutal murder completely smash the dream and hope of Xinran’s parents and grandparents.
Xinran’s parents have to control their sharp pain and deep grief and back home to take care of Xinran’s grandparents, all four of them are around 80-year-old.
Killers do not make any apology. And, extremely grieved parents and grandparents have not gotten any sympathy and feel of guilt from their families so far!!!
Killers of USC student are murderous criminals. They are not innocent teens. Be honest!!!
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
