Down a goal in the NCAA title match with the clock winding down, the six-time defending national champion Trojans had the ball right where they wanted it: in senior driver Kostas Genidounias’ hands.
But USC’s all-time most prolific scorer couldn’t save the day this time, as his potential game-tying shot against the No. 1 UCLA Bruins sailed over the crossbar, and the Trojans fell by a 9-8 score.
“Originally the play was for me to go pick another player so I could get an easier defender on me,” Genidounias said after the game. “[UCLA’s] Cristiano Mirarchi has been doing a great job all season long and this game guarding me. The pick didn’t work. I was trying to work for a foul but it didn’t happen. … Last night it went. This night, today, it didn’t go. That’s what happens in sports.”
Genidounias was referring to his sudden-death overtime game-winner against Stanford one day prior, which earned the Trojans a 12-11 victory and a slot in the title match. His goal sent the Trojans into their fifth matchup against UCLA this season. Of the first four, UCLA won three and USC one once, so the players knew they had their work cut out for them.
Indeed, the Trojans never led in the championship match, going down 2-0 early and 3-1 after that. The young USC team was on its heels most of the match, but had come from behind against Stanford as well, so the players never gave up.
Down 4-2 at halftime, the Trojans burst out of the gates in the third quarter with a quick goal by freshman driver Matteo Morelli. In similar fashion, Genidounias scored in the first seconds of the fourth period to bring the score to 7-5.
USC head coach Jovan Vavic sang the praises of his players for showing such resilience.
“I’m very proud of my boys,” Vavic said. “I think they are warriors, they are fighters. They gave it all they got.”
The Trojans showed their fight all the way until the end of the game. Though not accustomed to being underdogs, the team reveled in the chance to mount a comeback. In the fourth period, Genidounias and senior driver Marc Vonderweidt led the charge and tied things up at 7-7. UCLA quickly scored again, but Vonderweidt put another goal on the goal to even it at 8-8 with just under three minutes left in the game.
Though Vavic said in his post-game press conference that he thought USC would win after the last equalizer, Vonderweidt said he had to keep his emotions in check after he scored.
“You try to take every play one step at a time,” he said. “You don’t want to get too ahead of yourself. Obviously, after a goal like that, momentum’s kind of in your favor, so you try to roll with it and take it as far as you can, but you take it one step at a time.”
Momentum might have been in USC’s favor, but everything can change in an instant, as the game did when UCLA’s Danny McClintick rifled in a shot from close with just 34 seconds remaining in the match.
The Trojans had trouble containing McClintick all day, as he finished with four goals — the only Bruin with more than one.
With no timeouts left, the Trojans made their final drive, but couldn’t come up with another equalizer, allowing the Bruins to walk away with their first men’s water polo championship since 2004.
Genidounias and Vonderweidt scored two goals apiece in their last game as Trojans. Morelli also added a goal, as did freshmen utility men James Walters and Mihajlo Milicevic, and sophomore driver Nick Bell.
The Trojans finished the season with a 24-7 record and a 6-2 mark in conference play, while UCLA went undefeated in MPSF play and capped off a 29-3 season.
USC’s Genidounias finished the year with 82 goals and ended his USC career with 261 goals, surpassing Vavic’s son, Nikola Vavic, as the Trojans’ all-time leading scorer.
“We’ve never had a player like Kostas,” Coach Vavic said. “He’s the most unique player I’ve ever had and he’s the best player this program ever had. He carried us this season and has been the boy with character, toughness, [and he’s] unselfish. Everything you can ask of a player. I’m gonna miss him — we’re gonna miss him.”
In addition to Genidounias and Vonderweidt, it was the last game at USC for senior driver Rex Butler and senior two-meter Max Hurst-Mendoza. The Trojans will only lose these four players to graduation, and will be stacked with talent in the years to come.
Freshman goalie McQuin Baron racked up six big saves in the game, and will likely be one of the strongholds for a Trojan team with a very bright future.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
