Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
I’ve been to 44 different coffee shops in the last nine months, and I can honestly say that the Los Angeles coffee culture, though booming, is pretty average. I hate to say it because I feel like the entire city prides itself on being the cooler, less-intimidating, older cousin of more established coffee communities, but darn if I haven’t been super underwhelmed by the quality I’ve been dealt.
That being said, let me introduce you to Stumptown Coffee Roasters. Stumptown is a Portland-based coffee company that has made their way into caffeine-dependent cities such as Seattle, New York and, most recently, Los Angeles.
Like all DTLA hotspots, parking at Stumps (as I affectionately call it) is nothing short of nightmare. If you can’t parallel park, take an Uber; if you suck at directions, take a friend; if you’re afraid of jay walking/urban landscapes/exposed brick buildings … why are you in Downtown? The less-than-ideal parking situation is forgiven by open seating, cute lil’ succulents and the collegiate dream of outlets as far as the eye can see. Across the register is a modestly decorated standing bar for quick shots of espresso and grab-and-go businesspeople. There’s also indoor and outdoor seating for those who ritualize their java. Behind the register is an enormous glass window featuring the shop’s roasting area, one that subconsciously showcases how important the actual roasting is beyond the whole Instagrammable furniture aesthetic.
But who cares about that — let’s get to the espresso. Despite my great aversion to mochas, I decided to get a large one because 1) why not, and 2) Stumptown is known for their cold brew so why on Earth would I make the good decision to order that? (Ah, retrospect.) Needless to say, I absolutely dreaded taking my first sip because, uggghhh mochas what have I done? I don’t even like chocolate.
I forgot that mochas weren’t intended to taste like sweaty hot chocolate laced with overwhelming waves of sugar and sadness. Good ol’ Stumps, comin’ clutch with a harmonious blend of espresso and chocolate that didn’t make me want to gouge my eyes out from the excessive sweetness of chocolate or the shock of bitter espresso. I might even go as far as saying that the delectable Stumptown mocha has piqued my interest in coffee shop drinks that are neither lattes nor pour overs.
So massive shout out to Stumptown. They took something I typically hate and gave me a pretty stellar experience. Since they successfully flipped my anti-mocha taste buds, I’m looking at them to reform my coffee opinions. Who knows, maybe they can get me to start liking cold brew.
Stumptown Coffee Roasters is located at 806 South Santa Fe Avenue, Los Angeles.
Jackie Mayuga is a junior majoring in applied and computational mathematics. Her blog column, #JackieLikesJava, runs every Saturday.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that Stumptown Coffee Roasters is based in Seattle, Washington. Stumptown is based in Portland, Oregon. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.  
Stumptown isn’t from Seattle. They’re from Portland. And tbh, as much accolades as they’ve received, they’re slight underachievers compared to the rest of their peers.
Ooh, you’re right. Not sure how I switched those two around.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
