Adoree’ Jackson may play both offense and defense on the field, but his versatility stretches well beyond football.
The USC sophomore standout will pursue a spot in the upcoming 2016 Olympics as a long jumper.
As a result, Jackson has been excused from spring practice by head coach Clay Helton in order to focus on track and field.
“I’ve always believed if you’re going to be a master at something, you’ve got to work at it — and don’t be a jack of all trades,” Helton told the Los Angeles Times. “When you get the opportunity to go work for the Olympics, you need to go work at that.”
Jackson managed to attend both spring football and track practices as a freshman, when he won the Pac-12 Conference long-jump title. But for now, his sole focus will be on preparing for the U.S. Olympic trials held July 1-10 next year in Eugene, Oregon.
“If it was up to me — where my heart is — I would want to go out there,” Jackson said to the Los Angeles Times. “I’ll just see what’s best overall for me and for the team.”
In addition, Jackson revealed that he will relinquish his duties on offense and play only on the defensive side of the ball moving forward.
Jackson has started at cornerback the last two seasons for the Trojans, but has been used occasionally on offense as a wide receiver. During the 2015 season, Jackson recorded 31 tackles and an interception on defense and 382 receiving yards on 24 receptions on offense.
He will, however, continue to serve as a kick returner. Jackson averaged 22.9 yards on kick returns and 10.9 yards on punt returns in 2015. 
Jackson’s absence from spring practice means he will have to catch up on learning a new system with USC still looking to fill its vacant defensive coordinator position. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
