Spring semester of junior year is a popular time for college students to pack their bags and set out for foreign adventures. I remember being at USC (being one of the few in my peer group that decided to stay at school) and looking at the captivating Instagram photos of my friends riding camels in Morocco, having morning tea in England and taking artsy mural photos in Italy. Studying abroad seemed like a carefree, easy task – filled with complete and utter happiness.
Now in my senior year, I am currently studying abroad in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Though living abroad is an incredible opportunity, there are some things that Instagram photos just won’t show you.
Studying abroad isn’t easy. There are a million things that are involved with studying in a foreign country. New food, new culture, new language and transferring credits are just a few of the many things that can be mentally, emotionally and physically draining.
During my first month here in Brazil, it was really difficult adjusting to the Brazilian diet (so much so that I ended up losing 10 pounds, which I’m not necessarily complaining about.) Breakfast usually consists of bread and a fruit – which left me feeling hungry again very quickly. Brazilians also eat a lot of salty, fried snacks (called salgados) that I soon grew tired of. I missed the diversity and big portions of American food that I was accustomed to, but having completed my first month in Brazil, I’ve now found ways to make the Brazilian diet work for me.
Your preconceived notions (and those of your peers) about the country you’re going to visit are probably wrong. Before traveling to Brazil, the media, my family and friends made me believe that I was traveling to an exotic place in the middle of the Amazon, plagued with violence and drug and human trafficking. This couldn’t be farther from the truth. I feel very safe in Rio de Janeiro, which yes, is an actual functioning city with public transportation, people driving cars, shopping centers, businesses, educational institutions, etc. Like any place you travel to, you should be aware of your surroundings and be cautious of traveling by yourself at night, but I haven’t experienced any more danger in Rio than back at school in L.A.
You will be put out of your comfort zone, but that isn’t always a bad thing.  It’s not a secret that Brazilians spend a lot of their time at the beach. One of the first things I noticed was what tiny bathing suits women and men wear at the beach. The “fio dental” (dental floss) bikini stereotype is very real for many Brazilian women. Coming from the United States, where retro, high-waisted bathing suits are currently the trend, it made me uncomfortable both seeing and showing so much of the human body in broad daylight. Nevertheless, I’ve come to respect how Brazilians view the human body. Instead of finding it shameful, they treat it as something to be admired – which I’ve found to be very liberating.
Lastly, an Instagram picture can’t possibly sum up your experience studying abroad. Studying abroad in Rio de Janeiro has given me time to appreciate the world around me, not just the one in my phone. Take the time to truly experience the country you’re traveling to and you’ll soon realize just how great studying abroad really is. (Plus, if you’re going to a place like Brazil, sometimes your Internet won’t work so you won’t even be able to check your social media pages.)
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
