
Sit tight and grab a cup of coffee, Daily Trojan readers, because you are in for a long, highly requested review of one of my favorite coffee shops. 
Due to unfortunate circumstances in timing before my freshman year, I lived in Trojan Hall. While the Yelp reviews were not particularly enticing, I had to make do with what I had and embrace my new home.
Unknown to me when I moved in, Trojan Hall sits right outside of a cute little USC legend known as Ground Zero Performance Café. In case you live under a rock, Ground Zero is an entirely student-run, on-campus coffee shop that reels in caffeine-junkies and soda-fans alike through creatively named coffees, milkshakes and barista inventions. They serve Groundwork Coffee and have recently added a number of new shakes (and cold brew coffee) to their ever-expanding menu.
If you live around campus, GZ is best reached via bike, board or foot, because unless you have a parking pass or street parking luck, you’re headed towards $10 day parking or a parking meter quarter dump.
Granted, I didn’t drink coffee during the first two years of undergrad so my early exposure to GZ was entirely caffeine-free. I remember my first drink like it was yesterday: The Bore. As the menu describes it, it’s “just some Oreos” in milkshake form, which I am definitely all about. It’s pretty impossible to mess up making a milkshake that consists only of Oreos and ice cream, so if you feel like playing it really, really safe, I’d say go for it.
My first non-caffeinated drink from Ground Zero was a vanilla cappuccino. Actually, my first cappuccino ever was from Ground Zero. Not sure if it was how well it was made, the fact that I was determined to pull an all-nighter, or that I was really excited to have accepted espresso into my life, but I kinda sorta accidentally downed three large vanilla cappuccinos. I only didn’t sleep for two days. But it’s chill.
More recently equipped with a caffeine tolerance not in the negatives, I’ve been delving into some custom drinks. Thanks to a combination of being friends with GZ baristas and a finicky palate, the Freddo (a.k.a. my favorite espresso drink in the world) has unofficially nestled its way into my campus life. Ask for a double shot of espresso over ice with raw sugar and honey, and shake it until foamy. Your life will change for the better, and if I’m being honest, I’m trying subtly hard to get in on the secret menu and renamed in my honor.
As its on campus, GZ is a fantastic place to get work done. It has an abundance of outlets, comfy couches and, despite the black interior, ambient lighting. During Study Days and Finals Week, Ground Zero halts all music and shows and reopens as “Sound Zero,” ensuring on-campus students get a chance to snag a great cuppa and study in peace. When it’s not up to the brim with stressed-out students, you can head over to Open Mic Night every Monday, or sporadically scheduled culture and music events throughout the semester. It’s a wonderful place to host casual interviews, catch up with old friends, bring your parents while they’re visiting (so they can pay for you) or go on that first date with that dude/lady from your GE class you finally asked out (I’m writing this review from Ground Zero, and I am watching this very thing happen right in front of me in the most uncomfortable way).
My only trepidation with GZ is their milkshake pricing. As far as espresso and coffee go, they are relatively cheap, which is a huge plus as a poor college student, but considering the cheapest shake is $4.50, I’m not sure they’re worth the calories. That being said, I’m always down to support local baristas, especially those at ’SC. I’m a fan of coming in during peak hours because that’s when their best baristas are at the bar, but if you want to help out the newer guys practice, then stop by mid-afternoon. It’s not a huge disparity, just a slight disconnect between “amazing espresso” and “good espresso.” Win-win either way.
Find your next Ground Zero favorite at 615 Childs Way, Los Angeles, CA 90007. Maybe I’ll see you there! 
Jackie Mayuga is a junior majoring in applied and computational mathematics. Her blog column, #JackieLikesJava, runs every Saturday.
Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
