Mariya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
USC is allowing former USC footballer Bryce Dixon to re-enroll in the university after a Los Angeles Superior Court judge put his expulsion on hold Wednesday, but he will not be put back on the football team. 
“While we will comply with the judge’s order staying the expulsion, Mr. Dixon will not be reinstated as a student-athlete,” a USC statement read.
Dixon, a rising sophomore who was a tight end during the 2014 season, was expelled in May following two alleged cases of sexual misconduct in October with a female USC student who also worked as an athletic trainer.
He was found to have violated USC’s “affirmative consent” policy for one of the incidents, according to Dixon’s filed petition.
But Judge Robert H. O’Brien ruled against the expulsion in light of concerns regarding USC’s investigative and hearing processes and due process, according to the Los Angeles Times.
USC issued a statement Wednesday defending their decision to expel Dixon.
“The University stands by its student disciplinary processes that were conducted in compliance with state and federal regulations and its decisions in this case,” it stated. “We will carefully evaluate the judge’s written order once it is issued in order to determine our next steps.”
The decision comes just as fall football training camp gets underway. The team starts the 2015 season against Arkansas State on Sept. 5, and Dixon told the Los Angeles Times that he hopes to rejoin the team.
After practice Wednesday, Sarkisian would not specify if Dixon will be returning. The former tight end played in 12 games last semester with 14 catches and four touchdowns.
Sarkisian said he wants what is best for his players and deferred to the administration.
“As the University makes their decision, then we’ll make ours,” he said.
Editor’s Note: This article has been updated to reflect Dixon’s re-enrollment.
 
I read Dixon’s statements and it sure sound as if USC’s Title XII person is inexperienced, biased and exposing USC to a well-deserved lawsuit.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
