Maya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
Not even a full day has passed since the Trojans fell to Stanford in the Pac-12 title game, and head coach Clay Helton is already making major changes to his coaching staff. On Sunday, Helton announced the firings of four assistant coaches including defensive coordinator Justin Wilcox, defensive line coach Chris Wilson, defensive backs coach Keith Heyward and offensive line coach Bob Connelly.
“Today I did make the decision to make some staff changes,” Helton said on a conference call Sunday night.
Helton, who had his interim tag removed last Monday, said that he expects all other coaches, including wide receivers coach Tee Martin, linebackers coach Peter Sirmon, running backs coach Johnny Nansen and quarterbacks/ tight ends coach Marques Tuiasosopo, to be retained on staff going into next season.
Maya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
The assistant coaches that were dismissed will not coach in or leading up to the bowl game, according to Helton, and he said that he has a plan in place to fill the voids with the team’s current staff.
Maya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
Helton also announced that he will not call plays next season, which means that USC will now be in the market for an offensive coordinator. This way, Helton, who was handed the play calling duties by Steve Sarkisian this year, said that he can concentrate on being the team’s CEO.
“You get the opportunity to be the head coach of USC one time,” Helton said.
Maya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
As for the defensive side of the ball, which now has three coaching openings, Helton said he has not hired any new assistants, though he will be looking at all avenues. He would not confirm whether he had spoken to former defensive line coach Ed Orgeron or defensive coordinator Clancy Pendergast about returning to USC.
The Trojans found out earlier on Sunday that they will be heading down south to San Diego for the second straight year to play Wisconsin in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 3o.
 
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
