Police are investigating a series of sexual battery offenses that have occurred near the University Park campus within the past month. Each instance concerned inappropriate touching of a victim’s buttocks.
The instances have occurred between Feb. 21 and March 13, often on The Row outside sorority houses. At least four of the offenses are believed to have been committed by the same male suspect, and the Los Angeles Police Department released two sketches on Tuesday from descriptions provided by the victims.
The male suspect is described to be either Hispanic or East Asian, between 16 and 21 years old with black short hair in a “spiked” style. He is around 5-feet 8-inches tall and weighs between 140-160 pounds. (Photo courtesy of LAPD facebook)
“The University condemns sexual assault in all forms,” said USC Dept. of Public Safety Deputy Chief David Carlisle. “USC Public Safety is working closely with the LAPD in investigating these series of sexual batteries. When the person responsible is captured, they will be held accountable.”
The first reported offense took place on the 3000 block of Hoover Boulevard just after 11 p.m. on Feb. 21. A staff member was approached by a male from behind,  who then lifted her skirt, spanked her on the buttocks and promptly fled.
Just two days later on Exposition Boulevard and Trousdale Parkway, a female victim was approached at around 10 p.m. by a male jogger who groped her buttocks, then ran away.
The offenses then spread to the Row and nearby student housing.
On Feb. 27 at 3:20 p.m. on the sidewalk in front of the Gamma Phi Beta sorority house on 28th Street, a man walked past the female victim, then proceeded to turn around and slap her on the buttocks.
On March 5 at 11:55 a.m., three females were walking on the north side of 30th Street near Hoover Street. A male suspect approached them from behind, whispered to one of the students, and then slapped her buttock. The suspect quickly fled afterward.
The fifth offense happened just after 2 a.m. on March 8. A female student was walking with three others in the alley behind the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house when they were approached by a man riding a bicycle. The man slapped the one female student on the buttocks and rode away.
Two days later, a female victim was walking with her friend when they were approached by a group of four to five hispanic males on a sidewalk outside the Alpha Phi sorority house, just before 7 p.m. The males were all on bicycles, and one of them reached out and slapped the victim on her buttocks. The bicyclists quickly fled the scene.
On that same day and reported at the same time, a female victim was approached by two Hispanic males riding BMX style bicycles near the Mirage Apartments on  W. 30th Street. In a similar fashion, one of the bicyclists slapped the female victim “harshly” on the buttocks, and then fled.
The following day at approximately 12:20 a.m., a female victim was approached on 30th Street and Shrine Place by a man jogging. The man came up behind her and grabbed her buttocks, then fled on foot.
The most recent offense occurred on March 13 in the 3100 block of Hoover Street at approximately 9:24 p.m., when a man approaching the female victim from the opposite direction slapped her on the buttocks.
Carlisle said that the offenses from a group of males riding bicycles did not appear to be
related to the male suspect pursued by LAPD. He assured that the two departments are working to apprehend those responsible.
“I want to emphasize that we take these assaults very seriously as does the LAPD and we will continue [to work] around the clock to investigate these matters,” Carlisle said.
Some students on campus have expressed fear regarding the attacks, especially considering that no suspect has yet to be apprehended.
“It is definitely unsettling to hear that there is an individual who is continually able to get away with sexual battery in an area that students are supposed to feel safe,” said Lessa Danzek, a junior majoring in political science. “I am satisfied with the way DPS has handled it thus far. I hope that everyone, especially girls, will be extra careful when they are out — I know I will be.”
Anastasia Velicescu, an undeclared sophomore, expressed her discontent that these offenses are happening near campus.
“This is a really disturbing and immature action,” Velicescu said. “It’s not acceptable for this stranger to be sexually harassing girls. This is an educational community which shouldn’t be disrupted by such inappropriate behavior.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
