A tumultuous season will come to an end for USC on Wednesday night when the Trojans take on the Wisconsin Badgers in the Holiday Bowl in San Diego.
The Trojans, who come in with an 8-5 record, are making their second consecutive appearance in the Holiday Bowl. They defeated Nebraska 45-42 last year.
Since then, USC has undergone another season filled with controversy and subplots, namely Clay Helton replacing Steve Sarkisian as head coach following Sarkisian’s dismissal five games into the season.
But the Trojans completed the regular season 5-2 under Helton, finishing one win shy of a Rose Bowl appearance after falling to Stanford in the Pac-12 Championship Game.
They will settle for a return trip to Qualcomm Stadium against a Wisconsin team that boasts a 9-3 record but has yet to beat a team over .500. The Badgers finished third in the Big Ten West Division behind Northwestern and Iowa.
USC’s explosive offense will have its hands full facing an impressive Wisconsin defense, which is the stingiest in the nation, allowing just 13.1 points per game. The Badgers also rank third in total defense, allowing 267.1 yards per game. Conversely, the Trojans average 34.9 points and 449.6 yards per game.
“[Wisconsin’s] front seven is without question one of the best we’ve gone against all year,” Helton said in a press conference on Tuesday. “They bring them from everywhere, field backer, inside backer, boundary backer. Very, very well coached defense, going to be a great challenge for us.”
It will also be a test for USC’s coaching staff, which is in flux after Helton fired four assistants following the Dec. 5 loss to Stanford in the conference championship game: defensive coordinator Justin Wilcox, defensive line coach Chris Wilson, defensive backs coach Keith Heyward and offensive line coach Bob Connelly.
Peter Sirmon, the linebackers coach, will fill in for Wilcox and call defensive plays. Helton will call plays on offense one final time before handing over the reigns to Tee Martin, the wide receivers coach who was promoted to offensive coordinator two weeks ago.
USC will likely be without starting cornerback Kevon Seymour (ankle) and wide receiver Isaac Whitney (collarbone). Starting left tackle Chad Wheeler, who was involved in an incident with police on Dec. 19, did not travel with the team.
The Trojans have won six of their last seven bowl games, while the Badgers have dropped four of their last five.
Though USC is 6-0 all-time against Wisconsin, the two schools have not faced each other since 1966. The most memorable matchup happened in 1963, when the No. 1 ranked Trojans defeated the No. 2 ranked Badgers in the Rose Bowl.
Still, the matchup features two programs ripe with history.
“I see it as one of the premier games in the college bowl experience this year,” Helton said. “When you talk about the tradition of USC and the tradition of Wisconsin, what two quality teams they are, and then you put it in prime time…what a great game for the nation, and what a great game for our two programs.”
Kick-off is set for 7:30 in San Diego and the game will be televised on ESPN.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
