Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
Like most STEM majors, I go through each school day, lecture and basically every living moment of my life not knowing what I’m doing. What day is it? What on Earth is the significance of an eigenvector? Why does everyone assign more hours of homework than there are in a day?  
On that note, I find that my feeble attempts at excessively difficult quantitative courses can only be remedied with good vibes and a productive atmosphere. Enter LaB Coffee and Roasters. That’s right, folks. LaB, as in LaBoratory. Unsystematic capitalization, yes, but with the experience I’ve had, I’d say they can do whatever they want.
LaB is in the middle of strip mall-ish area with an absolutely abhorrent parking lot. Not only are the spaces small, but it’s always full and apparently the people in this parking lot learned how to drive yesterday because I swear, they were making up their own parking lines.
Besides that, LaB has an infectiously studious vibe. No one was there when my roommate and I showed up, but they have long, community-style tables and a profusion of outlets. Conical flasks and test tubes line the walls. More pros: free, consistent Wi-Fi for days and an expansive library of coffee and espresso related books to read during your stay. And, even cooler than that, they serve their pour overs in beakers! It might be a little extra, but I gotta hand it to them for the consistency — it’s literally a laboratory for coffee.
Unfortunately, I did not get a cool beaker pour over because I hate drinking pour overs in hot weather. They’re more of my winter drink, but that’s an entirely different story. I, in (old!) Jackie tradition, got a vanilla latte. Which was a huge mistake because I think this might have been the latte to turn me off of all lattes forever. It wasn’t bad by any means, but good God, how many vanilla lattes can a single person have before they explode? I kind of expected better quality though, especially considering that they roast their own coffee. When that’s the case, I think I have the right to have high expectations!
Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
Regardless, LaB is a great place to study. Coffee is pretty average, but I will definitely be going back to get my hands on an affogato before the fall weather hits us hard (hahah, who am I kidding? It’s going to be hot forever). If you’re looking for a quiet space with very few students, I’d recommend it. It’s close enough that it only takes a quick drive, but far enough to weed out the extra lazy. It’s a win-win.
Check LaB out!
LaB Coffee and Roasters is located at 429 N Western Ave., Ste 5, Los Angeles, CA 90004.
Jackie Mayuga is a junior majoring in applied and computational mathematics. Her blog column,#JackieLikesJava, runs every Saturday.
Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
