Photo courtesy of etsy.com
“These have been the best years of my life.”
“I’ve met all my best college friends here.”
“I can’t imagine living anywhere else during this time.”
I lived in a dorm for three years in Madrid, and these are just some of the typical quotes you hear from people who have gone through that experience. I know they are not exaggerating at all. Moving from high school to college is definitely a big change, but living in a dorm during this period makes it even more fascinating.
I’ve found that many American university students live in dorms as well. Fraternities and sororities are popular, too. However, for this comparison other housing options can work as well. What is most important is the experience of living with other students in the same building or residency. Cohabitating is a must for the full college experience.
First of all, it allows you to meet new people. One of the things I loved the most about living with other students, is that it allowed me to become immersed in a diverse community.  Being in Madrid, the biggest city in the country, right in the center of Spain, my dorm brought people from all around the country together. I think the same is true for housing at USC. Living in a dorm at USC has allowed me to meet people from different places around the U.S., as well as from other parts of the globe. Having multi-cultural friends  — apart from being exciting and giving you a great excuse to visit new places — is an enriching experience.
When you share a room, kitchen, study times, parties and much more, you not only build closer your friendships, but also gain independence in a way. I felt that my time in the dorm was a perfect transition from teenage to adult life. My parents were not there all the time any longer, but I still had the support of other students who were in the same situation as me. Living in a dorm, in a fraternity house or suite with other students will teach you lessons you will never get in a classroom.
If you live in a dorm or Greek house, you will have opportunities that you would never have if you lived in a lonely apartment. When you meet people with whom you share interests and goals, you’re bound to organize and participate in trips, events and other activities that take your college life to another level.
However, there is also criticism about this style of living, particularly in my experience at my home university. In Spain, some people complain about what we call ‘novatadas,’ a period of a few weeks at the beginning of the year during which the new residents of dorms have to go through funny, ridiculous activities to get to know each other. Personally, I enjoyed my ‘novatadas’ a lot, as they were a great way to meet new friends and get involved in the dorm life. At USC, there is also criticism. I have heard people blaming greek life housing for encouraging students to develop unhealthy habits. However, from the little that I’ve learned about these organizations, I am pretty sure that they are more of a positive influence than a negative one; although they do need to be managed to ensure this. 
I still remember that day, in early September of 2012, a few minutes before entering my dorm for the first time. I was really nervous, I did not know exactly what to expect. When I left that place for the last time six months ago, I honestly thought I was leaving part of my heart there. However, living in student housing at USC, I’ve created another home here.
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
