Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
If I had to choose between espresso and food, I’d probably choose espresso. If I had the option of having both, I’d choose Comoncy.
Tucked away on Bedford Drive with the likes of Go Greek Yogurt, Pressed Juicery, Bedford & Burns and Anastasia Beverly Hills Salon lies Comoncy, a little corner café serving up espresso, pastries, sandwiches and salads. Beverly Hills is their location, opened in February 2014. A year later, a second shop was opened in Scottsdale, Arizona, and in May, another one in Studio City, California. 
Due to its location on one of the hottest streets of Beverly Hills, you’re bound to run into horrendous parking and one of those celebrities that’s only famous for being famous (apparently one of the Housewives of Beverly Hills hangs out there, but I wouldn’t be able to point her out if she was standing right in front of me). Driving to the area is a near-impossible feat for first-timers in the area — it’s a one-way street you need to know how to navigate to, and it’s going to be a rough day of parallel meter parking for you if you miss the parking structure (which grants you two free hours).
Even though they’re a very small (read: narrow) café, it’s hard to miss them. In the middle of a sea of black and white awnings, Comoncy sticks out with a stark orange one. They carry that same orange throughout the interior (and even onto their loyalty cards and website), giving the entire space a very comforting sense of cohesion. Sadly, there’s no Wi-Fi at this location, so I do not recommend it for work. I’d value it as more of a good place to catch up with some old friends and chat before heading out to Rodeo Drive just a couple blocks east.
Let me put this as simply as possible: they have an a-maz-ing menu. From espresso to coffee to their stellar sandwiches, I always find myself getting a different combination because I want to try everything! So far, my personal favorite has been the Egg-Cellent Breakfast sandwich (available all day, thank the Breakfast Gods), and an iced vanilla latte. Definitely a flawless pick-me-up for any time of the day, and it’s just the right serving size to get me through the work day.
If you thought that their selection of paninis, croissants, Gibraltars, parfaits and kale salads would mean that they weren’t cheap, you’d be right. That being said, I’d say you get what you pay for. Sure the aforementioned combo costs somewhere around the $15 mark, but I’m rarely ever disappointed by my orders; and if I ever am, it’s because I ordered something I knew I wasn’t going to like anyway (shoutout to the kale salad).
Unfortunately, their espresso isn’t consistent. Depending on the time and day you go and the barista at the bar, it’s hit or miss. I’ve found that the best time to go is on a Monday or Wednesday around 3 o’clock. Despite that, their customer service gets 5/5 stars. Neil the Sandwich Guy, as he probably isn’t called, is always infectiously happy and if you get on his good side, he’ll hook you up with that free guac. What a saint.
If you’re in the area, definitely check out Comoncy and be sure to grab a loyalty card while you’re at it. Once you find your favorite combination, you’ll be back before you know it!
Comoncy is located at 413 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills, CA 90210.
Jackie Mayuga is a junior majoring in applied and computational mathematics. Her blog column,#JackieLikesJava, runs every Saturday.
Jackie Mayuga | Daily Trojan
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
