In Los Angeles, you’re probably not going to experience the frigid temperatures and heavy snowfall of the East Coast, but that’s no reason to miss out on the holiday cheer of the winter season. Regardless of whether or not you celebrate a winter holiday, the City of Angels has many bright lights and spectacles to get you feeling like you’re walking in a winter wonderland rather than baking in desert heat.
Photo courtesy of www.lazoo.org
When all the animals fall asleep and cozy up in their sanctuaries, you can snuggle up in a sweater and visit the Los Angeles Zoo in Griffith Park to witness a winter wonderland of lights. Once you enter the zoo, the bushes, trees and even lampposts are all wrapped up with dazzling lights that lead you to the main exhibits. As you walk through the zoo, you will find yourself immersed in a world or colorful light sculptures depicting zoo animals and winter fun. Whether you’re walking through a maze of light or sitting in the café enjoying a hot chocolate while you take in the displays, you’re bound to have a great trip to the Los Angeles Zoo.
Price: $13 Adult Tickets
Open: Daily through Jan. 3, 6 – 10 p.m.
Photo courtesy of shoppingcenterweekly.com
Don’t be fooled — this outdoor shopping mall isn’t just a place to pick up your last-minute gifts. It’s the perfect place to spend an entire evening while taking in the winter festivities.
With multiple sit-in restaurants and quick meal options, The Grove offers a wide variety of dinner options before you begin marathon shopping and looking at the lights display. As you finish dinner, you can stroll down the main street at the center of the shopping center to view a hundred foot tall Christmas tree. If you arrive at 7 p.m. or 8 p.m., you can even experience snowfall with their daily snowflake attraction. Other holiday entertainment such as musical performances and dancers are also available at certain times in the shopping center.
Price: Free!
Open: 10 a.m. – 9 p.m. most days
Photo courtesy of pinterest.com
If the ordinary glamor of Beverly Hills and Rodeo Drive don’t entice you enough, the holiday decorations and lights certainly will have you driving over immediately! The streets will be lined with holiday lights and decorations as a shuttle takes you down the street with Santa and Mrs. Claus on board.
Get in your last-minute holiday shopping while taking in the spectacular lights. You might also get the chance to walk in on numerous musical performances that occur throughout the holiday season at Two Rodeo or the Paley Center for Media. If the lights don’t capture your attention, the shopping and entertainment certainly will.
Price: Varies with attraction
Open: Varies with attraction
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
