It has now been eight months since Wallis Annenberg Hall first opened its doors, and along with the five-story, 88,000 square foot headquarters for the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, came the two women at its helm —Sarah Banet-Weiser, director of the School of Communications, and Willow Bay, director of the School of Journalism — who assumed their roles just before the start of the 2014-2015 academic year.
In their time since taking office, they’ve strived to steer the massive ship that is the Annenberg school into the unchartered waters of the rapidly changing media world.
“Every time you have a change in leadership, you have an opportunity to shift the direction of the department,” Banet-Weiser said.
TWO WORLDS, ONE TEAM 
 Banet-Weiser first arrived at the University Park campus as an assistant professor in 1999. In the 15 years since then, she quickly became an integral cog in the Annenberg machine, one that has worked to surge the school’s reputation alongside the greater university.
In 2014, when Banet-Weiser’s predecessor Larry Gross chose to step down after 11 years in the role, he specifically sought out Banet-Weister as his successor. Gross believed she synthesized the innate benefits of an inside hire with a passionate commitment to diversifying the communication program, and lauded her first year in the position.
“She’s doing a terrific job, which is what I expected,” Gross said. “Sarah came up through the ranks, she knows the school well, she knows all the players, and my part in all of this was realizing a few years ago she was the best person to do the job.”
And alongside the communication director’s appointment was Bay, an outside hire with two decades of broadcast experience as an anchor and correspondent on ABC, CNN and NBC, as well as an array of other cable networks. Most recently, she was a senior editor for the Huffington Post and a special correspondent for Bloomberg Television.
Upon her appointment, then USC Provost Elizabeth Garrett remarked that Bay’s arrival “…mark[ed] a moment of transformation for our School of Journalism.”
But the most transformative marker of Annenberg’s past year is the synergy that has formed between the school’s two department heads, something unexpected considering the differing worlds between the academia and practice.
“I didn’t know Willow, so I couldn’t imagine what it would be like to partner with someone and it’s just been working out really well,” Banet-Weiser said.
Sarah Banet Weiser (left) and WIllow Bay (right) believe they’ve brought a new energy to the Annenberg School, something they’ve noted parents, students and alumni have picked up on. (Mariya Dondonyan / Daily Trojan)
The two shared how parents, students and alumni alike have witnessed, caught on and fed off the two’s energy. Banet Weiser jokingly refers to their appearances together as the ‘Willow and Sarah Show,’ and Bay affectionately calls Banet-Weiser her “academic advisor,” a modest nod in deference to the latter’s longtime Annenberg career.
“Sarah and I very visibly function as a team,” Bay said. “And I think, frankly, faculty and students just see that partnership and that sense of team work and it becomes the norm. I think that’s the new norm here.”
COLLABORATION AMONG FRIENDS 
Ushering in a new era at Annenberg with their burgeoning partnership, both Bay and Banet-Weiser sought to expand the cross collaboration between their two departments early on.
“When you have two new directors who like working together and have very similar ideas, it makes a lot more sense to do cross-school collaboration,” Banet-Weiser said.
The duo has formalized classes into the curriculum that combine the faculty and knowledge of both schools. One class, for example, Bay and Banet-Weiser will be jointly teaching: a Maymester course which will take a group of students to New York City to study and visit the centers of communication, journalism and public relations. Some of the proposed stops are ABC News, The New York Times and NBC Universal.
One class that concerned navigating media and news in the digital age, Bay said, was so successful that it will likely be part of the journalism school’s revamped undergraduate curriculum in the near future.
And in keeping with Annenberg’s first year of having two women directors, the two have placed considerable stress on diversity, developing the Institute for Diversity and Empowerment at Annenberg (IDEA), a research center which examines inclusivity across media industries.
“I think we’re a very visible framing of a new face and a more diverse face in what has traditionally been the senior leadership of the school,” Bay said.
Sarah Banet-Weiser and Willow Bay discussed with Daily Trojan Managing Editor Matt Lemas their first year as directors, specifically their burgeoning collaborations between the Journalism and Communication department. (Mariya Dondonyan / Daily Trojan)
The tandem between an outsider and an insider, they said, has often proved beneficial: Banet-Weiser’s background in Annenberg had her more equipped in navigating channels of hierarchy and knowing what is “allowed” within the school, while Bay has brought a new wave of thinking that Banet-Weiser says “challenge dominant traditions.”
Overall, the two shared that a feeling of great change has encapsulated the school, both in tangible and atmospheric means. Such a feeling can be expected in the face of new management and new infrastructure, but what has surprised them both was how willing their cohorts were to get beside them in this transformation, to follow the march of the school’s new direction toward media convergence and curriculum shifts.
“People were very eager to embrace change, more than I expected,” Bay said. “People were eager to seize the opportunity of the new building and the new program, to relinquish their fiefdoms, break through the silos of their individual platforms and collaborate.”
THE WORLD AHEAD
As Annenberg’s seniors graduate this week and enter the workforce, their degrees will undergo a more discerning eye. Banet-Weiser and Bay are confident recruiters will look favorably upon majors that they believe provide a transferrable skill set based in the most fundamental human activity: communication.
“Communication is seen as broad discipline because it is a broad discipline,” Banet-Weiser said. “But the opportunities it provides are very far reaching. It’s hard to brand communication, but the reasons why it’s hard to brand it as a discipline defines its richness.”
And the journalism world has faced an upheaval in the past decade, as print revenues sour and readers increasingly digest their news in rapidly changing ways. Media consumption is heavy through the use of computers, mobile and tablet, but often lacking in sufficient revenue. It has provided a consistent challenge for professional journalism schools to match their curriculum to this shifting media landscape, as well as prove to students and their parents that their school’s arsenal is a worthwhile investment.
Bay, however, is not scared. Confident in the degree’s worth,  she boldly noted the benefits of a journalism degree:  its skills of research, contextualization, verification, communication and dissemination to a global audience.
“You need to tell me what that doesn’t prepare you to do in this world,” she said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
