USC is 5-0 for the first time since 2001 after it upset No.20-ranked Wichita State, 72-69, in the first round of the AdvoCare Invitational on Thanksgiving Day.
The team is off to the program’s best start since the 2000-01 season when it started 8-0, and its victory over the Shockers notches them its first win over a ranked opponent since 2013 — the first under third-year head coach Andy Enfield.
The Trojans (5-0) were powered by the performance of freshman forward Bennie Boatwright, who posted a career-high 22 points. Sophomore guard Jordan McLaughlin carried the load in the first half, scoring 11 of his 15 points in the game’s the first 20 minutes.
Wichita State (2-2), which was playing without out senior guard Fred VanVleet, was led by redshirt senior guard Ron Baker, who had a game-high 25 points.
Boatwright and Katin Reinhardt hit back-to-back three-pointers to give USC a 70-62 advantage late in the fourth quarter. The Shockers rallied to cut the lead to just a one-possession game with just a few seconds to go, but down 72-69, Wichita State’s Zach Brown saw his potential game-tying shot attempt miss off the back iron.
USC led for the majority of the game and also took a 30-29 lead into halftime.
The Trojans advance to play N0. 23-ranked Xaxier in the tournament semifinals on Friday. Tip off is set for 11:30 a.m. PT.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
