Photo courtesy of Katrin GIlger, Flickr
Now that finals are finally over, use winter break to try some healthful recipes. Though many of us have our own kitchens at school, taking the time to cook a recipe from start to finish could seem like a daunting task. Why make a meal when the easiest thing sometimes is just running out with a granola bar before class. During this break, take time to gather delicious, fresh and healthy ingredients, and make something special that you can enjoy. Here are a few recipes that I have made or have been dying to try.
Super easy! Blend together Sambazon acai puree in a blender and add your favorite fruits. 
You can make a smoothie bowl with any fruit — ­it doesn’t have to be based with just acai. Check out some of these other smoothie bowl recipes. The hardest part is making it a thick consistency, but it’s fun to experiment with different mixtures to see what works best.
Pancakes are my guilty pleasure breakfast food of choice, yet it’s always a hassle for me to get all of the ingredients together and whip up a batch. These pancakes are just the right amount of sweet and taste amazing after adding fruits on top.
I love this so much that I make it as often as I can. If you don’t have time, this is a good one to try to make. It is so easy to make and requires only an egg, avocado and an oven. 
If you’re a fan of poached eggs, I have good news. You can easily poach an egg and add it to the center of the halved avocado instead!
My mom sends me these in the mail at school because I never have all of the ingredients or the time! They are so delicious, and an easy snack.
This is another delicious favorite and simple recipe when you have all the ingredients and time. 
Perfect for cold weather, and when you need your balance of veggies.
The orange, delicious potato doesn’t have to just be a Thanksgiving treat.
Make this recipe and curl up next to a nice warm fire with a glass of hot cocoa.
Because nothing actually tastes more like home than this.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
