Legendary sports agent Leigh Steinberg, who’s considered to be one of the most influential figures in all of sports, will be hosting his second ever “Sports Agent Academy” on May 16 at Steinberg Sports & Entertainment’s headquarters in Newport Beach, California.
The event is back by popular demand after Steinberg, who’s well known for his inspiration of the film Jerry Maguire, held his inaugural academy back in October of 2014, where 25 aspiring agents had the opportunity of learning the ins and outs of representation from one of the industry’s best.
“Students always ask me what does it take to be an agent,” Steinberg said. “It’s not easy to answer them all but I have a tremendous interest in seeing young, ethical and idealist professionals succeed.”
During his accomplished 41-year career, Steinberg has represented hundreds of professional athletes including the No. 1 overall pick of the NFL draft a record eight times. In the process, he has negotiated hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts for his clients, which include the likes of Warren Moon, Steve Young, Troy Aikman and Oscar de la Hoya.
According to Steinberg, though, it all really starts his mission and philosophy of representation, which entails the idea of athletes as role models and getting them involved in the community and giving back through charity at the beginning of their careers. By following this principle, professional athletes are able to build a pathway toward to a second career.
“As an athlete’s agent, it’s about more than just making money, but rather the commitment to a long-term career of an athlete,” Steinberg said. “Athletes have the capacity to do multiple things and it’s important that they are able to see their nonathletic skills so that they have the opportunity to make a difference in the world in an area other than sports.”
A number of Steinberg’s clients have previously gone on to have successful careers in broadcasting, working in the venture capital and tech industry and owning professional teams.
Steinberg who’s spoken on over 80 different college campuses including USC this past February, says he founded the academy in order to provide young professionals, who are interested in a career in any field related to sports, entertainment or representation, with a learning experience that teaches them the necessary skills to succeed in a hyper-competitive industry.
The academy educates young professionals in a plethora of relevant areas, training them how to put together a representation practice, recruit and find clients, put together endorsement packages and much more.
“The academy goes above and beyond what any sports law, business, or management class would teach you,” Steinberg said. “We teach everyone the art of negotiation, how to read a collective bargaining agreement, how to put on charity programs and how to mentor athletes.”
Overall, Steinberg emphasizes the importance of aspiring agents being able to ultimately brand and distinguish themselves in a way that allows them to stand out, which is one of the key skills that he wants those in attendance to take away from the academy.
“It’s my goal to make this a very hands-on, personal and life changing experience for everyone and they’re all ought to come out of the academy much more confident to be a sports agent or professional,” Steinberg said. “I have an interest in making sure that sports and the field of agentry is left in good hands.”
Following this installment of the academy in Southern California, Steinberg looks forward to taking the academy to more cities nationwide.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
