Nick Entin | Daily Trojan
The Trojans had no answer for Stanford running back Christian McCaffrey, who set a new mark for the most all-purpose yards by a Cardinal player in a single game during Saturday night’s Pac-12 title match. The sophomore Heisman Trophy hopeful racked up 461 total yards en route to breaking Barry Sanders’ single-season all-purpose yards record and leading the No. 7-ranked Cardinal (11-2, 8-1 Pac-12) past No. 24 USC (8-5, 6-3), 41-22, on Saturday night at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif.
“In my opinion, he should win the Heisman,” junior linebacker Su’a Cravens said.
Nick Entin | Daily Trojan
McCaffrey was named the game’s most valuable player after he rushed for 208 yards and a touchdown on 32 carries, threw a score to quarterback Kevin Hogan and returned the favor by connecting with the fifth-year senior for one in the air. Hogan completed nine of 12 passes for 144 yards — 105 of those to McCaffrey.
“He’s as special a player as we’ve played all season,” head coach Clay Helton said. “He’s just one of those kids that finds ways to make yards and obviously add the back field and the passing game, and he’s a mismatch nightmare.”
USC, who dropped its first game since Helton had his interim tag removed this past week, fell behind early, as Stanford commanded the time of possession battle and dominated in the trenches on its way to a 13-0 lead in the first half.
Despite the Trojans finishing the 1st quarter with only 17 yards of total offense and one first down, Stanford struggled to convert in the red zone, which allowed USC to stay in the game.
Brian Ji | Daily Trojan
“Tonight we got beat by a good team,” redshirt senior quarterback Cody Kessler said.”It was tough, but I told our guys that we have to make the most of our drives when we do get them.”
The Men of Troy then rallied to score 16 unanswered points on three consecutive scoring drives to take a three-point lead early in the third quarter. The comeback began with a 40-yard Alex Wood field goal, which was followed by a one-yard Kessler touchdown pass to senior fullback Jaleel Pinner and culminated in a 27-yard touchdown run by freshman running back Ronald Jones II. Their lead would be short-lived, though, as Hogan responded right back with a seven-yard touchdown run to put Stanford up for good.
The dagger came on the next USC drive when Kessler was sacked and fumbled, which resulted in Stanford’s Solomon Thomas recovering the ball and running it back 34 yards for a touchdown.
Brian Ji | Daily Trojan
“We started making our plays and doing things right so that was the biggest thing for the kids — came back, took the lead,” Helton said. “Thought we had a good chance there, and then we had a critical error in pass protection that ended up costing us.”
Kessler, who completed 22 0f 37 passes for 187 yards, ran one in on his own from 12 yards out to pull the Trojans within one possession early in the fourth quarter, but two seperate McCaffrey touchdowns eventually sealed the conference title for the Cardinal.
The bulk of USC’s offensive production came on the ground, posting 170 rushing yards against Stanford. Junior running back Justin Davis led the way with 99 yards on 17 carries. Sophomore wide out JuJu Smith-Schuster carried the load in the passing game with 11 catches for 87 yards.
While the Pac-12 South champion Trojans were hoping to return to their first Rose Bowl since the 2008-09 season, it appears that they are going to have to settle for a different bowl game during the holiday season. They will learn the destination for their final game of the season on Sunday, Dec. 6.
Brian Ji | Daily Trojan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
