Senior business major Alina Tang’s freshman year dorm in Pardee Tower. Alina Tang | Daily Trojan
When you were a freshman, chances are you probably had a few ideas about college that turned out to be misconceptions. Whether it was stereotyping frat parties or telling horror stories about academic stress, pop culture often depicts college in exaggerated tones. In reality, most college myths are terribly skewed, and only some hold a little truth. Below are the top five college myths that I’ve found to be the most misleading:
Myth #1: You will either become BFFs or enemies with your roommate.
One of the most common things freshmen worry about when they first enter college is their new roommate. However, just because your roommate is sharing the same living space does not mean he or she is the only person you have to see. It’s important to go out and meet as many people as you can, especially during the first few weeks of school. As time goes by, you will definitely get to know your roommate and discover if they are really someone you can be close with. And even if you two are different, remember it’s not the end of the world! 
Myth #2: You will gain the “freshman 15.”
Arguably the most notorious college myth, the “freshman 15” can be completely avoidable if you maintain healthy lifestyle habits such as eating right and exercising regularly. A useful tip is to practice portion control by limiting yourself to one plate or using smaller plates. As for outside of the cafeteria, don’t forget to work out — even small things like taking the stairs or walking instead of biking to class will help!
Myth #3: You will know exactly what you want to pursue for a career.
Though there is pressure to find your passion right away in college, most students actually don’t know what they want to do in the future. And that’s totally fine because college is the time to explore. Don’t feel compelled to settle on a major and a career immediately just because others around you are already doing so. Take your time to figure out what you truly enjoy by actively seek new opportunities, whether it’s joining a student organization or applying for an internship.
Myth #4: You will become a coffee addict and pull all-nighters every day.
Here’s a secret: You don’t have to down five espresso shots and turn into a zombie to do well in class. In fact, you’re likely to do way better on an exam if you don’t cram the night before. Instead, try studying earlier, even if it’s just a little bit of review every day. Small changes can lead to big results.
Myth #5: You will be trapped in a college bubble that isn’t the real world.
This myth isn’t entirely untrue — college can become a small, sometimes limiting bubble of its own, but only if you let it. Try to extend yourself beyond the parameters of campus by not only venturing out and exploring the surroundings, but engaging with the outside community. I find community service to be a wonderful outlet and escape from college life. The best part is that you get to meet very diverse, interesting people you otherwise never would have come across. 
If you’re a freshman, hopefully these myths will help you see that college isn’t as daunting as you might think. Though there are both positive and negative stereotypes about college life, at the end of the day you are the only one in charge of your college experience. That said, the next four years are going to be some of the most rewarding and influential years of your life — so get ready for a wild ride!
Alina Tang is a senior majoring in business administration. Her blog runs every other Friday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
