USC football head coach Steve Sarkisian has issued an apology for inappropriate behavior at Saturday night’s Salute to Troy event that was held on campus.
According to event attendees, Sarkisian looked to be inebriated and was slurring his words while he delivered a speech to the crowd that included many USC alumni and donors.
Sarkisian’s speech included dropping an F-bomb when introducing his team. He would also go on to say that a number of teams including 2015 opponents Oregon, Arizona State and Notre Dame “all suck,” according to ESPN.
He, reportedly, was then pulled off stage by Athletic Director Pat Haden and Senior Associate Athletic Director J.K. McKay.
“I sincerely apologize to my players and staff and to our fans for my behavior and my inappropriate language at our kickoff event Saturday night,” Sarkisian said in a statement released on the USC RipsIt Blog. “I have a responsibility to all of them, and I let them down.”
Sarkisian also said that he and Haden had a conversation after the event.
“I met with Coach Sarkisian and I expressed my disappointment in the way he represented himself and the University at out Salute to Troy event,” Haden said in the released statement. “While the details of our conversation will remain between us, I am confident he heard my message loud and clear.”
The Salute to Troy is a booster event that is held annually to kick off the new football season.
The Trojans will kick off their season at home against Arkansas State on Sept. 5 in a non-conference matchup.
Right SpikeNLB, like Oregon is a real class act with admitting anyone who can say their name. Who is their biggest name alum? They have to hire a recruiting service to persuade players to come to Eugene with only a slap on the wrist for the indiscretion. Didn’t your boy Chip Kelly get barred from coaching in college for 18 months because of this. Phil Knight’s money keeps the athletic program going along with those terrible looking uniforms a disgrace to good taste.  Why oh Why would the Daily Trojan post your asinine comments is beyond my thought process.
He needs to be suspended, fined about 100K, and made to attend AAA, no alcohol during the football season (including recruiting season) or he’s FIRED
I think you mean AA, not AAA.  AAA is the Auto Club !!
Yes you are correct, but  he probably will need AAA to tow his car at some point.
Thanks for the correction
Typical troajan behavior.  No class drunk.  Dumbazz says the Ducks suck yet not one team that he coached has ever beat the Ducks.  Nothing but a smack talking hasbeen coach doesn’t realize that you win games on the field, not in the bar.  What an expensive embarrassment to USC.  There’s always next season, LOL.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
