The closing ceremony of the 2015 Special Olympics World Games on Aug. 2 at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum concluded the world’s largest humanitarian and sports event of the year. Yet the spirit of inclusivity and determination that characterized the eight-day competition can be seen in programs that live on at USC, which acted as the central hub for the Games.
The Games commenced on July 25 at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, with first lady Michelle Obama, Jimmy Kimmel, Justin Bieber, Michael Phelps and dozens of other celebrities and heads of state on hand to celebrate. The Coliseum, home of the USC Trojans, previously hosted the 1932 and 1984 Olympics Games.
Founded by Eunice Kennedy Shriver in the 1960s, the Special Olympics operates on regional, national and global levels in hosting competitions for individuals with intellectual disabilities. The first International Special Olympics Games was held in 1968 at Chicago’s Soldier Field with only 100 fans in the stands cheering athletes on.
In contrast, this year’s opening ceremony was sold out with 62,338 people on hand to witness the historic event.
The 6,500 Special Olympics athletes from all around the world were housed for the week in two separate athlete villages: one at USC and the other at UCLA.  The Trojans also hosted basketball events at the Galen Center, aquatics competitions at the Uytengsu Aquatics Center and track and field events at Cromwell Field and Loker Stadium.
The World Games’ Nerve Center, the digital heartbeat of the Games, was also based at USC, in the Forum at the Ronald Tutor Campus Center. The Games Operating Committee’s Digital Strategy and Social Media team, as well as volunteers from Google and YouTube who assisted in the viral management of L.A. 2015 coverage, were all stationed here.
“Google is a corporate sponsor, so the Google volunteers organized all of the incoming media and posting images and videos onto the Games’ social networks so people could stay connected,” said Scott Newman, a Google software engineer. Newman is one of 50 volunteers who came to Los Angeles from Google offices around the world.
Some Google employees also participated in “Fans in the Stands,” an organized program to manage spectatorship of the World Games competitions. Other corporations who came out in large numbers to participate in “Fans in the Stands” were LA 2015 partners Deloitte and Kaiser Permanente, as well as Disney.
With tens of thousands of athletes, staff, volunteers and spectators coming to USC’s campus each day for the competitions, the event came to encompass the Trojan spirit.
“I’ve seen USC being pretty busy, but it has really been a wonderful experience to see all the teams bring a higher energy to campus,” said Vishnuprasad Chandrasekaran, a graduate student starting his final year at the Viterbi School of Engineering.
Students and faculty from the Ostrow School of Dentistry also volunteered with “Special Smiles,” the dentistry division of the Healthy Athletes program. Started in 1997, Healthy Athletes provides free medical check-ups and gear, such as prescription eyeglasses or properly fitting shoes, for any and all Special Olympics athletes.
Physicians, nurses and other healthcare providers from the Keck School of Medicine of USC, the USC Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy and the USC Davis School of Gerontology also contributed to the Healthy Athletes initiative. Though people with intellectual disabilities suffer from higher rates of morbidity and mortality as well as a lower quality of life than those without, USC’s health care volunteers were able to teach the athletes about preventative health and lifestyle habits, such as the use of sunblock and healthy eating.
“The experience has been amazing,” said Dr. Santosh Sundaresan, section chair of Community Health Programs at the Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC and a dentist participating in Special Smiles. Special Smiles has been able to provide free mouthguards, crowns, root canals and cleanings for Special Olympics athletes, and this opportunity has benefitted the university as much as it has helped out the athletes.
“USC is known for its community outreach programs. Dental, medical, you name it, and we’re there. That’s our forte. But these games especially have been magnificent. It’s an eye opener in many ways,” said Sundaresan.
Trojans who happened to be on campus, either during their vacation or for the summer session, could not ignore the pervasive spirit of the Special Olympics. Crowds of campus tours walked past the World Games Festival in USC’s Alumni Park and the Healthy Athletes tents in McCarthy Quad, while USC students engaged in their studies next to volunteers from all over Southern California.
But perhaps most importantly, USC played host to the greatest intersection of disability, ability and diplomacy on the planet.
At the World Games, participants and spectators did away with the obstacles faced by people with intellectual disabilities, instead placing the spotlight on the tremendous accomplishments achieved by these athletes and international pioneers.
“These athletes who are participating in the World Games are phenomenal people,” Sundaresan said. “Their willpower [and] their whole attitude [are] just mind-blowing.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
