For women’s water polo and the women of Troy, it’s tournament time. On May 8, three-seed USC (22-5) heads up to Palo Alto to face sixth-seeded Hawaii (18-8) in the round of eight.
USC is coming of a fourth place finish in the MPSF Tournament, where USC came off of close losses to UCLA and Stanford. This year now USC has lost to UCLA three times and Stanford twice and never beat either team. Nonetheless, the Women of Troy are playing competitively, and according to Senior Jennifer Stiefel they are confident in their gameplan.
“Our coaching staff has prepared us well,” Stiefel said. “[We are] not so much typically the underdog but you know what there’s not really pressure on us. We just want to play well. We want to execute our plan and keep it all simple and hopefully win.”
Against the Bruins, USC led early 4-2, but the Bruins would surge ahead. The game was tied at 7 with under a minute and a half left but a late Bruin goal and penalty shot sealed a 9-7 Bruin victory. Again in the third place game against Stanford, USC led early and took a 5-4 lead into the locker room, but again ran out of gas at the end. In both games, and in their previous losses against Stanford and UCLA, USC went on cold streaks. Against UCLA, USC allowed four unanswered goals. Against Stanford in the second half, the Women of Troy scored one goal to the Cardinal’s five. Freshman scoring machine, Brianna Daboub recognizes this pattern and is determined to keep her team focused in the NCAA Tournament.
“For me, the most important thing is making sure everybody’s focused at all times,” Daboub says. “On those runs a lot of times it’s because we’ve lost focus for a few minutes and bottom line. That just can’t happen. So just making sure that we’re all focused, we’re all on the same page and giving 100% at all times.”
Nonetheless, Coach Vavic always finds way to get his teams ready for the NCAA Tournament despite whatever may have happened in the regular season. Three years ago, USC lost three times to UCLA including in the MPSF Tournament but beat the Bruins in the NCAA semifinals, even though they lost in the championship. The year after the women’s team lost on Senior Day to Stanford but beat the Cardinal in a thrilling 10-9 championship game that went to sudden death.
This year though, USC has a considerable number of new players, including Daboub who have never experienced an NCAA Tournament. Despite that, the coaching staff is doing their best to keep them calm and confident, as can be seen in Daboub, herself.
“I think the biggest thing for us is just always believe in yourself, always go out there, don’t be afraid to make mistakes,” Daboub said. “Everybody makes them. Just go out and do your best and rely on each other. That’s it.”
It will no doubt be a hard road to an NCAA championship for the Women of Troy. If they beat Hawaii on Friday, they would most likely play Stanford again, but this time in their own pool since Stanford is hosting the tournament. If they were to beat the Cardinal and advance to the semifinals, USC would most likely face Cal or a red-hot UCLA team that has owned USC of recent, but, as Stiefel says, any time these cross-town rivals meet, it is invariably a challenge.
“I think always anything with USC UCLA, that rivalry,” Stiefel said. “I think it’s always big especially in water polo because that’s usually where it comes down. UCLA won on the women’s side five in a row, and they haven’t won since, and then we’ve won two since then— the rivalry is definitely big.”
The matchup against Hawaii takes place at 1:45 p.m. PT on Friday. If USC wins, they will play in the semifinal Saturday at 5:15 p.m. PT. The final takes place at 5:30 p.m. PT on Sunday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
