Les Miles is reportedly about to be back on the free agent market and no one should be happier about that than USC Athletic Director Pat Haden. If Miles is, indeed, about to coach his last game at LSU when the Tigers take on Texas A&M in Baton Rouge on Saturday, he is about to become the hottest commodity on the market for programs currently without a permanent head coach — cough, cough USC.
It wouldn’t be surprising at all if the second Haden heard the news, he instantly picked up his phone and gave Miles a ring to deliver him his recruiting pitch on why Southern California should be his next stop on the head coaching trail. College football coaches follow the economic model of supply and demand. There are only so many of them out there and there are only a handful of really good ones — Miles is one of those select few.
The 62-year old Miles would be the first legitimately proven winner of head coaches to become available ever since USC parted ways with Steve Sarkisian in October. If Miles were to fall into the laps of the Trojans, it would be viewed as instant home run hire for Haden — unlike back in 2013 when Haden made the mistake of hiring Sarkisian, who had never won more than nine games in a single season.
What does everyone surrounding the USC program always say they want? National championships. The only coach out there that can say he’s achieved that is none other than Miles. Not to forget, he had the highest winning percentage (.775) of any LSU coach in the past century, led the Tigers to two SEC titles and they’ve also finished atop the grueling SEC West three times over the course of his tenure.
It’s crazy to think that LSU boosters would want to pay a pricey figure of what’s reported to be in the upwards of $15 million and say bon voyage to him and his staff in the first place, especially after starting out the season 7-0.
Haden should thank those boosters for being so generous.  If the justification for their decision to want to part ways with Miles is that they expect to win national championships in Louisiana, then so be it. Another school where coaches are held to the same standard is USC and Miles could be the first step in making that goal of a national title attainable once again for the Trojans program.
Despite USC losing their head coach mid-season and being plagued by injuries to a number of key players including starting center Max Tuerk, this USC team is in a position to win the Pac-12 South division and earn a trip to the conference championship game to play Stanford should it defeat crosstown rival UCLA at home this Saturday.
Interim head coach Clay Helton has done a relatively good job of picking up the programs’ spirits and taking it over the mountain of adversity in which it faced. USC, however, is still in need of a head coach that is going to lead it to double-digit win seasons for many years to come. Since 2009, the program has only won ten games in a season twice.
Long-term success in college football starts and with recruiting and Miles has an excellent track record of attracting the nation’s best talent to his program. LSU currently has the No. 1 ranked recruiting class in the country, according to the 2016 ESPN RecruitingNation rankings. With National Signing Day in February right around the corner, Miles would be an invaluable asset on the recruiting trail for USC.
For a change, the Trojans are in the right place at the right time and Miles’s sudden availability must serve as a sign to Haden. He better capitalize on this tremendous opportunity to snag Miles before another school with a head coaching vacancy, like Miami, does.
Misguided passion by Darian, although understandable in this era of search committees and trophy-coaches.  But why pursue a big name coach whose reputation grew over a 20 year stretch beginning when Helton’s age, when you can hire Helton and enjoy all that upside? Clearly a very strong coach: humble, loyal, understands USC’s traditions and the crucible that is Trojan football … no rebuilding necessary. Give the program stability, give Helton the job.
Would be funny if hired He brings a certain super recruiter back to Troy   
Is this the guy who has been handcuffing his offensive cordinators?(BIG MISTAKE IF HIRED)
No thanks.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
