Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Mariya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
This coming weekend, The Do Lab is returning to the birthing grounds of Lightning in a Bottle at Oak Canyon Park with a new festival incarnation, Woogie Weekend. All those who are genuinely missing the LiB vibes from earlier this summer can get their woogie on one more time at a festival dedicated entirely to one of the crowds favorite stages from LiB.
For three days on July 17-19, the Do Lab is hosting a space for festival goers to enjoy performances featuring world-class talent, house music, and yoga. The minds at the Do Lab know how to create a small community where people alike can gather and enjoy music together. A dreamland is erected and art manifests through the stomping grounds as attendees dance under the stars to the harmonious sounds of Danny Daze, Oliver Nelson, Henry Saiz, and Francesca Lombardo.
The weekend will feature Woogie legend Lee Burridge’s All Day I Dream series as it takes over its own stage on Sunday. French Express are debuting their reunion while they perform alongside Rüfüs Du Sol and Autograf, setting off perfect summer house vibes, and balanced with Adam Freeland, Camea, and Alexi Delano to offset the mood with dark and mysterious acts.
The Do Lab promises Lib vibes with only one of it’s stages. We will find out if Woogie Weekend sizes up to an entire Lightning in a Bottle.
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Mikey Lion at the Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Pumpkin at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
Thomas Jack at the Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Anastasia Velicescu | Daily Trojan
 
Thomas Jack at the Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Mariya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Mariya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
Woogie Stage at Lightning in a Bottle, 2015. Mariya Dondonyan | Daily Trojan
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
