Solomon W. Golomb, University Professor, Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mathematics and the Andrew and Erna Viterbi Chair in Communications, died Sunday at his home. He was 83.
“With unparalleled scholarly contributions and distinction to the field of engineering and mathematics, Sol’s impact has been extraordinary, transformative and impossible to measure,” Yannis Yortsos, dean of the Viterbi School of Engineering, said in a statement to Viterbi faculty and staff on Sunday.
A graduate of Johns Hopkins University and Harvard University, Golomb joined the faculty at USC in 1963, serving for more than 50 years. Golomb was known for his pioneering work in communications theory, particularly shift register sequences. He also invented Golomb coding, a data compression method, and Golomb rulers, a specialized ruler used in radio astronomy and information theory. Golomb was also known for creating mathematical games such as polyominoes, which served as the inspiration for Tetris.
“His fertile mind never ceased to amaze and his kindness and humanity never ceased to inspire,” Yortsos said. “Sol Golomb’s presence was catalytic, inspirational and ingenious.”
Golomb was a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In 1985, he was awarded the USC Presidential Medallion, the University’s highest honor. In 2013, Golomb received the National Medal of Science from President Barack Obama for his work in mathematics and communications.
“We have lost a brilliant mind, a mentor, a trusted colleague and advisor, a wonderful and kind human being, a steadfast supporter of the school and the university,” Yortsos said.  “But we also have been truly fortunate to be part of his life and to follow the paths that he traced for us, to be inspired and enlightened, and to have his brilliance and impact reflected on our achievements and on our aspirations.”
 
Dr. Golomb was a truly great man. Very sad to lose him.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
