This Thursday until Sunday, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Echo Park Lake will be hosting something aside from the usual pedal boats and canoes; The Floating Library. It is an art project from Minnesota and has collaborated with the LA Art Book Fair to bring a combination of polar opposites — paper and water. There will be a raft floating in the middle of the lake with an eclectic selection of books, half of them coming from LA artists and the other half coming from The Floating Library collection. People that pedal to the raft requesting a book will be handed something random and should expect something unconventional — like a book with pages made out of Mylar. Sarah Peters, an artist and the creator behind this project, started the library in Minnesota as an experimental public art project to take advantage of urban lakes as social and creative places. Peters hopes that through the unconventionality of her floating library in Echo Park, people will begin talking to each other again instead of living behind screens.
“What’s been interesting about the library on Minnesota waters is that it is a place you’re meeting people you don’t know for the most part; the people in the other canoe or the other boat,” Peter said in an interview with LA Weekly. “And while you at least have the common interest of being at a floating library together — which is already an affinity that’s perhaps abnormal — it still is an opportunity to talk to people in a way that you’re not in a common social space.” The environment is placed with the intent of being a place where strangers can talk to one another in an open way.
Ultimately, while the unconventionality of the library may be off­-putting to some, there’s a nuanced form of attentiveness we give an environment when we see something unusual in it. Peters is hoping to take advantage of that attentiveness and ultimately help urban citizens reconnect with nature, as well as one another.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
