Seeking to start conference play 2-0 for the first time since 2010, the Trojans instead blew a 22-point second half lead and dropped an 87-85 heartbreaker on the road to the Washington Huskies on Sunday afternoon.
Washington scored the final nine points of the game after USC took an 85-78 lead at the 2:12 mark on a layup by Nikola Jovanovic. Back-to-back difficult shots by the Huskies’ Dejounte Murray cut the lead to one, and a turnover led to the go-ahead basket by Andrew Andrews with 25 seconds to play, who scored after grabbing an offensive rebound to give the Huskies an 86-85 advantage.
Katin Reinhardt’s three-point try at the buzzer missed, and the Trojans, who beat Washington State on New Year’s Day, walked off Alaska Airlines Arena splitting their two-game Northwest road trip.
USC led 66-44 with just over 14 minutes remaining in regulation, but fell apart after an early second half injury to Julian Jacobs, who landed awkwardly on his ankle while grabbing a rebound. Jacobs, who had 15 points and a number of electric dunks up prior to his injury, did not return. The Trojans were outscored 45-24 and committed 10 turnovers with him off the court.
The Trojans played with energy right off the bat and jumped out to a double-digit lead midway through the first half behind a 9-0 run. A thunderous dunk by Jacobs with under two minutes to play in the half put USC ahead 44-32. The Trojans took a 46-36 lead into halftime.
Despite starting the second half shooting 7-of-7 from the field, the Trojans could not overcome the injury to Jacobs, the junior guard who is averaging 12 points this season. Jacobs, along with Jordan McLaughlin and Bennie Boatwright, led USC with 15 points. Jovanovic added 14 points and 10 rebounds.
The Trojans, who are now 2-21 in their last 23 road conference games, fall to 12-3 overall and 1-1 in conference play. They will head home to take on Arizona State on Jan. 7 and Arizona on Jan. 9.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
