Larry Ellison, founder of Oracle Corporation and USC’s 2016 commencement speaker, has donated $200 million to the University in order to fund a cancer research center in West Los Angeles, the University announced on Wednesday.
The Lawrence J. Ellison Institute for Transformative Medicine of USC will be led by David Agus, a professor of engineering and medicine at USC and the current director of the Center for Applied Molecular Medicine and USC Westside Cancer Center.
“It is an honor and a privilege to team up with Larry Ellison in the fight against cancer,” Agus told USC News. “Larry understands the need for transformation in cancer care. His gift will enable us to change our very approach on cancer research, treatment and prevention.”
Ellison, who in 2015 was named the world’s second richest man in the tech industry by Forbes, announced the donation at the USC Center for Applied Molecular Medicine’s Rebels with a Cause fundraising gala.
“The new institute will invite mathematicians, physicists and other scientists to collaborate with cancer researchers from the traditional disciplines of medicine and biology,” Ellison said, according to USC News. “We believe the interdisciplinary approach will yield up new insights currently hidden in existing patient data.”
Ellison had previously planned a similar $115 million donation to Harvard University in 2006 for cancer research, but reneged on the gift due to concerns about how the money would be handled after the University’s then-president stepped down, according to the Los Angeles Times.
Ellison’s gift matches the largest single donation ever given to the school. In 2011, David and Dana Dornsife donated $200 million to the College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, now known as the Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences. More recently, the University announced in March that it had raised $5 billion of a $6 billion fundraising campaign that was launched in 2011.
According to the Los Angeles Times, Ellison and Agus are already well acquainted, and Ellison has been discussing this donation with President C.L. Max Nikias for the past 15 months.
“This investment by Larry Ellison in USC is as inspirational as it is momentous, and it will serve as a dynamic force for change in how we approach cancer treatment and prevention,” Nikias told USC News. “It is a concrete endorsement of USC’s vision to invest in the promise and potential of new technologies, and to support a bold push forward in how we achieve wellness.”
The University of Southern California should increase its campaign on fund raising to $ 1o billion and set an all time record for any university.  The campaign should be extended until 2020 or as long as it takes..
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
