After a close competition that lasted into fall camp, redshirt junior Max Browne held off redshirt freshman Sam Darnold to claim the USC starting quarterback job, head coach Clay Helton announced on Saturday.
Browne, who waited three seasons, finally has his chance under center. But the odds-on favorite to win the position faced an unexpected challenge from the youthful Darnold, who impressed during spring practice. As a result, Helton did not name a starter following the spring game, opting to continue the competition during fall camp.
Browne is a 6-foot-5, 220 pound product out of Skyline High School in Washington. He was one of the nation’s top quarterback recruits coming out of high school, but has been stuck as a backup after redshirting his first season.
In limited playing time, Browne has completed 11-for-19 passing for 143 yards in his career.
Helton gave no indication prior to Saturday as to who would be named the starter, neither did the players nor assistant coaches. On Friday, the team held a final scrimmage during practice that helped to either sway or confirm Helton’s decision.
Darnold, an accomplished recruit himself out of San Clemente High School, forced the issue during practices with an impressive display of his dual-threat abilities.
But Helton ultimately stuck with the veteran Browne, who may have transferred to another school had he not been chosen.
Helton’s decision was not one he took lightly. He had admitted to the media that the choice was constantly on his mind and that he watched film on occasion at 3 a.m.
The coach also said on Friday that whomever he named as a starter would be given a lengthy leash.
Any celebration Browne might do will be short-lived; USC’s first game is in two weeks against defending champion Alabama.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
