It appears Clay Helton is bringing the band back together.
On Tuesday, the USC football head coach announced the return of John Baxter as special teams coordinator amidst numerous media reports that Clancy Pendergast would also return as defensive coordinator.
Pendergast served as USC’s defensive coordinator in 2013, when he helped construct a defense that ranked first in the Pac-12. Not retained when Steve Sarkisian was hired, Pendergast took a year off before serving as an inside linebackers coach for the San Francisco 49ers in 2015.
After reportedly meeting with Oregon earlier on Tuesday, Pendergast will accept the offer to come back to USC, taking over for a much maligned Justin Wilcox, who was fired by Helton after a poor showing in the Pac-12 championship game against Stanford.
Baxter’s hiring came as a welcome surprise. The 52-year-old spent four seasons (2010-2013) as the special teams coordinator for USC and most recently served at the same position for Michigan in 2015.
Highly popular among players, Baxter was named Special Teams Coordinator of the Year in 2011 by FootballScoop.com. Under Baxter, USC was ranked in the top 10 in special teams efficiency by ESPN in each season from 2010-2012. At Michigan, Baxter improved the Wolverines’ special teams unit from 96th the previous year to 12th nationally in ESPN’s special teams efficiency ranking.
“We are very excited to welcome back John Baxter to our Trojan Family,” Helton said.  “He is one of the most respected coaches in our profession at any position.  His units have been near the top of the collegiate special team efficiency rankings almost every year.  Having worked alongside him in the past, I know Coach Baxter as one of the best teachers and skill developers in football today.  We look forward to our special teams rising to greater heights under him.”
The hire comes three days after Helton brought in his younger brother Tyson Helton and Neil Callaway from Kentucky to serve as offensive assistants. Helton promoted wide receivers coach Tee Martin to offensive coordinator prior to the Holiday Bowl.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
