In what may be their most signature win in years, the USC Trojans upset the seventh-ranked Arizona Wildcats 103-101 in a quadruple-overtime affair at the Galen Center on Saturday night.
Sophomore guard Elijah Stewart finished with a career-high 27 points, including the go-ahead free throws with 23 seconds remaining in the fourth overtime. On Arizona’s final possession, Gabe York had the ball knocked away into the backcourt and Kadeem Allen missed a desperation three-point jumper at the buzzer to seal the victory for the Trojans.
“I was impressed by our competitiveness and resiliency,” head coach Andy Enfield told reporters. “It’s obviously a big win. With this league every game matters.”
USC scored the only points of the fourth overtime on a driving layup by Stewart, but Arizona evened the score at 101-101 on a pair of free throws by Kaleb Tarczewski with under a minute remaining.
With the Trojans holding a 71-59 lead with under six minutes to play in regulation, the Wildcats went on a 12-0 run to tie the game at 71-71 on a tip-in by Tarczewski. Junior forward Nikola Jovanovic, who had 17 points, answered with a jumper to give USC a 73-71 advantage with a minute remaining, only to have Arizona’s Kadeem Allen tie it back up at 73-73. Junior guard Julian Jacobs’ shot at the buzzer rimmed out to send the game to overtime.
It would only be the start of a marathon instant classic between Pac-12 opponents. Neither team was able to pull away in the overtime sessions, although the Trojans had chances to win the game at the end of each of the first three overtimes.
Jacobs was whistled for a charge as he drove to the rim at the end of the first overtime after Tarczewski evened the score at 79-79 apiece with another tip-in basket. To close the second overtime, with the score knotted at 86-86, Jacobs had his pass stolen in the corner and time expired.
In the third overtime, the Trojans battled back after Arizona’s Allonzo Trier opened the scoring with a three. They took the lead in the final minute on a jumper by Jovanovic, but Gabe York tied it back up for the Wildcats with a layup. McLaughlin missed a jumper at the buzzer to send the game to a fourth extra session.
Five Trojans scored in double figures in the upset. Trier led the way for Arizona with 25 points.
USC, which is now 3-1 to start conference play, will head to UCLA next Wednesday to take on the Bruins.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
