Whether it was powering through defenders, spinning off of tackles or sprinting away into the open field — sophomore running back Ronald Jones II did it all for USC in a 45-20 win over Oregon at the Coliseum on Saturday night.
Jones ran for four touchdowns and 171 yards as the Trojans won their fifth straight game and claimed their first win over the Ducks at home since 2008. The sophomore became just the 14th player in USC history to rush for four touchdowns in a game — tying a school record — and the first to do so since LenDale White in 2005.
“It means a lot to me,” Jones said on tying the record for touchdowns in a game. “There are a lot of great running backs that came before me. To be in a category with those running backs means a lot.” 
Of his scores, the longest was a 66-yard run on the opening drive of the second half. Jones went up the middle through a gaping hole and made a cut to elude the final defender before taking it the rest of the way with open field in front of him.
Ronald Jones II scores from 23 yards out, his first of four rushing touchdowns – Trevor Sochocki | Daily Trojan
“I hold my breath every time he touches it because I know there’s a chance he could go all the way,” head coach Clay Helton said.
USC outgained Oregon 270-85 yards on the ground, with the offensive line blocking effectively and the defense holding its ground against a Ducks squad that averaged a Pac-12 leading 248 yards a game coming into the night.
“I think my offensive line did a great job of making it look easy,” Jones said. “They were getting a great push off the blocks and I was just following their reads.”
It wasn’t just stopping the run; USC’s defense stood tall and limited Oregon well below its average of 40.5 points per game. The Trojans forced five three-and-outs and had one fourth down stop.
“We just came out and established what we were doing,” sophomore defensive end Porter Gustin said. “We challenged ourselves all week to stop the run game. We made it a goal of ours to come out and stop the run … and I think we did that pretty well.”
Jones’ third rushing touchdown gave the Trojans a 31-6 lead early in the third quarter. The Ducks, led by true freshman quarterback Justin Herbert, answered with a touchdown on the ensuing drive and had a chance to draw closer after defensive back Brenden Schooler intercepted Darnold near midfield. But Oregon’s drive stalled at the 11-yard line when Herbert’s pass attempt on fourth down was knocked down by Porter Gustin. 
Darnold put the game away on USC’s next possession, finding redshirt senior tight end Taylor McNamara in the end zone for a seven-yard touchdown. The score was set up by a classic Darnold play — the quarterback scrambled and turned away from pressure before launching a deep pass to redshirt freshman tight end Daniel Imatorbhebhe for a 37-yard reception.
Daniel Imatorbhebhe pulls down a catch from Sam Darnold – Nick Entin | Daily Trojan
“It’s like playing with a Steve Nash-type player,” Imatorbhebhe said on Darnold. “You’ve always got to be ready for the ball, even when he’s not looking at you. I’m super grateful to have him as my quarterback.”
Darnold finished with 309 yards on 28-of-40 passing and two touchdowns. 
Jones scored once more early in the fourth quarter, pounding it in from a yard out after a 31-yard run set up first and goal at the 1-yard line.
“When he electrifies the Coliseum, there’s nothing like it,” Darnold said on Jones. “Just sit back and watch those holes open up and watch him do his thing. He’s hard to tackle in the open field and he’s super fast. Whenever you’ve got a guy like that, you’ve got to utilize him as much as possible and we definitely did that tonight.”
After settling for a field goal on their first drive, the Trojans scored touchdowns on their next two drives in the first quarter. Jones blasted through the Oregon defense for USC’s first touchdown, barreling up the middle at full speed from 23 yards out.
Tyler Petite reaches for a pass from Sam Darnold – Trevor Sochocki | Daily Trojan
On the next drive, Darnold was perfect on all three pass attempts to set up first and goal. From the three-yard line, Jones appeared to be in the grasp of two Oregon defenders, but spun free and ran around the right side for his second touchdown of the night to give USC a 17-0 lead.
Oregon got on the board before the end of the first quarter. After redshirt sophomore punter Chris Tilbey’s punt from the back of his end zone went just 24 yards, Ducks wide receiver Charles Nelson took an end-around on the first play of the drive for a 25-yard touchdown. 
A slow second quarter featured two punts for each team — until USC broke through before the end of the half on a 10-play drive that took under two minutes. Darnold hit sophomore wide receiver Deontay Burnett four times in the drive, including a 15-yard completion to the goal line. The pair finished the drive off on first and goal, with Darnold rolling to his left and finding Burnett for a two-yard touchdown.
Darnold said he and Burnett have “great chemistry,” but it also applies to the entire receiving corps. Nine different players caught passes for USC on Saturday.
“It’s a testament to all of our guys,” Darnold said. “All of our guys do a great job of running the routes and expecting the ball on every single play. Everyone is taking advantage of their opportunities.” 
The Trojans took a 24-6 lead into halftime and wound up holding the Ducks to a season-low 288 yards. 
“They’re very talented and very well coached,” Oregon head coach Mark Helfrich said on USC’s defense.
Herbert added that USC’s defense “brought a lot of stuff” that Oregon didn’t prepare for. The Trojans recorded three sacks and seven tackles for losses.
“Probably the different blitzes, coming from just about everywhere,” Herbert said on what gave Oregon problems.
USC is now 6-3 and will bring a five-game win streak into Seattle against the No. 5 Huskies next week in a game that could make or break their hopes in the Pac-12 South race. Washington is unbeaten this season and will be a test for the Trojans on the road.
“They’re a great team, a playoff contender,” Darnold said. “We’ve just got to look at them as another opponent [and] go in with the mindset that we’re able to beat them.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
