The No. 2-rankd water polo team defeated Stanford 8-4 on the road on Saturday, attaining the 500th men’s program win for co-head coach Jovan Vavic. The historic victory over the Cardinal starts the Trojans off as 1-0 in MPSF and 6-0 overall.
USC put up a strong defensive front shutting out host Stanford in both the first and third quarters. Junior goaltender McQuin Baron capped up in the cage for the Trojans knocking down all of Stanford’s power play opportunities, collecting eight saves on the day.
The Trojans took a commanding lead in the first quarter. After knocking down back-to-back Stanford 6-on-5 opportunities, USC’s offense lit up with junior driver Grant Stein hammering in a left handed shot while freshman driver Thomas Dunstan put up a goal of his own a minute later.
The defense continued to shut down the Cardinals with Baron and Stein each knocking down two more Stanford powerplays while junior driver Blake Edwards barred in a goal to give the Trojans a 3-0 into the second frame.
In the second quarter, Stanford put up back-to-back goals to break its silence but freshman Marin Dasic skipped in a pass from Bryce Hoerman, putting the Trojans back up 4-2. The score remained unmoved through the half and most of the third quarter until James Walters punched one in from the two-meter mark, taking the USC lead to 5-2.
In an action-packed fourth quarter, Baron made yet another 6-on-5 save for the Trojans. Following the knockdown, Stein found freshman Matt Maier on the weak side for a cross pass goal. After Senior Nick Bell drew an ejection for a Trojan powerplay, Stein found the back of the net putting the Trojans up 7-3. Stanford put away one more goal only to be answered in the final minutes of play by USC’s Blake Edwards.
“The freshmen are very talented and immediately have been a big help to our team,” junior driver Blake Edwards said. “It’s exciting to watch them grow, and I think we’re going to be a really competitive, dangerous team this year.”
Three of the Trojans’ eight goals were put up by freshmen — Dunstan, Dasic, and Maier — while Edwards had a pair of goals himself.
Next week, the Trojans will travel up to Berkeley to play in the MPSF Invitational. USC faces Santa Clara Friday September 23rd at 1 p.m. Group play continues into Saturday with seminal and placements being held Saturday afternoon and Sunday, respectively.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
