Linebacker Su’a Cravens was among four Trojans chosen in the 2016 NFL Draft. – Ralf Cheung | Daily Trojan
Four Trojans were drafted and seven more signed as undrafted free agents in another busy NFL Draft for the football team.
The draft took place in Chicago and spanned three days — Thursday through Saturday.
Linebacker Su’a Cravens topped the list of USC entries into the NFL, drafted 53rd overall by the Washington Redskins in the second round. Cravens, one of the Trojans’ most reliable and versatile defensive players as a hybrid safety-linebacker, leaves a big hole on the defensive line.
Thirteen picks later, center Max Tuerk was selected by the San Diego Chargers 66th overall in the third round. Tuerk, who started since his freshman year at USC, missed the last nine games last season with a torn ACL.
Quarterback Cody Kessler also went in third round 93rd overall to the Cleveland Browns, a much higher selection than expected. Kessler may see playing time in Cleveland at some point down the line and will look to aid a franchise with well-documented struggles at the quarterback position.
Cornerback Kevon Seymour wrapped up the Trojans’ draftees, having to wait until the sixth round to hear his name called. Seymour will join the Buffalo Bills, who picked him 218th overall.
Developments did not stop there, however, as seven Trojans — as of Saturday night — have signed with NFL teams as undrafted free agents: fullback Soma Vainuka to the Houston Texans, running back Tre Madden to the Seattle Seahawks, defensive lineman Antwaun Woods to the Tennessee Titans, defensive lineman Claude Pelon to the New York Jets, defensive lineman Delvon Simmons and linebacker Anthony Sarao to the Indianapolis Colts and defensive lineman Greg Townsend to the Oakland Raiders.
With four draftees, the Trojans remain on top of the NCAA with most all-time NFL draft picks (496), three more than Notre Dame (493).
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
