After collapsing in the second half against Washington State in its previous matchup, No. 25 USC once again struggled in the second half in a 69-60 loss to Washington on the road.
Coming off what was arguably their worst performance of the year, the Women of Troy (14-4, 2-4) faced another tough matchup against the nation’s leading scorer Kelsey Plum and the Washington Huskies (14-4, 5-2).
After a slow start to the second quarter, USC used a 7-0 run following a timeout to extend its lead to nine. The Trojans finished the first half with a 34-24 lead.
USC started the second half poorly, shooting 2-of-12 while committing five turnovers and allowing the Huskies to shoot 8-of-11 in the third quarter. Washington outscored the Women of Troy 24-7 in the third and finished the quarter with a 48-41 lead. The Huskies were able to extend the lead to as much as 16 in the fourth with three minutes remaining on a pair of free throws by Plum.
“It’s very frustrating to lose a lead, especially so quickly in the third quarter,” Coach Cynthia Cooper-Dyke said. “We have got to come out with better energy, better intensity and we have to play better defense.”
Plum was unstoppable down the stretch, finishing with a game-high 32 points, including 21 in the second half. Her teammate Chantel Osahor had 14 points along with 11 rebounds.
“We let Kelsey get into a rhythm and you can’t do that, especially against the nation’s leading scorer,” Cooper-Dyke said.
Temi Fagbenle had a team-high 25 points and 14 rebounds but was limited to six points in the second half as the Huskies pulled away. Courtney Jaco was one of many USC players who struggled, shooting 1-of-13 from the field and 1-of-12 from three.
“We just wanted to make [Fagbenle] feel a little more crowded,” Osahor said the Pac-12 Network. “She was making good 12-15 footers and we just had to have a hand up.”
USC did a much better job of holding on to the ball today, committing only 13 turnovers after succumbing 20 to Washington State but ultimately it didn’t matter as the Women of Troy allowed the Huskies to shoot 48.9 percent from the field and 7-of-11 from deep.
Jordan Adams and Brianna Barrett missed their second consecutive game and their absence was felt.
“Jordan Adams and Brianna Barrett are everything we need and are everything that we’re missing right now, especially their leadership,” Cooper-Dyke said.
With the loss, USC has now lost two straight and drops to 14-4 overall and 2-4 in conference play, after starting the season 12-0. The Women of Troy face a tough slate of games next week with matchups against No. 11 Stanford and Cal.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
