75,000 people per day descended on the Empire Polo Club in Indio, California last weekend for the Stagecoach Country Music Festival, which featured breakout stars and veteran entertainers alike. Although evening headliners Eric Church, Carrie Underwood and Luke Bryan each put on powerful performances, the real gems of the festival shined through in “up-and-coming” performers such as Aaron Watson and Brett Young, who let their voices and stories enthrall the crowd even during the hottest part of the day. 
The festival, which occupied the same fairgrounds as Coachella had over the previous two weeks, held most of its biggest shows at the centrally located Toyota Mane Stage, with smaller venues such as the Palomino and Mustang stages hosting less well-known artists as well as newcomers to country music. A beer garden, large Ferris wheel and honky-tonk dance hall all added to the sense of the festival as a three-day party, although Stagecoach also featured a special kids’ section to promote a family-friendly atmosphere.
Some of the biggest names in country music were in attendance, with breakout star Sam Hunt taking the stage Friday evening to perform his hit singles “Leave the Night on,” “House Party,” and “Ex To See” before a cheering crowd. He surprised everyone by bringing out special guests G-Eazy and Bebe Rexha to sing “Me, Myself and I,” followed by Snoop Dogg for “Drop It Like It’s Hot.” Chris Young had his own surprise for the audience when he introduced Cassadee Pope to sing their duet “Think of You,” which progressed flawlessly as the two artists’ voices melded together and played off of each other onstage.
Although Saturday didn’t include any guest appearances, it impressed attendees nonetheless with performances by Chris Stapleton, Joe Nichols and The Band Perry, all of whom brought their signature sounds to Stagecoach. Nichols was particularly personable, with a smiling demeanor and casual comments to the crowd that demonstrated how much he enjoyed performing; members of The Band Perry, meanwhile, got festival-goers dancing and singing along with their hits “DONE” and “If I Die Young.” 
On Sunday, the Mane Stage hosted country-rock bands Old Dominion and A Thousand Horses, followed by a performance from Dustin Lynch that stood out for its smooth sound and genuine nature. Whether crooning the love ballad “Cowboys and Angels” or getting the crowd ready to party with “One Hell of a Night,” Lynch was at his best and brightest at Stagecoach – and audience members could tell that he was grateful to be there, as when he stopped partway through his set to point out the beautiful sunset lighting up the scene behind the crowd. Following Lynch, the members of Little Big Town were in perfect harmony for “Pontoon,” “Sober” and “Your Side of the Bed,” displaying their musical talent as well as their cohesiveness.
Stagecoach’s headliners did not disappoint either, with Eric Church taking the stage Friday night in his signature no-nonsense rockstar style. As he pointed out, ten years ago he performed at Stagecoach at two in the afternoon; now, he is one of the biggest names in country music, with a gravelly voice and unique singles such as “Springsteen,” “Like a Wrecking Ball,” “Give Me Back My Hometown” and “Mr. Misunderstood” unashamed of their country roots but proud of their rock influences. Carrie Underwood, who first rose to fame in 2005 after winning American Idol, blew away the crowd with a performance that hit every note just right; every song had the audience singing and dancing along, and Carrie’s sunny and down-to-earth personality stood out when she took off her high-heeled shoes to sing “Blown Away,” “Heartbeat” and “Before He Cheats” barefoot. And when Luke Bryan came on Sunday night, he ramped up the party as screaming fans cheered his hits “Kick the Dust Up,” “That’s My Kind of Night,” “Crash My Party,” “Play it Again” and “Roller Coaster.” Bryan brought Lynch and Little Big Town back onstage with him for a completely unscripted rendition of Jason Aldean’s “She’s Country” and Jason Derulo’s “Talk Dirty,” and his signature energy got everyone dancing whether he was singing country or pop. 
Despite the fact that most festival-goers came for evening performances once the heat of the day had worn off, those who took the time to get there a little earlier could discover little-known gems like Aaron Watson, who has been performing for 15 years (and just released his 12th album) but whose hit single “That Look” earned him national recognition just last year. Watson’s voice was smooth and his guitar chords were perfectly in tune, as his song “Bluebonnets” brought genuine emotion to the audience when he described the hardship he went through after the death of his daughter. By contrast, Brett Young has only been performing for a few years, but he has already built an empathetic fan base with his description of the heartbreak he experienced after ending a six-year relationship, which inspired songs such as “Like I Loved You” and “You Ain’t Here to Kiss Me” on his first EP. 
The festival site is not a fairgrounds. It is polo field. I also would not say the Palamino and Mustang stages have less known artists. Many are country and rock music legends, with five or six members of the Rock and Roll hall of fame or Country Music Hall of Fame appearing this year.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
