USC has reached an agreement with United Airlines for the naming rights of the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, according to Sports Business Daily. University officials said an agreement has not been finalized.
According to Sports Business Daily, United would pay $70 million in a span of 15 years, making it the highest-priced naming rights deal in college football. The Los Angeles Times reported that Coliseum officials wanted to keep the words “Memorial Coliseum” in the stadium’s name.
“As part of its agreement to operate the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and to support the renovation, restoration and operation of the Coliseum, USC has been pursuing a naming rights arrangement with various entities,” USC officials said in a statement emailed to the Daily Trojan. “At this time, no naming rights deal has been finalized.”
The stadium is currently undergoing a $270 million-dollar renovation projected to be completed by the 2019 football season.
The Coliseum has played host to the USC football team since it was built in 1923.
Very sad news.  Corporate naming of buildings and venues is awful, and has gotten out of hand.  Is it too late to stop this?  Are there any prominent Trojans out there with the ear of Nikias or Swann or other University officials, to see what can be done?  I’m not certain that USC even needs the corporate money, but if the University must sign with United… can the deal include a provision that excludes any change to the name of the stadium?  Perhaps United can be allowed to put their logo and name elsewhere throughout the Coliseum, including on literature, concession stands, press box, vision board, locker rooms and restrooms… but just not the name of the venue.  Even if it means they cough up less money, it would be worth it to preserve the dignity and history of our beloved Coliseum.  Let’s please NOT be the generation that caved into this horrible trend.
Very well stated. It caved in years ago when we had the Poulan Weedeater Bowl. As for naming the Memorial Coliseum, it is ironic it had to be a company in turmoil. If there is any saving grace with this sponsor, it would be its name. For example, the ‘United Center in Chicago’ does not necessarily promote the sponsor, though its intent does.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
