The USC Village Target will be the sixth small-scale Target in the Los Angeles area. Morgan Stephens | Daily Trojan
Target is the first retailer of the Village’s massive $700 million, mixed-use retail and residential space to open its doors. The USC Village will house 2,700 USC students and accompany 134,000 feet of retail shops such as Starbucks, Trader Joe’s, Greenleaf Gourmet Chop Shop and Bank of America. 
Target opened its doors for a few guests at the store’s soft opening last Wednesday. Now, Target is open to all shoppers – three years after the largest retail construction project in south Los Angeles’ history broke ground. 
This is the sixth small-scale Target in the L.A. area with 22,000 square feet including free Wi-Fi, designated sections for clothing, a wide array of Trojan gear, school and office supplies, a well-equipped food market complete with produce and grab-and-go items, electronics, cosmetics, a pharmacy and a Starbucks. 
“We are excited for all of our students that are moving in,” said Target manager Angelica Moreno. “We are also excited about the community — they’re coming in and really loving that they no longer have to travel all the way to Downtown or other areas.”
A handful of students waited outside the store before the doors opened. “I’m a big Target shopper from back home,” said Reza Talieh, a junior majoring in chemical engineering before the opening. “It seems like it’s going to have the options we need, and it’s a very crucial location that’s close to some elementary schools around here.”
USC Village is located on Hoover Street and Jefferson Boulevard with Target taking up space on the first floor of the Cowlings residential college building. The new university retail destination offers underground parking, which is set to accommodate more than 400 cars and 1,272 bicycles and will employ approximately 70 workers. 
Target’s neighbor, Trader Joe’s, and the majority of the remaining Village retailers are set to open their doors by Aug.17, before the start of fall classes. 
700million!? Holy moley! This area is just a hot brand iron over the lower half of Los Angeles ain’t it? Sheesh, looks like this corporation is mostly just helping itself to property in the surrounding areas. 
No doubt they’ll eat up Vermont & Normandie, Figueroa has been taken, and even worse is all that strange renovation going on, bus lanes? Bike lanes?
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
