On the final day to declare for the NFL Draft, junior cornerback Adoree’ Jackson announced that he will forego his senior season to enter the professional league.
Known for his explosive performances on both sides of the ball, Jackson led the team in punt returns, kick returns and interceptions in his final season. He totalled over 1,000 yards off of returns alone, dazzling fans and teammates alike with his leaping dashes from one end zone to the other. 
His impact off the field was equally renowned. Whether it was turning backflips during practice or wearing the red “C” of a captain into every game, Jackson’s presence was felt throughout the team.
Jackson’s decision was closely watched following the Rose Bowl, as he posted cryptically on social media about his chances to return to win the Heisman or the National Championship. The announcement comes after junior wide receiver JuJu Smith Schuster decided to enter the draft as well.
It also comes on the heels of an ankle injury in the third quarter of the Rose Bowl that kept Jackson off the field for the remainder of the game. Though the injury did not keep the Trojans from their last-minute defeat over Penn State, it weighed into how Jackson viewed the decision to stay or go.
“After the Rose Bowl, I had many thoughts running through my head,” Jackson said. “What was on my mind is that nothing is guaranteed in life and to take advantage of every opportunity that is put in front of you.”
At USC, Jackson also excelled as a track athlete, winning the Pac-12 Championship in long jump and anchoring the 4 x 100 meter team to fourth place in the NCAA Championship meet. That team’s final time of 38.75 remains the second-fastest in school history. 
Despite his revered status as a Trojan, Jackson’s draft stock is widely debated. A mock draft by Walter Football puts him at first overall, while Bleacher Report drops him out of the first round at 60th overall. The ultimate decision won’t be made until April 28th.
The possibility that Jackson would leave a year early was well-known throughout the Trojan fanbase, and his final game in the Coliseum was filled with rumbling chants of “One more year.” Although he couldn’t give the fans what they wanted, Jackson left them with the second-best thing — a Rose Bowl victory and a legacy that will be impossible to forget anytime soon.
“It’s been an incredible three years playing for one of the greatest traditions in college football,” Jackson said. “I made the best decision of my life when I chose to come to USC, and finishing it off with a Rose Bowl win is one of the best ways I could ever hoped for it to end. Being a Trojan was the best time of my life and I’ll never ever forget my time here at USC.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
