For the Trojans, the Cotton Bowl was their chance to prove that their regular season wasn’t a fluke.
Though it won 11 games and a Pac-12 championship, most of USC’s wins had come against flimsy conference opponents, critics said. The harp on the eighth-ranked Trojans was that they barely beat inferior teams, that they had lost big to Notre Dame and shouldn’t have lost to Washington State. Even their two “statement” wins — both of which came against Stanford — weren’t too impressive in nature.
Beating Ohio State in front of the bright lights of AT&T Stadium would’ve been redeeming, an opportunity to show the playoff committee why they — not the Buckeyes, and not Alabama — were the team worthy of a playoff spot. Head coach Clay Helton called it their Super Bowl.
So much for that.
Friday’s 24-7 loss to Ohio State summed up USC’s season perfectly, because it was befuddling in every which way. For a team with so much starpower offensively, it put up just 7 points in all and a goose egg in the second half despite outgaining the Buckeyes 413 yards to 277. For a team not necessarily known for its defense, the Trojans did a commendable job holding J.T. Barrett to just 114 yards of offense.
USC’s defense gets to J.T. Barrett – Katie Chin | Daily Trojan
“Whenever you can hold an Ohio State team under 300 yards, if you tell me that before the game, I would say we win,” redshirt sophomore quarterback Sam Darnold said.
Problem was, Darnold and his offense were nowhere to be found. But it wasn’t entirely the quarterback’s fault. Sure, he threw an ill-timed pick six that put USC in a 17-0 hole. And he fumbled the ball twice, squandering prime scoring opportunities.
“When you turn the ball over that much, it’s hard to win games,” he said.
But the problem did not simply lie in Darnold’s ongoing struggles to protect the football. This was an offense given chance after chance by the defense after going down big to recover. Five consecutive drives in the second half, the Trojans forced Ohio State’s vaunted offense to punt. And five straight times, USC failed to put even the tiniest of dents in a 17-point deficit.
“The second half we get it down in the red zone three times and don’t come away with any points,” head coach Clay Helton said. “And that’s the difference in the game.”
There was the fumble at the 12-yard line when Darnold was stripped while trying to throw the ball. There was the 28-yard field goal that freshman placekicker Chase McGrath hit off the right upright. And there was the frustrating final drive that ended with a wild fourth-down throw by Darnold.
Part of it was ineptitude on the Trojans’ end. But the offensive line gave Darnold almost no chance against the monster defensive line that Ohio State sported. At one point, a simple three-man rush was able to sack the USC quarterback.
“They’re the best defense we’ve seen this season,” junior running back Ronald Jones said. “We went in and made a couple of adjustments, but in the end it just wasn’t enough.”
And the story of the game — as Twitter made sure to note — was turnovers, specifically for Darnold. Three more giveaways on Friday brought his season total to 22, which is more than 101 FBS teams.
“I feel like you guys know how different it could have been without those turnovers because I feel like our defense was just playing lights out,” sophomore wide receiver Michael Pittman Jr. said. “I felt like they were stopping them on every drive.”
USC’s offense struggled in the Cotton Bowl loss – Katie Chin | Daily Trojan
They were, for the entirety of the second half. And we waited, waited and waited some more. For the offense to show up. For Darnold to work his magic once more, to pull out another big bowl win. For the Trojans to show the world that they were better than what their critics limited them to.
Instead, there was no fight. No urgency, no speed-up. The coaches called the game in the second half like USC was ahead by 17, not down by that margin. They let the clock wind down at the end of the third quarter without even getting off a play. They took way too much time to orchestrate a failed comeback attempt.
The offense played like it was facing Oregon State, not Ohio State. It was a microcosm of the 2017 campaign, one that saw USC make consistent mistakes, yet squeak by worse teams because it had superior talent. In the Cotton Bowl, the Buckeyes were more talented, but the Trojans made the same mistakes. And that was the difference.
“We’ve had 11 wins. We’ve won a Pac-12 championship,” Helton said. “We’re proud of those accomplishments. But are we satisfied? No, we’re not. We won’t be satisfied until we win a national championship, and that will be our goal.”
Some picked the Trojans before the season to win the national championship. And on paper, an 11-win season, a conference title and a Cotton Bowl appearance isn’t too shabby. But the eye test, and their bowl performance indicate otherwise.
The Trojans were not a national championship team this season, nor did they deserve to make the playoff. And Friday’s game, in fitting fashion, proved exactly why.
It all falls upon the head coach to have the right coaches on staff prepare the team accordingly. The offensive staff failed in their duties collectively and should be held accountable. At the top are both the offensive line and special teams coaches. Their respective groups looked and played under their capabilities. The offensive coordinator play calling tempo was also poorly executed in crunch time. The head coach ultimately should be held accountable by the Athletic Director.  And last in my opinion, they should add an additional strength and conditioning coach to the coaching roster because our players comparatively speaking are noticeably weaker and slower than top flight opponents and peer group teams (e.g., Alabama, The Ohio State, Georgia, etc.).
The Pac-12 must reliquish its place among the powerful conferences in college football. This has been an FCS-quality season for the conference and it would be best for it to join the Group of 5 and be a Group of 6. Its 12 football teams have brought the pretentious moniker of Conference of Champions into total disrepute and all of its coaching staffs must undergo turnover and raid the Big 10 for quality coaches who are not hacks like those employed at this sham of a conference. This year, the Pac-12 in football is deservedly the Conference Of Sham Peons. #FailForLA
Mr. Salazar,
I’m sorry that your heart is filled with hate toward USC and the Pac-12.  Maybe that hate darkens your soul a bit?
My son and I are going pray that you find some love in heart as God loves the Trojans as he does all college football teams!
God Bless!
Mom with Greek Son,
Don’t waste your time with an email about hate. I do not hate or do I believe in hate. I am a believer but God has given me the ability to form an opinion. God Bless
Mr. Crook,
We’re going to pray for you as well.
God Bless!
I have love in my heart.  I’m a Cal fan.  I LOVE seeing $C crash and burn.
Looks like a small World,
Are you the Marcos Hernandez that works as the morning barista at the Starbucks on Newport Coast Drive?  If so, you are a wonderful hardworking young man who I am certain will one day find success.   Next time I come in, I’ll be sure and mention this post and of course leave you something extra in the tip jar to show my appreciation.
God Bless!
I don’t need your prayers. I distanced myself from the Roman Catholic Church after seeing how ISIS ruined Islam and youth who practice that faith. Anime and sports are my religion. As you were.
P.S. Go Beach. LBSU Grad, class of 2018.
USC Football needs to replace its coaches. The other teams? Meh, I don’t care about them.
Mr. Salazar,
I’m not sure what you are trying to say or if it’s just a grammar problem.   How does one list themselves as a graduate from high school the 2nd day of 2018?  Maybe it’s time to hits the books a little more and refine those valuable English skills before it’s too late. 
Regardless, we are going to pray for you and specifically that the Lord gives you more clarity.
God Bless!
I am in total agreement! Helton and T Martin need to be sacked and fresh more competitive blood need to be brought in. The offense is lacking the creativity and does nothing to exploit the defense and use our superior talent to not only beat teams but to bury them. The difference between the SEC and PAC12 is the fact the coaches in the SEC do not care about being nice guys. They are there to win and make a statement! I love Trojan football but am frustrated. As the article says, we won 11 games this year by narrow margins due to our talent. I was at the PAC12 championship and we should have won by a larger margin.
Cheers, Danno. Have a Happy New Year.
Conferences have good/bad seasons..
Last year the best conference -the SEC- had a very poor showing. The Big 10 and BIG 12 also have had bad seasons.
They all bounced back. The PAC 12 looking this bad was rare. You on the other hand are typical ignorant poster spewing mindless nonsense.
Pac 12, at the worst, should have four wins this bowl season. If I am Larry Scott, I step down before a vote of no confidence is placed on me. This was a big defeat for Larry Scott and a deserved one. These teams just aren’t that good.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
