Nikias said in the open letter to the USC community that the University “could have done better” in the handling of the Puliafito incident.
USC will form a task force led by Provost Michael Quick and Senior Vice President of Administration Todd Dickey to address how to better investigate and confront employee misconduct, President C. L. Max Nikias wrote in a letter to the USC community on Wednesday. 
This comes following last week’s Los Angeles Times report detailing the misconduct of former Keck School of Medicine dean Carmen Puliafito, which included drug use, partying and association with criminals. 
“As a result of this recent incident, it is clear to us now that the University currently has only loosely defined procedures and guidelines for dealing with employee behavior outside the workplace that may be improper or illegal and has the capacity to affect USC,” Nikias said.
Also in the letter, Nikias admitted that the University could have done better in investigating and responding to the matter.
“In facing other crises, we always found opportunities to learn and ways to improve, and then emerged stronger,” he said. “Dr. Puliafito’s situation is extraordinarily complex, but we should assume we could have done better to recognize the signs and severity of his issues.”
In a statement released on Friday announcing that USC has begun the processes necessary to terminate Puliafito and strip him of his tenure, Provost Michael Quick alluded to new evidence reviewed by USC officials that led to the decision. 
“This was the first time we saw such information first-hand,” Quick wrote. 
The Times also reported that two employees in Nikias’ office received an anonymous tip detailing Puliafito’s involvement in a drug overdose incident that occurred in March 2016 — just 10 days prior to Puliafito’s resignation. In response, a spokesman for USC told The New York Times the tip never reached senior administrators.
USC announced Friday they are moving to terminate Puliafito and strip him of his tenure. | Photo courtesy of Keck School of Medicine
On Sunday, the Times ran a follow-up story, claiming that they had approached the University with questions about Puliafito’s conduct for more than a year prior to going public with the story, but with no response.
It is unclear when senior administrators first became aware of Puliafito’s conduct, but it has been a question raised in the days following the LA Times investigation. In light of the incident, the University has faced scrutiny from students, parents and faculty for its seemingly slow response. 
Though the University did not provide a comment in the initial Times report, USC has released a series of statements in the week since it was published announcing actions taken in response to the allegations. 
In separate statements released by Quick and Nikias on Friday, it was announced that Puliafito has been barred from campus while the University begins termination proceedings, and also that an independent investigation has been launched into the incident by hired outside firm, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
As an alum, this make me so sad. Not just what this one guy did, but the university’s failure to seriously look in the mirror at what’s happening. So much of the problem, from sketchy sports deals to out of control behavior on the row to this, seems to be a widespread culture of privilege and insularity from leaders who are almost all wealthy old white guys, and creating a task force that’s exclusively more old white guys doesn’t seem to acknowledge the level of change SC needs :( Here’s for more people in charge who look more like the trojan student body, and not like a mad men episode.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
