Brian Chin | Daily Trojan
USC’s annual Welcome Back Concert entertained students over the weekend with performances by Smino, a hip-hop artist from St. Louis with a soulful rapping style, and Drezo, a Los Angeles-based electronic dance music DJ and artist.
Organized by the USC Concerts Committee, the Welcome Back Concert is one of the first school-wide affairs of the semester, and draws a crowd of approximately 5,000 attendees each year, according to Concerts Committee co-director Carina Glastris.
Tufan Nadjafi, co-director of the Concerts Committee. said the organization chose Smino and Drezo as headliners because they believe the up-and-coming artists hold potential to be big hits in the future. 
“Because it’s our smallest show, we use the least amount out of our budget [compared to Conquest and Springfest], so we look for artists who we think are about to pop off,” Nadjafi said. “Two years ago, we had Post Malone and Cashmere Cat. [Now], they are really big names in music. So we’re kind of looking for that same thing in [Smino and Drezo].”
Smino, who is currently on tour with singer SZA, opened the show by performing songs from his debut album blkswn. Smino engaged the crowd throughout the performance after paying homage to his hometown in St. Louis, leading the crowd with chants, dancing expressively on stage and even throwing Backwoods cigars into the audience.
During Smino’s set, students began throwing tortillas into the air and onto the stage, which came from promotional gift bags handed out by Ralphs at the various booths stationed nearby the concert. 
Smino’s performance was shorter than he anticipated,after his set, he returned on stage and said he had 15 minutes left in his performance. During that time, he interacted with the audience, entering the crowd to dance with students and even joining in on throwing tortillas. 
A half hour later, Drezo’s electronic beats enhanced the audience’s excitement with his dance remixes of popular, chart-topping songs. Drezo opened his set up with Migos’ “Bad and Boujee” as the audience jumped to his beat.
Drezo’s familiar tunes with his own unique twist created a collective, palpable energy that spread across the crowd. In between songs, the DJ mentioned that his birthday was mere hours away, which was met with cheers from the audience.
“It’s my birthday at midnight,” Drezo said, “Thank you, USC, for giving me a good birthday present tonight.” 
After the performance finished around 10:45 p.m., students sang “Happy Birthday” for the DJ. 
Some students felt that this year’s performance differed from last year’s Welcome Back Concert, with a less recognizable lineup and a varied sound.
“It was different — not as much rap, more EDM,” said Sloane Martin, a sophomore studying international relations. “Kind of more about beats, and less about the lyrics. I had never heard of [Drezo] before, but he was pretty good.” 
Regardless of their views on the musical acts though, students were able to enjoy the concert.
“We were all dancing together and we all felt connected to each other,” said Isabel Fernandez, a freshman studying business administration. “Because of the concert, because of the music that was being played, we formed bonds with each other.” 
Glastris said this sense of personal connection is what the organization hopes for in putting on the Welcome Back Concert every year. 
“We do it for USC,” Glastris said. “We put our heart and soul into these shows, and we do it for the student body. That’s all that matters at the end of the day.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
