Photo of Lil Uzi Vert, courtesy of Spike Jordan.
Rolling Loud Festival has become one of the premier hip-hop music festivals in the country and, for the first time, the Miami-based extravaganza will make its way to Southern California. On Saturday and Sunday, hip-hop fans will have a chance to catch some of the biggest names in the game at the NOS Events Center in San Bernardino, Calif., and cap off 2017 with a bang.
Rolling Loud has hosted two festivals already this year, the first at  Bayfront Park in Miami in April and the second at the Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View, Calif. in October. Over 120,000 fans packed the grounds at the three-day edition in Miami, marking the third-straight year that tickets sold out. 
The inaugural Rolling Loud Festival took place in 2015, as a one-day event that saw about 6,000 attendees. After successfully expanding Rolling Loud in subsequent years, co-founders Tariq Cherif and Matt Zingler saw it as the perfect time to branch out to other locations as well.
“Rolling Loud is the No. 1 hip-hop festival in the world, and it’s time to take the Rolling Loud experience on the road,” Cherif said in a press release. “Rap music is the most popular and fastest growing genre of music, and the world deserves to experience curated lineups of its champions.” 
Next year, the festival rotation will continue into the United Kingdom, China and Japan. Fans can expect a new lineup for each iteration, as Rolling Loud looks to keep up with the rapidly changing music landscape.
“Each show will feature a different assortment of hip-hop’s biggest superstars as well as underground heavyweights,” Zingler said. “Miami will remain as our home and premiere event as we establish the Rolling Loud brand around the world.” 
With the Southern California version headlined by artists such as ScHoolboy Q, Future and Migos, it’s sure to be a high-energy occasion with mosh pits at every turn. Future and Migos had especially notable years, with Future making history as the first artist to have two different albums, FUTURE and HNDRXX, debut at No.1 on the Billboard 200 chart in consecutive weeks, and Migos riding the wave of their breakout hit “Bad and Boujee” and album Culture. 
Gucci Mane — one of several Atlanta rappers slated to perform, alongside 21 Savage, Young Thug and others — staked his claim as rap’s 2017 MVP, dropping two critically acclaimed albums while documenting his personal and professional growth in his book The Autobiography of Gucci Mane, a New York Times bestseller. 
USC students still upset about missing Rae Sremmurd at this year’s Springfest will be able to catch the high-octane duo on Sunday. The group is setting itself up for a strong 2018, with Sremmlife 3 expected to drop along with member Swae Lee’s highly anticipated R&B solo album. This weekend, however, fans will have the opportunity to hear smash hits like “Perplexing Pegasus” and “Black Beatles,” sure to close out the festival in rockstar fashion. 
The festival will be held in honor of Lil Peep, who was originally part of the Sunday lineup until his death in November. To take his place, Rolling Loud brought in Jaden Smith to perform on Saturday less than a month after he released his debut LP SYRE, and also enlisted burgeoning SoundCloud rapper Lil Xan to perform on Sunday. USC Conquest headliner Lil Pump will also make an appearance, representing the South Florida hip-hop scene with hits like “Gucci Gang” and “Flex Like Ouu.”
Further down on the roster, there are plenty of can’t-miss sets from rising talents before the headliners take the stage. Los Angeles-based rapper Duckwrth has been a name to watch since his 2016 album I’M UUGLY, and has garnered momentum since releasing an XTRA UUGLY Mixtape in November. His danceable beats and energetic personality should make for one of Sunday’s most electrifying performances, featuring irresistible grooves like “I’M DEAD” and “MICHUUL.”
Fellow Los Angeles artist Buddy was also hard at work this year, releasing two solid EPs, “Ocean & Montana” and “Magnolia.” A vivid songwriter capable of both rapping and singing, Saturday’s performance will be his second Rolling Loud appearance of the year, after taking the stage at the Bay Area festival in October. 
If you’re still in town following finals week, Rolling Loud will be the perfect place to let off some post-exams steam. One day passes start at $99 and weekend passes start at $169, with VIP options available for both You can pick up tickets here, and prepare yourself for what’s sure to be one weekend.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
