Armaan Premjee pled not guilty to criminal charges, including one count of rape by use of drugs and a count of sexual penetration with a foreign object, on Tuesday.
Premjee, a sophomore majoring in business administration, was scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon. He was originally released on $100,000 bail, but Judge Mark Hanasono raised the bail amount to $200,000.
Hanasono ordered Premjee’s attorney to surrender his passport to LAPD and to not approach the alleged victim.
Los Angeles Police Department officers had arrested Premjee on April 11 for alleged sexual assault, according to LAPD.
The alleged assault took place at Fluor Tower residence hall around 1 a.m. on April 1, according to Department of Public Safety records.
“It was totally consensual sex,” said Harland Braun, Premjee’s attorney.
If Premjee is convicted as charged, he could face up to 10 years in state prison. His next court date has been set to June 6.
Premjee continues to be enrolled at USC.
“USC takes all reports of sexual misconduct extremely seriously and is cooperating fully with the law enforcement investigation,” the University said, in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “Information pertaining to student disciplinary records and proceedings or any matter of student conduct are confidential and protected by federal privacy laws.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
