Located in an abandoned 150,000-square-foot warehouse in Lincoln Heights, one wouldn’t think much of The 14th Factory museum’s unassuming, all-black exterior. However, inside holds an immersive and mesmerizing universe like no other. 
The museum features 14 interlinked art installations that showcase video, sculpture, paintings and live dance. Founded by British and Hong Kong-based artist Simon Birch, the museum was created with the intention of making the space not an ordinary experience, but a journey of discovery. 
Birch and his diverse team of 16 artists from China, Hong Kong, the United States, United Kingdom. and Canada took this everyday space and transformed it into a haven of interdisciplinary and socially engaged art that draws from American and Asian cultures. Around every corner, the museum offers diverse, socially conscious and interactive works of art.
According to the museum’s website, Birch was inspired by the 18th-century history of the Canton region called Thirteen Factories when developing the project. Birch even invested $1 million of his own funds toward the project, which originally had a $3 million budget. 
Birch stated in the 14th Factory website that he wanted to create a space where people could open “a new alternative space of collaboration, production and transformation,” combining the old and new. 
The 14th Factory creates global community and unity through existential messages and social justice through the representation of minority artists and subjects and original, dramatic pieces of art. In between the dramatic installations, visitors move through tunnels in complete darkness, adding to the mystique. 
While all the individual exhibits have the ability to leave guests constantly amazed, a crowd favorite is The Barmecide Feast, designed by lead architect Paul Kember and his team. Introduced as an interstellar meteor that breaks open in the middle into a room inspired by the film 2001: A Space Odyssey, guests can experience an exact replica of the bedroom from director Stanley Kubrick’s set. Kembers’ uncle and great-uncle were both designers who worked on the original sets in Kubrick’s film
Visitors are allowed a timed visit of two minutes, similar to the restrictions at the Museum of Ice Cream for the sprinkles pool and The Broad for Yayoi Kusama’s Infinity Mirrored Room. 
The final exhibit, The Inevitable (The Final Challenge: Death and Rebirth) by Birch and Eric Hu, is as shocking as it is fascinating. The film installation features Birch’s beloved red Ferrari being destroyed on screen in slow-motion from various angles. In the next room, the physical pieces of the destroyed Ferrari are on the table for view. 
Birch created The Inevitable after his diagnosis diagnosis with non-Hodgkins lymphoma and was told that he only had six months left to live. After the life-changing incident, Birch realized that material wealth can be absolutely insignificant, according to Forbes magazine
Other iconic exhibits include The Crusher, a room with 300 pitchforks suspended from the ceiling that look as if they could fall down at any minute, representing revolution. 
The various film installations showcase a wide range of subjects, including one with 300 Chinese fighters in slow motion and Tannhauser by videographer Scott Sporleder, based on a concept by Birch that features vacated apartment buildings in Hong Kong. 
While Los Angeles is a cultural hub for art, few are as enlightening as The 14th Factory. With its collaborative and innovative approach, The 14th Factory weaves the past, the present and the future together by uniquely displaying art inspired by Chinese history, all while giving a voice to artists of color. 
Admission is $18 at the door and $15 online. As the museum is also a documentary project, visitors must sign a waiver agreeing to be filmed upon entering. The pop-up museum was originally scheduled to run until April 30, but recently extended visits into May.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
