“And I will always love you, class of 2017, I will always love you,” sang comedian Will Ferrell to end his keynote speech to the more than 17,000 graduates at the 134th Annual Commencement Ceremony on Friday.
The main ceremony, which took place in Alumni Park, featured speeches by USC President C. L. Max Nikias, class valedictorian Cooper Nelson and of course, Ferrell, who served as keynote speaker. 
Ferrell, who graduated from USC in 1990, spoke of his arduous journey to success and how the lessons he learned at USC gave him the courage to pursue a career in comedy.
“The seeds for this journey were planted right here on this campus,” Ferrell said. “This campus was a theater or testing lab.” 
Aside from plenty of laughs, Ferrell left the graduates with the message that it’s OK to not know what you want to do, and told them that if they should ever feel discouraged, to picture him serenading them with Whitney Houston’s “I Will Always Love You.” 
Ferrell was just one of six honorary degree recipients honored at Friday’s ceremony, among them were Oscar-winning actress Helen Mirren, 1996 Time Magazine Man of the Year and HIV/AIDS researcher David Ho and Chairman of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors Mark Ridley-Thomas.
The degree recipients joined Nikias and Ferrell onstage for the ceremony. 
“Consider these times in which you now set out to lead,” Nikias said to the graduates. “Today’s traditions that have lasted generations can become obsolete almost overnight.”
Nikias also encouraged students to forge ahead into a constantly changing society, while noting the traditions and accomplishments of USC that have endured through the achievements of its graduates.
Valedictorian Cooper Nelson emphasized ideas of acceptance and service to the community through her passion of storytelling. Nelson is the first valedictorian to graduate from the School of Cinematic Arts. She described her dreams of developing media that would teach a young audience life lessons.
“I am also your unemployed valedictorian this year,” Nelson said. “Many of you I know personally will literally change the world in the environment, global health, and technology [sectors]. Me, I just really wanna write cartoons.”
Nelson added that the graduates could achieve success and make a lasting, positive impact in the world in their own way.
“We have all been blessed with a wonderful college experience, and we need to pay it forward in life,” Nelson said, “any way we can, whenever we can and for as long as we can.”
 
Correction: A previous version of this story stated incorrectly that class salutatorians Amanda Semler and Jordan Kondo gave speeches at the main commencement ceremony. They were honored at the ceremony, but did not speak. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
