Provost Michael Quick announces USC has begun processes to terminate former Keck School of Medicine Dean Carmen Puliafito.
USC will take steps to terminate former Keck School of Medicine Dean Carmen Puliafito and strip him of his faculty tenure after reviewing evidence of his prior drug use, Provost Michael Quick announced Friday in a letter to the USC faculty. 
These steps include hiring an outside attorney to investigate the allegations against Puliafito, as President C. L. Max Nikias announced in a separate letter on Friday addressed to the USC community.
This comes after a report by the Los Angeles Times found that Puliafito had engaged in drug use, kept company with criminals and partied on campus prior to his resignation in March 2016.
Puliafito has been suspended and is barred from campus and all USC-affiliated activities, Quick said in his statement. Quick said that the University is taking these steps after reviewing evidence linking Puliafito to “substance abuse activities with people who aren’t affiliated with USC.” 
USC President C. L. Max Nikias states that the University has hired an attorney to launch an internal investigation into Puliafito’s conduct.
Debra Wong Yang, a partner in the international law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and a former Los Angeles federal prosecutor, has been selected to lead the internal investigation, Nikias said in his letter. At the conclusion of the investigation, Yang will present her findings and recommendations to the USC Board of Trustees, according to Nikias.  
In the letter Nikias said he was “outraged” and “disgusted” by Puliafito’s behavior while at USC. 
“It runs counter to our values and and everything for which our university stands,” Nikias said.
Nikias encouraged all staff members and faculty to cooperate fully with the investigation in order to understand why the events surrounding Puliafito occurred and to prevent them from happening again. 
USC announced Monday that former Keck Dean Carmen Puliafito was no longer seeing patients. | Photo courtesy of Keck School of Medicine
“In this instance, we will look to improve the ways in which we could have recognized the severity of the situation sooner,” Nikias said.
The University said in a statement on Monday that Puliafito is on leave from his positions at USC and is no longer accepting patients. It remains unclear whether Puliafito continued to see patients at the Keck School of Medicine’s Roski Eye Institute after he resigned from his post as dean in March 2016. 
His resignation came 10 days after a female companion overdosed on the illicit drug GHB in his presence in a Pasadena hotel room. The Times story stated that an anonymous witness called USC after the overdose to alert Nikias of Puliafito’s involvement, citing phone records that show a six-minute phone call was placed to the president’s’ office on March 14. The University has not confirmed the existence of this phone call, but Quick said in Friday’s letter that the administration “needed actual facts” and would not act on “allegations and hearsay.”
 
 
Editor’s note: This story was updated to account for the release of a second letter from the USC administration concerning former Keck School of Medicine Dean Carmen Puliafito.
 
‘female companion’? ahem she was a prostitute thankyouverymuch
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
