Noha Ayoub, a sophomore majoring in law, history and culture, was surprised by the student body’s willingness to learn about Islam.
Ayoub helped plan the Muslim Student Union’s 10th annual Islam Awareness Week, which started on Monday and brought renowned keynote speakers such as scholars Dalia Mogahed and Ustadh Usama Canon to campus.
Ayoub, who serves as secretary of the MSU, is extremely passionate about educating others on the religion and said she hopes to create a sense of community and solidarity.
“My hope is to create conversation where there would not have been within the student body in particular,” Ayoub said. “For us, it’s about connecting to our student body, so that other students are aware that we’re here and that we contribute quite a bit to our community on campus.”
The Muslim population at USC has only grown over the past few years, and the USC Office of Religious life estimates that there are up to a 1,000 Muslim students on campus.
This means that the Muslim population makes up 2.3 percent of the student body; these Muslim students being both American-born and from Muslim-majority nations such as Indonesia.
Muslim Student Union President Aamna Asif, a junior majoring in health and human sciences, explained that the week is one of the most important events of the year for the organization, and that the central goal this year is to inform students on how to navigate and comprehend Islam.
“There are a lot of misconceptions about our religion and the events that we’re holding this week are aimed to clear up some of those misconceptions,” Asif said.
Through activities such as dinners with Muslim speakers, mosque sermon visits and calligraphy workshops, Asif hopes to continue developing a stronger Muslim community and to foster a diverse, yet unified identity in the larger USC community.
“I feel like there’s this whole other side to Islam, the actual side of Islam that no one knows about,” Asif said. “We’re trying to get those people that want to learn, that want to be informed, instead of formulating their opinions on what a select few people that don’t know anything about the religion have to say about it.”
In light of the current presidency and political climate, Ayoub explains that she hopes the event will raise support from other students.
“There is a huge population of Muslim students at USC who deserve to be treated with respect. Respect comes from understanding,” wrote Kathleen Sullivan, a sophomore majoring in industrial and systems engineering, in an email to the Daily Trojan. “As a university, it is our job to educate the future citizens of our country and the world. I think the best way to get to the point of understanding is to meet and get to know people so you can put a real face to Islam.”
While the University has vocally supported visa-holding students and those affected by President Donald Trump’s travel ban order, the Muslim Student Union wants to see explicit policy stances from the University.
“We want to know that the University will fight for us in a lot of ways,” Ayoub said. “Without that knowledge, I wouldn’t say we feel unsupported, but we want rather to feel that we are integral members of the community, not just students who can increase the diversity statistic on our pamphlets.”
It seems they don’t want me to give the links to these articles but the interested reader can google the titles for the complete articles. You’ll find many more.
It’s Happening AGAIN: More Syrian Refugees Convert After Seeing Jesus in a Dream
Muslims claim hundreds of thousands are converting in Middle East after ‘Jesus appears in visions and dreams’
It only took 10% of the German people to align with Hitler his Nazi regime to become dominant in Europe for 10+ years.  It only abiut 10% of the Japanese to align withHiromi to to wreck havoc in the western Pacific.  You see, DT, there’s an old saying that 1 rotten apple spoils the barrel, and when you have even 1% of 1.x billion muslims around the world, that’s a huge number. Don’t underestimate what Benjamin and all of us understand…. radical Islam is evil. Period.  It is up to the moderate Islamic commu n ities around the world to stand up and disavow themselves of any association with radical m Islamic terrorism and the groups that promote, else you are part of the problem.
When groups like CAIR, the Islamic commu n ities in NYC, Dearborn MI, London, Paris and other western cities and nations are working very diligently to enact Sharia Law and the law of the land, even the moderates become the enemy.  Radicalmislqm, conservative Islam is not aligned with western values, so you need to understand what you really want for yourself and the future of your children.  Life under Islamic rule is  ot compatible with western civilization.  If you want to m live under Islamic rule then move to a country where they do that.  I hear Singapore is beautiful this time of year. At least you’ll be safe there .
Assalamualaikum! Peace be upon you.
I want to thank DT for writing this article and supporting us. That kind of open love has been felt profoundly in the MSU and on behalf of the board, thank you. 
I also want to thank those of you who are so concerned about the Muslim community that you felt compelled to take time out of your lives that you could use productively to pointing out every flaw in the Muslim community. Our goal with Islam Awareness Week is to shed light on those problems so that we can empower ourselves to address the problems within our own community as well as how we are perceived by others.
The cherry picked lines from the Quran about war is quite relevant to me because those verses were revealed to Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) at a time when Muslims were being persecuted for their beliefs. So these lines were a way to empower Muslims to defend themselves when they were being exiled from their own land by their own people. The Prophet (peace be upon him) was offered money, power, and his choice of women if he would renounce his religion. Instead he preferred poverty and the love of God that liberated him from being tied down to worldly needs. But in the Quran there are a lot of verses about Just war as well. There is more violent rhetoric in the Bible than in the Quran. Which isn’t to say that the Bible is worse, or that Christianity is more violent. Rather we must remember that both these texts were written thousands of years ago, meaning what was relevant then may not be relevant in the same way now.
Furthermore, the Quran teaches us that humans being are different from one another so that we may learn from one another. So the goal of Islam Awareness Week is to continue that tradition of knowledge building. The first line revealed to Muhammad (peace be upon him) was “read.” The angel Gabriel revealed Allah’s message to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said, “Read in the name of your lord who created you… Read, and your Lord is most Generous, who has taught you with a pen, taught man what he did not know.” The word “iqra” in Arabic, however, means more than just read. It means read, write, recite, memorize, engage. To read in the tradition of the Prophet (peace be upon him) is to have an attitude toward education that welcomes knowledge as an active pursuit. 
Within the Muslim community we face a lot of problems. But none of those problems have anything to do with Islam and have more to do with being human. The Institute of Social Justice and Understanding reports that the common factor among Muslim majority countries with violence against women, for example, isn’t Islam but poverty. In the US, domestic violence against women happens in the same ratio as it does in every faith community, including the Muslim community. Furthermore, in the US, Muslim women are the second most educated faith group after Jewish women. That means that Muslim women more educated than Muslim men and Christian men in this country. This statistic is very similar in many Muslim majority countries with a stable economy. In countries like Algeria, women are more educated than men but in Yemen where they face mass starvation, that number is different. But this means that these problems aren’t “Muslim problems.” They are people problems. These are problems of poverty and if you cared about poverty internationally as much as you cared about discussing the problems of Islam itself, then poverty wouldn’t be an issue. 
So let me make myself very clear. I do not exist to please you. I do not exist to validate your world view. I don’t owe you any explanations but I choose to because I think the most powerful tool in the world is knowledge. I do not exist as an instrument in your political project. As a Muslim, I believe that my purpose in life is to serve God by serving His people. If you have a problem with my existence, that’s not my problem. That’s yours. 
Peace and blessings be upon you.
Everyone should learn more about Islam. I’m sure we can all agree on that point.
What I wish college students knew about Islam:
1. Islam is anti-social justice. Islam justifies slavery, slave rape, the mistreatment of women and the mistreatment of minority sexual and religious groups.
2. Islam is a colonizing religion that destroys indigenous languages and traditions. Islam is an Arabizing religion that favors the Arabic language, customs, dress and habits over indigenous practices.
3. Islam was founded by a polygamist who had sex with a child, beat his wives, kept sex slaves, had poets assassinated and killed 800 men and boys in an orgy of beheading. 
College students, do you really want to ally yourselves with the Islamic ideology?   
This is nonsense. The Muslim Student Union, as well as organizations like CAIR, need instead to focus on figuring out what it is about their faith that has caused so many to radicalize.  That should be their mission.  They need to stop rolling out in front of the cameras every time another terrorist act occurs in the name of Allah …sanctimoniously demonizing intelligent and loving Americans for being fearful.  Instead they, as a community, need to get to the bottom of this growing threat to world peace and Western civilization.
give me a break.  Posts like this do far more to grow the threat to world peace than the tiny minority of idiots who misuse a religion to rationalize their hate ever could.  You are increasing the hate and division, exactly like they want you too. Please, stop giving the terrorists what they want.
Your response is predictable, typical, and tiresome.  Normal people can see right through it.  Everybody knows that the majority of Muslims throughout the world are NOT terrorists.  The problem right now is that the majority of international terror is done in the name of Islam, or “Allah”.  This is the same phenomenon we see with illegal immigration.  The majority of Mexicans and Latinos in America are NOT here illegally.  But the problem is that the majority of people here illegally are Latino.  This is a demographic reality.  The Hispanic community needs to get to the root of their issue just like Muslims need to get to the root of their issue… and all of you need to stop blaming others in the process.
For you to even suggest my comment increases or contribute to “hate and division” is ripe with ignorance.  Good Muslims have a problem within their community because too many are going rogue.  They need to figure it out… and YOU need to stop demonizing good people around you who have legitimate fear and reserve in the face of this current reality.
There is demonizing in this thread but I ain’t the one doing it.  
I am pretty sure no one was calling on all Christians to to do something about their radicalism problem the last time some idiot bombed an abortion clinic or murdered some doctor.  Judging and holding every member of group accountable for the action of a tiny minority of idiots is irrational, fear-driven thinking, and contributes to the problem.
All Muslims are somehow responsible for some lunatics who pervert their faith to rationalize their terrible acts?  All Latinos are somehow responsible for illegal immigration in the US?  Damn man, listen to yourself.  This is just as unhinged as some social justice warrior claiming that all white people are responsible for some racist shooting a kid.
“…people around you who have legitimate fear and reserve in the face of this current reality…”
Look, I get it.  You are afraid, that’s ok. Wanting to protect you and yours is perfectly natural.  But blaming and attacking a billion people who have nothing to do with the things you are afraid of is not going to make you any safer.  Sorry you are so fearful, but lashing out and trying to blame everyone around you isn’t going to solve that problem.
I’m growing tired of you.  Let’s tackle your nonsense:
Actually I do recall a lot of backlash against Christians every time an abortion clinic was bombed.  (I was among them.  It’s disgusting that any Christian would think that was appropriate, particularly in the “name of Jesus”.)  
Minority?  Just so you know, in addition to the vast numbers of Al Quada and Hesbola members, ISIS continues to grow.  As I’ve already mentioned, the majority of Muslilms around the world are indeed good people and certainly not terrorists, but don’t kid yourself that rogue terrorist Muslims are just some small unorganized group in the middle east that we don’t need to worry about.
Nobody said that all Muslims are responsible for the rogue ones, or that all Latinos are responsible for the illegal ones.  What I did say is that their is a problem within those communities that needs to be addressed.
Unhinged?  Barely merits a response.
Afraid?  I’m not worried about protecting me and mine.  I’m worried about protecting EVERYONE who loves peace and freedom because right now, peace and freedom is threatened by the actions and philosophy of a growing number of rogue Muslims.
Lashing out?  Barely merits a response (except to say that a fair and articulate comment to this article, by you or me, is hardly lashing out.
Check yourself (whoever you are).
“I’m worried about protecting EVERYONE who loves peace and freedom
because right now, peace and freedom is threatened by the actions and
philosophy of a growing number of rogue Muslims.”
Fair enough. Accurate threat assessment is important.  The last word would more accurately be “terrorists” not “Muslims” — the vast majority of Muslims will tell you that there is nothing Muslim about killing innocents.  The Quran is quite clear on this.  Learning more about each others’ faiths would go a long way to closing the gap and helping people understand each other so we can stand united against those would pervert either faith for their own gain. 
Which, oddly enough, turns out to be what this article is about… the MSU reaching out to allow people to learn about Islam.
That is not “nonsense.” It is one right move, among others, to help make this world a safer place for “everyone who loves peace and freedom.”
I appreciate your viewpoint on this issue.  I simply disagree.  We are both entitled to our opinions.
The vast majority of Muslims should not be telling me that there is nothing Muslim about killing innocents.  That’s my whole point.  They should be telling the other Muslims who are committing acts of international terror in the name of Islam, and literally citing “Allah”.  They are the ones who apparently need to be schooled on the fundamentals of their faith… not me!  So yes, back to the point of this article.  You clearly support the notion that somehow the path to ISIS and other terrorist organizations being defeated is for the rest of us to be taught more about Islam…. and I totally disagree.  I could become a scholar and even a practitioner of Islam, and it would do NOTHING to stop ISIS and other terrorist organizations that cite Islam and the Quran as their inspiration.  The focus is all wrong.  The truth is I’m not buying the idea that the Muslim Student Union, or organization like CAIR, really believe it either.  What they are really trying to do is shame non-Muslims for being fearful… and I think that’s wrong on so many levels.
Clearly you and I disagree. Disagreement is fine.  That’s what these forums are about.  I’ve articulated my position pretty clearly and it doesn’t appear that further discussion between us will advance the debate.
fair enough.
Quran (2:191-193) – “And kill them wherever you find them, and turn them out from where they have turned you out. And Al-Fitnah [disbelief or unrest] is worse than killing… but if they desist, then lo! Allah is forgiving and merciful. And fight them until there is no more Fitnah [disbelief and worshipping of others along with Allah] and worship is for Allah alone. But if they cease, let there be no transgression except against Az-Zalimun(the polytheists, and wrong-doers, etc.)” (Translation is from the Noble Quran) The verse prior to this (190) refers to “fighting for the cause of Allah those who fight you” leading some to claim that the entire passage refers to a defensive war in which Muslims are defending their homes and families.  The historical context of this passage is not defensive warfare, however, since Muhammad and his Muslims had just relocated to Medina and were not under attack by their Meccan adversaries.  In fact, the verses urge offensive warfare, in that Muslims are to drive Meccans out of their own city (which they later did).  Verse 190 thus means to fight those who offer resistance to Allah’s rule (ie. Muslim conquest).  The use of the word “persecution” by some Muslim translators is disingenuous – the actual Arabic words for persecution (idtihad) – and oppression are not used instead of fitna.  Fitna can mean disbelief, or the disorder that results from unbelief or temptation.  This is certainly what is meant in this context since the violence is explicitly commissioned “until religion is for Allah” – ie. unbelievers desist in their unbelief.  [Editor’s note: these notes have been modified slightly after a critic misinterpreted our language. Verse 193 plainly says that ‘fighting’ is sanctioned even if the fitna ‘ceases’.  This is about religious order, not real persecution.]
Quran (2:244) – “Then fight in the cause of Allah, and know that Allah Heareth and knoweth all things.” 
Quran (2:216) – “Fighting is prescribed for you, and ye dislike it. But it is possible that ye dislike a thing which is good for you, and that ye love a thing which is bad for you. But Allah knoweth, and ye know not.” Not only does this verse establish that violence can be virtuous, but it also contradicts the myth that fighting is intended only in self-defense, since the audience was obviously not under attack at the time. From the Hadith, we know that this verse was narrated at a time that Muhammad was actually trying to motivate his people into raiding merchant caravans for loot.
Quran (3:56) – “As to those who reject faith, I will punish them with terrible agony in this world and in the Hereafter, nor will they have anyone to help.”
Quran (3:151) – “Soon shall We cast terror into the hearts of the Unbelievers, for that they joined companions with Allah, for which He had sent no authority”. This speaks directly of polytheists, yet it also includes Christians, since they believe in the Trinity (ie. what Muhammad incorrectly believed to be ‘joining companions to Allah’).
Quran (4:74) – “Let those fight in the way of Allah who sell the life of this world for the other. Whoso fighteth in the way of Allah, be he slain or be he victorious, on him We shall bestow a vast reward.” The martyrs of Islam are unlike the early Christians, who were led meekly to the slaughter. These Muslims are killed in battle as they attempt to inflict death and destruction for the cause of Allah. This is the theological basis for today’s suicide bombers.
Quran (4:76) – “Those who believe fight in the cause of Allah…”
Quran (4:89) – “They but wish that ye should reject Faith, as they do, and thus be on the same footing (as they): But take not friends from their ranks until they flee in the way of Allah (From what is forbidden). But if they turn renegades, seize them and slay them wherever ye find them; and (in any case) take no friends or helpers from their ranks.”
Quran (4:95) – “Not equal are those of the believers who sit (at home), except those who are disabled (by injury or are blind or lame, etc.), and those who strive hard and fight in the Cause of Allah with their wealth and their lives. Allah has preferred in grades those who strive hard and fight with their wealth and their lives above those who sit (at home).Unto each, Allah has promised good (Paradise), but Allah has preferred those who strive hard and fight, above those who sit (at home) by a huge reward ” This passage criticizes “peaceful” Muslims who do not join in the violence, letting them know that they are less worthy in Allah’s eyes. It also demolishes the modern myth that “Jihad” doesn’t mean holy war in the Quran, but rather a spiritual struggle. Not only is this Arabic word (mujahiduna) used in this passage, but it is clearly not referring to anything spiritual, since the physically disabled are given exemption. (The Hadith reveals the context of the passage to be in response to a blind man’s protest that he is unable to engage in Jihad, which would not make sense if it meant an internal struggle).
Quran (4:104) – “And be not weak hearted in pursuit of the enemy; if you suffer pain, then surely they (too) suffer pain as you suffer pain…” Is pursuing an injured and retreating enemy really an act of self-defense?
Quran (5:33) – “The punishment of those who wage war against Allah and His messenger and strive to make mischief in the land is only this, that they should be murdered or crucified or their hands and their feet should be cut off on opposite sides or they should be imprisoned; this shall be as a disgrace for them in this world, and in the hereafter they shall have a grievous chastisement”
Quran (8:12) – “I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them” No reasonable person would interpret this to mean a spiritual struggle.  The targets of violence are “those who disbelieve” – further defined in the next verse (13) as “defy and disobey Allah.” Nothing is said about self-defense.  In fact, the verses in sura 8 were narrated shortly after a battle provoked by Muhammad, who had been trying to attack a lightly-armed caravan to steal goods belonging to other people.
Again.  Pulling a bunch of lines out of context to rationalize your position isn’t an accurate reflection of the religion.  And you chose to completely ignore the point this wall of quotations is ostensibly responding to: 
“Accurate threat assessment is important.  The last word would more accurately be ‘terrorists’ not ‘Muslims'”
Personally, I think fear-driven decision making and policy is inefficient and counter-productive in most circumstances.  But even if… no, especially if… that’s how we are going to respond, then it is essential to identify the threat correctly.  The threat is NOT the 1.7 Billion people on the planet who believe Islam’s representation of God, instead of the Christian or Jewish representation of the same God.   
The threat IS radicals and terrorists, not Muslims.  I don’t know about you, but I would rather fight the people who are actually a threat then waste time or resources focusing on a billion people who aren’t… or worse, creating more enemies in the process.
The words of historian and author Serge Trifkovic describe
Islam perfectly:
“Islam is a collective psychosis seeking to become global, and any attempt to
compromise with such madness is to become part of the madness itself. ”
“I am pretty sure no one was calling on all Christians to to do something about their radicalism problem”
Next time you see a Christian organization beheading people and blowing up buildings, let us know, mmkay?
ok… Army of God. No beheadings that I know of, but does multiple assassinations of doctors count?  
And they certainly blew up buildings.  What was it, 7 clinic bombings in areas around DC and others in Atlanta and Birmingham. Oh, and the bombing of the lesbian nightclub in Atlanta and the Olympic park bombing.. and of course, they aren’t bombings but you also have the string of independents doing the occasional mass shooting at various Planned Parenthood offices.
oh…. back in 1982? 35 years ago? when crime all across the US was at its peak???????
ONE YEAR? Your pathetic random events PALE in comparison to the frequency of Islamic terrorism. It’s like 1/1000th in scale. And ONE mass shooting at ONE PP office.
‘multiple assassinations of doctors”
– The hostages were later released unharmed after eight days (1982)
– was found guilty of the attempted murder of Dr. George Tiller (key word ATTEMPTED)
Presuming you are not on a mailing list for the newsletter already, go ahead and just google army of god…  you really don’t help your argument by downplaying murders and bombings that span a quarter century. You asked for an example, I gave you a whole network. 
and for the love of god, did you really just stop at shannon’s attempted murder of Dr. Tiller and not mention that his fellow AOG member Roeder tried again and succeeded in murdering him in 2009.  They freaking idolize him for it on their still very active website.
again, you’re missing the point. I DID google them. Their activity is sparse, at best, in comparison. And they generally bombed clinics AFTER hours, not like the recent muzzie attacks in Europe. Tell you what, send me a link to a video of them publicly beheading people for god, and you might have an iota of relativism. Someone also assassinated John Lennon, someone also assassinated MLK, someone also killed JFK.
Here’s a question for you, how many people did Jesus kill compared to how many did Mohammed kill?
Muslims who compare crime committed by people who happen to be nominal members of other religions to religious terror committed explicitly in the name of Islam are comparing apples to oranges.  
Yes, some of the abortion clinic bombers were religious, but consider the scope of the problem.  There have been six deadly attacks over a 36 year period in the U.S.  Eight people died.  This is an average of one death every 4.5 years.
By contrast, Islamic terrorists staged nearly ten thousand deadly attacks in just the six years following September 11th, 2001.  If one goes back to 1971, when Muslim armies in Bangladesh began the mass slaughter of Hindus, through the years of Jihad in the Sudan, Kashmir and Algeria, and the present-day Sunni-Shia violence in Iraq, the number of innocents killed in the name of Islam probably exceeds five million over this same period.
Muslims who compare crime committed by people who happen to be nominal members of other religions to religious terror committed explicitly in the name of Islam are comparing apples to oranges.  
Yes, some of the abortion clinic bombers were religious, but consider the scope of the problem.  There have been six deadly attacks over a 36 year period in the U.S.  Eight people died.  This is an average of one death every 4.5 years.
By contrast, Islamic terrorists staged nearly ten thousand deadly attacks in just the six years following September 11th, 2001.  If one goes back to 1971, when Muslim armies in Bangladesh began the mass slaughter of Hindus, through the years of Jihad in the Sudan, Kashmir and Algeria, and the present-day Sunni-Shia violence in Iraq, the number of innocents killed in the name of Islam probably exceeds five million over this same period.
‘increasing hate and division’.. what.. like the muzzie god Mohamallah calling all nonbelievers liars whose hearts are sealed by allah and doomed to an eternity of being placed in fiery clothes with scalding hot water poured on their faces.. as dictated in the Quran???????
you mean like just about every line about hell in the bible?  Dear lord man, do you even think about what you are going to type before it spews out?
what line about hell in the bible? making shit up now? because the bible actually doesn’t give much detail about hell, while the quran is laden with details.. hmmm… maybe because satan was the author..
and stop projecting.
oh please. now your not even trying…revelation, matthew, 2 thessalonians, peter, jude
Revelation, of course, has some good stuff on hell and is where we get our lake of burning sulfur image from, but Matthew has some good contributions..blazing furnace, weeping, gashing of teeth and such. 
To pull a line from Quran that pretty much describes the same hell referenced in the bible and somehow come to the conclusion that reflects badly on Islam but none of the same stuff in the bible reflects badly on Christianity is just lazy and disingenuous.
All of those verses in the bible simply say eternal fire. Gnashing of teeth, of course, means clenching in pain from the fire. But all of them simply state ‘lake of fire and sulfur’. You’re a halfwit because Islam is ripping OFF the lore, which in turn was ripping off the idea of Hades from mythology – but the Quran goes into much much more gruesome details. Like your pathetic relativism with terrorism, the 20 verses about hell pale in comparison to the 145 verses about hell in the Quran – a book that considerably shorter than the combined bible.
oh. let’s be clear here. there is no relativism with terrorism.  Islamic, Christian, state sanctioned killings, random idiots around the world, terrorism is all its forms is evil. Plain and simple.  I have not claimed otherwise.  Everything I have posted here is about pointing out that your ridiculous hatred of one of the worlds most popular religions is narrow minded, uninformed, senseless and ultimately misplaced.
no, that is relativism, because now you’re conflating that all terrorism is the same. “World’s most popular”. Know who else is popular? Miley Cyrus. Jerry Springer. Frikkin Twilight. Popular is hardly the word I’d use. World’s largest slave count, sure. Not only that, but Mohamallah was a huge terrorist.
logic is hard.  But keep trying, there is value in perseverance.
and now you’re circling the drain
oh please, please.. let’s go there.  I honestly can’t guess how you are going to connect this to the conversation.  This will be fascinating.
So, yes, please explain the crucial difference.
i just did.
yes.  but I don’t understand the point. Please explain.
“I honestly can’t guess how you are going to connect this to the conversation.”
>’increasing hate and division’.. what.. like the muzzie god Mohamallah
calling all nonbelievers liars whose hearts are sealed by allah and
doomed to an eternity of being placed in fiery clothes with scalding hot
 water poured on their faces.. as dictated in the Quran???????
“you mean like just about every line about hell in the bible?”
“To pull a line from Quran that pretty much describes the same hell
referenced in the bible and somehow come to the conclusion that reflects
 badly on Islam but none of the same stuff in the bible reflects badly
on Christianity is just lazy and disingenuous.”
Thus translates to ‘pull a line from a book where one guy is impersonating a god and declaring specific excruciating punishment that he will incur upon nonbelievers’ is the same as ‘pulling a verse from a book of chronicled events written by men and only men’. Now do you see how stupid relativism has made you?
Thank you. You did a fine job of demonstrating your views and the thought process behind them. 
I think people can figure out where you are coming from now.
boring conversation anyway https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/6998c1fea12389b9a7f74f6dd3d135ae89e9f85066273b2bbb5141bcec4697c8.gif
Way to represent there buddy.   Please keep going, you are making my case perfectly.
your point was that you are Lenny?
The Game:
Most Muslims live peacefully, without harming anyone, so how can Islam be a violent religion?
If Islam were the religion of terrorists then why aren’t most Muslims terrorists? 
The Truth:
If we are supposed to make assumptions about an ideology based on the behavior of adherents, then we would have to conclude that Islam is different and dangerous.  True, most Muslims are not terrorists, but most terrorists are Muslims.  If Islam is a religion of peace then why is it the only one that consistently produces religiously-motivated terrorist attacks each and every day of the year?  
Rather than answer a question with a question, let’s just say that the reason most Muslims don’t kill is that, regardless of what Islam may or may not teach, it’s wrong to kill over religion.  Most people know deep down that if God wanted people dead for not believing in Muhammad’s version of him, then he’s perfectly capable of doing the job himself.
Here’s a similar question with identical logic to the “If the Quran taught violence then all Muslims would be violent” argument:
“If the Quran taught that a thief’s hand should be cut off, then all Muslims would cut off hands.”
We can all agree that very few Muslims cut off hands and that a majority (perhaps) believe it is wrong to do so.  If the logic were sound, then this would be proof that the Quran does not say to cut off hands.
But the Quran does say this… quite clearly:
Cut off the hand of the thief, male or female, as a recompense for that which they committed, a punishment by way of example from Allah. 5:38
This is also the example set by Muhammad according to the Hadith (Bukhari 81:792).  Yet, the vast majority of Muslims do not do this.
What this means is that the proof of what Islam teaches or what the Quran says is not in whether the majority of Muslims choose to do it.
As individuals, Muslims make their own choices about which parts of their religion they practice and which parts they would rather dismiss via the guise of “context”.
Adherents may think or say whatever they want to about Islam, it doesn’t change what Islam says about itself.  As a documented ideology, Islam exists independently of anyone’s opinion.   As such, it may be studied objectively, apart from how anyone practices or chooses to interpret it.
The Quran plainly teaches that it is not only proper to kill in the name of Allah in certain circumstances, but that it is required.  Muslims who don’t believe in killing over religion either do not know of Muhammad’s example or prefer a moral law that is independent of it.  Those who put Islam first or know Islam best will think and act differently, even if they are in the minority.
Few Muslims have ever read the Quran to any extent, much less pursued an honest investigation of the actual words and deeds of Muhammad (which were more in line with hedonism, deception, power and violence than moral restraint).  The harsh rules that Muslim countries impose on free speech to protect Islam from examination also prevent it from being fully understood.  In the West, many Muslims, devout or otherwise, simply prefer to believe that Islam is aligned with the Judeo-Christian principles of peace and tolerance, even if it requires filtering evidence to the contrary.
As Taslima Nasreen succinctly puts it, “Islam is a violent ideology.  Most Muslims are not violent – because they believe Islam is not violent.”
But, while most Muslims are peaceful in spite of Islam, others are dangerous because of it. It is what the rest of us comfortably refer to as “radicalization” – an ‘affliction’ that is conspicuously endemic to Islam.
Purists who take Islam to heart are more likely to become terrorists than humanitarians.  Those most prone to abandoning themselves to Muhammad’s message with no moral filter are always the more dangerous and supremacist-minded.  They may be called ‘extremists’ or ‘fundamentalists,’ but, at the end of the day, they are dedicated to the Quran and the path of Jihad as mandated by Muhammad.
“But, while most Muslims are peaceful in spite of Islam, others are dangerous because of it.”
In that wall of text, this is the point your argument comes down to. And, this is the point were we disagree.. I think you are wrong here.  The error, in my opinion and experience, is the presumption of causality here.. “because of it.”    
Those radicals, extremists.. those evil people… Islam doesn’t cause them to be evil.  They are evil and then pervert Islam and cherry pick out of context lines is an attempt to rationalize their hatred and evil actions.  
We play into their hands and bolster their position when we use the same out of context justifications for our fear and hatred.
Isaiah wrote about your type thousands of years ago and you and your ilk haven’t changed one bit since then.
+++
Woe to those who call evil good and good evil,
who put darkness for light and light for darkness,
who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter.
Isaiah 5:20
did you want to try to respond the point made? Or is your plan to just keep doing exactly what the terrorists do and keep trying to rationalize your misplaced hatred with quotations from a holy book…
and for heaven’s sake, at least pull a line that makes sense in the discussion. We agree terrorists and radicals are evil.  The point on the table right now is whether Islam causes them to be evil or if they pervert Islam for their evil ends.
If you want to understand the enemy “Read what they say”.
They constantly justify their acts with accurate and apt citations from the Koran and Hadith.
In our generation, no other religion is so amenable to such “perversion”.
The point you say is on the table, is irrelevant.
Seriously? You think accurately identifying what causes terrorism is irrelevant? This is how they win.
No, I don’t think “Islam causes evil” or “Evil perverts Islam” is a meaningful question for non-Muslims and non-psychiatrists.
Let them explain this to us:
Quran (8:12) – “I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them” 
Simple question surely.
Ezekiel 25:17 – And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious rebukes; and they shall know that I [am] the LORD, when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.
we can do this all day.
Cherry picking out of context quotations from a given holy book isn’t an accurate representation of any religion.  Heck, the bible is far more fertile hunting ground for senseless violence than the Quran. The bible’s god consistently jumps straight to full on total war and genocide, killing women, children, prisoners, etc.  The Quran specially forbids these things.
Radical extremists on both sides are going to find violence and rationalization for it if that is their goal.  If you want to stop those extremists, the way to do it is recognize they are a tiny minority of any religion and for heaven’s sake, stop playing into their hands and giving them more power by lumping in the other 99% of non-radicals into their ranks.
If we were living during the era of the brutal Christian Crusades, then we would be asking the Christian community to get to the root of their radicalization problem.  We have to deal with each problem as it comes, and right now there is a very real problem with radical and rogue Muslims.  Don’t underestimate the power of the minority in any given context.  In fact, there is a principle in science referred to as the “Law of the Minimum” (often reflected as “one bad apple spoiling the whole basket”).  
Meanwhile, if you’re going to be an apologist for the Muslim faith… grow a pair, and state your name with your comments.
“Muslims love talking about the Crusades… and Christians love apologizing for them.  To hear both parties tell the story, one would think that Muslims were just peacefully minding their own business in lands that were legitimately Muslim, when Christian armies decided to wage holy war and “kill millions.”
The Truth:
Every part of this myth is a lie.  By the rules that Muslims claim for themselves, the Crusades were justified, and the excesses (though beneath Christian standards) pale in comparison with the historical treatment of conquered populations at the hands of Muslims.
Here are some quick facts…
The first Crusade began in 1095… 460 years after the first Christian city was overrun by Muslim armies, 457 years after Jerusalem was conquered by Muslim armies, 453 years after Egypt was taken by Muslim armies, 443 after Muslims first plundered Italy, 427 years after Muslim armies first laid siege to the Christian capital of Constantinople, 380 years after Spain was conquered by Muslim armies, 363 years after France was first attacked by Muslim armies, 249 years after the capital of the Christian world, Rome itself, was attacked by a Muslim army, and only after centuries of church burnings, killings, enslavement and forced conversions of Christians.
By the time the Crusades finally began, Muslim armies had conquered two-thirds of the Christian world.  
Europe had been harassed by Muslims since the first few years following Muhammad’s death.  As early as 652, Muhammad’s followers launched raids on the island of Sicily, waging a full-scale occupation 200 years later that lasted almost a century and was punctuated by massacres, such as that at the town of Castrogiovanni, in which 8,000 Christians were put to death.  In 1084, ten years before the first crusade, Muslims staged another devastating Sicilian raid, burning churches in Reggio, enslaving monks and raping an abbey of nuns before carrying them into captivity. 
In 1095, Byzantine Emperor, Alexius I Comneus began begging the pope in Rome for help in turning back the Muslim armies which were overrunning what is now Turkey, grabbing property as they went and turning churches into mosques.   Several hundred thousand Christians had been killed in Anatolia alone in the decades following 1050 by Seljuk invaders interested in ‘converting’ the survivors to Islam.
Not only were Christians losing their lives in their own lands to the Muslim advance, but pilgrims to the Holy Land from other parts of Europe were being harassed, kidnapped, molested, forcibly converted to Islam and occasionally murdered.  (Compare this to the Quran’s justification for slaughter simply on the basis that Muslims were denied access to the Meccan pilgrimage)…”
The Bible’s God? You mean the god of Judaism… that Islam ripped off and relies on? Because all you quoted was OT. The Quran also DOES NOT forbid those things, not by a long shot. I’d really like to see your ‘fertile hunting ground’ in Christianity / NT.
seriously? your response to my claim that cherry picking quotations is inaccurate is to say that it would be accurate if we cherry pick from only certain parts?
it’s not cherry picking you moron, it’s understanding what the hell the two different covenants are
DT  we’ve already dealt with this “cherry picking” argument bayou try to make but for those wh can’t be bothered sifting through he old posting I’ll state it again:
There are hundreds of violent verses in the Koran none of which are recanted, qualified or limited in any way. Here’s a taste:
Quran (8:12) – “I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them” 
By contrast the violence in the OT is overturned in the NT.  e.g.
 Matthew 5:38-48New International Version (NIV)
Eye for Eye
38 “You have heard that it was said, ‘Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.’[a] 39 But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to them the other cheek also. 40 And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well. 41 If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles. 42 Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.
Love for Enemies
43 “You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your neighbor[b] and hate your enemy.’ 44 But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, 45 that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. 46 If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? 47 And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others? Do not even pagans do that? 48 Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
You just keep getting taken to the cleaners don’t you!?
I don’t expect you’ll ever give in, my purpose is to expose you and your corrupt ideology … so keep’em coming kid. BTW you are not allowed to read the bible are you? Maybe you shouldn’t be reading this. Did you know that Christianity is about Jesus Christ and he only shows up in the New Testament? 
Nah, I’ll give in easy, as soon as you stop just repeating the same illogical nonsense.  But you are dangerously close to repeating the same zelotry nonsense, using holy words to rationalize your misplaced hatred, as the terrorists do.  I see no reason to encourage such behavior.  Peace be with you brother.
Ha ha ha game set and match.
BTW more unsupported hyperbole from you … but of course you have nothing left to do because you can’t answer the arguments placed before you so go ahead name call!  But you’re not fooling anybody!
absolutely. you win.. whatever it is you think you’ve won… congratulations!
   I made my position perfectly clear,  you are welcome to disagree. Clearly I am not going to convince you that denigrating the world’s most popular religion is  a bad plan.  And certainly, I am not going to be convinced by you that Islam (or any other religion for that matter) is inherently bad, evil, violent, whatever it is you think you are arguing. 
Go in peace brother.
I knew someone would post something like this. Here’s the answer: the Old Testament is violent (like the Koran) but Christ superseded the Old Testament with his doctrine given in the Gospels. Find me a violent text in the gospels! You can’t!
What you will find is stuff like this:
Matthew 5:38-48New International Version (NIV)
Eye for Eye
38 “You have heard that it was said, ‘Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.’[a] 39 But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to them the other cheek also. 40 And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well. 41 If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles. 42 Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.
Love for Enemies
43 “You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your neighbor[b] and hate your enemy.’ 44 But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, 45 that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. 46 If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? 47 And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others? Do not even pagans do that? 48 Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Game, set, match thank you linesmen thank you ball boys.
Mohammad set out similar changes in doctrine as well.
Most major religions have some pretty violent stuff in there, all shifted gears and toned it down later. Including Islam and Christianity.  The point, friend, is that if one has an ulterior motive and wishes to pervert a religion to justify heinous acts, it is relatively simple to pull what you need out of context.  Those people are not believers and they are not representative of that religion.
Christianity is no different than Islam in that regard.
Now you’ve resorted to bald faced lies. Show me a verse that reads something like ; ” l did say this but now I say do the opposite. ” 
You are a liar DT but Allah likes that … remember taqiyya?
You and your murderous religion are exposed!
“There is a huge population of Muslim students at USC who deserve to be treated with respect. Respect comes from understanding” Respect is EARNED, not deserved, just because they follow a warlord’s imaginary god.
““I feel like there’s this whole other side to Islam, the actual side of Islam that no one knows about,”
Well, there’s proof enough that you’re going to get taqqiya… how does he know that ‘side’ if ‘no one knows about’ it?
Well over a billion people on the planet know about it.  The YOU don’t bother to make a informed judgment, doesn’t make a billion people wrong… it makes you wrong.
Because you’re an idiot, the point went right over your head. And you successfully debunked the quote I was debunking as well. Apparently, NO ONE knows about it (which includes 1.6 b muzzies)
well, not so much ‘teaching’, but giving their stockholm syndrome muddled version that is safe for the kafir. $20 bucks says they refer to Jesus instead of Issa
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The USC Gould School of Law is developing its first clinical law professorship through a $1.5 million donation from Audrey Irmas, a philanthropist well known throughout California.
The donation will allow the USC Gould Immigration Clinic to expand its client base and broaden student participation in advocating on behalf of immigration clients.
The clinic aids those in foreign countries who are in need of asylum in the United States. Students represent clients pro bono, or free of charge, within immigration court hearings, and also have the opportunity to participate in research projects surrounding issues of immigration.
“I am thrilled to support the work of USC Gould’s Immigration Clinic,” Irmas told USC News. “The clinic has helped many women and children successfully gain freedom and asylum after enduring unimaginable harms, while training some of USC Gould’s best and brightest future lawyers.”
Niels Frenzen, who founded the Immigration Clinic in 2000, will be honored as the first Sydney M. and Audrey M. Irmas Endowed Clinical Professor. Since its opening, the clinic has had nearly 200 USC students represent more than 1,000 clients, and has a 95 percent success rate of winning cases.
“The Immigration Clinic is aligned with Audrey Irmas’ mission of helping vulnerable populations,” Frenzen told USC News. “Her passion is truly inspirational.”
The clinic is currently working on around 200 open cases, representing clients from 25 different countries. More than half of the clinic’s total clients are women — including transgender women — and around one-third are children.
The clinic has recently helped a pair of albino sisters from Tanzania who were suffering persecution due to their skin. The sisters gained asylum with the aid of students from the clinic, and are now living in Ojai where they attend high school.
Let’s be clear on several points:
There are plenty of “vulnerable populations” among our own citizenry here in the United States.
Local crime abroad does not constitute “asylum” or “refugee” status.  Local crime, however awful, should not be confused with regional war or unrest.
Illegal immigration is not a victimless crime, and should not be conflated with international study or asylum, etc.
Concepts like citizenship, immigration, visas, permanent residency etc are important concepts and defined terms in law, that should not be cheapened or rendered moot by politically motivated groups.
The work of an immigration attorney should be to help people navigate our immigration law in their pursuit of citizenship or permanent residency.  Immigration attorneys should not be helping people avoid or subvert the law.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
When Daryl Davies, a professor of clinical pharmacy at the USC School of Pharmacy, started a conversation with his students about what they wished to see in their curriculum, he realized they lacked a distinct pathway that led toward pharmacy school. That’s why, Davies created a new minor — science and management of biomedical therapeutics — that focused on training students in the fundamentals of pharmacy as well as introducing them to the wide array of opportunities available in the medical field.
“Many of our students applying to pharmacy school have very strong foundations in organic chemistry and biology and microbiology, but those are all very basic science trainings,” Davies said. “What I recognized was that they struggled when we start talking about bio systems, regulation of multiple systems in therapeutic development or treating patients with therapies.”
Davies wanted to provide undergraduate students interested in going into a health-related professional program a strong background in more targeted subjects such as clinical pharmacology and immunology, which would help them to identify diseases in patients, their causes and their treatments.
“Rather than just being able to recite the Krebs cycle, they get to see the biology and the biochemistry of the disease in the human population,” Davies said. “We cover all aspects of the disease, from the receptor target to how you develop the drug, the different classes of drugs that are available, what are the pharmacological and genomic differences. This is exactly what we teach in our professional schools.”
Davies also hoped to reach out to students who, having started out taking classes geared toward entering medical school, may have changed their minds and decided to pursue a different path within the medical field. The minor will help provide these students with information about other career options within the pharmaceutical industry.
“This is a great way to introduce students who had absolutely no idea of the many different job opportunities that were available within the pharmaceutical industry, in academia, in government that are focused on career drugs and the development of novel therapeutics,” Davies said. “Our goal is to help our students begin to get this rich understanding of the complexities and the networking that’s linked to drug discovery and development so that they can be better prepared regardless of where they go forward.”
Jacqueline Parizher, a sophomore majoring in human biology, decided to participate in the minor program because she believed the courses taught would help give her a leg up during her interviews and application to pharmacy school.
“It’s the first pre-pharmacy type of track that USC has offered,” Parizher said. “They’ve never actually had a program that had specific pharmacology courses, so that was what geared me towards the minor. In the future I want to be a pharmacist, so I think having this knowledge beforehand, before I apply to pharmacy school, will be helpful.”
Nick Tran, a senior majoring in biochemistry, enjoyed the way the classes within the minor allowed students more hands-on approach and also appreciated how the real-world applications of their studies were readily apparent.
“These courses weren’t just, ‘Here’s some information, memorize it, understand it,’” Tran said. “It was more like, ‘Here’s the information, now here’s a clinical situation, this patient has these symptoms, this medication history, so how would you treat them.’”
Tran believes that the minor provides a look into the professional field.
“We’ve also done some direct clinical experience, like being able to measure each other’s blood pressure,” Tran said. “They use an interdisciplinary approach, so it’s a good way to get you out of the bubble of your own field.”
Davies cited the exposure to the outside world as a strength of the program.
“This is exactly what we teach in our professional schools,” Davies said. “They are already starting to think and learn how to distill information as a clinician versus an undergraduate student that is just trying to memorize some scientific endeavor.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Blunt business · Alumnus Dylan Osborn created his medical marijuana growing business after suffering from chronic knee pain – Jessica Magaña | Daily Trojan
After the legalization of marijuana in California in November, its legal market is estimated to grow to $6.7 billion, according to CNBC. As a result, many entrepreneurs are now getting involved with businesses that promote the harvest of medical marijuana at home. One such business, GreenBox Grown was created by Dylan Osborn, a USC alumnus who graduated with a bachelor’s degree in business administration in 2014.
Osborn suffered a serious sports-related knee injury that made him undergo several surgeries, leaving him with chronic pain. This made sitting through long business lectures difficult. He would end up having severe pain by the end of the lecture, which then made it tough for him to walk.
Osborn turned to medical marijuana to relieve the pain and regain mobility in his knee. However, marijuana proved to be an expensive medication, so Osborn decided to start growing it on his own to save money.
“It was a passion project at first because I just enjoyed being outdoors and working with the plants,” Osborn said. “From there, it grew because my father suffers from chronic migraines as well as back pain. Once I saw how helpful the medicinal side of cannabis was, I introduced that to my father and that ended up helping reduce his migraine.”
Seeing the positive effect of medical marijuana on his father, Osborn realized there were a lot of people with similar injuries that were being treated with very strong medication, which had negative side effects that medical marijuana did not. As a result of Osborn’s positive personal experiences with medical marijuana, he founded GreenBox Grown in August 2016 and launched its website launch in January.
According to Osborn, one of the biggest challenges he faced while setting up his business was understanding the legalities.
“Figuring out a system for growing the plants from start to finish where it was affordable but still an easy-to-manage process was another challenge for somebody who isn’t experienced with growing marijuana,” Osborn said. “Our system can now be set up for your personal growing at home for less than $500. Once you are set up, a complete beginner would only have to spend 10 minutes at most per day maintaining the plants.”
Since growing marijuana in a greenhouse outside the home is a cheaper alternative than growing it indoors, and some of Osborn’s greenhouses are shaped like a box, he decided to name his venture GreenBox Grown. Osborn was guided throughout the setup of his venture by his father and his uncle, Charley Beals, who is a business owner at Beals Insurance Agency.
“Dylan told me about [this] business, and I was all excited,” Beals said. “We have coaching calls about every Friday, and we just work on ideas. Everybody needs a coach, and that’s the role I play.”
Beals said that GreenBox Grown was a great idea because of the potential of the emerging medical marijuana market. According to Beals, as the market  blooms, Osborn’s business will naturally be lifted.
Osborn’s brother, Cody Osborn, is helping him with growing plants, filming instructional videos for the website and business promotion.
“The way I view it is that [he] is really trying to seek an educational approach to this business,” said Cody Osborn, who graduated from USC in 2016 with a degree in biology. “The goal is to take marijuana and make it a home-grown product, so you know where it’s coming from, and it saves people money.”
According to Osborn, watering is the most common issue with growing marijuana, even for professional growers.
“The biggest tip for a first-time grower is to just be very careful with watering the plants,” Dylan Osborn said. “These plants only need to be watered once every three or four days.”
Osborn’s future plans include launching a series for indoor marijuana for those who do not wish to grow marijuana outside.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Although college is a time meant for positive growth and exploration, it often turns into a blur of all-nighters, deadlines and anxiety about what the future holds — and as a result, it becomes easy for students to forget to be mindful of the present. USC Thornton School of Music professor Richard Wolf recognizes the inevitability of stress and urges the importance of practicing mindfulness through meditation, especially in service of music.
Wolf delivered a lecture titled “Good Vibrations: A Musician’s Guide to Mindfulness and Meditation” on the evening of March 28 at the USC Brain and Creativity Institute, in which he discussed the mutually constitutive relationship between playing music and practicing meditation.
Wolf is a music industry professor, Emmy Award-winning composer, recipient of multiple Platinum awards from the Recording Industry Association of America and founder and CEO of The Producers Lab, Inc., an independent multimedia production company.
Jessica Magana | Daily Trojan
Since breaking into the realm of television music, Wolf has composed custom theme music for Fox Sports Net and shows such as The CW’s America’s Next Top Model and CBS’ The Big Bang Theory.
After a career in the recording business as a producer and songwriter, Wolf made a drastic career change to work in television, which catapulted him into a
high-pressure lifestyle. Eventually, his stress culminated in a
panic attack that landed him in the emergency room, after which his doctor prescribed 20 minutes of daily meditation.
Through meditation alone and without the aid of medicine, Wolf was able to regulate his cortisol levels and achieve a newfound serenity in both his personal and professional lives.
Consequently, Wolf realized the bridge between mindfulness and music production and the substantial benefits of meditation.
“I realized when I saw one connection between music and mindful meditation that there were all these other connections,” Wolf said. “Both are nonverbal; both are transpersonal and not about a self-referential agenda. Both harmonize the mind, body and feelings in one process.”
As a lifelong musician, Wolf believes that the silence provided by meditation is a necessary counterpart to the sound of music and that the two opposites interact to engender harmony.
“Music is not just sound; music is also silence,” Wolf said. “Music is a balance between peace and disturbance. We always focus on the busyness and noise but neglect the silence, which is necessary for balance. In mindfulness, you really enjoy the pleasures of peace.”
As a musician, Wolf admitted that many artists feel a present connection during performance.
“So it turns out that musicians have these skills and experiences that they can apply to this other process [of meditation] which, in turn, will strengthen our other abilities,” Wolf said.
However, Wolf cautioned against viewing meditation as a panacea or miracle drug — the point of practicing mindfulness being not to make one a better musician, but to make one’s life as a musician better.
Wolf advocated for meditation as a means of quieting one’s internal critic and reconciling concepts of the ideal and the real, citing an array of celebrated artists who have sworn by meditation to induce creativity, from singer-songwriter Paul McCartney to rapper Kendrick Lamar to film director David Lynch, who famously said, “Negativity is the enemy of creativity.”
To close his lecture, Wolf led the audience — comprised primarily of Thornton students and his colleagues — through several breathing and meditation exercises, urging them to reap the benefits of mindfulness in fostering musical refinement and overall peace.
“Why do you have to wait until you’re dead to rest in peace?” Wolf said. “You can rest in peace now and you’ll be more alive than you’ve ever been,”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
On Thursday at the Newman Recital Hall, four USC Thornton students will perform at the annual Solo Bach Competition.
The competition is open to any student who plays violin, viola, cello or bass and is currently enrolled in private instruction through the USC Thornton School of Music’s strings department. The four students will play a selected piece by Johann Sebastian Bach entirely from memory.
The first performance of the evening will be violinist Dongfang Ouyang’s rendition of Sonata No. 2 in A minor, BWV 1003. After completing his studies at Bard College for violin performance and Russian studies,  Ouyang is currently studying under Professor Glenn Dicterow at USC Thornton.
Cellist Javier Iglesias-Martin, who currently studies under Professor Ralph Kirshbaum, will perform Cello Suite No.2 in D minor, BWV 1008. The piece runs for about 20 minutes and consists of seven movements. Most recently, Iglesias-Martin took first place at the 2016 American String Teachers Association National Solo Competition and the American Protege Strings Competition.
After a 10-minute intermission, violinist Ji Young Park, a second-year doctoral student under Midori Goto, will perform the six-part Partita No.3 in E Major, BWV 1006, a piece that is approximately 20 minutes in length. Park also attended USC for her master’s degree.
Lastly, cellist Benjamin Lash, who is pursuing a doctorate in cello performance after already obtaining his master’s from Thornton, will perform Cello Suite No. 5 in C minor, BWV 1011. The piece consists of six parts with a running time of approximately 24 minutes.
The three judges — non-Thornton faculty Martin Beaver, Lynn Harrell and Roland Kato — will preside over the event.
Beaver is a Canadian violinist who performed with the Tokyo String Quartet as First Violin from June 2002 to July 2013. His concerto and performance pieces have been showcased across four continents, including at the San Francisco and Toronto Symphonies, l’Orchestre Philharmonique de Liège and the Sapporo Symphony Orchestra. He has served on the faculty of New York University, was Artist in Residence at the Yale School of Music, and since August 2013 has been a part of the faculty at the Colburn Conservatory of Music in Los Angeles as professor of violin and co-director of chamber music studies.
Harrell is a cellist and has traveled throughout the world as a guest of reputable orchestras, including Chicago, New York, San Francisco, London and Berlin. In Hong Kong, he was featured in the three-week “Lynn Harrell Cello Festival” alongside the Hong Kong Philharmonic.
Kato is a violist who was a member of the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra from 1976-2016, serving as Principal Viola for 29 years of his 40-year tenure. As a guest artist, he performed alongside cellist Yo-Yo Ma to benefit cancer research, and as a soloist he appeared at the Festival Casals in Puerto Rico, the Grand Canyon Chamber Music Festival and the Festival Internacional de Musica, among others. He was nominated for a Grammy for his work producing a recording of Georg Philipp Telemann’s Quatrième Livre de Quatuors and has had his pieces played worldwide through his commissioned arrangements of chamber music.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
A master storyteller · Ryan Jackson was taken by the Trojan spirit the first time he stepped on campus. He studied communications at the university and was recruited to work at Disney Consumer Products – Photo courtesy of Ryan Jackson
There was no other college like USC for Ryan Jackson, an alumnus who graduated with a degree in communications. Almost 10 years later, as the editorial chief of communications at Disney ABC Television Group, Jackson reflected on his love for the school and the lessons he learned during his undergraduate journey.
Jackson fondly described his memories of visiting the USC campus. The energy of the Trojan family and the Spirit of Troy immediately resonated with him — he recounts hearing the band playing, seeing the brick roads and tall buildings and watching the football team play.
“Even the colors of the uniform — all of that just spoke to me,” Jackson said.
Jackson admitted he was drawn to USC and its incomparable spirit, which other colleges lacked.
“I wouldn’t trade my USC experience for anything,” Jackson said.
While at USC, Jackson’s interpersonal skills were constantly tested; he was expected to manage group projects and work closely with other people, skills that remain largely crucial in Jackson’s professional life.
“The biggest thing about [Disney] is learning how to get along with varying personalities and get what you need — building your network, being agreeable while, at the same time, still speaking your opinion, being a team player,” Jackson said.
Although his career goals were originally different, his passion for storytelling eventually led Jackson to focus on communications.
“I wanted to be an animator actually,” Jackson said. “I was coming into an aspect of being a storyteller.”
Jackson, like many Trojans, was initially fascinated with the USC School of Cinematic Arts. However, through a roller-coaster of professional positions, including working as an actor for commercials in Japan, Jackson found himself at Disney ABC. At the company, Jackson utilized his talents to tell stories in diverse forms, ranging from writing and producing video packages to red carpet reporting.
“I would go to red carpets and interview Julia Roberts for the premiere of Mirror Mirror and the cast of [ABC’s] Castle,” Jackson said. “Eight hours of standing on your feet and editing — it was interesting for me to get in another aspect of the company.”
Jackson first started working at the Disney Consumer Products division, where he
covered new product launches, executive announcements and other company news for the internal website.
Jackson eventually was promoted to produce at Disney ABC, and he began pursuing his storytelling passions with an internalized role in corporate communications. In this role, Jackson produced multiple projects including “Home Office,” “Conversations” and “This Is Me.”
“I had one experience when I interviewed a woman from our Philadelphia news station, who helped rehabilitate female inmates,” Jackson said.
He reflected on his experience filming a documentary, where he visited prison for a story about how a Disney employee helped bring forgotten people back into society. This format was new to Disney, and Jackson pioneered the development of video packages that feature inspiring stories and employees’ tips for success.
“I remember not feeling very confident in the role,” Jackson said. “It takes at least six months for you to learn one role.”
He recalled the challenge of taking different roles, but he attributes his learning experience at Disney to constant observation and networking with successful professionals.
Today, Jackson oversees external communications at Disney and monitors the distribution of editorial content to traditional and converged media outlets. Always open to new opportunities, Ryan carries his passion for storytelling across different mediums in his position.
“Storytelling has always been a love for me, so back at USC I just knew I needed to get a job, and hopefully it was a job that I like,” Jackson said.
He was lucky, he admits, to have Disney as an opportunity that further developed his love for writing and storytelling.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
What once seemed to be a hobby reserved for hipsters, collecting vinyl records, has taken off again. The resurgence of this type of music is odd, especially since we live in an age when an artist’s entire discography is available at a listener’s fingertips through a variety of music streaming apps at a low cost.
Reasons behind vinyl’s comeback are varied as well. As a Los Angeles Times article points out, it’s definitely not because of the nostalgia factor. Growing up, most people of my generation weren’t buying vinyl as the norm to listen to music. No, our days were filled with the rise and fall of Napster and Limewire, the invention of iTunes and the iPod and burning CDs. The CD holder I had in my car in high school is proof of that.
Nostalgia isn’t the deciding factor in choosing how you listen to your music — though it also might explain why cassettes are coming back, too. For me, there are a number of reasons why I collect vinyl, the most important being the experience.
I love sliding the record out of its sleeve and looking at the tracklist and artwork in the center of the record. I love putting the needle down and watching the record endlessly rotate as the warm sounds from the record play from my speakers, only stopping when I have to flip it — which I also love. I love the front and back cover of the record jacket, and I appreciate the artwork, knowing that someone took their time to design it to give the listener a better experience.
For my jazz records, there’s usually a blurb that describes how the artist made the record, the personnel that helped in its creation and the types of sounds you can expect on each track. Some of my other records include photographs or artwork that go hand-in-hand with the listening experience.
A vinyl record feels more personal than streaming music from your phone or computer. You get a better sense of the artist making music for the fans, and it’s almost as if each record is a personal gift from the artist.
In return, your conscience benefits from buying records too, since you know that a
$20-$30 vinyl is definitely supporting an artist more than a stream on Spotify or Apple Music. Since you took the time and care to spend your money on an artist’s music, they are also taking the time and care to give you a more personalized package of music.
You can also physically feel an artist’s product; actually touching the record and having a physical copy is a lot like reading your news from a newspaper instead of online. You can touch which songs you want to play on your phone, but that’s not the same as holding an entire album of music and knowing that it’s yours and yours alone.
Someday, vinyl may fall to the wayside again. Since it’s hard to maintain, it can get to be really expensive, and it will never sound as good as digital music. But it’s a great hobby if you’re obsessed with music. It’s also hit the stage where it’s past ironic, so people won’t think you’re a dirty hipster when you show them your collection.
If you have the money to spend, get yourself a good turntable and a few records so youcan see what the hype is all about.
Spencer Lee is a junior majoring in narrative studies. His column, “Spencer’s Soapbox,” runs every other Thursday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Elizabeth Gu | Daily Trojan
Last Wednesday, Oklahoma’s Jenks High School hired a Christian sex educator who promoted abstinence-based education in a presentation to the school’s senior class. The presenter, Shelly Donahue, went so far as to shame girls for texting boys first, even suggesting that sex before marriage is a sin. Donahue’s sentiments outline the controversy around abstinence-only sexual education that has been a matter of national debate for quite some time.
Given the persistent prominence of abstinence-only education, it is now even more important to implement accurate and inclusive educational policies, especially for youth of the LGBTQ community. Providing secular, safe and correct information to all children must be a mandatory national public school policy.
Throughout the decades-long dispute over the best way to educate youth about sex, teen pregnancy rates have dropped considerably. Data released by the federal government last year indicates that the teen pregnancy rate has dropped by 57 percent from 1991 to 2013. The sharp drop in teen pregnancy is not due to less sex, a study conducted by the Journal of Adolescent Health found, but rather to more accessible contraception and wider access to sexual health education.
Many young women are opting to use longer-term contraceptives like IUDs or birth control pills. Wider health care coverage plays no small part in this. Sixty-seven percent of insured women have access to free birth control due to the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate. However, while these methods may be accessible, education about the use of contraceptives may not be.
Abstinence-based sex education may be ideal in theory in conservative locales, but in reality, sex education that excludes teaching about pregnancy and STI prevention is not only impractical, given how rates of sexual activity among generations of teenagers have remained relatively constant, but also dangerous. An extensive study carried out and presented in the Public Library of Science shows that increasing abstinence education is correlated with increasing teenage pregnancy and birth rates. After all, states with abstinence-only sexual education taught in their public schools have the highest rates of teen pregnancy.
The PLOS study accounted for “socioeconomic status, teen educational attainment, ethnic composition of the teen population and availability of Medicaid waivers for family planning services in each state,” and the trend was still prominent. The study further indicates that abstinence-based education may be why teen pregnancy in the United States is substantially higher than other developed countries. States that teach contraceptive-based sex education are strongly correlated with lower pregnancy rates.
Additionally, inaccessibility to contraception and sexual health education can result in limited education opportunities for young women with unwanted pregnancies, and public health care and welfare as a result of teenage pregnancy cost taxpayers $9.4 billion annually, according to 2016 research by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
It is not only appalling but also unethical that a high school receiving federal funding could pay for a Christian group to teach about sex education that could guide students’ decisions for years to come, in direct violation of laws mandating separation of church and state. On top of this, using religious groups to teach safe sex education to LGBTQ youth, who may develop shameful feelings about their sexual orientation or be woefully misinformed by heteronormative teachings, is problematic. Education must be non-discriminatory, especially for government-funded public schools.
The issue of accessible sexual health education is not limited to middle and high schools. Colleges across the nation also have an obligation to maintain accessible health centers that provide objective and inclusive information about reproductive health for students of all circumstances. The Engemann Student Health Center provides detailed information about the resources and services it provides, but it must continue to ensure students with questions or special circumstances are receiving the care and education they need to make safe decisions about their bodies.
Education regarding sexual health plays a crucial role in public health and safety, especially among young people and in campus environments. After all, affordable and accessible contraception might play a huge role in preventing unintended pregnancies and STIs, but students must know how to access and use contraception in order for this to matter.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Last week, House Republicans’ withdrawal of the American Health Care Act, which would have cost 24 million Americans access to health insurance, was widely recognized as a victory for the whole nation. But, of course, it’s worth noting that the bill and its panel of white male writers also represents a women’s rights issue: The AHCA would have defunded Planned Parenthood, an organization that millions of low-income women rely on for birth control, breast cancer screenings and other women’s health services, and also largely decided maternity care options available to women.
And yet the AHCA’s disproportionate effects on low-income women and the cruel irony of wealthy old white men deciding policies that would never directly affect them, but would impede on millions of women’s bodily autonomy, was widely ignored. One recent survey explains why: According to findings published last Wednesday by D.C.-based research institute PerryUndem, 52 percent of American men do not believe they benefit from birth control.
The survey speaks to a common trend in activism and mainstream media narratives: Women’s issues are too often sidelined due to popular, inaccurate notions that they exclusively affect women. And not only is this factually inaccurate given the long-term economic consequences of reproductive health care, but this phenomenon also demonstrates harmful sexism through the devaluation and trivialization of women’s issues in their own right.
Consider actress Emma Watson’s alliance with the United Nations in order to promote the “He for She” movement, which aimed to get men involved with feminism. It is true that feminism benefits men, too — rigid patriarchal constructs which glorify masculinity to a dangerous extent and punish all men who fall out of line can hurt and ostracize men, just as hypersexualization and other misogynistic stereotyping hurts women.
Educating men about how they are affected by feminism and reaching across the aisle to dispel myths about the movement is deeply important. But feminism should not need to appeal to men and win their approval to be validated and popularized. Women’s rights should not rely on whether or not men understand how they are personally affected by women’s issues, nor whether or not men approve of women’s rights.
Nothing demonstrates more clearly the dangers of selectively respecting women’s rights issues on the condition that men believe these issues affect them than American politics. For example, earlier this month, Illinois Rep. John Shimkus argued that men’s taxpayer dollars should not fund coverage of prenatal care for mothers.
“To the best of your knowledge, has a man ever delivered a baby?” Shimkus asked his peers as the House Energy and Commerce Committee argued about requirements for insurance plans delineated by the Affordable Care Act.
And the same logic appears to be in play where legislative opposition to birth control is concerned. There are myriad reasons that predominantly straight, wealthy, white Christian men oppose funding Planned Parenthood, whose patrons and patients seeking contraception and education include sexually active women and the LGBTQ community. Their opposition to reproductive health care and constant efforts to put their personal values before women’s bodily autonomy are frequently attributed to religious zeal, but the recent study about men’s attitudes regarding birth control are deeply telling too.
Why should an everyday man, lacking in empathy and compassion for less fortunate women — an everyday man who believes birth control has no bearing on his standard of living — want to see his tax dollars go toward making birth control more affordable? Forget how the United States would save $12 billion a year if every woman had access to birth control, combating unwanted pregnancy rates, intergenerational poverty and reliance on social programs. Forget how costs for public health care, foster care, welfare and other related expenses directly resulting from teenage pregnancy amount to $9.4 billion annually.
Even disregarding the strong humanitarian case for granting men and women equal decision-making power over their bodies, if we can agree that men are affected by federal spending on social welfare and the economy at large, then we ought to be able to agree that men are affected by birth control accessibility, too.
It may be that women’s issues directly or disproportionately affect women, and affect women specifically because they are women. But whether in politics or popular culture, when women’s issues are regarded as fringe or irrelevant, they are automatically sidelined.
We should accept that women’s issues affect everyone as fact. But if we truly respect women as human beings and equals to men, we’ll cease to require men to have a stake in women’s issues before giving these issues respect and attention. We’ll cease to require men’s approval to validate women’s rights and the feminist movement. And ultimately, we’ll need no incentive to support causes that empower and enfranchise women other than that they empower and enfranchise women.
Kylie Cheung is a freshman majoring in journalism and political science.  She is also the editorial director of the Daily Trojan. Her column,“You Do Uterus,” runs every Thursday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Elizabeth Gu | Daily Trojan
Last week, the Supreme Court issued a unanimous ruling on special education in public schools. The case, Endrew F. v. Douglas County School District, dealt with a child whose Individualized Education Program had failed to help him progress academically despite his academic promise. In accordance with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, IEPs must be “reasonably calculated to enable the child to achieve passing marks and ad-vance from grade to grade.” The plaintiff’s IEP was found not to meet that standard.
The Court’s unanimous decision was a victory for special education advocates, especially because the Court proclaimed in its decision that public schools must “offer an IEP reasonably calculated to enable a child to make progress appropriate in light of the child’s circumstances.” In other words, children with disabilities cannot receive a public school education that sets the bar so low that they are unreasonably deprived of meaningful instruction and personal development.
What all of this means, in layman’s terms, is this: School children with special educational needs cannot constitutionally be deprived of an education that limits their ability to learn. Or, more simply, special needs students are more similar to normal students than many might think. Both kinds of students have equal rights public education access and are required to receive instruction that is tailored to their comprehension and aimed at developing their skills. In this way, it is clear that both the Supreme Court and Congress have made concerted efforts to protect the rights and dignity of students with disabilities. Students of all kinds are not to be viewed as liabilities, but instead as assets to be developed. Just as the ideologically diverse Supreme Court has unanimously recognized this fact, so, too, should the general public.
A commonly held perception is that a student with special needs is seriously developmentally stunted or so different from their peers that they cannot interact with others conventionally or develop their skills. That perception is, in many cases, simply wrong. Yet, this belief has led to school districts having special needs students sit “idly in regular classrooms awaiting the time when they were old enough to ‘drop out,’” according to the court decision. Obviously, this is immensely unfair to the individuals who, though different from conventional students, still have the mental capacity to comprehend the tenets of their education and develop their abilities.
While it is true that some individuals have considerable learning difficulties, many students have little difference in their ability to learn when compared to a conventional child if appropriate measures are taken in the classroom. Additionally, children have a legal right to an education that scales with their ability to learn, regardless of their individual learning difficulty. Thus, the Court’s decision offers much-needed assurance to all students who are categorized under the catch-all special needs nomenclature; it recognizes them as a true part of the educational community.
Consider this: There are about 6 million students who qualify for services under the IDEA. Many of them have significant potential to be productive members of society. Several of them will likely graduate from high school, attend college and otherwise lead lives that are indistinguishable from innumerable others in the American milieu. To deny those people the ability to better themselves and contribute to society is not only unwise, it is incredibly disrespectful to their legal equality and their humanity.
The Court’s message was the right one. Special needs students are part and parcel to the educational community and society at large. They should not be unreasonably discriminated against, and most certainly deserve the right to an appropriate education.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Photo from WikiHow
I’m going to give you a very fair (and ironically very serious) heads up before you read this week’s article: I am going to sound like a flowers-in-the-hair-wheatgrass-drinking-hippie … and that’s okay! Maybe I am a wheatgrass-drinking fanatic — you’ll never know. What really matters here is your attitude. The law of attraction is a concept that, if approached with speculation and narrow vision, will simply wash over you as a piece of wispy fairy dust and a solid five minutes of your life that you’re going to spend forever trying to get back. BUT, if you keep reading with an open mind, a little curiosity and some seriously non-judgmental eyes, I think you’ll find some incredibly valuable, life-long lessons and ways of life embedded within that very same fairy dust.
So let’s just go for it, shall we?
The Law of Attraction centers around the notion that time is linear — that is, the past, present and future are all equal realities. In accepting the linear nature of time, you remove any barriers that stand between you and your desires, such as the time it takes to attain them, the difficulty of your realistic ambition and, most importantly, your uncertainty about whether or not what you want will actually arrive.
For example, if you want a milkshake from Ground Zero in the present, you actually already have that milkshake in the future — and because the future is simply an equal reality, you have the milkshake.
“But I don’t have a milkshake!” 
(You’re yelling this at me right about now, aren’t you?)
Let’s phrase it this way: If you want the milkshake in the present and truly, wholeheartedly believe that you have that milkshake already in your future reality, then you’re going to take the necessary steps to attaining that milkshake here, now, today, aren’t you? If you believe you have the milkshake, then you’re going to get your shoes on, walk to Ground Zero, order a milkshake, pay for the milkshake (I hope?) and drink your milkshake.
Let’s try again with something a bit bigger: say your goal is to lose weight, tone up and be one of those gym-junkie girls that exercises every day and has a green juice for breakfast. If you want to be that girl in the future, and you adopt the belief that time is linear, then you understand that you are that girl right now. In which case, you’re going to start waking up, jogging, swimming, juicing apples and kale and lemons every morning. Ta-da — pretty soon you’re going to be that girl, right?
I’m aware that for a lot of people, this can be a stretch (maybe a huge stretch) — but it’s an important one. Once you realize that exuding negative vibes into the universe — stress, resentment, grudges, self-loathing, hatred, gossip — only returns more negativity into your life, your thinking begins to shift. You constantly exude more positivity — you spread love, starting only with yourself, and welcome love in abundance into your everyday life.
You see, it’s really very simple, when put like that: If you treat people badly, put little effort into your work and goals and focus only on incredibly superficial aspects of life, then you’ll find yourself in a life filled with bad people, laziness, low reward and an overwhelming amount of superficiality. You get what you give — you attract what you emit. It’s all the same.
In terms of actually implementing the law of attraction into your life, there is one last, key factor that you need to adopt: gratitude. When you are thankful for whatever you do have, then you will be rewarded with those things that you desire. No, money won’t fall out of the clouds and land crease-free into your wallet — but genuine, deep and thorough feelings of gratitude tend to bring positivity and ambition in their wake. It’s all or none, and if all it takes is a little bit of thankfulness for your luck, then why not aim farther?
There’s a catch: You can’t fake gratitude. Genuine, authentic gratitude runs deep within you and floods your every day. It takes tons of practice, a lot of self-discipline and some serious self-reflection. Whether or not it’s worth the effort is up to you to decide.
In saying all of this, it’s important to see and appreciate that this is a mere skim of the surface of the law of attraction. If this article were to give you all the answers, it’d turn into a book. I urge you to research further, challenge yourself and try to change your mindset. You’ll be amazed at how it changes your life, and how your life changes you. 
Annabel Hickey is sophomore majoring in creative writing. Her column, How To, runs every other week on Fridays.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Photo from Love to Live Nutrition
 
My obsession with eating healthy has been a gradual process. When I was younger, I would eat mainly carbs, but as I grew up, I started changing my eating habits by slowly eliminating certain unhealthy foods. I didn’t do this because I tried to lose weight — I just enjoyed eating healthy food and didn’t have a need for junk food in my diet anymore. This takes me to my current lifestyle choice to be processed sugar, dairy and gluten-free. While this may seem extreme, I actively choose to eat like this because I prefer the taste of healthy food. Although there are many benefits to being a healthy eater, there are also a number of setbacks. If you share any of my eating habits, then you will understand. If you cannot relate to my eating habits but are curious what the world of a healthy eater is like, then you too are in the right place. This blog is dedicated to reinforcing the pros and disputing the cons of being a healthy eater — with a twist. 
PROS
CONS
Carly Price is a freshman majoring in journalism. Her column, With a Twist, runs every week on Wednesday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
“We could not have picked a more appropriate day,” co-moderator Bob Shrum said about President Donald Trump’s Tuesday executive order that rolled back many of the Obama administration’s’ environmental policies.
The Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics and the Environmental Student Assembly co-hosted “CA vs USA: How CA is Mobilizing to Protect its Climate Agenda.” 
The Tuesday night panel about California’s climate change agenda in a Trump era included Sarah Feakins, an associate professor of earth science and previous post-doctoral fellow at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Steve Lamy, vice dean for academic programs at Dornsife College and a professor of international relations; Margita Thompson, vice president of communications at the California Resources Corporation; and Dave Quast, senior vice president of Strategic Communications at FTI Consulting and an adjunct professor at the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.
Caden Cerveris, a sophomore studying public policy and director of sustainability leadership for the Environmental Student Assembly, served as the co-moderator of the panel. Cerveris said was pleased with the discussion that occurred.
“It focused more heavily on Trump’s impact on the climate,” Cerveris said. “I thought that it would be energy policy focused, but it took a much more social leaning of how Trump will impact how other countries react and the social ramifications.”
One such example of social impact of climate policy came from Thompson, who discussed the implications of California’s policies on the state economics.
“We have California legislatures who are making an effort to increase the cost of energy because they want to make it so we are doing as much as can be done,” Thompson said. “We’ve set up this goal, and we’ve got an unelected body, the Air Resources Board, and they can’t say what policies are working or how much they cost or what the economic impact of those policies is or the job loss. That’s a problem.”
Oliver Kashyap, a sophomore studying biochemistry, thought that economic decisions need to be made in conjunction with environmental and health considerations.
“I think that quality of life is really relevant when we’re looking at these economic decisions,” Kashyap said. “A lot of the lower-paying coal jobs that people talk about as being good jobs are well-paying, but they have a really low quality of life.”
Feakins ended the panel by discussing environmental steps that can be taken, regardless of the administration.
“I think reducing our meat consumption is a big thing that we can do,” Feakins said. “We can do these things ourselves, but it that enough? I do what I can, I try to think about what I can do, I spend my time researching the climate system and educating people about the basics about the climate system and what we know so that would maybe inform policy.”
Nathalia Ramos, a senior majoring in political science, left the panel thinking about what steps to take next.
“I always leave these things with more questions than answers, and I think that we’re going in the right direction,” Ramos said. “There needs to be a way to take this really complex issue and market it and sell it to the broader public.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Rich, spellbinding and utterly original, creator David E. Kelley’s Big Little Lies is the kind of show that makes you excited for the future of television. And by original, I don’t mean its content (the series is based on the eponymous novel by Liane Moriarty) — I mean the way the story is told. Murder, moneyed Monterey, mothers: It all may seem familiar, but still, this HBO series is unlike any television show I have ever seen.
Another installment in the new brand of female-driven shows that absolutely refuse to put its characters in a box, Big Little Lies listens closely to its protagonists, does not mock them for what they want and catapults what could have been droll or comedic into something indescribably rich and nuanced. 
For opening with a pilot that ran like one continuous A-story, Big Little Lies is deliciously layered. It tantalizes, with an allure that can only be cultivated by a palate of practiced and acclaimed actresses, splashed across the backyard beaches of the Pacific coast and thrown into the context of murder.
But though the promise of Big Little Lies is all of those things, it is also none of them. Examined alone, each of these components would prove seemingly uninteresting: a story about moms, a story about Monterey, a story about a killing. Put together, it’s enough potential for cheese to pack Days of Our Lives a mean punch. 
But go there, it does not. Big Little Lies destroys perceptions of mothers, perceptions of women — especially women who society already loves to deride: the Monterey mom, the wealthy housewife, the twice-married woman. Normally categorized into the Melania Trump archetype, wealthy women are often depicted as selfish and materialistic, readily willing to let their lives ride on the success of their husbands. 
But in Big Little Lies, that is not the case. With her husband in line with her children at dinner, Madeline (Reese Witherspoon) sits at the head of the table. 
These Monterey moms run the show. They love their children and will do anything for them. And yes, wealthy women are hardly the demographic who need the most defending in American society — but consider also the implications of putting every woman like Madeline, Celeste (Nicole Kidman) and Jane (Shailene Woodley) in a box. It gets us nowhere. And the same vein of criticism that begs audiences not to take rich women seriously is actually a coded instruction not to take any woman seriously. 
And besides, as we see in the police’s questioning of different parents about the body on the beach, women aren’t the only ones involved in the rumor mill here. Dads are also quick to point out and belittle their fellow Monterey parents.
In Big Little Lies, money is no longer flashy — it is simply the world of the show. And for this series, the world is everything: It’s more enticing than the smell of perfume. It’s that unspeakably compelling aura that propels the series into sophistication, that highlights the subject matter — women — as something worth more than anyone will give them credit for. 
Over the decades, television has made it so easy to make fun of women, so easy to laugh at what they want and how they feel, but Big Little Lies adamantly refuses to do that. Less about every detail of its subject matter than the impressive and ubiquitous tone the show concocts, to call it engaging would be an understatement. 
Big Little Lies throws its characters and audience past convention or any boundary that is used to define television. And with the inception of evolving formats for shows popping up every day, these boundaries are growing until they’ll one day disappear. 
Make note: Here is a landmark show. It will change everything.
Zoe Cheng is a sophomore majoring in writing for screen and television. Her column, “Wide Shot,” runs Wednesdays. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Jake Tribus, a freshman majoring in dance, is the co-founder of the nonprofit Artists Giving Hope. 
One day, a fellow dancer and friend, Christian Ricucci, called him with an idea for a nonprofit in mind. Initially, Tribus was reluctant and unsure what impact the idea could have, but as Ricucci continued to share her concepts, Tribus immediately recognized its potential within Artists Giving Hope’s mission statement.
As stated on the nonprofit’s website, “Artists Giving Hope is a non-profit organization encouraging artists to come together to inspire people to act with compassion and kindness, regardless of race, gender, sexuality or beliefs.” 
A few months before the phone call, Tribus said he faced criticism in different workshops, dance conventions and master classes. He found this detrimental to the progress of the dancers.
“No one wants to dance in a room where they don’t feel comfortable or they feel like they’re being judged,” Tribus said. “Seeing that over the course of the past few months before Christina called me about the idea — that’s what motivated me to jump on the bandwagon.” 
Together they started the organization, even while living on opposite ends of the United States. Tribus lived in North Carolina and Ricucci lived in California. They relied on FaceTime and phone calls to work on the project together. 
“It took a lot of brainstorming and planning it out before we actually got started,” Ricucci said. “It took a lot of preparation deciding what we wanted to do and what our message wanted to be and once we figured that out, we started adding more to it.”
They initiated the project with 20 dancers. The group comprised close friends Tribus and Ricucci met at competitions and conventions. Their first performance and fundraising event for the nonprofit — a dance benefit concert for Dancers Fighting Cancer — was in Birmingham, Ala. The show went up in 2014 and raised money for cancer research. 
For their debut performance as an organization, they got the help of Emmy-winning choreographer Travis Wall and first season winner of So You Think You Can Dance Nick Lazzarini. The dancers met in North Hollywood to learn the choreography in March 2014. 
“Ever since that performance we’ve definitely progressed in terms of how far we’ve reached in terms of people and other organizations,” Tribus said.
Within three years, 18 other dancers they met through conventions and separate connections joined the cause. They mainly promoted their project at dance conventions such as the New York City Dance Alliance.
The dancers in Artists Giving Hope help put on fundraising performances for other organizations, like PACER’s National Bullying Prevention Center, Love is Louder, Discount Dance, the Make A Wish Foundation and others. 
“I thought it was just going to be us two, and we were just going to go around spreading our message,” Ricucci said. “But I didn’t think we would end up with 30 people on board with the same idea as us.” 
Now,  the nonprofit organization has grown in members, outreach and support. 
Tribus and Ricucci both know the feeling of being on stage and doing what they love. Tribus spent several  years in the CC & Co. Dance Complex in his hometown in North Carolina, and since leaving, he enjoys seeing how the younger dancers have progressed under his tutelage and the techniques that they’ve learned on their own. 
“It has been really inspiring for me seeing their progression and their growth as well,” Tribus said. “Taking what I’ve learned here at Kaufman and bringing it to them, sharing that knowledge I’ve gained and seeing how they use that knowledge and bring it into their own artistry is really inspiring for me.” 
Artists Giving Hope allows him to share that feeling of being on stage and the knowledge he has learned at Kaufman. 
On stage, Tribus embodies anything he wants. He can perform as himself, portraying a new part of himself to the audience, or he can be someone else entirely. 
He grants this freedom of exploration to other dancers through workshops with Artists Giving Hope. 
Each performance is a reminder that the gifts and talents they were given are meant to be shared. Artists Giving Hope promotes the availability of art to all and the influence it can have on everyone. 
Tribus is also looking to get the organization to work with Kaufman. He wants to utilize the facilities of the school to organize and put on workshops in the evening when classes are done. These workshops would be available to anyone, regardless of skill level or experience. 
“Most of us [company members] are in college,” Tribus said. “I feel like, why not embrace that and bring Artists Giving Hope to a college setting and use what we have here in the Kaufman building to our advantage.” 
Tribus’ and Ricucci’s connection to the dance world allowed the organization to become something they never expected it to be. 
Tribus knows there are other young dancers out there with the same drive, and there is so much he wants to let them know. Artists Giving Hope gives him this opportunity. He hopes to collaborate with younger dancers through workshops and support them in their journey ahead.
“I want dancers of the next generation to know that taking risk will always pay off,” Tribus said. “Always be 100 percent yourself. Don’t do something because someone else is doing it. Don’t do something because you think it’ll make you look cool. Whatever is meant to be, will be.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
What are the forces that work to push teenagers to their breaking point? This critical question is explored in the Odyssey Theatre Ensemble production of Tony Award-winning playwright Simon Stephens’ Punk Rock, featuring USC alumni Story Slaughter and Zachary Grant, who both graduated in 2015 with degrees in theater.
The electrifying play, directed by Lisa James, opened on March 25 at Odyssey Theatre in West Los Angeles. Punk Rock centers around a group of seven teenagers at an English prep school as they weave through the pressures of college entrance exams to bullying to love, sex and everything in between.
Stephens, well-known for his Tony award-winning play The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, was influenced by the Columbine High School shooting in 1999 in the creation of Punk Rock. Drawing on these influences, he created an incredibly funny yet unsettling play that displays the pressures of today’s societies and how these forces may be too much to cope with.
Adhering to the name of the production, Punk Rock displays adolescent angst, rage and rebellion at its finest. The characters are immensely complex and effectively encapsulate the inner workings of teenagers’ minds.
Two of these incredibly intricate characters are portrayed by recent USC graduates. Zachary Grant played the multi-faceted William Carlisle; alongside him starred Story Slaughter as the sweet-natured Tanya Gleason.
“It’s been a lot of fun.” Grant said, “Everyone in the cast is really nice, so we got really close.  We had to be as open as possible with each other … so we can be open on the stage.”
Slaughter described her previous relationship with Grant and how the two have become closer during the play’s production process.
“In terms of going to school with Zach, it’s so cool [that I get to work with him] because I was an admirer of his work from afar because we had acting classes together,” Slaughter said. “The universe is so kind to me to put me in this play with him because I never did at USC.”
Before Punk Rock, Grant and Slaughter were already involved in pursuing their passions and making a name for themselves in the theater industry. Grant has performed in several plays including Infinite Black Suitcase, La Ronde and Glory of Living, as well as in the film Being Charlie. Slaughter has starred in various films such as The Cigarette, Gloves and Peter & Lilah and the animated web series Limited Space, along with the plays Proof, Ordinary People and Stillwaters.
In regards to the advice they would offer current theater students, Grant stressed the importance of hard work. 
“When you’re a theater student it could be easy to not do any work and just show up, but after a while, it becomes a waste of time if you keep doing that,” Grant said. 
Slaughter, on the other hand, encouraged students to find inspiration in their fellow peers to strengthen their craft.
“I just encourage people to be inspired by your peers, don’t get competitive with them- that will crush acting,” Slaughter said.
Both Slaughter and Grant’s performances in Punk Rock demonstrate complexity and finesse. They chillingly portray the layers of  the teenage psyche and effects of societal pressures. The play opened on March 25 and will continue through May 14 at the Odyssey Theatre, with select performances offering discounted student tickets.
“[It’s] absolutely a dream. Amazing,” Slaughter said about her experience on the Punk Rock stage. 
The cast of Punk Rock features actors of similar caliber and age, which allows them to foster a unique bond through the production. 
“We’re all in a similar walk of life with our careers in that we’re young, we’re living in Los Angeles, we all recently graduated school and we’re thirsty for work,” Slaughter said. “To be in this play — we’re all really excited and we’re supportive [of each other].”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
It is a well-known fact that Los Angeles has traffic problems. Traffic solutions, however, are always elusive in this burgeoning, automobile-dependent city. Los Angeles was designed as a driver’s metropolis, but keeping pace with the growth of the driving population and the density of the urban area has become nearly impossible.
That may be a large part of the reason why Los Angeles County officials voted to consider additional tolls on carpool lane use and other related regulations. While these measures mean well, they miss the fundamental issue: Los Angeles is running out of freeway space. Interstate 101, for example, is especially notorious — in the morning rush hour, drivers spend an average of an hour and a half to travel less than 30 miles. It is clear that Los Angeles needs to expand its transportation network quickly instead of issuing ineffective restrictions on its use.
Consider this: Current traffic costs Los Angeles over $1,700 per resident per year in wasted fuel, lost wages and unachieved potential productivity. When it is recognized that the city of Los Angeles alone has about 4 million people and that the County has about 10 million, the shocking material cost of traffic becomes clear. The quicker that this issue is resolved, and the longer-lasting the solution, the better for everyone.
So what should we do about this gargantuan problem? It’s simple — build more roads.
Building new freeways is certainly not cheap. But using the above estimates, neither is the $6.8 billion that Los Angeles traffic currently costs residents every year. And there are quite a few of those residents driving to work. In 2015, nearly 95 percent of workers in Los Angeles commuted to work, a grand total of over 4,450,000 workers. That figure grew by more than 700,000 from 2000 to 2015. In the same time period, the number of workers carpooling dropped by nearly 27 percent. The number of cars being driven to work in Los Angeles is on an upswing, in spite of increasing and substantial carpooling incentives. Being stuck in traffic for hours while sharing a vehicle with coworkers, for whatever reason, is simply not as attractive an option to commuters as waiting in that same traffic alone is.
Carpooling incentives clearly are not enough to stem the automotive tide in Los Angeles. Even freeway expansion, such as that which was performed on Interstate 405, is insufficient. Now, after a substantial upgrade that cost $1 billion, traffic on the 405 during peak rush hour traffic is actually slightly slower. The kicker? That upgrade program was for a carpool lane that has proven to be only marginally effective. 
New carpool lanes and carpool restrictions do not help the overwhelming majority of commuters who drive themselves to work. Only an expansion of the road network can.
It is true that building new freeways can have harmful side effects. From health concerns to questions about maintaining historical buildings and personal real estate, very few people are initially happy when a freeway is built. However, these challenges should not stop Los Angeles from considering the option of expansion. Los Angeles needs new roads, and if it works with the California government to carefully and responsibly construct an enhanced transportation network, the city will flourish as a result.
As Brian Taylor noted in his 1992 doctoral dissertation at UCLA, “Short of road pricing, toll financing, or some other radical restructuring of highway finance, a new wave of metropolitan freeway development is simply not possible.” 
His point holds true today — new freeways don’t build themselves. In order to fairly generate sufficient revenue in the meantime, the roads in Los Angeles should be designated as toll roads that charge for use by the vehicle. Doing so would provide necessary revenue for an expansion project and would provide a more tangible, economic incentive to carpool. This would get more cars off the road and partially offset the recent trend of growth in automobile use. People tend to care a great deal about their wallets, and going about road expansion in this way will give them a strong economic reason to help accomplish that gargantuan task which has evaded Los Angeles until this point: unclogging the freeways.
Trevor Kehrer is a senior majoring in political science. “Point/Counterpoint” runs Wednesdays.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Los Angeles County transportation officials recently voted to examine whether they should implement tolls on more carpool lanes and a higher number of required passengers in these lanes. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s board of directors voted 11 to 1 in favor of studying those possibilities. 
A combination of stricter carpool regulations, increased carpool lanes and improved public transit is the solution to Los Angeles’ traffic problem. Simply building more freeways is a temporary fix that will exacerbate current problems in the long term. 
These types of regulatory tools should be implemented before the county takes more drastic measures, such as building new freeway systems. Los Angeles should not be encouraging more people to put their cars on the road by building more roads — it should be doing everything in its power to reduce the total amount of cars contributing to the city’s horrendous traffic and resulting pollution. 
Increasing the number of passengers required to use the carpool lanes will hopefully motivate more people to carpool. Current two-person carpool groups can find a third member or join with another two-person carpool, which will ultimately get one more car off the roads. 
On the other hand, implementing tolls on more carpool lanes simply punishes these same people who are opting to carpool instead of taking separate cars. Currently, L.A. drivers can use the toll lanes on State Route 110 south of Downtown, and on Interstate 10 from Downtown to El Monte, for free if they carpool. This method would need to be extended to any new toll lanes, in order to ensure that these lanes continue to reward people for carpooling. While they may decrease road use, toll roads reward people for having money, instead of lowering their environmental footprint the way carpooling does. 
Obviously, new carpool lanes and carpool restrictions won’t help commuters who drive themselves to work. But that’s exactly the point. Hopefully, new lanes and restrictions will spur commuters to find a more efficient way to get to work than driving by themselves, in their own personal car, alongside countless other people driving in the exact same direction. 
L.A. residents suffer from the worst traffic in the nation — the average driver spends 81 hours a year in traffic. However, the city also suffers from some of the worst air pollution. California alone emits more greenhouse gases per person than all of the world’s leading economies, except for the United States as a whole. And with transportation accounting for 37 percent of the state’s total emissions, reducing the number of cars on the road would therefore help reduce pollution. 
So while building more roads might seem like an excellent short-term solution, it would have a devastating environmental impact in the long run. And at a more local level, 1.2 million Southern California residents already live in areas of high pollution due to freeway proximity. The negative health impacts of living within 500 feet of a freeway include higher rates of asthma, heart attacks, strokes, lung cancer and pre-term births. Building more freeways would undoubtedly force more Southern California residents to suffer through all this just so commuters can stay in their comfy single-person car, instead of sucking it up and joining a carpool group or utilizing public transit. 
Furthermore, even if you are a commuter who doesn’t care about the environment, you would not see the benefits of more freeways for very long. The population in Los Angeles continues to grow, and if the expectation continues to be that commuters drive their own cars to work versus carpooling, any new roads would quickly become just as gridlocked. Additionally, people who currently carpool or use public transit might find that the new freeways make it easier for them to drive their own car, thereby increasing the total number of drivers contributing to traffic and air pollution. 
We could continue to build more and more freeways to ensure that no one ever needs to sit in traffic ever again, or we could simply address the root of the problem by pushing people to carpool or use public transit. Los Angeles definitely has a personal car-centric culture, but this needs to change. Transportation officials have a responsibility to encourage this culture shift through policy, instead of enabling single-car commuters by building more freeways. 
Erin Rode is a junior majoring in print and digital journalism and political science. “Point/Counterpoint” runs Wednesdays.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Undergraduate Student Government President Austin Dunn, Vice President Morgan Monahan and the USG Senate were inaugurated for the 2017-2018 school year at the USG meeting on Tuesday. 
The 2016-2017 Senate delivered its final remarks and summarized its achievements before the new USG president, vice president and senators were sworn into office. 
This was followed by an inauguration speech from Dunn, who reflected on his term as vice president, his service alongside former USG President Edwin Saucedo and his plans moving forward as USG president. 
“Throughout the duration of Edwin’s and my term, we’ve made great strides in fostering dialogue with constituencies that USG had not directly worked with in the past, such as spring admits, commuter students, students with disabilities [and] transfer students, but that is only the beginning,” Dunn said. “Moving forward, Morgan and I have plans to turn these discussions and dialogue into action and policy change. We want to build on the narratives of all students, and therefore we will continue to work with students from these communities to ensure adequate resources and representations for all students here at USC.”
Dunn said the three major goals of his presidency will be to remove students’ financial barriers, increase campus safety through bystander intervention and active shooter training and increase the accessibility of USG. 
Following Dunn’s inauguration speech, the 2017-2018 USG Senate held its first meeting, where Dunn presented the USG directors for the upcoming term and detailed the application and hiring process for these directors. 
After receiving 136 applications for 59 positions, Dunn blacked out all applicants’ personal information and photos to prevent bias in the screening process. These applications were then sent to the USG Executive Board, who voted on which candidates deserved an interview. 
“This process has been totally revamped and done to the best of our ability due to continuous nepotism claims,” Dunn said. 
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
About 90 feet of living space are all that 11 students could offer. However, just as light streams in from the tiny white cabin’s three windows, their prototype provides temporary shelter and a ray of hope for the homeless and city officials looking to end the epidemic.
With the guidance of Assistant Professor R. Scott Mitchell and architecture part-time lecturer Sofia Borges, fourth-year architecture students designed and built the temporary shelter for their final project, Homeless for Hope.
“To actually build things at full scale is unreal,” said Jayson Champlain, a fourth-year student majoring in architecture. “People actually get to step inside of something you’ve designed. It’s pretty cool.”
Mitchell and Borges created the topic studio surrounding homelessness for fourth-year architecture students. They partnered with Madworkshop, a foundation spearheaded by two alumni, and Hope of the Valley Rescue Mission, a nonprofit based in Mission Hills, to build a “bridge” housing solution.
According to Borges, the lack of attention for researching and developing temporary housing while long-term solutions are being developed creates a great need.
“There’s a huge deficit in what can we do for people on the streets now,” Borges said. “That’s where our project really has a lot of immediate value.”
Mitchell also hopes their topic studio gave students the opportunity to experience how an architecture firm works. 
From lessons in teamwork to riding a scooter down Skid Row, Champlain validated his professors’ hopes. The fourth-year architecture student worked on the project along with 10 of his peers and served as one of the project managers.
“This grabbed my attention because of how different it was,” Champlain said. “Getting to work with people — not just architects, but real people from different organizations or homeless people — and getting to build with my hands [is] something we don’t do much in architecture.” 
Heeje Yang, a fourth-year student majoring in architecture, worked on the project along with Champlain. He also appreciated the practical application of his major.
“As an architecture student, we always stay in studio and use our computer to design imaginary buildings,” Yang said. “But because of this studio, I was able to do actual hands-on work and actually be a part of the construction process of the modular housing. It was a good experience.”
According to Champlain, the students first spent three to four weeks of rigorous research detailing the problem before working on a solution.
Yang worked in a social housing firm the previous summer, but he believes that the students gave him an opportunity to further  investigate the homelessness epidemic in Los Angeles.
“It is a [bigger] issue than what I imagined before I researched and studied,” Yang said. “I am very shocked as I study more and more because the problem always gets bigger, not smaller.”
The studio also collaborated with city officials to make sure the project was compliant with all city codes.
“We were really surprised how open city officials and the mayor’s office were to collaborating on this idea,” Borges said.
While designing and building the prototype, students received the opportunity to speak with leaders and activists invested in the cause, including philanthropist Betty Chinn.
Through the project, Champlain realized the value of his skillset. 
“Dealing with people and socially engaged problems inspired me to say, ‘Wow, I can really use architecture to make a difference,’” Champlain said. “Architecture can really be a catalyst for bigger social change.” 
One pod costs around $25,000 to make. Hope of the Valley is currently fundraising to finish plans and build a community using the design.
Borges and Mitchell, however, hope the project will extend beyond the topic studio.
“We don’t see this project as only one shelter with Hope of the Valley, but as the larger response to getting people off the streets faster,” Borges said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Mary Kelly, a distinguished artist, scholar and educator, will join the USC faculty this fall as a Judge Widney Professor. 
According to USC News, Kelly will be the first fine artist and the first woman to be honored as a Judge Widney Professor. Named after USC’s founder Judge Robert Maclay Widney, the title is reserved for exemplary individuals from the arts, sciences, humanities, business and leadership fields. 
Kelly is known for her project-based work surrounding topics such as sexuality, identity and historical memory in the form of large-scale narrative installations. According to USC News, her works have influenced the evolution and critique of conceptual art. Her early arts, which explores the mother-child relationship through a series of works focused on war, and her most recent work on intergenerational history have driven and informed discourse surrounding feminism and postmodernism art. 
As a Widney Professor of Art, Kelly will join the Roski School of Art and Design faculty to mentor and educate Roski students. Previously, she held a 21-year tenure as a distinguished professor of art and critical theory at the University of California, Los Angeles. 
Kelly’s work has been exhibited at MOCA Los Angeles, MOCA Chicago, the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York, the Generali Foundation in Vienna, the Institute for Contemporary Art in London, Moderna Museet in Stockholm, The Vancouver Art Gallery, the Whitney Museum in New York and more. Her work as also been featured in international exhibitions such as The Whitney Biennial, The Biennale of Sydney and documenta 12. 
Kelly is acclaimed for her theoretical writings on art. Her published works include Imaging Desire and Post-Partum Document. She has received fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, and honorary doctorates from the University of Wolverhampton, in England and Lund University in Sweden.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Following a scrimmage on Howard Jones Field Saturday, the Trojans were back to regular practice on Tuesday. In the early weeks of camp, the USC defense stood out with its speed and forced turnovers. But on Tuesday, the offense took center stage. 
“Offensively, it’s probably been our best practice of spring thus far,” head coach Clay Helton said. 
The Trojans have holes to fill at the wide receiver position. With JuJu Smith-Schuster, Darreus Rogers, De’Quan Hampton and Isaac Whitney leaving, younger players now have an opportunity to step up, and they impressed their head coach with a strong practice.
“I was really proud of the young wide receivers,” Helton said. “The light really clicked on for them today.”
After redshirt sophomore quarterback Sam Darnold struggled the first few weeks with interceptions, quarterbacks coach Tyson Helton stressed that timing develops over time, and at this point in the spring, mistakes are understandable.
“You’ve got to talk things over about what the quarterback sees, what the receiver sees,” Helton said. “It’s timing more than anything. The receiver has to understand what the quarterback’s thinking, where he’s going to go and the timing of all of that.”
While spring practice has been a transition phase, Darnold appears to be getting more comfortable with the younger targets. When asked who has stood out the most to him in spring practice thus far, Darnold did not single anyone out.
“All the receivers have been standing out the most to me,” Darnold said. 
While Darnold already has chemistry with junior wideout Deontay Burnett and his tight ends, redshirt sophomore Daniel Imatorbhebhe and junior Tyler Petite, the likes of sophomore Michael Pittman Jr. and redshirt freshmen Velus Jones Jr. and Tyler Vaughns look to make strides in the receiving game.
“We’re looking forward to keeping it going and keep rolling through spring,” Darnold said. “And then hopefully it continues into summer workouts.”
Pittman impressed in practice on Tuesday, consistently making plays and catching several of Darnold’s passes in the 7-on-7 and 11-on-11 drills. One of the more experienced wideouts, Pittman drew praise from his coaches.
“[Michael] had a good scrimmage on Saturday,” offensive coordinator Tee Martin said. “He made some, what I like to say, ‘Big boy plays’ … and today he was really strong [and] played physical.”
Jones has also continued to impress coaches with his playmaking ability. In the 7-on-7 portion of practice, Jones made an impressive touchdown catch over junior safety Marvell Tell III. 
With so many pass catchers turning heads, Helton praised Darnold’s work.
“He’s really playing against the defense, and he’s not focused on one particular guy,” Helton said. “He’s really mixing the ball around nicely, and he did that again today.” 
While it will take time for chemistry to develop in the passing game, Darnold will rely on his talented supporting cast to power the Trojans through the upcoming campaign — one with championship aspirations.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Balancing act · Senior outside hitter Lucas Yoder and the Trojans are on a five-game winning run but remain grounded with UCLA set to visit. Katie Chin | Daily Trojan
Riding a five-game winning streak, the men’s volleyball team looks to keep its momentum going against crosstown rival UCLA on Wednesday. After the No. 6 Bruins defeated the Trojans in Westwood during the two teams’ last meeting in January, the No. 12 Trojans look to defend their home court and use the energy of the rivalry to their advantage.
“It is not a question of not being emotive … because they are getting inundated with the feedback of the rivalry, which takes on a life of its own,” head coach Jeff Nygaard said. “It is a question of what you do with that emotion. You never know what it is going to be until you play, but I like to believe that we are playing good volleyball and that it’s not an accident. These guys are really focused on what we need to be doing.”
In USC’s last match against Concordia, sophomore outside hitter Gianluca Grasso led the Trojans to a victory in three sets with 20 kills. In the third set alone, USC was hitting .379 to Concordia’s .087. Despite the Trojans finishing the game with more hitting errors, they did so getting more touches on the ball and more chances to make a play.
In that same sense, the Trojans will continue to focus on how they are performing first, and hope to let UCLA make mistakes.
“How do we handle our side of the net?” Nygaard said. “Stay in a moment, stay focused [and] keep our composure, yet be competitive and handle whatever they dish out with serves.”
The team is not just looking for a rivalry victory, though. USC is looking to clinch a spot in the postseason, and winning the final four matches of the regular season would put the Trojans at 9-9 in conference play. This would give them a solid chance at making the MPSF Tournament. This game is just the first of the many steps for the team to achieve its postseason aspirations, but it is one that will be lively, as Trojan fans will look to drown out the traveling UCLA contingent at the Galen Center. 
“It is undeniable that there is going to be a great environment, but that is what the playoffs and this time of the season is anyway,” Nygaard said. “I am excited for [the match], but do I look at that as the end-all, be-all? No. I love the rivalry, but that’s not the hallmark of what we are trying to do.”
While USC’s goal over these next four games is to put itself in playoff position, the Trojans will face a stiff challenge to extend their five-game winning streak, as the Bruins enter Wednesday with a five-game winning streak of their own. But Nygaard dismissed the role of momentum, especially in a heated rivalry matchup.
“I love five-game winning streaks, but you know what I like more? Six-game winning streaks,” Nygaard said. “Do I think that’s the major factor in this? Not really. I think these are two teams who know that they’ve been successful. That’s just what makes this a special night.”
First serve between the Trojans and Bruins on Wednesday is scheduled for 7 p.m. at the Galen Center.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The top-ranked USC beach volleyball team continued its dominance on Tuesday, as each court posted straight-set sweeps to help the No. 1 Trojans shut the door on the visiting California Golden Bears and secure a 5-0 dual victory on the sands of Merle Norman Stadium. The win pushes USC’s winning streak to 47 consecutive matches and improves their record to 36-4 all-time on their home courts.
In the first flight of action, the Trojans (17-0) got a point on the board with a win at court four from sophomore Abril Bustamante and freshman Joy Dennis, who posted a 21-18, 21-12 win over Cal’s Nicole Anderson and Iya Lindahl. Soon after, USC took a 2-0 lead when juniors Jenna Belton and Jo Kremer recorded a 21-17, 21-18 victory over Bridget Gustafson and Abby Waldburger on court five. The two USC pairs improved their dual records to 11-4 and 15-1, respectively, while Belton and Kremer also won their 13th dual in a row. To complete the first flight, sophomore Katrina Kernochan and
freshman Lainy Thomas won their exhibition match (21-9, 21-13) against Madison Dueck and Katie Regalia.
It did not take long for the Trojans to nab their third point, as seniors Sophie Bukovec and Allie Wheeler swept Bryce Bark and Camille Stepanof on court three (21-14, 21-6) to clinch the dual. The victory would improve Bukovec and Wheeler’s dual match record to 11-3 on the season. USC’s next point came on the backs of seniors Kelly Claes and Sara Hughes at court one, who posted a 21-11, 21-6 win over Jessica Gaffney and Mia Merino to boost their own winning streak to 92 matches in a row and move to 17-0 on the season together. The final point came from senior Nicolette Martin and junior Terese Cannon on court two, as they defeated Grace Campbell and Olivia Rodberg by a 21-14, 22-20 score. The newly minted Pac-12 Pair of the Week improves to 13-4 on the season and has now won six consecutive matches.
The dual win was the Trojans’ 10th in a row at Merle Norman Stadium, their 79th in their last 81 matches, and their fourth straight against Cal. While the Golden Bears came into Los Angeles with an upset on their minds, Wheeler liked the poise with which her team played today.
“Cal is a great team and they have some really good competitors, but I think we just stayed disciplined and played together,” Wheeler said. “We played our style of volleyball and really took care of business today.”
There is no rest for the weary, as the Trojans now prepare for two tournaments in Santa Cruz and Monterey, Calif. this weekend. On Saturday, USC kicks off the San Francisco Invitational with a dual match against host University of San Francisco at 9 a.m., followed by a pairs tournament against Saint Mary’s at approximately 12:20 p.m. The next day, USC will drive down to Monterey for the Monterey Invitational II, with a dual match doubleheader against Saint Mary’s and San Jose State.
Wheeler is excited to finally make the trip up north for the first time this season.
“I’m really looking forward to seeing my family and playing on the beaches that I grew up playing on,” Wheeler said. “We’re going to go out there and focus on playing our game: solid, competitive USC beach volleyball.”
The Trojans will take on the Gaels at 9:30 a.m., followed by a noon meeting with the Spartans. The Trojans own a perfect record against all three teams and will look to reach 50 consecutive wins.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:

The home where USC quarterback Sam Darnold grew up is quiet and peaceful on a Monday night.
Signs of his success fill every corner of the room — the unwashed Rose Bowl jersey hung on the wall, the team MVP trophy on the coffee table, the Army Bowl helmet on the counter in the kitchen.
“Coach [Clay] Helton sat on that couch and we talked about winning a national championship,” Chris Darnold says, patting the cushion next to her. 
She laughs, shaking her head. In two years, a dream that once seemed far off is becoming an expectation.
Chris and her husband, Mike, know that their son is special. In the last year, he’s become the starting quarterback for one of the best college football teams in the country, a Rose Bowl champion, the top contender for the Heisman Trophy and a potential No. 1 NFL Draft pick.
Yet in many ways, he’s still the same kid who first picked up a ball in San Clemente. And in his slingshotting arc to fame, Darnold has become an enigma to anyone outside of his select group of family and friends.
He’s a competitor who doesn’t raise his voice outside the huddle. In a world of NFL and college celebrities who pick fights on Twitter, Darnold is a star who hardly messes with his phone. He describes himself as reserved, soft-spoken, hard to read on and off the field.
“I think I’ve always been a shy guy,” Darnold said. “I’m not someone to go out of my way to meet somebody or make a fool out of myself, and I don’t think I have to change. I think I can definitely just remain myself.”
He’s not one to boast or to talk trash. But for anyone wondering, Darnold’s next plans involve two simple steps.
Step one: Win.
Step two: Don’t stop.
How did he do that?
As a kid, Darnold was easy to please. If his parents wanted to take him somewhere, they only needed one thing — a ball. It didn’t matter if it was just a half-hour drive to his grandparents’ house. Darnold was happiest with a ball in his hands, shooting hoops or playing catch.
His family jokes that they could never convince him to watch “normal” TV shows. He’d beg to turn the channel from Spongebob to ESPN, happy to watch a tennis ball going back and forth, rather than the typical cartoons that amused 4-year-olds. 
The Darnolds are, above all else, a sports family. Sam’s grandfather played basketball for the Trojans. His family held USC season tickets for his entire life. His older sister, Franki, played volleyball at Rhode Island.
For those who know Darnold, none of his current success is a surprise. It’s just the next step in the path that he’s been walking since he first tossed a ball.
At first, his parents thought it was just the overconfident support that every parent holds for their kids. But it quickly became clear that no matter what field or court Darnold was on, he was always the best. He made parents do double-takes with his casual displays of intuition and athleticism.
The first time it happened, Darnold was playing first base for his T-ball team. He snagged a pop fly, tagged the base and then threw another runner out to turn a triple play. He was five. 
From the stands, his parents thought the same thing — how did he do that? It’s a question that’s followed Darnold ever since.
As Darnold grew up, his athleticism evoked that same question over and over. At times when he appeared outmatched or completely beaten, he adapted his play or strategy to find a way to win. Family, teammates and friends were consistently left shaking their heads, bemused because Darnold, somehow, had done it again.
It was simple. He just had to win.
Natalie Yee | Daily Trojan. Photos courtesy of the Darnold family.
In the eighth grade, he entered his school high jump competition. His competition stood inches taller than him and jumped with proper form. Sam didn’t know a Fosbury flop from a belly flop, but he tossed his body into the air with enough passion to earn a spot in the final.
Mike came to the event to offer his support, expecting Sam to take a participation trophy. Instead, he watched his son leap 5-feet-3-inches into the air to take home first place. He was surprised, and yet, it was typical. Sam was never one to lose.
It was a reaction that even shook Helton when he watched Darnold play as a high school senior.
It was Helton’s first time seeing Darnold in action. His high school coach, Jaime Ortiz, knew that staying calm was the key to the night — most high school players tense up when a coach or scout comes to their game, taking at least a few snaps to loosen up into their regular style of play.
Not Sam.
He threw 12-for-12, notching 180 yards and five touchdowns. After each score, he celebrated in his customary fashion — a quick jog to high five his receiver, then to the sidelines, occasionally pointing skywards as the student section roared.
At the half, the two coaches met before Ortiz headed into the locker room.
“Coach, I’ve been recruiting a long time,” Helton said. “I’ve never seen a player do that.”
As a quarterback, it’s this quality — the “it” factor, Ortiz calls it — that sets Darnold apart. Trojan fans enjoyed a boon of that, from his scrambling fumble-turned-touchdown-pass against Colorado to his half-field bullets that hit receivers right in their palms.
His “it” factor reached a peak in the Rose Bowl, when even the commentators abandoned their unbiased composure to ask, yet again, how Darnold managed each of his rocketing passes to tie the game.
“Some people are born to do things, right?” ESPN announcer Chris Fowler marveled as a touchdown pass replayed in slow motion. “Some people are put on this earth to do one thing. He is a born quarterback.”
For the love of the game
The funny thing is, Darnold didn’t want to be the football star.
His love for football was undeniable. But until his sophomore year of high school at San Clemente, Darnold saw himself as a basketball player, idolizing the likes of Duke’s J. J. Redick. He played anything from guard to forward, making his school’s varsity team as a freshman and winning League MVP as a sophomore and a senior. Even though he split his time evenly between the field and the court, basketball had always been the sport that fit him best.
It took a few things for that to change.
He’d played quarterback since the third grade and been a USC fan since long before that. Most of his idols as a little boy were football players — Trojan football players.
“Reggie Bush, Matt Leinart.” Darnold named them one by one, keeping track on his fingers. “Carson Palmer, Mike Williams. I can keep rattling them off but it would probably take me an hour.”
In the third-to-last game of his sophomore football season, Darnold was tossed into the quarterback role after the starter suffered a season-ending injury. The next week, he took the helm against Tesoro High School, the
fifth-ranked team in the county. The end of San Clemente’s season rested on trusting Darnold, a sophomore who hadn’t thrown in a game since middle school.
Darnold should’ve been nervous, made rookie mistakes. Instead, he kept his team neck-and-neck with Tesoro until the final quarter. With 15 seconds left on the clock, he launched a 45-yard pass to tie up the game. With time expired, he rolled out on a bootleg and threw a game-winning touchdown to his tight end.
From the sidelines, Ortiz knew something special had just happened: Darnold had arrived. 
The next week, former Utah offensive coordinator Aaron Roderick watched Darnold in his second game as a quarterback. He offered him a scholarship on sight.
“Remember that we were first, OK?” Darnold remembers Roderick saying as they shook hands. The words held a hidden truth — Utah certainly wouldn’t be the last.
The road that followed was rocky. Darnold became a starter for both the football and the basketball teams, splitting his time between his two favorite sports. 
He went 2-0 in his first season as starting quarterback, until a rough tackle left him limping. In typical Darnold style, he finished the drive and threw a touchdown pass before he walked to the sideline and dropped to the ground.
X-rays showed a foot fracture, and the rest of the season was spent gritting his teeth and riding the bench. Darnold’s football team didn’t win another game. He tried to force his way back onto the field, but his coaches, parents and doctors forced him to be patient.
Darnold waited, healed, labored through physical therapy. Then his team lost his first basketball game back on the court, and Darnold made one of the few rash decisions of his life: He slammed his fist into a locker in disgust. The split second of anger cost him a broken finger and the rest of his junior season.
At that point, Ortiz stepped in.
The kid was undeniably talented. With only four games worth of film footage, he’d earned an offer from Utah and interest from a handful of other universities. But Sam’s lost junior season left him far behind the typical recruiting curve. In a sea of talented quarterbacks who were happy to hype their success on every social media platform, Darnold needed to stand out.
“I looked up to everyone who played USC football honestly,” Darnold said. “That’s not a cliche because I’m the USC quarterback. I honestly loved USC football. I want to leave a legacy like they did. Hopefully I can be that role model for a kid out there who loves watching football.”
But Darnold, for his part, didn’t like being recruited. 
He didn’t want to play on a 7-v-7 team or attend sponsored camps. That wasn’t football. Not to him. But Ortiz forced him to get on social media, to travel to Nike camps, to sell himself as a college prospect. 
From there, his recruitment process was simple. Once a program saw him throw, a scholarship offer quickly followed. And like anything, the accolades came as well — Elite 11 rankings, top placements at quarterback camps and attention from across the country. 
Coaches took three-hour flights to check him out. Chris spent weekend mornings making breakfast burritos for Sam’s teammates as they caught passes for hours with scouts from everywhere from Tennessee to Oregon. It seemed that at least half of the top programs in the country wanted Darnold except for the one that mattered — USC.
That offer almost came too late. Darnold was planning a trip to visit his final schools when former head coach Steve Sarkisian called. There was barely a week left before the dead period of recruitment began, and the Darnolds honestly didn’t know if there was time to fit the Trojans in.
So Sarkisian and Helton — then the offensive coordinator — adjusted their schedules, letting Darnold come up that weekend to throw. An assistant coach chased after his passes for hours as the two coaches watched. The offer came that day: If he wanted it, Darnold had a home at USC.
For Darnold, it was a dream come true.
“I looked up to everyone who played USC football honestly,” Darnold said. “That’s not a cliche because I’m the USC quarterback. I honestly loved USC football. I want to leave a legacy like they did. Hopefully I can be that role model for a kid out there who loves watching football.”
Drive it like you stole it
“I just do my thing.”
It’s the best way that Darnold can describe his mental process in the pocket.
He’s not being glib. He’s not avoiding the question. He’s certainly not playing dumb. But for Darnold, a lot of the confusion of playing quarterback — reading routes, converting botched plays, avoiding blitzes — comes naturally.
“I go back to Pop Warner games and just have fun playing the game,” Darnold said. “I think there’s something to be said for that. It’s fun for me and I think it’s fun for the crowd as well.”
The game slows down for him. He doesn’t think too hard, doesn’t overanalyze. When he plays, he stays comfortable, rolling with whatever feels right in the moment. His approach is almost casual. It’s different, unstructured, and when it works it’s a thing of beauty.
Sometimes, however, it’s a weakness. Sam coughed up four fumbles in his first six games alone, and tossed nine interceptions over the course of the season. His tendency to scramble sometimes left him vulnerable in the backfield, and hard hits often led to turnovers.
“I told Helton from the very beginning that Darnold would run through walls for him,” Chris said. “If you let him. You give him the shot and he’ll run through walls for you.”
But those mistakes didn’t keep Sam from generating over 3,300 total yards of offense in 13 games. In fact, Ortiz believes that his gutsy decision making is the key to Sam’s success.
It all plays into Helton’s mentality on running the offense — drive it like you stole it. He pushes Sam to create an up-tempo style of play that challenges defenses on all fronts, gambling at times and trusting that the reward outweighs the risk. That style of play fits Sam like a glove.
“You give him the keys to your car, he may dent it, he may scratch the paint,” Ortiz said. “But when you let him go and you let him drive that car, good things are gonna happen.”
That doesn’t mean that Darnold is satisfied, however. Far from it. He wants to scramble less, stay in the pocket to read the defense and protect the ball. He self-identifies as his own worst critic, eager to point out room for improvement in every aspect of his game. 
And that’s why, for the Trojans, Darnold has become the man. He’s never satisfied, never finished, and he refuses to settle for second-best when he believes he can give his team more.
“I told Helton from the very beginning that Darnold would run through walls for him,” Chris said. “If you let him. You give him the shot and he’ll run through walls for you.”
Save me a seat
Two years ago, when Darnold was just a redshirt freshman, Ortiz shot him a text as Derrick Henry accepted the Heisman award.
“Before your career is done, you’re gonna be on that stage one day,” Ortiz wrote. “Save me a seat.”
Darnold waved it off. He wasn’t even a starter yet, and besides, that wasn’t why he was playing. Even now, as expectations for his success grow, he refuses to pay attention to the hype.
Fame hasn’t changed Darnold, and that’s mainly because fame is the last thing he cares about.
Darnold wants to win. He needs to win. He is persistent, ambitious, tenacious. But none of that competitive fire is focused on trophies or awards or even draft picks. Darnold wants to win in the same basic, natural way that little kids want to win backyard basketball games and impromptu foot races.
“He plays just like when he was little,” Mike Darnold said. “He plays exactly the same. He just keeps getting smarter and better. I think he likes who he is because he’s remained the same.”
It’s hard for Darnold to stay incognito on campus anymore. He’s grown used to it — the double takes, the questions, the requests for selfies. Even high school friends shyly ask for autographs when he comes home to San Clemente over breaks. And that will only grow next season, when the student store will sell his jersey number and his picture will headline every game program and poster.
Yet despite his rising status as a star, Darnold remains the same. Levelheaded yet competitive. Calm yet relentless. Ortiz calls him a poker player, even keel, soft spoken. His parents described him in one word — flatline.
“Unless he’s hungry,” Chris jokes. But besides that, her son still seems the same, flashing that same little grin from behind his helmet after tossing a touchdown as he did when he played Pop Warner.
He doesn’t dance midfield during timeouts or celebrate in the end zone. In post-game interviews, he’s
stone- faced, calmly diverting attention from himself by praising his teammates and coaches. Even in the Rose Bowl, in the game of his life, Darnold only showed emotion once, holding his helmet aloft and shouting as the winning kick sailed through the uprights.
“If I get whatever records, you know that doesn’t mean much to me,” Darnold said. “I just want to win games. I want to win a national championship before I leave here, but I don’t look too far forward. I focus on today. Every single day I just try my best in every single thing I do.”
That’s just Sam. He’s the star who still comes home on weekends and breaks, hanging out on the couch in Ortiz’s office at the high school, lifting weights at the middle school where Chris works. He’s close to his family, the type who buys personalized necklaces for his mom and sister for Christmas, who still makes it to cousins’ volleyball games and catches basketball games with his dad.
Yes, he might win the Heisman, and he might go No. 1 overall. But for Darnold, all that will actually make a difference is making sure that his team wins every game. The legacy he wants to leave is simple — a legacy of winning games and championships, of returning USC to its former glory.
“If I get whatever records, you know that doesn’t mean much to me,” Darnold said. “I just want to win games. I want to win a national championship before I leave here, but I don’t look too far forward. I focus on today. Every single day I just try my best in every single thing I do.”
Darnold’s life has been cemented by football, by stories of a little redheaded boy in Matt Leinart’s No. 11 and Bush’s No. 5. For him, it wasn’t just playing dress-up or make believe. When he wore those jerseys, he saw himself as one of those players — Leinart lining up his offense, Bush diving into the end zone.
Even now, as he trains to take his team to a national championship, Darnold remains the same little boy who dreamed of throwing passes in the NFL. He’s a little bit taller, a little bit better, but he’s still a kid living his dream.
“I think he thought he was gonna be somebody ever since he was little,” Chris said. “You know how people say it’s your dream come true? I really honestly think it’s like that with him.”
And for Darnold, that dream is only getting started.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 400
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
