The Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office has decided not to pursue its case against rising USC junior Armaan Premjee, who was arrested on campus on charges of sexual assault last April. 
Judge Michael Pastor ruled in a preliminary hearing last Wednesday that Premjee would not be “held to answer” for the charges — a legal term that indicates there is not enough evidence to move the case forward to trial. 
The Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office also stated on Monday that it will not refile charges against Premjee, though the DA’s office officially has until Aug. 10 to refile.
“There is no indication of any withdrawal of consent,” Pastor wrote in his ruling. “There is a very strong indication that the alleged victim in this case was the initiator of any conduct between the defendant and the alleged victim.”
Pastor also stated that testimony from the alleged victim’s roommates on its own did not provide sufficient evidence for the case to proceed.
“I’m feeling very relieved,” Premjee said. “I never feared that [I would go to prison] because I knew deep down inside that I was innocent.”
Premjee also claimed that the woman involved in the situation had been the initiator and that he had been the one to give consent to sexual intercourse.
Los Angeles Police Department officers arrested Premjee on April 11 for allegedly sexually assaulting another student in Fluor Tower on April 1. Premjee, at the time a sophomore majoring in business administration, was released on $100,000 bail and pleaded not guilty to the charges, which included one count of rape by use of drugs and one count of sexual penetration with a foreign object. The alleged victim was never publicly identified. 
Premjee’s attorney Harland Braun said the case was dropped after new video evidence surfaced showing Premjee and the alleged victim standing outside Banditos Tacos & Tequila, a bar a few miles from campus. At that time, the alleged victim made hand gestures to her friend that Braun said indicated she intended to have sex with Premjee.
“In this case the judge had no evidence other than the girl consented, and the evidence of her consent is a security camera of her signaling to her girlfriend with a sign showing intercourse,” Braun said. “It’s hard to [find] any better evidence that shows consent than that.” 
University officials confirmed that Premjee is enrolled at USC this upcoming fall.
“I’m not nervous at all [to go back],” Premjee said. “I feel confident and am ready to go back to USC.”
Deputy District Attorney Lisa Kim declined to comment on the reasons the DA’s office has decided not to refile the case. 
While the criminal court case has been closed, Braun and Premjee said that there is still an ongoing investigation with the University’s Title IX office. USC would not confirm whether such an investigation is taking place. 
“Information pertaining to student disciplinary records and proceedings or any matter of student conduct are confidential and protected by federal privacy laws,” the University said in a statement.
 
Editor’s Note: A previous version of this post has been updated to reflect new information obtained through Judge Michael Pastor’s ruling.
crazy bitch !
Wonderful.  So the campus kangaroo court can still expel this guy?  What about the woman?  What do they do to her?  Give her a gold medal?
why is his identity made public (even before the court’s decision), while her identity is kept a secret.  What kind of backward society is this?  We demand the release of this woman’s face and name. 
How many innocent men are rotting in jail right now, forgotten by society?  This guy should be thanking God for the video footage.   Unfortunately, most other men can’t say the same.
“If she consented and claims she doesn’t remember doing it, then that proves she lied” is the exact same broken logic as “If she honestly doesn’t remember consenting, then that proves she did not consent.”
A blackout is a loss of memory. That’s all. It does not prove that the person was unconscious or recognizably incapacitated for all or even any part of the period of missing memories. If you want details about what is physiologically plausible, talk to a knowledgeable doctor (which I’m not), not an activist.
The book needs to thrown at the woman who falsely accused the young man of rape. She could have ruined his life. The law needs to put these criminals away.
She has ruined his life. His name is out there and when applying for jobs he has to check off “Yes” for “Have you ever been arrested or accused of a crime?”
True, true. Luckily he is looking at the situation positively.
Sue the crap out of the school, the woman and all involved
That woman should be charged with the same charges her victim would have received. That will stop these vile women from falsifying these rape reports.
Won’t happen. I forget the state but a recent article I read about another false accusation was disgusting. The falsely accused man spent 4 years in jail. After she confessed, he was released and she was sentenced to only 2 months in jail…to be served on weekends only. False accusations have become an epidemic because these crazy women know they face no penalties or criminal time for making false rape accusations. It’s time to repeal the Duluth Model because women and men are both morally fallible. Women also commit more than 40% of domestic violence so it’s time to stop treating these issues as gendered.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Matt Boermeester, the former USC kicker who kicked the Rose Bowl-winning field goal, was suspended in February for a “student code of conduct” issue.
Senior Zoe Katz, the girlfriend of former USC football placekicker Matt Boermeester, said in a statement through her attorney obtained by the Daily Trojan that the Title IX investigation that led to his removal from campus and the football team was unfair to both parties. 
Boermeester was suspended in February for what USC classified as a “student code of conduct” issue. 
Katz’s attorney, Kerry Steigerwalt, said to the Daily Trojan that the investigation that led to Boermeester’s suspension and his subsequent removal, was into an altercation outside of her home where Boermeester allegedly pushed her against a wall. Katz said a neighbor witnessed the altercation and he reported the incident to a coach in the athletic department, who referred it to the Title IX office. 
Steigerwalt said the incident was misconstrued, and that Boermeester pulled Katz into a hug against the wall without any aggressive force. Katz maintains in her statement that Boermeester was never violent toward her. 
“I want to be very clear that I have never been abused, assaulted or otherwise mistreated by Matt,” Katz said.
In the statement, Katz said she felt the investigation, which took six months, was “horrible and unjust.” She claimed that “terrible and untrue” things were said about Boermeester, and that her statements were “intentionally misrepresented, misquoted and taken out of context.”
“When I told the truth about Matt, in repeated interrogations, I was stereotyped and was told I must be a ‘battered’ woman, and that made me feel demeaned and absurdly profiled,” Katz wrote. “I understand that domestic violence is a terrible problem, but in no way does that apply to me.”
Steigerwalt said when Katz was first called into the Title IX office, she was unaware of why she was being called in. In her statement, Katz said that she was told she “must be afraid” of Boermeester, but claimed she wasn’t.
“She was incredulous over the suggestion that [Boermeester’s] actions were aggressive,” Steigerwalt said. 
According to Katz, Boermeester was suspended by USC before being interviewed by the Title IX office. She claimed he was removed from the football team, unable to rehabilitate his knee with trainers after having knee surgery two weeks prior and was not allowed to contact her.
Katz also stated that others in the USC community could not talk to Boermeester or face investigation themselves, and that she could also face charges if she contacted anyone the office called in as witnesses.
Katz spent four seasons on the women’s tennis team and was an all-conference player along with serving as team captain. She said she was determined to have her voice heard, but added she is afraid of the Title IX office.
“Facts and fairness are supposed to govern Title IX and not agendas, intimidation and falsehoods,” she wrote. “I am so sad that a rogue group like the Title IX office can bring down this amazing school.”
Boermeester, who kicked the game-winning field goal in the Rose Bowl last season, was not listed on the roster as the football team began fall practice on Saturday. USC confirmed on Sunday that Boermeester was no longer enrolled at the University. 
In response to Katz’s statement, the University defended its investigation.
“USC stands by its investigation and the accounts provided by multiple witnesses,” a USC spokesperson said. “As previously stated, student disciplinary records are confidential.  If the students involved waive their confidentiality rights, the University will offer a detailed response.”
Matt Boermeester’s attorney, Mark Schamel could not be immediately reached for comment.
Meanwhile, over at Keck…Gretchen Dahlinger Means should be in jail and hit with a civil suit.
She should consider filing a lawsuit, but that’s just me.
Clearly, USC didn’t learn from the Duke lacrosse rape hoax.
Why are schools even involved in these incidents.
If there is an accusation made, turn it oover to the police and DA
Congratulations!!!
You have made the list of “Schools from which I won’t hire”
That’s pretty much all of them then.
Schools like USC are now so scared to show equal protection under the law.  They simply make unfair disciplinary decisions that punish students before being able to defend themselves under the law.  I feel bad for the Matt, and I hope he sues the school to get back his honor.
To attack and unjustly ruin a young man’s life is one of the most reprehensible things a human being can do.
Despite his own alleged victim stating that she was never abused, the office proceeded to persecute this young man. 
How many cockroaches do you need to see in your food before you send it back? Just one.  Same case here.
There were a plethora of holes and lapses in this case; the case reasonably should have been dismissed and sent back, yet the Title IX office relentlessly pursued Matt. 
Per this young lady’s statements, U.S.C.’s Title IX office lied, used harassment and intimidation tactics, intentionally ignored exculpatory evidence and manipulated witnesses and evidence in order to conclude a pre-determined guilt.  U.S.C.’s Title IX office wanted a football player. The Title IX office was looking to win a case against a football player in order to raise their profiles and reputations within the U.S.C. administration. When they found a case related to the famous kicker of the Rose-Bowl, it was the opportunity they were looking for. 
I am glad this young lady found the courage to expose the gender bias and unfairness of U.S.C.’s Title IX process; and I am glad the whole world now knows of the silent atrocities occurring on U.S.C.’s campus. 
These “witch-trials” are very concerning and is something I hope U.S.C. attends these concerns and makes changes for the better. I know there are many students nationwide who wish to attend U.S.C. for athletic, academic or musical endeavors, and I cannot say I encourage  any male to do so knowing they risk violations of due process and destruction of their careers by individuals with no moral conscious or compass in the lives they destroy.
lawsuit
“…reported the incident to a coach in the athletic department, who referred it to the Title IX office.”
I wonder what the coach would have done if the “abuser” was Sam Darnold.
How the fuck is it possible that even if the person whom you are accused of assaulting comes out and says that you didn’t assault them, does not report you, does not press charges, defends your name, etc., you can still be found guilty of something and lose privileges at a school? How is that anything other than pure insanity?
Yup, because the Title IX office will deem that person a “battered woman” who is only lying out of fear.  Even if there are no prior cases, or other independent witnesses.  Even if there is no evidence or history of abuse.  Even if the accused has never been guilty of so much as a parking ticket, it does not matter.  None of this matters when it comes to Title IX.  
Male students (and their parents) need to be made aware of the power these offices have to ruin lives and set campus policy.  Title 9 offices and officers have been allowed to grow into all powerful entities that have nearly unlimited authority on college campuses to set policy, investigate, and hand out punishments.  Just think, your son is just one overzealous Title IX officer aways from being labelled as a “rapist,” “abuser,” or “woman-beater” for the rest of his life.  Your daughter is one Title IX officer away from being labelled a “liar,” a “battered-woman”, or a “rape apologist.”  
What’s important to remember is that this case is neither rare or unique.  Things like this happen every single day in Title iX offices across the country.  Hell, what do you expect, cases like this benefit the Title IX office.  The more infractions and guilty verdicts they process = the more they are able to justify their existence on campus.  More importantly, cases like this help the office and officer grow bigger and more powerful on campus, which only gives them even more influence.   Just a minor conflict of interest i’d say.
Lastly….who knows if there is more to this than we’re being told.  Maybe Matt is a habitual abuser, maybe he isn’t.  But when Title IX is involved it doesn’t matter.  If you’re a guy and you are accused of something:  you’re guilty.
There is some truth in the fact that sometimes the victims are reluctant or plain out afraid for their lives, so that don’t come forward, or they deny the event happened.  
There is no evidence of that in this case, and I think it is sad they are making assumptions that are destroying two college kids’ academic careers.
What kind of law allows a person to be prosecuted unjustly with deception, then prevents disclosure of the evidence, proceedings and testimony?  Title IX is unchecked, Absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
