As the final seconds of the NCAA tournament’s first round ticked off the clock in the Bok Center, the Trojans carved out a new title for themselves.
Comeback kids.
They had already proved themselves against a torrent of late-season doubt by punching a ticket to the First Four play-in round of the NCAA tourney. Then the Trojans erased a 17-point deficit to narrowly push out Providence in a rematch of last year’s tournament opener, earning a spot in the first official round of the tournament.
A matchup against SMU, however, was a completely different matter. The Trojans were an 11-seed attempting to knock down a 5-seed — a team they’d defeated much earlier in the season, before the Mustangs hit a hot streak that hadn’t slowed down. They faced a deficit that stretched as far as 11 points and a battery of deep 3-pointers and highlight-reel dunks.
But key defensive stretches and late shots from deep gave USC the fuel it needed to fight back back to a 66-65 upset. The Trojans will keep dancing this year, moving onto the Round of 32.
The first half was marred by cold shooting from the arc for the Trojans. After stumbling to 0-for-4 from behind the line, the only life for the USC offense was found in the lane, with sophomore forward Chimezie Metu pounding the Mustangs down low. 
Both teams set into an up-and-down flow as the half continued — the Mustangs neared a double-digit lead, then the Trojans responded with a quick series of offensive attacks to even the score back up. Critical in this offensive tide was junior guard Elijah Stewart, who knocked down back-to-back threes to cut a double-digit lead in the final five minutes of the half.
At the half, the Trojans entered their locker room with an 8-point deficit. But after clawing back against Providence, the team remained comfortable in their position. In fact, USC has shown a pattern of performing best in comeback situations, with second-half spurts that typically lift the team to a victory.
“We said at halftime, we were only down by 8, this is nothing,” head coach Andy Enfield said. “We felt really great at the half.”
Following Enfield’s lead, the Trojans sparked the second half with confidence, with sophomore forward Bennie Boatwright and Stewart sinking a pair of 3-pointers. Metu followed to slam in a dunk, giving the Trojans the first of many ties in the second half. 
The dunk began the same back-and-forth rhythm, but the Trojans remained relentless in keeping pace with the Mustangs. But despite forcing a tie game multiple times, by the final 10 minutes of the game, the Trojans trailed by 6 and had yet to lead.
The final spark came not from one player, but from the entire team. Boatwright and freshman guard Jonah Mathews sliced into the SMU paint for layups, and Stewart threw down a dunk to the tie the game. SMU reclaimed their lead with a layup and an and-one, but layups from junior guard Jordan McLaughlin and Melton held the Mustang lead to 1 point. 
An unsung key to the victory was performance from the free-throw line, especially from Metu, who sank eight throughout the game. Consistency from the line helped to level out the Trojans’ struggling shooting in other areas, especially from behind the 3-point line. Despite Stewart’s hot night from behind the line — the guard finished with six 3-pointers and 22 points — the Trojans struggled to knock down threes, shooting only 8-28 from behind the line.
But despite their struggles from behind the line, the Trojans nailed long shots when they counted.
With 1:47 left, Boatwright delivered the first lead of the game in showman’s style, dropping a long 3-pointer over a defender to push the score to 63-62. The USC fan section exploded, but the Mustangs were quick to respond with a 3 of their own.
Yet again, it came down to the wire, to the final minute of the game. Mathews found Stewart deep in the corner, and stewart didn’t hesitate, dropping a 3-point shot that hit nothing but net.
The referees went to the sideline to ensure that the shot was from 3-point range, but it was no question — his feet were inches behind the line and the Trojans were in the lead with 38 seconds remaining.
The Mustangs scrambled to respond, driving in for a layup that earned a foul but then turning up empty at the free throw line. After another desperate drive to the basket, the final shot ricocheted off the rim and the Trojans sprinted to their bench, securing another unexpected berth to the next round of the tourney.
It was just another in a series of nail biter, edge-of-your-seat comebacks that have characterized the Trojans this entire season. For Stewart, the game reflected his team’s ability to perform in clutch moments.
“Everyone’s made differently,” Stewart said. “When the time comes, we always try to show up. I feel like that’s what we did tonight. There’s no explanation for it.”
USC will now take two days to prepare to face Baylor, a 3-seed that stumbled late in their season after holding the No. 1 spot in the nation. The team will once again enter the contest as the underdog against a Big 12 powerhouse that cruised to a 91-73 victory in the first round. 
But no matter the spread or the BPI, the Trojans have made a point — they’re here to dance, and they’re here to stay.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
