Springfest 2017 was canceled Saturday night after crowds exceeded maximum capacity, according to the Los Angeles Fire Department. Department of Public Safety officers arrived on scene soon after the show’s cancellation to form a skirmish line.
There were no life-threatening injuries, but at least one person was transported to the hospital, according to an LAFD statement.
Hip-hop group Migos had begun performing their second song of the night, after their set had already been delayed for more than 30 minutes. One of the members of Migos’ team urged crowd members to step back and stop pushing one another and to leave the crowd area if they were in need of medical attention.
Rae Sremmurd, the headliner of the event, did not take the stage due to the event’s cancellation.
USC Concerts Committee explained the decision in the Springfest 2017 Facebook event page.
“The decision to end Springfest early stemmed from a unanimous decision to keep students’ safety as our top priority,” it wrote. “While we are disappointed the event ended early, there was no other option. Thanks to everyone that came through; we appreciate your patience.”
Students left on their own and were escorted by security personnel, according to the Department of Public Safety.
Trevor Sochocki | Daily Trojan
Grecia Vega, a sophomore majoring in accounting, said she was in the front of the crowd when people began to lose consciousness.
“People just started passing out in my friend’s arms and suffocating,” Vega said. “We were trying to get people’s attention — no one was paying attention.”
Vega said she had arrived early to beat the crowd, but once the concert started she said she felt unsafe.
“It was super scary,” Vega said. “I thought people were going to stampede and that someone was going to die. A concert is not worth that.”
Trevor Nielsen, a junior majoring in electrical engineering, was part of the crowd during Migos’ set and witnessed the concert shutting down. He said that ultimately the show’s cancellation was due to poor planning that could have amounted to audience members getting hurt.
“Concerts Committee didn’t anticipate how large the crowd would be for Rae Sremmurd and Migos on the same night,” Nielsen said. “Honestly, the University made the right call shutting it down.”
This post has been updated to include statements from DPS, LAFD and USC Concerts Committee.
Allen Pham and Trevor Sochocki contributed to this report.
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that the DPS riot squad was on the scene. There were no DPS or Los Angeles Police Department riot squads. DPS and LAPD officers were present in helmets and prepared to form a skirmish line. The Daily Trojan regrets the error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
