Three days removed from an overtime nailbiter at Vanderbilt, the No. 10 USC men’s basketball team coasted to an 88-63 victory on their home court against Lehigh on Wednesday night.
Junior forward Bennie Boatwright led the team with 19 points and 11 rebounds, his first double-double of the season and third of his career. Four of USC’s starters scored in double digits, and senior guard Jordan McLaughlin finished with 5 points, four rebounds, seven assists and three steals. 
Against Vanderbilt, McLaughlin scored 35; but on Wednesday, he showed his adaptability and USC showed its ability to win in various ways.
“Jordan doesn’t care about scoring,” head coach Andy Enfield said. “He knows he can score, but our team needs him to be a playmaker, distributor and scorer when he has to (be) and he’s fine with that role.” 
While McLaughlin did not score prolifically, his seven assists catalyzed USC’s multi-pronged offense. The team assisted 24 of 33 field goals.
“We all can shoot and we shared the ball,” sophomore guard Jonah Matthews said. “We showcased that tonight.”
Mathews had his best game of the young season with 18 points and seven rebounds. He led the Trojans with four 3-pointers, and the team shot 12-of-26 from beyond the arc.
Equally as impressive, the Trojans held Lehigh, a team that averages 30 three-point attempts per game, to 7-of-28 from downtown and 25-of-70 (35.7 percent from the floor. Lehigh’s two leading scorers, guards Kahron Ross and Lance Tejada, combined for 43 points; however, Enfield was impressed with his team’s backcourt defense. After switching Mathews to guard Ross in the second half, Ross scored only four points.
This coming Sunday, the Trojans face their biggest test of non-conference play against No. 16 Texas A&M. Tip-off is at 7 p.m. at the Galen Center. 
Finally firing on all cylinders throughout the game. Happy Thanksgiving!
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
