Carmen Puliafito resigned in March 2016.
The former dean of the Keck School of Medicine engaged in drug use during his tenure at USC, hosted parties in his office and kept company with convicted criminals and an underage drug user, a Los Angeles Times investigation reported on Monday.
Carmen Puliafito was named dean of Keck in 2007 and announced his resignation in March 2016, citing a return to academic ophthalmology and the pursuit of other professional opportunities.
The Times interviewed six people who partied with Puliafito starting in 2015 while he was still dean, none of whom were USC students. Puliafito has not been arrested or charged with a crime, and has no criminal record. 
According to the Times, on March 4, 2016 — a few weeks before Puliafito’s resignation — he was present at a Pasadena hotel party with then-21-year-old Sarah Warren, who suffered a drug overdose that evening. In a series of interviews with the Times, Warren said she became affiliated with Puliafito in early 2015 when she was working as an escort. 
Footage the Times reviewed shows the pair doing drugs the night before Warren’s overdose. A call record from the Pasadena Fire Department published by the Times reveals that Puliafito called 911 after Warren became unconscious. In the call, he stated he was a doctor, referred to her as his girlfriend and said she had only ingested alcohol.   
The Times stated that a witness reported Warren’s overdose to Pasadena authorities and phoned USC President C. L. Max Nikias’ office on March 14, 2016. The University did not confirm reports of this phone call to the Daily Trojan. 
Puliafito resigned 10 days later, but is still listed as a faculty member on the Keck website. The University confirmed Puliafito was on sabbatical from his faculty position and is following all proper procedures to review his status in patient care. Since Puliafito is on leave, he is not currently seeing any patients. 
The Times also reviewed images of Puliafito partying with individuals with criminal records, as well as videos that suggest the former dean took drugs like ecstasy and methamphetamine. The photos were reportedly dated in 2015 and 2016 and showed Puliafito and his acquaintances partying in various locations, including in his office at the Health Sciences Campus.  
The Times also obtained a copy of a CVS prescription Puliafito wrote for Sarah Warren’s younger brother, Charles Warren, who was 17 at the time he met Puliafito. The prescription, the Warrens said to the Times, was for asthma inhalers that would alleviate the raw effects on their lungs from drug use.
The University has lauded Puliafito as a strong leader and fundraiser as recently as last June, three months after his resignation. During Puliafito’s tenure, he oversaw the full accreditation of Keck and focused on increasing research and grants from the National Institute of Health. Last year, Keck was ranked 31st on the U.S. News and World Report of the nation’s best medical schools — a jump of eight places since the start of Puliafito’s deanship. Puliafito was also a witness in USC’s legal dispute with the University of California, San Diego about the rights to an Alzheimer’s research program. 
The Daily Trojan could not independently confirm the Times’ reporting. 
The University had no further comment beyond confirmation that Puliafito was not currently seeing patients and stated it was not at liberty to discuss personnel matters.
“If the assertions reported in the July 17 Los Angeles Times story are true, we hope that Carmen receives care and treatment that will lead him to a full recovery,” the University said in an email to the Daily Trojan.  
Suggest those honestly interested in the stunning volume of physician misbehavior, get a copy of the book, “The Paramedic Heretic.” 
When a 30-year paramedic keeps notes, the results are truly eye-popping.
Pat Haden….where art thou?
Why has there been no foolow-upon Pat Haden and his plundering of the Mayr Foundation? Did Haden pay it all back? Is he still on that foundation as its’ head of their BODs? What penalty has USC imposed on Haden paid if any?
Though “Ancient history” now, a former governor and presidential candidate, all be he of Greek descent (VS Cypriot) quoted his mother in a US Presidential debate “The fish stinks from the head down.” President Nikias, any thoughts?
What do you expect from a Harvard man?
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
