The National Labor Relations Board ordered USC this week to engage in collective bargaining with the adjunct professors from the Roski School of Art and Design.
These professors are not on a tenure track, and USC’s position is that these professors are not entitled to collective bargaining negotiations through a union or otherwise.
According to USC’s website, only 1,200 faculty members of 6,000 total are on a tenure track. Tenure-track professors enjoy higher pay and greater benefits.
The upcoming legal battle adds tension to the rocky relationship between Roski’s faculty and the university. In Nov. 2015, the non-adjunct professors filed paperwork and sent a petition to hold union elections. The NLRB approved and certified the Jan. 2016 elections against USC’s wishes. Roski’s adjunct professors then filed suit against USC in September 2016, alleging unfair labor practices and a delay in the union vote. The NLRB sided with the faculty in April 2016.
Despite the union elections, USC has refused to engage in collective bargaining with the faculty. The University cites the 1980 NLRB v. Yeshiva University Supreme Court case as precedent not to engage in collective talks.
In the Yeshiva case, the U.S. Supreme Court found that full-time, tenure-track faculty are managerial employees and are therefore not covered by the National Labor Relations Act.
However, a recent NLRB decision involving Pacific Lutheran University found that in order for faculty members to be excluded from collective bargaining, they must have an “actual” say in university affairs, rather than what the Board considered “paper authority.”
USC is appealing the case to the federal courts on the belief that the Supreme Court precedent is on their side. USC believes the NLRB is not following the Yeshiva precedent in recognizing faculty’s role in university management.
“We continue to defend the principle that at USC, non-tenure-track faculty are partners with tenured faculty in our robust shared governance system,” said provost Michael Quick in a statement.
The question a court will ultimately have to answer is whether adjunct professors can be found to be managerial under the Supreme Court’s 1980 Yeshiva precedent.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
