Photo of Bryan Singer from Wikimedia Commons.
The USC School of Cinematic Arts announced that it removed director Bryan Singer’s name from its Division of Cinema & Media Studies program Friday after new sexual assault allegations emerged.
SCA said in a statement that Singer requested for the school to suspend his name affiliation until the allegations were resolved.
“The School means a great deal to Bryan, and while he intends to defend himself vigorously against these claims, he does not want the pending litigation to have a negative impact on his alma mater,” said the statement, which was acquired by the Daily Trojan.
Since November, over 4,000 students, alumni and members of the USC community have signed a Change.org petition requesting the University remove Singer’s name from the institution, citing former allegations of sexual assault, harassment and pedophilia.
“We have known about the allegations against Singer for some time, as have many students — 20-plus years of media coverage on the multiple allegations against Singer have made his history a highly public topic,” petition co-writers Emily Halaka and Adrian Vega-Albela Osorio wrote to the Daily Trojan in November.
In response to the petition, SCA acknowledged its appreciation of the Trojan community’s concerns and stated it was monitoring the situation.
The latest lawsuit, obtained by The New York Times on Thursday, accused Singer of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old boy in 2003.
Singer has faced multiple lawsuits throughout his filmmaking career, including one in 1997 concerning child nudity on a film set, according to Entertainment Weekly. In 2014, Singer also faced allegations of sexually abusing a minor, according to court documents obtained by The Wrap.
 
Does anyone else notice how it’s men and men only who are taken down with these harassment allegations, even though women routinely engage in similar behavior and *never* get punished thanks to pussy pass?
Women aren’t controlled by their sex organ like unchaste men of power.  If the stories about Mr. Singer are true, this is an appropriate move by the USC administration which my family and I very much support.  There is a special place in Hell for those that abuse young men sexually while promising riches and fame.  Of course Mr. Singer deserves his day in court but only the Lord can make the final judgement of one’s earthly wickedness
God Bless and I will pray for all concerned!
Oh, there is no shortage of women “controlled by their sex organs.”  There is also no shortage of female teachers and older women seducing their male students. The problem is, when that happens, the press portrays the event as “sex romp” instead of rape.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
