After leading the Trojans to a Rose Bowl victory, junior wide receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster announced Friday that he will forgo his senior year to enter the NFL draft. 
Daily Trojan file photo
“This was a very difficult decision to make,” Smith-Schuster said in a statement. “I have loved my time at USC and wouldn’t trade it for anything in the world.”
Smith Schuster led his team in receiving yards for two straight seasons, ending his career at USC fourth on the list of all-time receptions. He joins fellow junior offensive lineman Damien Mama who declared for the draft on Thursday.
In his final season, Smith-Schuster roped in a team-leading 914 receiving yards and snatched 10 touchdowns. His impact, however, extended beyond statistics and endzone heroics. Between his role as a captain and his on-field dance moves, Smith-Schuster succeeded in becoming both a leader and a fan favorite.
His departure coincides with with the graduation of senior wide receiver Darreus Rogers, who combined to create 45 percent of the Trojans’ offensive yardage and 42 percent of their touchdown receptions this year. Their absences will force the spotlight onto sophomore wide receiver Deontay Burnett, who shone as the star of the Rose Bowl game with 164 receiving yards and three touchdowns.
The decision is a gamble for Smith-Schuster, whose draft predictions range from 12th overall to deep in the second round depending upon the source. Although he will train for the NFL combine, which takes place throughout February and March, Smith-Schuster will have to wait until the draft on April 28 to see if his choice will pay off.
But no matter what happens in April, Smith-Schuster promises that he will always remain proud to be a Trojan.
“I don’t feel at all like I am leaving USC,” Smith-Schuster said. “USC will always be a big part of me, a time I will never forget and a place that will always be my home.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
