A 21-year-old man was convicted of first-degree murder on Thursday in the beating death of USC graduate student, Xinran Ji, making him the second defendant convicted for the 2014 case. 
Jurors found Andrew Garcia guilty for his role in the killing of the 24-year-old electrical engineering student after two hours of deliberation. He is scheduled to be sentenced on July 11.
Prosecutors say they are not seeking the death penalty, but Garcia could face up to life in prison without the possibility of parole. 
Garcia’s co-defendant Alejandra Guerrero was convicted of first-degree murder in October for her role in Ji’s death, and is awaiting sentencing. She was underage at the time of the attack and thus cannot face the death penalty. 
The two other men charged in Ji’s death, Jonathan Del Carmen and Alberto Ochoa, are still awaiting trial. 
Ji was attacked on July 24, 2014, while on his way from a study group to his off-campus apartment near the intersection at 29th Street and Orchard Street. 
Video evidence presented at the trial shows Garcia, Guerrero, del Carmen and Ochoa pulling up in a car and getting out to approach Ji. 
Deputy District Attorney John McKinney said that the four co-defendants confronted Ji in an attempted robbery and struck him multiple times with an aluminum baseball bat and a wrench. Once Ji ran away, McKinney said Garcia took the baseball bat, caught up to Ji and continued beating him with it. Shortly after, prosecutors say the four co-defendants fled the scene.
Following the alleged attack, Ji was able to return himself to his apartment, but was found dead by his roommate the next morning. Medical reports indicate that Ji suffered skull fractures, facial lacerations, and a broken nose. 
Garcia, Guerrero, Del Carmen and Ochoa were arrested a few hours after the attack on Ji, after another alleged robbery and beating victim of the four co-defendants at Dockweiler State Beach was able to call the police and identify them. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
