Wide receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster became the second USC player selected in the 2017 NFL Draft on Friday, as the Pittsburgh Steelers took last season’s leading Trojan pass catcher in the second round — No. 62 overall.
The Long Beach, Calif. native recorded 3,092 receiving yards in three seasons at USC, seventh-most in program history. Smith-Schuster became the first Trojan wideout drafted since Nelson Agholor went No. 20 overall to the Philadelphia Eagles in 2015.
Smith-Schuster announced his arrival at USC as a true freshman in 2014. Smith-Schuster — back then simply JuJu Smith — reeled in four catches for 123 yards in his collegiate debut against Fresno State, and he would go on to finish the season with 714 yards and five touchdowns through the air, which were both second most on the team.
He followed that season up by almost doubling his aerial output as a sophomore. Bearing a new name, Smith-Schuster racked up 1,454 receiving yards — the seventh-highest single-season total in USC history — en route to first-team All Pac-12 honors. He closed the book on his Trojan career with a 914-yard year in his junior season, making a key late catch against Penn State in USC’s late Rose Bowl rally. His 10 touchdown catches made up almost a third of the Trojans’ total last year.
Smith-Schuster went 44 picks after former teammate Adoree’ Jackson was selected No. 18 overall in the first round on Thursday. The 6-foot-2, 216-pound receiver will join Antonio Brown, Martavis Bryant, Sammie Coates and Eli Rogers on the Steelers’ crowded receiver corps.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
