 
Daily Trojan file photo
The U.S. Department of Education announced Monday that it launched a second Title IX investigation into USC’s handling of sexual harassment reports, focusing specifically on allegations against former Engemann Student Health Center gynecologist George Tyndall.
The investigation, led by the department’s Office for Civil Rights, will assess Tyndall’s career at USC, as well as how the University allowed him to continue treating patients despite numerous sexual misconduct complaints dating back to the 1990s.
“We welcome the U.S. Department of Education’s investigation and the university will fully cooperate with their inquiry,” Board of Trustees Chair Rick Caruso said in a statement emailed to the Daily Trojan. 
The OCR previously conducted an investigation into USC’s handling of sexual assault and harassment cases between August 2010 and May 2015 after 16 students and alumni claimed the University Title IX office had mishandled their cases. The investigation concluded in early 2018, with the OCR commending USC for proactively complying with federal policies by the end of the investigation. 
The OCR requested documents and information from the University while reviewing all reports against the staff and faculty made from 2010 to 2013. However, USC made no mention of Tyndall’s alleged misconduct during the investigation, even after the University found that Tyndall’s behavior was “outside the scope” of appropriate medical standards and the University’s harassment policy, causing Tyndall to resign in June 2017.
As a result, the new investigation will also look into why the University failed to mention Tyndall during the prior investigation.
“No student should ever endure sexual harassment or abuse while trying to pursue their education,” U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos said in a statement from the Department of Education. “Every student on every campus should have a safe learning environment, and I expect all education institutions under the Department’s jurisdiction to take seriously their responsibilities under Title IX. Attempts to obfuscate or hide Title IX violations from the Department will not be tolerated.”
USC is also under a separate “monitoring agreement” with the OCR to address compliance concerns and violations associated with the University’s handling of sexual misconduct cases from 2010 to 2015.
Tyndall has denied all allegations made against him. In addition, USC President C. L. Max Nikias and other senior administrators have contended that they had no knowledge of Tyndall’s alleged misconduct until shortly before his removal in 2017.
The Los Angeles Police Department is also currently investigating complaints against Tyndall.
This story will be updated.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
