Daily Trojan file photo
President C. L. Max Nikias announced in a letter to the USC community Tuesday that the University had terminated a health center gynecologist in June 2017 after an investigation into allegations of sexually inappropriate and racially discriminatory behavior.
George Tyndall was put on administrative leave in June 2016 when the investigation into his conduct began, and was then fired by the University when the investigation concluded. 
In 2016, the USC Office of Equity and Diversity investigated Tyndall for sexual and racial misconduct with patients during physical exams. According to a summary of findings released by the University, Tyndall’s assistants also raised concern regarding his method of digital penetration prior to insertion of a speculum, a tool used by medical officials to examine body orifices.
After the investigation, the University found that there were several filed complaints about Tyndall prior to that year; however, these cases had been independently handled by the former health center director, according to Nikias. 
After discussing with external medical experts, criminal law experts and a medical review firm in 2016, the University concluded that there was no criminal activity about his examination practices to report. 
After his termination in 2017, Tyndall said he would retire from the profession. However, in March 2018, Tyndall submitted a letter of reinstatement requesting to return to his position. This letter led the University to file a complaint to the California Medical Board and later contact the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office along with the police department, Nikias wrote in his letter. 
The District Attorney’s office confirmed that USC contacted them regarding Tyndall and was subsequently referred to the Los Angeles Police Department. 
“In hindsight, we should have made this report eight months earlier when he separated from the university,” Nikias wrote.
The USC Office of Equity and Diversity had initially conducted a review in 2013 after receiving complaints from staff members regarding the doctor’s use of racial slurs. After interviewing members who worked with Tyndall, OED concluded that they did not have sufficient information, according to the statement of facts released by the University. 
Nikias also wrote that the University is working on finalizing an action plan “to build a foundation based on respect, care and ethical behavior.” He said that the plan calls for a restructuring of USC operations to focus on how complaints and investigations are handled.
“This issue, and other issues we have confronted recently at the university, teach us that I, my senior leadership team, and the entire USC community must work diligently and continuously to instill a culture that fully lives up to our values,” Nikias wrote. “This action plan builds significantly on numerous other steps that the university is taking to improve our culture, and our commitment to our students, our patients, and to each other.”
Nikias highlighted USC’s newly formed task force of faculty and staff members in 2016 to review the professional and medical practices being performed within the University. Sarah Van Orman was also selected as the center’s new chief medical director. 
“We want to reassure you that our student health centers, under the leadership of Dr. Van Orman and the entire health system team, are committed to providing every student with the most respectful experience and highest quality care possible,” Nikias wrote. “We will provide her with the full resources necessary to support her efforts.”
Nikias said the University has already led training on reporting misbehavior and will continue to hold this type of training throughout the summer and fall. 
“We understand that any unacceptable behavior by a health professional is a profound breach of trust,” Nikias wrote. “On behalf of the university, I sincerely apologize to any student who may have visited the student health center and did not receive the respectful care each individual deserves.”
The OED and the University did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Tomás Mier contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
