Isaiah Pola-Mao didn’t know he would be starting his first college football game until Thursday. The redshirt freshman was forced into action at safety after sophomore Bubba Bolden, who was supposed to start, was taken out of the lineup two days before the season opener against UNLV for an undisclosed reason.
Bolden’s loss was Pola-Mao’s gain. Pola-Mao, who redshirted last season after sustaining a shoulder injury, made a statement on his very first play, forcing a fumble on UNLV’s opening play from scrimmage.
“I was overwhelmed with a lot emotions, and I was very sad for what Bubba was going through but I had to lock in and focus and clear my mind, get ready for this game,” Pola-Mao said.
Pola-Mao stripped UNLV running back Lexington Thomas of the football deep in the Rebels’ territory, setting up a short field for the USC offense, which produced a field goal that would get the Trojans on the board first. The Trojans easily won 43-21 at the Coliseum.
Pola-Mao said he was nervous before the game.
“Being away from football and not actually playing in a game, it’s a big difference,” he said. “Coming into my first college game, I was very anxious, so I just had to get the jitters out. Happened to be a big [play].”
It quickly endeared Pola-Mao with the veterans on the defensive corps.
“That was big, that was big, that was dope for him,” said redshirt senior cornerback Ajene Harris.
Senior linebacker Cameron Smith said the situation could not have played out any better for the first-time starter.
“Anytime after that first play or that first series, you just calm down and just say, ‘It’s football,’” Smith said. “That’s what he needed to get him going and I thought he did a really good job for us today.”
There’s no better way to calm down than by forcing a turnover seconds into the game.
“I don’t think he saw me so I came in and just tried to punch it as hard as I could and landed right on,” Pola-Mao said on forcing the fumble.
Pola-Mao was originally slotted on the depth chart behind senior Marvell Tell at free safety, but slid over to strong safety once Bolden was unavailable. Head coach Clay Helton declined to provide details on Bolden’s situation after the announcement was made on Thursday, though a University spokesperson confirmed he was still on the roster.
The Phoenix native starred in high school at Mountain Pointe High, named to the Max Preps All-American first team in 2016. He also has football royalty in his blood – Pola-Mao’s uncle is former USC and NFL star safety Troy Polamalu and his great uncle, Kennedy Polamalu, played for USC from 1982-85 as a fullback and is now an assistant with the Minnesota Vikings.
Now, it’s Pola-Mao’s turn. Though he had nerves heading into his debut, the redshirt freshman said he had a good feeling in his heart the night before the game.
“I was thinking about it [Friday] night,” Pola-Mao said. “I saw the opportunity and just took it.”
A reporter asked him to elaborate on what he felt.
“I felt me making a play, changing the game,” he said.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
