USC announced on Wednesday that former Texas Tech head coach Kliff Kingsbury has been hired as the new offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach. He will fill the gap left by former offensive coordinator Tee Martin and quarterbacks coach Bryan Ellis.
“We are very excited to welcome Kliff to the Trojan Family,” head coach Clay Helton said. “With the talent on our team, along with his leadership and coaching, I truly believe that we can take our offense to new heights.”
Helton emphasized Kingsbury’s “brilliant offensive mind,” with his offenses consistently finishing among the nation’s top programs.
The announcement came amid rumors of Kingsbury having offers from professional teams and collegiate head coaching gigs. Though reports that he had agreed to terms with USC came out last week, the school did not confirm his hiring until Wednesday.
After a 5-7 season in 2018, USC returned Helton but released Martin, defensive line coach Kenechi Udeze and defensive backs coach Ronnie Bradford, while Ellis left the program
Helton took over play-calling duties from Martin after losing to Arizona State on Oct. 27 at the Coliseum. While many critics still called for Helton’s firing, his return implied he would need to make stellar hires to turn the program around.  
In 2013, Kingsbury was hired as the head coach of Texas Tech and spent six seasons at the helm of his alma mater. At the time he was hired, Klingsbury was the second-youngest coach of a Power Five school in history at the age of 36.
In his final season with the Red Raiders, Kingsbury posted a 5-7 record after opening the season 5-2. He was fired after three consecutive losing seasons, despite notching a slightly-below .500 six-year record with the team at 35-40.
Kingsbury had two years remaining in his contract at Texas Tech with a $4.2 million buyout. 
In 2012, Kingsbury was the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Texas A&M, where he coached Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel. The Aggies were the only offense ranked in the top 15 of the NCAA in rushing, passing, total offense and scoring offense at the same time.
Kingsbury has also coached future NFL quarterbacks Case Keenum, Baker Mayfield, Davis Webb and Patrick Mahomes. 
Kingsbury began his coaching career in 2008 at the University of Houston as a quality control monitor. When Houston’s offensive coordinator left the program, Kingsbury became co-offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach, where he eventually took over play-calling and earned 2011 Offensive Coordinator of the Year honors after the offense averaged 50 points and 600 offensive yards per game. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
