Pat on the back · Head coach Clay Helton embraces Athletic Director Lynn Swann following the Trojans’ victory at the 2017 Rose Bowl. (Daily Trojan file photo)
Head coach Clay Helton will return in 2019, Athletic Director Lynn Swann announced Sunday. 
“It is my firm belief that we have a good team returning next year and a solid foundation in place, and that Clay Helton is a good coach,” Swann said in a press release.
The Trojans finished the season 5-7 — the worst program record since 2000 — and USC finished bowl ineligible for the first time since NCAA bowl restrictions in 2011. 
The decision comes amid disappointment from fans and alumni voicing frustration with the season. After falling to a .500 record on the 2018 season, Helton’s job security was repeatedly questioned by critics and underlined by Trojan fans booing in the Coliseum. USC fell under .500 after losing to two-win UCLA on Nov. 17.
“Nobody is happy with our record,” Swann said. “Everyone deserves better. It is my firm belief that we have a good team returning next year and a solid foundation in place, and that Clay Helton is a good coach.”
Throughout the downward spiral of the season Helton remained confident of his job security, consistently voicing the support he has received from Swann.
“I am very appreciative of the support that Mr. Swann and the USC administration has given our team over the last three seasons, as well as the trust and belief they have in our future,” Helton said in a press release.
Swann emphasized on retaining solid leadership throughout the turmoil.
Ankit Mukherjee | Daily Trojan
“I am a strong advocate of consistency within a program, sticking by a leader, supporting them and helping them and their team improve,” Swann said.
He also spoke about Helton’s resume as USC head coach. 
In 2017, Helton led USC to an 11-3 record and Pac-12 championship, finishing the season with a loss to Ohio State in the Cotton Bowl. His first full season as head coach in 2016 saw a 10-3 record and a Rose Bowl victory over Penn State. 
In October of 2015, Helton was named interim head coach after Steve Sarkisian was fired. Helton became permanent head coach at the end of November, losing to Stanford in the Pac-12 championship and Wisconsin in the Holiday Bowl. 
“One season does not define a coach,” Swann said. “He runs a clean program, he graduates his players, he recruits well, he produces NFL players.”
Helton came to USC in 2010 as the quarterbacks coach under Lane Kiffin and was promoted to offensive coordinator in 2013. After former head coach Ed Orgeron quit the same year, Helton led USC to a victory in the Las Vegas Bowl. 
Helton said he and Swann already have plans in place to change the program in the offseason. 
“I truly believe that with the continued development of the talent we have on this team, the best is yet to be,” Helton said. “Our number one goal is to win championships and we will not be satisfied with anything less.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
