Photo courtesy of Quite Dead
USC Brand New Theatre is currently showcasing its most recent production, Quite Dead, an original student composition written by Dezi Gallegos and directed by Marisa Caddick and Taylor Rivers. Featuring a small cast of eight students, the play premiered Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. at Cammilleri Hall, and runs throughout the weekend with its final show taking place Sunday.
The play explores the dynamic of a well-to-do British family, and uncovers some of the trials and tribulations that are indelibly associated with most family reunions.  More specifically, this dark comedy is a tale centered on the life of Charles Logan, a fictional young man who sets off to visit his family after three years of estrangement. Through a skillful blend of humor, absurdism and satire, the story ultimately represents the idea that things aren’t always as they seem. 
Gallegos, a senior majoring in film and television production, intended for the piece to be less about exploring greater social messages or themes, and more a fun escape from reality. Inspired by British comedies like Monty Python and Fawlty Towers, Gallegos wanted to create something that was silly, amusing and entertaining. 
“I actually wrote this play when I was 16 as I was nearing the end of high school,” Gallegos said. “I was driving to school one day and a few lines popped into my head. Before I knew it, I had a script.” 
The show’s co-directors, Marisa Caddick, a sophomore majoring in theatre and narrative studies, and Taylor Rivers, a sophomore majoring in theatre, worked side by side to bring Gallegos’ vision to life. Each individual contributed their own style and voice to the characters, complementing one another in the directing process to create an engaging production. 
“It’s been great to get to work with Taylor,” Caddick said. “We’ve been friends for over a year and work really well together.”
The production stars Evan Macedo, a sophomore majoring in theatre, who plays the role of Charles Logan. Though this was a rather difficult role to master, Macedo was able to find solace in the process of developing and understanding such a complex character. 
“This character has been really challenging for me,” Macedo said. “It’s so larger than life in so many ways, and attempting to grapple with that and making it real was really difficult, but also an equally exciting and rewarding experience.” 
“It was really fun to be able to work on a production with a bunch of friends,” Rivers said. “We’ve all learned a lot from each other throughout the process, and it’s been helpful to receive constructive feedback from people that I trust and care about.” 
Quite Dead’s remaining shows will take place at 2:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. Saturday, and 2:30 p.m. on Sunday, all in Cammilleri Hall. Tickets are available online, and $5 donations are suggested at the door. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
