The renovated Coliseum will feature new amenities, ranging from more reliable Wi-Fi access and two sets of terraces. (Sam Arslanian | Daily Trojan)
The two-year $270 million renovation project to the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum reached its halfway point Wednesday. USC Athletics and the Los Angeles Rams hosted a media event to announce the changes, both physically and logistically, coming to the Coliseum for the 2018 football season. 
“From our standpoint, it’s pretty much on target for the cost,” USC athletic director Lynn Swann said. “It’s a construction project [the cost] always seems to change, but we are well within the money we have raised to get this complete and done on time”
Over the past several months more than 1,200 workers have been working tirelessly — day and night, rain or shine — to prepare the Coliseum to host Trojan and Rams’ football. The project funded privately by USC is on time and on budget. Moreover, Swann announced that there were no lost time accidents.
For the 2018 season, fans will enjoy several new amenities that will enhance their Coliseum experience. Those seated on the south side of the stadium will enjoy the more than 10,000 new seats located under the press box area. When the overhaul is completed in 2019, each of the approximately 77,500 seats in the Coliseum will be replaced. The new seats feature three more inches of legroom and added handrails. Fans will also be excited to hear that the Coliseum will have more reliable Wi-Fi connectivity throughout the seating area.
Two sets of terraces have been added to the East side of the Coliseum. During USC games, the platform on the southeast side of the stadium will host the Trojan Athletic Fund. Its counterpart on the northeast side will provide a location for USC students and organizations to gather and watch the football games in a social, congregational environment. For Rams games, these areas will be sold to groups.
No football viewing experience would be complete without stadium food. The traditional nachos, hot dogs and popcorn aren’t going anywhere, but the Coliseum will be adding more options for 2018. This includes an LA hot chicken sandwich and a second location for the popular Cathy’s Cookies. 
“We are very excited about what’s going to happen [at the Coliseum],” Swann said. “The 2018 season is going to be fairly exciting and will be a season of change for a lot of fans when they come into the Coliseum. Everybody will be going through some kind of an adjustment … At the end of the day [fans] will be extraordinarily excited.”
While these changes are certainly exciting for fans, they do not come without some minor inconveniences. The concourse behind the temporary press box section will be closed to spectators. This makes it important for fans to enter the stadium from the designated gate on their ticket to avoid having to take a less efficient route to their section. However, once the temporary press boxes are removed, the now-off limits concourse will provide a location full of vendors and a view of the field reminiscent to that of the concourse at Dodger Stadium — with a view of the field just 40 rows above field level. 
Use of the metro rail will be incredibly important this year due to the construction of the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art more than 1,000 parking spots on the west side of the stadium have been lost. For USC games, there will be various parking options around the campus, some of which are open to the public while others are for permit holders. However, fans are strongly encouraged to take the metro.
The Trojans will start their 2018 season on Sept. 1st by welcoming UNLV to the Coliseum.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
