Provost Michael Quick announced the implementation of a two-day break during the Fall semester in a memorandum sent to the USC community Wednesday. The break will take place in October around the eighth week of the semester starting in 2019.
In his memo, Provost Quick acknowledged the Academic Calendar Committee for working to create the new recess, and thanked the Undergraduate Student Government for their advocacy in creating the fall break. He said that while classes will be suspended, USC facilities will remain open.
Last fall, a proposal to implement a fall break was approved by the USG Senate, the Graduate Student Government Senate, the Academic Senate and the Faculty Senate. 
USG Vice President Blake Ackerman said the fall break proposal has been a USG initiative for the past few years, and has benefitted from the work of past USG officials, including former presidents Rini Sampath, Austin Dunn, Edwin Saucedo and Andrew Menard.
“It was really about getting all the right campus partners to get on board with it,” Ackerman said. “It’s been a long time in the making.” 
The faculty senate previously didn’t approve the break because it believed students would take advantage of the break rather than focus on their mental health. However, USG collaborated with the Engemann Student Health Center to compile data that showed a significant increase in demand for counseling around the eighth week of the fall semester, the Daily Trojan previously reported. 
“The problem we face as USC students is that during the stretch from Labor Day to Thanksgiving break, USC students have 56 instructional days without any break,” Dunn said to the Daily Trojan last October. “Without a consolidated midterm schedule and the absence of a break, students soon begin to feel overwhelmed.”
Ackerman said that the fall break is important for students’ mental health. 
“The culture around campus becomes very toxic around midterms and finals,” Ackerman said. “We need that time to destress, and its a step in the right direction for the culture we’re trying to create around prioritizing mental health.” 
EDITOR’S NOTE: This post has been updated to include statements from USG Vice President Blake Ackerman.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
