Former health center gynecologist George Tyndall has hired criminal defense attorney Leonard Levine amid an increasing number of sexual misconduct lawsuits that allege sexual assault and misconduct toward patients during examinations. 
Levine, one of Southern California’s most prominent defense lawyers, has represented teachers, clergy and celebrities accused of sex crimes. His former clients include NFL star Darren Sharper and actor Scott Baio. 
“My role is to cooperate as much as I can with the investigation and to make sure that law enforcement has all the relevant information available regarding the practice of medicine by Dr. Tyndall at USC,” Levine told the Los Angeles Times. 
In addition to the over 200 women who have filed suit since May 2018, nine more women sued Tyndall and the University this past week, with sexual misconduct allegations dating back to the 1980s. 
While Tyndall has not been charged with criminal activity so far, the Los Angeles Police Department is currently conducting an investigation into complaints from over 130 individuals. In June, LAPD served search warrants for Tyndall’s home and storage facility, and later searched the University for documents and files. 
“Dr. Tyndall is confident when all the facts are known, particularly the opinions of experts in the practice of obstetrics and gynecology,” Levine told the Daily Trojan. “It will be clear that his conduct, while engaged in the practice of medicine at USC, was consistent with the standard of care for such examinations, and for the stated medical purpose.” 
In a lawsuit filed Tuesday, alumna Joanna Massey stated that Tyndall photographed her genitals in 1990 because he claimed she had genital warts. However, she stated that other gynecologists said they not find any symptoms of genital warts in following years. According to the Times, Massey said Tyndall took those photos for personal use rather than for medical purposes. 
Three of the nine women who filed suit this week were international students from China. Previously, Tyndall’s former colleagues were concerned that he targeted young patients specifically from China. 
In another lawsuit filed on Monday, a former graduate student from China stated that Tyndall was her first gynecologist and therefore was unfamiliar with the practice’s standard medical procedures. The plaintiff stated that Tyndall told her that her vagina had an odor and proceeded to show her how to clean the area with soap in the back of his office. According to the lawsuit, Tyndall continued by demonstrating the procedure on his own genitals while he was alone with the student. 
Todd Becker, an attorney representing the Chinese patients, explained to the Times that these women pursued legal action much later due to cultural differences. According to Becker, civil suits are looked down upon in China and by families as it would bring negative attention. “They don’t want to be causing embarrassment or shame for their family,” Becker told the Times. “There is a tendency to pretend it didn’t happen.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
