There were missed dunks and layups that led to points, forced passes that went awry, poor defensive rotations that resulted in open baskets. There was head coach Andy Enfield either strutting back and forth on the sideline or leaning back in his chair and hugging his leg in exasperation. And there was the heckling by USC’s own marching band and a fan who yelled, “Kliff Kingsbury” after one of the Trojans’ 20 turnovers, as if the new offensive coordinator is the only positive thing the athletic department has right now.
Andy Enfield in a prior game at the Galen Center. USC’s 35-point loss to TCU on Friday was the worst defeat in the Enfield era – Will Alpert | Daily Trojan
It just might be, after the men’s basketball team suffered its worst defeat in the Enfield era, falling 96-61 to TCU at the Basketball Hall of Fame Classic at Staples Center on Friday to drop to 5-4 on the season. Not even in Enfield’s early rebuilding seasons since he took over in 2013 has USC lost by 35 points in a game—much less on national television on an NBA court.
“We played as poorly as we could,” Enfield said. “I’ll take the blame for that. I did not see this coming. It’s on me as a head coach to figure this out.”
The blowout felt prescient from the start as TCU jumped out to a 10-2 lead and then ended the first half on a 16-2 run and a 20-point advantage. As the first half buzzer sounded, TCU’s Jaylen Fisher—who finished with 15 points—dropped in a wide-open 3-pointer from the corner, prompting an expletive from the USC bench as he shot the ball.
“We have to figure out how to stop the other team’s runs,” Enfield said. “TCU played well. When they do, we have to figure out how to stop that.”
USC, which entered the game averaging 48.5 percent shooting on the season, finished at 31.6 percent on Friday on 18-of-57 shooting. Without freshman guard Kevin Porter Jr., who was out with a quad contusion, the Trojans’ offense looked nothing like the fast-paced, efficient system Enfield likes to run. They didn’t move the ball, didn’t value possessions and made head-scratching mistakes for a team expected to compete for a conference title.
“We made it hard for them to use ball screens, which is a big part of their offense,” said TCU head coach Jamie Dixon.  
The Trojans’ assist-to-turnover ratio was almost laughably bad: 11 assists compared to 20 turnovers.
“You just can’t win games like that,” Enfield said. “It’s not even going to be close. We have to do a better job, making right decisions and the right plays.”
According to Enfield, the offensive struggles affected the defense. He pointed to one sequence in the first half, when redshirt senior guard Shaqquan Aaron blew a wide-open fastbreak dunk with USC trailing by 6. Instead of a 4-point deficit, a TCU 3-pointer on the other end made it a 5-point swing.
Enfield was critical of how his players lingered on missed shots and didn’t communicate on defense. TCU scored 27 points off turnovers compared to USC’s 6.
“It’s a sign of maturity and a sign of toughness,” Enfield said.
Senior forward Bennie Boatwright led USC with 14 points, while freshman guard Elijah Weaver had 10 points off the bench. Junior forward Nick Rakocevic struggled through a 2-of-9 shooting night for 13 points. And the three starting guards—Aaron, junior guard Jonah Mathews and redshirt junior guard Derryck Thornton—finished at 6-of-22 shooting.
Enfield was repeatedly apologetic for his team’s efforts, taking the blame, promising to work in practice and claiming that as bad as the players were, the coaches were worse. He said he has to do a better job of making substitutions and running different sets to spark the offense.  
Enfield and the team will have a week to figure it out, and their next test won’t be easy either, facing a 7-1 Oklahoma team in Tulsa, Oklahoma. But it won’t take too much effort to top Friday night’s embarrassment.
“Tonight,” Enfield said, “the wheels fell off.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
