C. L. Max Nikias has officially resigned as USC president after a closed Board of Trustees meeting on Tuesday. While the
Photo from USC News
University begins to search for a new leader, trustee Wanda Austin will serve as interim president.
“Dr. Austin’s appointment is an important and positive step forward as we approach the beginning of the semester,” Board of Trustees Chairman Rick Caruso wrote in a letter to the USC community. 
Austin served as president and CEO of The Aerospace Corporation and earned her doctorate degree in systems engineering from USC in 1988.
Nikias’ resignation comes after a tumultuous year at the University, leaving the campus community roiled by multiple scandals involving senior administration and faculty.
Emily Smith/Daily Trojan
However, Nikias will still have a role as Life Trustee and President Emeritus of the University. He will also assist in the search for his permanent replacement.
During his presidency, Nikias led a fundraising campaign that brought in more than $6 billion. He also oversaw major developments like the construction of USC Village and Wallis Annenberg Hall, along with the creation of two new schools: the Glorya Kaufman School of Dance and the Iovine and Young Academy. 
“I regret profoundly that those shared accomplishments have been overshadowed by recent events, but I am confident that the USC community will remain strong and resilient, and build on a very solid foundation to take USC to even greater heights,” Nikias stated.
In a separate statement, Caruso thanked Nikias for his service to the University.
“Max is taking this action in what he believes to be in the best interest of the university following controversies that have arisen from the unfortunate and unacceptable acts of others,” he said. “From our investigations, which are not yet completed, we have found absolutely no wrongdoing on Max’s part.”
In his letter, Caruso added that Isaacson, Miller, an education recruitment firm, and Heidrick & Struggles, an international search firm, will advise the Special Committee of the Board as it looks for a new president.
“Our goal is to complete this search within four to six months,” Caruso wrote.
In the letter, Caruso also spoke about the Board’s intent to potentially restructure the Board “to ensure that USC is a world leader in higher education governance.”
“[T]he Board of Trustees is organized in much the same way as it was thirty years ago,” he wrote. “That needs to change.”
He also addressed new compliance measures for incident reporting and investigation at USC, and spoke about the University’s independent investigation into the sexual abuse allegations against former health center gynecologist George Tyndall.
“By working together, with passion and commitment, we will restore trust and heal our community,” Caruso said.
 
Sam Arslanian contributed to this report.
Editor’s Note: This article has been updated to include new statements from Rick Caruso and C. L. Max Nikias.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
