Alumni Park was buzzing with excitement Friday morning, as the graduating class of 2018 celebrated its accomplishments with high-fives and selfies at the 135th Annual Commencement Ceremony. 
USC President C. L. Max Nikias, class valedictorian Rosebud Campion and keynote speaker Siddhartha Mukherjee each delivered remarks to nearly 18,000 graduates at the main ceremony.
Nikias opened the event by recognizing the achievements of this year’s graduates, welcoming them as new alumni of the Trojan Family.
“Go forward as cherished members of our Trojan Family,” Nikias said. “We will always be with you to encourage you, to applaud you, to celebrate your extraordinary achievements.” 
Mukherjee, a renowned physician and Pulitzer Prize-winning author, was awarded one of five honorary degrees at the ceremony. Other recipients included Charlie Beck, the Los Angeles police chief; Maj. Gen. Charles F. Bolden Jr., the first black person to serve as the administrator of  NASA; Jennifer A. Doudna, a distinguished biochemist; and Forest Whitaker, a filmmaker and international peace activist. 
In his commencement address, Mukherjee spoke about playing chess with his 8-year-old daughter. While the game initially led to a stalemate, his daughter ultimately prevailed by putting herself in his shoes. Mukherjee used this anecdote to encourage students to hone the art of listening as a lifelong skill.
Mukherjee identified three kinds of listening — to empathy, to history and to nature — as fundamental skills that define graduates’ entry to adulthood. Emphasizing the power of listening, he reminded his listeners that mastering this skill would allow them to understand the perspectives of others. 
“We are the only species that can learn to think like another of our own species,” Mukherjee said. “The only one that records and remembers its history — the only one that tries to decipher the nature and laws of the universe.” 
Meanwhile, Mukherjee cautioned students against the dangers of being reticent and staying in their own minds. He identified the class of 2018 as “Generation L,” the listening generation that will soon transform the world.
“Unlike us, you will really, really defend the defenseless. Unlike us, you will really, really learn the lessons of history,” Mukherjee said. “You will discover the natural laws that we missed in the midst of our cacophony. You will be the listening generation, Generation L. Go get out of your heads. Go out into the world and listen to it. Most importantly, please make us listen to you.”
Aside from Mukherjee, Campion also delivered her valedictory address to the class of 2018.
Campion, who received a bachelor’s degree in history and music, was recognized for her academic and community service achievements. Shifting between humor and seriousness, she stressed the importance of human empathy in her speech. Campion also shared her experiences with overcoming language and cultural barriers when performing in a German symphony orchestra for a semester, and discussed problems happening around the world today. 
“The ability to put ourselves in the shoes of someone else does not come easily,” she said. “That is why we practice empathy in our humanities, arts and GE classes, using text and works of art to get into the minds of people who live in different circumstances. Outside the classroom, USC pushes us to understand others from diverse backgrounds — in our clubs, in organizations, in group projects, and especially in the dorms.” 
To conclude her speech, Campion explained how empathy is crucial to education and life, commending the University for helping its students practice empathy inside and outside the classroom. Finally, she urged the new graduates to overcome the barriers that have historically divided people, and to close these gaps to create a better future.
“We need empathy to repair these deep divides and create a unified and peaceful society,” Campion said. “… I call on us, the class of 2018, to build on our experiences as Trojans and find to a way to continue practicing empathy each and everyday after we leave this campus.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
