Sophomore driver Marko Vavic in a game against UC Santa Barbara earlier this season. Vavic and the Trojans clinched their 10th national title on Sunday. (Josh Dunst | Daily Trojan)
The Trojans dominated in the the third quarter of the NCAA finals against Stanford, and the game seemed all but over as they entered the final frame with a 11-4 lead. The Cardinal refused to concede, however, scoring 8 fourth quarter goals to bring themselves within 2 of USC with just a minute to go. 
Freshman two-meter Jake Ehrhardt then delivered a blast that defeated Stanford’s hopes of a comeback, helping USC earn its first national title since 2013 by beating Stanford 14-12 in Palo Alto on Sunday. It marks the 10th national championship for the men’s program. 
“We all trusted in each other,” junior two-meter Matt Maier said. “We all bought into the system that we run, and we all just trusted that we could get the job done.”
The Trojan offense wasted no time against Stanford, scoring 5 unanswered goals in the first period. A couple of Stanford’s 6-on-5 attempts were stifled by Porter, and the Trojan lead mounted to six goals by halftime.
“I think the guys really wanted this one,” head coach Jovan Vavic said. “And when you want something badly and you put everything on the line, sometimes the ball will bounce your way, and it was fun to see that.”
Sophomore driver Jacob Mercep was named the MVP of the NCAA championship, playing a major role in the dominant USC offense with 5 goals and four assists in the title game.
The Cardinal won the MPSF tournament two weeks prior, automatically earning a bid for their first championship since 2002.USC narrowly defeated crosstown rival UCLA 8-7 in the semifinal match of the NCAA tournament on Saturday before taking on Stanford. The clash began as a contest between the two highest-ranked defenses in the MPSF. The Trojan defense came up with two big 6-on-5 stops at the end of the first frame to keep the score at 1-1. UCLA’s offense started to catch fire at the outset of the second quarter with two early scores.
“We are a very young team … so I think we were a little nervous in the beginning,” Vavic said. “When the game started, we made a couple of defensive errors and gave them some easy goals.”
With a tied game going into halftime, the fourth quarter saw a shootout between the two potent offenses. Freshman driver Hannes Daube, who leads the Trojans in goals per game, secured a hat trick. The match remained square with seconds to go, until redshirt junior two-meter Sam Slobodien netted the winning goal.
“We’re a really fit team, we rely on our speed a lot and our endurance,” Porter said. “As you can see, that paid off. We were fighting around to the last second of the game, and we were really happy to get the win.”
By overcoming UCLA, the Trojans secured a spot in their 14th consecutive NCAA final game. 
The national title was especially important to the Trojans’ seniors drivers, Zach D’Sa and Daniel Leong, who were able to get their first taste of championship victory after falling short in their previous years as Trojans.
“We waited a long time for this one,” Vavic said. “Four years has been a very long time and a very frustrating four years for us, and a very frustrating four years for our seniors, and I’m very, very happy for them.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
