Trojans’ senior outside linebacker Porter Gustin will miss two to five weeks of fall practice, according to USC head coach Clay Helton. Gustin suffered a torn meniscus during a collision at last Tuesday’s practice, having to be carted off the field. 
Helton announced the prognosis the next day, following an MRI. 
“Sometimes, the good Lord watches after you,” a relieved Helton said.  
According to Helton, Gustin underwent surgery on Thursday. The head coach noted there was no ligament damage to his knee, despite initial concerns. On Tuesday, Helton said that linebacker “was not in a lot of pain,” but did say the knee “felt funny.” 
“Knowing Porter, I know he’ll rehab the heck out of it,” said Helton after Wednesday’s practice. “If you remember [former USC defensive end] Rasheem Green had this, played in about two weeks. [Senior cornerback] Ajene [Harris] had it over the Spring, took him about three and half weeks to get back.” 
According to the Orange County Register, Gustin was walking without much of a limpat Wednesday’s practice session. His status for the season opener against UNLV on September 1st is currently unknown, though Helton isn’t planning on holding him back, if healthy. 
“When he’s 100 percent, he’ll go,”  Helton said. “I know Porter. He’ll give it everything he has to be back as soon as possible.”
Gustin elected to return for his senior season after an injury-riddled junior campaign. He suffered a broken toe in Week 2 against Stanford, and re-injured it in the Texas game, still managing a two-sack first half performance. Gustin played in just four games total, nursing toe and bicep ailments throughout the year. 
The Utah-born pass-rusher returns as a cornerstone of USC’s defense. Defensive coordinator Clancy Pendergast’s unit led the nation in sacks last year, but they lost the likes of Uchenna Nwosu, Rasheem Green, and Josh Fatu on the front-seven. 
Over his career, Gustin has recorded 14 sacks and 23 tackles for loss. He tallied three sacks in three starts during his shortened 2017 season. 
In addition to Gustin’s injury, senior linebacker Cam Smith was held out of practice with a hamstring injury on Tuesday and Wednesday. However, it is not believed to be serious. 
With two star linebackers sidelined, Helton is finding positives in the situation. Freshman outside linebacker Kana’i Mauga and junior inside linebacker Jordan Iosefa have stepped up in their absences, earning valuable reps. Helton stressed the importance of depth heading into this season. 
“It’s also allowed us to be able to work guys like [sophomore linebacker] Hunter Echols, who’s doing a great job for us,” Helton said. “And [sophomore linebacker] Juliano Falaniko. I think about those edge guys, right now … and they’re really coming on and we need them to.”
USC meets UNLV at the Coliseum in just over two weeks to kick off the 2018 season.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
