Brian Chin | Daily Trojan
After a disappointing Cotton Bowl loss, one pressing question was left in the minds of Trojan fans: What will happen to Sam Darnold? On Wednesday at 4:16 p.m., the USC redshirt sophomore quarterback posted a video on Instagram stating his intention to declare for the 2018 NFL Draft. 
“After talking to my immediate family, very close friends, and many people who have helped me throughout my life, I have made the decision
to declare for the NFL Draft,” he said.
In his video, Darnold said he is thankful for the coaches and mentors who have helped him better his life both off and on the field. 
“The people who have been involved in making me the man I am today have prepared me for the life and decisions that I have to make in the future,” he said.
Through that mentorship, Darnold has proven himself as one of the elite quarterbacks that the NCAA has to offer. After taking over as the Trojans’ starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 2016 season, Darnold tallied 3,086 yards, 31 touchdowns and a Rose Bowl victory. The following season, he recorded 4,143 yards and 26 touchdowns but couldn’t mark his second bowl game win. 
Darnold’s declaration may urge other Trojans to forgo another season in cardinal and gold and opt into the NFL Draft. Players that will potentially follow in Darnold’s footsteps include junior running back Ronald Jones II, junior linebacker Cam Smith, among others.
The USC quarterback’s Instagram announcement was posted just minutes after a Twitter announcement from crosstown rival QB Josh Rosen. With at least two of the NCAA’s best quarterbacks entering the 2018 NFL Draft, the professional teams in need will have a plethora of quarterbacks to choose from. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
