The United States Attorney’s Office is conducting a criminal investigation into transactions that involved former Dworak-Peck School of Social Work dean Marilyn Flynn, Los Angeles County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas and a nonprofit organization, according to a letter from Board of Trustees Chair Rick Caruso. 
Ridley-Thomas offered a $100,000 donation from his campaign fund to the School of Social Work in the spring, according to the Los Angeles Times. Flynn later transferred the donation to the Policy Research and Practice Initiative, a think tank affiliated with United Ways of California run by his son Sebastian Ridley-Thomas. Ridley-Thomas was formerly a professor of practice in social work and public policy at the University. 
A university staff member reported the transactions involving the School of Social Work were reported to the University Office of Compliance in June, according to the letter from Caruso. The letter was released to the public on Aug. 1. Flynn, who began working in the Provost office as special adviser in July, was put on administrative leave.
“I am disturbed and concerned by these allegations and people will be held accountable for their behavior, as appropriate,” Caruso told the Daily Trojan in a statement. “The University disclosed this matter promptly to the United States Attorney’s Office and is cooperating with them.”
After receiving the $100,000 donation from Mark Ridley-Thomas, Flynn reached out to United Ways of California chief executive Peter Manzo, according to a Los Angeles Times report. Flynn told Manzo that USC was sending the donation to the PRPI account run by Sebastian Ridley-Thomas. 
Manzo told the Times he did not know the money came from Mark Ridley-Thomas’ campaign fund, but that it was unusual for USC to donate to the statewide organization. He said most local Los Angeles donors choose to donate to United Ways of Greater Los Angeles.
Stephen Kaufman, Mark Ridley-Thomas’ attorney and spokesperson, said in a statement that the county supervisor was surprised that his donation to the University was a problem.
“This contribution was a result of organic discussions between the Supervisor and Dean Marilyn Flynn about how the Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work could help address the lack of academic focus on the needs of African Americans,” Kaufman said in the statement. “The Supervisor followed USC’s directions in how the donation was made.”
Sebastian Ridley-Thomas, who was fired last month from the University, had become a part-time professor at the University after he resigned as a state assemblymember in December for unspecified health issues. In addition to his employment, the University awarded Ridley-Thomas a scholarship to pursue a master’s degree in social work, according to the L.A. Times.
The University has declined to disclose Ridley-Thomas’ salary.
“We do not believe that it raises any legal or ethical issues, and it had nothing to do with his son’s scholarship or employment at the University,” Kaufman said in the statement.
 
Editor’s Note: The headline of this article has been updated to clarify details of USC’s involvement in notifying the U.S. Attorney’s Office about Mark Ridley-Thomas’ donation.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
