Concerned Faculty of USC released a letter Wednesday criticizing USC’s response to the BuzzFeed News report detailing former student’s sexual abuse accusations against former campus men’s health doctor Dennis Kelly. The letter was addressed to Interim Provost Elizabeth Graddy and Chief Health Officer Sarah Van Orman.
“[The statement] added onto the harm our students are already feeling because of Dr. Kelly,” Gross said. “We thought it was important to write a response to model for our administration what it should look like to honestly and caringly [respond] to our students.”
The letter, which was also posted on the group’s website, comes in response to a statement sent to the USC community Aug. 9, stating that the University offered free counseling services for current and former health center patients through USC or a third-party service. In the statement, the University said it would communicate as much as possible to the USC community while the lawsuit is pending. 
Ariela Gross, a law professor who leads the Concerned Faculty of USC, said they wanted to see a more “compassionate” response from the University, rather than a list of resources and discussion of legal matters. 
In a joint statement to the Daily Trojan, Graddy and Van Orman wrote that the letter was meant to respond quickly to the BuzzFeed News article and inform students of the processes the Engemann Student Health Center and USC have to report issues, provide feedback and seek support through counseling services.
“We strive to be compassionate and supportive to all members of our USC community … In no way do we want any member of our community to feel compromised or mistreated,” they wrote in the statement.
The BuzzFeed News article found that at least three alleged victims who complained to the University never heard back from USC. In a separate statement to the Daily Trojan last week, USC called the allegations of unanswered complaints “misleading.”
“USC followed up on the handful of complaints it received,” the statement read. “Nearly every allegation in the lawsuit was anonymous, which makes it difficult to conduct an investigation.”
Once the article came out, Undergraduate Student Government president Trenton Stone reached out to administrators, USG members and students and encouraged the University to send a status update to the community about the situation and available resources. 
“I was happy to see a published response, given there had not been one since early in the 2019 spring semester,” Stone wrote in an email to the Daily Trojan. “I can understand the sentiment from the Concerned Faculty of USC response letter. Regardless of anything, the safety of students should be paramount to any other objective and, in moving forward, this should be true across all departments [at] USC, including the student health center.”
Stone said USG will implement its own reforms, including a bystander training initiative started in Spring 2019, a task force on sexual assault and free weekly legal counseling appointments. 
Concerned Faculty of USC, which consists of about 350 faculty members, also published a report detailing potential reforms to the student health center last week based on interviews it conducted with health center officials and students. 
Gross said there have been some reforms since a Los Angeles Times investigation revealed former campus gynecologist George Tyndall’s decades of alleged sexual abuse, including hiring a team of female gynecologists.
Still, the group also recommended an expanded mental health staff and a 24-hour crisis center for students, among other reforms. As more information is revealed about Kelly and the students who say their claims were ignored, Gross expects the group will find more changes that should come about. 
Concerned Faculty of USC also continues pushing for a faculty-led group to investigate and review issues on campus rather than law firms, so that more information is shared with the community. The group stated that it would also like the University to release internal investigations on Tyndall and former Keck School of Medicine Dean Carmen Puliafito, who left the University following years of illicit drug use while on the job. 
“We need an investigation that brings to light to the public what happened, who’s being held accountable, what changes are being made, and that has to involve the faculty, students and staff,” Gross said. “That can’t be something that just happens secretly between a lawyer and some members of the Board of Trustees.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
