University administrator and employment law attorney Felicia Washington will be the University’s new senior vice president for human resources beginning June 1, Interim President Wanda Austin and President-elect Carol Folt announced in a letter to the USC community Thursday. Washington will be the first person to serve in this position at USC. 
According to the letter, Washington will report directly to the president and will work to provide strategic leadership on workforce analytics, benefits administration, compensation governance, employee relations, retirement plan administration and talent acquisition across the University. 
“She will also provide the long-range strategic vision for building an integrated human capital strategy for the University, one that balances the overall needs of the University with the unique needs of different schools and units,” the letter read.
Washington will also help create and lead initiatives for executive succession planning and workforce development and help improve human resources enterprise across USC. 
“Together with her team, Ms. Washington will ensure that the Trojan commitment to our most precious resource — our people — reaches even greater heights in the future,” Austin and Folt wrote.
Washington comes from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she served as vice chancellor for workplace strategy, equity and engagement since 2014. Washington worked at UNC at the same time as Folt, who served as chancellor since 2013. 
Washington helped navigate a national scandal and NCAA investigation at UNC involving paper classes that helped athletes remain academically eligible to play. 
At UNC, Washington also helped implement a new Policy on Prohibited Discrimination, Harassment and Related Misconduct, reframe the university’s Office for Diversity and Inclusion and grow the Office of Human Resources and Equal Opportunity and Compliance Office teams, according to the letter.
“She was a key driver in bringing together central and campus human resources personnel to tackle the challenges of improving the search and hiring processes and restructuring of the university’s human resources operations to meet the needs of the modern workplace,” the letter read. 
Washington also previously worked a an employment law partner in the Charlotte office of K&L Gates, a multinational law firm, the letter said. In this position, Washington worked on federal and state cases and advised clients on issues like hiring and firing, internal investigations and regulatory compliances, according to the letter.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
