Public relations veteran and USC alumnus Glenn Osaki will be the University’s new senior vice president and chief communications officer, Interim President Wanda Austin and President-elect Carol Folt announced in a letter to the USC community Wednesday. Osaki will be the University’s first-ever chief communications officer.
Osaki, who will enter the position June 1, spent the last 32 years working with MSL, an international public relations firm. He most recently served as the company’s Asia-Pacific president. 
“In addition to serving as the University’s principal spokesperson,” the letter read, “he will develop a strategic communications plan that will position USC both nationally and internationally, while finding fresh ways to convey USC’s unique educational experience.” 
Austin and Folt wrote in their letter that Osaki will report directly to the University president. Osaki will be work on shaping a new communications strategy for USC and overseeing the Cultural Relations and University Events office and internal communications activities.
Osaki earned his master’s degree in public relations from USC in 1987. According to his LinkedIn page, he has overseen large-scale crisis management programs and worked with high-profile companies such as Netflix and Walmart in his role at MSL. 
“I am thrilled to apply my international brand-building and reputation management experience from outside of academia to provide an innovative perspective on digital storytelling and data-driven influence to shape USC’s communications,” Osaki told USC News.
According to the letter, Osaki has won numerous awards throughout his career, including “PR Agency Head of the Year” by Campaign Asia in 2013. 
“He has built a career on high ethical standards, perceptive outreach, and innovative team-building,” Austin and Folt wrote, “and he will be an outstanding addition to our senior leadership team.”
Austin announced March 8 that Brenda Maceo, USC’s vice president for public relations and marketing, will be stepping down from her position at the end of this fiscal year. The University has yet to announce a replacement for Maceo’s position, and it did not answer requests for comment about whether Osaki’s role will replace that of Maceo.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
