Olivia Jade Giannulli returned to YouTube with a video Sunday, ending a nearly nine-month hiatus from her channel amid revelations of the college admissions scandal in March.
“I have been gone for a really long time, and as much as I wish I could talk about all of this, it’s really hard for me to say this just because I know that it’s something that needs to be addressed,” she said in her two-minute. “But the reason for that is that I’m legally not allowed to speak on anything going on right now.” 
In her video, Olivia Jade told her 1.93 million subscribers that even though she is not allowed to speak on the college admissions scandal due to legal reasons, she wants to move on, uploading more videos and reviving her channel to “start taking smaller steps in the right direction.” 
“This is something that I’m really passionate about and something I really like to do, but I also didn’t know,” she said. “I debated for seven or eight months like, well if I can’t talk about it, is there a point in coming back and not being able to say anything? I want to come back because I want to come back.” 
An FBI investigation released in March detailed Newport Beach businessman William “Rick” Singer’s scheme to help wealthy parents gain their children admission to prestigious universities with fabricated athletic profiles. Of the 16 USC parents named in the Operations Varsity Blues case, Olivia Jade’s parents, actress Lori Loughlin and fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli, were accused of paying $500,000 to secure her and her sister Isabella Rose’s admission to USC as false crew recruits.
Olivia Jade and Isabella Rose — two of nearly three dozen students who were involved in the scandal at USC — are no longer enrolled at USC, USC Registrar confirmed late October.
Loughlin and Mossimo both pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery in their third superseding indictment in Boston federal court on Nov. 1, with their attorney waiving their right to appear in court for their Nov. 20 arraignment. 
To date, the two have been charged with conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud, conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and conspiracy to commit money laundering. They each face up to 20 years in prison. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
