Former men’s basketball coach Tony Bland was sentenced to two years of probation and 100 hours of community service Wednesday after pleading guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery in January, despite prosecutors pushing for him to face up to a year in prison.
Bland admitted to accepting $4,100 in bribes in exchange for directing USC players to a sports management company headed by Christian Dawkins and Munish Sood. He was one of 10 men charged in the FBI’s 2017 case against bribery in college basketball.
These 10 men, including three other NCAA assistant basketball coaches, allegedly took advantage of bribes to direct talented college basketball players to financial advisors. Substantial evidence in the case was brought to light by undercover FBI agents who acted as partners to acquire access to the bribery ring.
Bland was awarded a light sentence despite a victim impact statement sent to Judge Edgardo Ramos by USC vice president Michael Blanton in May addressing the adverse effects of Bland’s actions on the University.
“The actions of Mr. Bland and his co-conspirators have significantly damaged the reputation of USC as an institution, the USC athletic department and its men’s basketball program,” Blanton said in his statement. “Further, their actions have prompted an NCAA investigation that may result in penalties.”
Blanton also said the University suffered significant expenditures as a result of investigating Bland’s misconduct and cooperating with the prosecution. The statement did not include how much the school spent on the investigation.
Bland’s attorney Jeffrey Lichtman pointed to USC’s other transgressions, including the recent college admissions bribery scheme, to suggest that Bland was not the sole reason for the NCAA’s concern about the University’s conduct.
After announcing Bland’s sentence, Ramos explained that he took Bland’s troubled past into account, as well as the numerous testimonials he received supporting Bland’s character. Bland overcame a childhood in which his father was incarcerated due to gang activity, his mother was an addict and his grandmother was schizophrenic. 
“[I see] young men of color every day in this courtroom, unable to overcome those backgrounds,” Ramos said. “I am convinced to a moral certainty that I will not see Mr. Bland again, at least not in this courtroom.”
While delivering his statement in court, Bland apologized to the prosecution, his peers and the players affected by his crime.
“I’m excited it’s over. I appreciate Judge Ramos for the outcome and giving me another chance, a second chance,” Bland told CBS Sports following the trial. “I’m just looking forward to rebuilding from my mistakes, and from this moment on, spending the rest of my life trying to prove and help and reverse the stigma that came from this.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
