




On the night of October 16, 1967, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was halfway through a speech at Bovard Auditorium when the Los Angeles Fire Department received a warning that a bomb had been planted in the theater.  
King and an audience of about 1,800 people were forced to evacuate, but quickly returned after the coast was cleared. He went on to finish his speech, calling for legislation to address racial oppression in the United States. 
“I’m a Baptist preacher and I’m in the heart-changing business,” King said. “But while morality may not be legislated, behavior can be regulated; and while the law can’t make a man love me, it can restrain him from lynching me.”
The October 17, 1967 issue of the Daily Trojan covered Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s speech at Bovard the previous night and profiled him during his visit to Los Angeles.
King visited Los Angeles numerous times throughout the 1950s and 60s — as he pushed for a civil rights platform during the Democratic National Convention, raised funds for the cause at two Freedom Rallies in 1961 and spoke after the Watts Riots in 1965. 
Many of these trips took him to USC. He met with a prominent local pastor at Bovard Auditorium in April 1961 and visited the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 1964 to speak at a multi-faith event, “Religious Witness for Human Dignity.”
He came to USC in 1967 as part of the University’s Great Issues Forum, at a time of severe division within the Civil Rights Movement. King’s call for nonviolent resistance clashed with certain branches of the Black Power movement, and his opposition to the war in Vietnam alienated some of his white supporters. 
The lead article in the October 17, 1967 issue of the Daily Trojan, “The Calm Martin Luther King,” paints him as a charismatic yet beleaguered leader trying to hold on to a fracturing base. 
“Riots do no good,” King said, according to the article. “They just relieve the guilt of the white community.” 
His speech at USC came on the heels of the “long, hot summer of 1967,” when a wave of violent protests took place in more than 150 cities — largely in response to police violence and oppression against Black Americans. 
In the more than five decades that have passed since King’s speech at USC that October, the U.S. has gone through immense change. More people of color were elected to the 116th Congress than at any previous time in history. But many of the issues he spoke about — from police brutality to lack of economic opportunity — remain pressing for those who celebrate his legacy every January.
“Justice is indivisible,” King said, according to the Daily Trojan report. “But injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” 
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
