In the last few weeks of the 2019 USC football season, head coach Clay Helton and athletic director Mike Bohn said they would spend time over the offseason considering potential changes to the coaching staff heading into 2020. 
Those changes began just one day after the season finale. Helton announced Saturday that defensive coordinator Clancy Pendergast and special teams coordinator/tight ends coach John Baxter will not return for next season. 
“I want to thank Coach Pendergast and Coach Baxter for their dedicated service and efforts,” Helton said. “However, in evaluating our team’s performance this year and after consulting with AD Mike Bohn, it is evident that these changes are necessary.” 
The moves come on the heels of a blowout loss to No. 16 Iowa Friday at the SDCCU Holiday Bowl in San Diego. The Trojans were steamrolled by the Hawkeyes for 49 points, including touchdowns on each of Iowa’s first four offensive drives and a 98-yard kickoff return touchdown in the second quarter.
But the changes have been expected since long before Friday’s loss. USC’s defense entered Saturday ranked No. 77 nationally with 408.7 yards allowed per game this season. 
USC surrendered 56 points to No. 6 Oregon on Nov. 2 and even struggled against weaker competition this year. The Trojans allowed 35 points to UCLA, 31 points to Colorado and 30 points to BYU.
“Although we did fight through adversity all season and we showed improvement over the previous year, my coaching staff and I fell short of fielding a championship team,” Helton said. “We are taking immediate steps to improve our competitiveness and meet the winning expectations of our student-athletes and fans.”
Baxter’s special teams unit ranked last in college football this season in kickoff return coverage and allowed two kickoff return touchdowns. He had served as USC’s special teams coordinator since 2016 and also worked as the associate head coach and special teams coordinator from 2010-2013. 
USC also saw another change to the coaching staff Saturday when outside linebackers coach Joe DeForest accepted a safeties coach job at North Carolina State. DeForest spent just one season in the role at USC after being promoted from defensive analyst in December of 2018.
No replacement for any of the three positions has been named. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
