





Executive Vice Provost Elizabeth Graddy will become interim provost effective July 1. Graddy previously served USC as vice provost of Academic and Faculty Affairs, and was also the vice dean of the Price School of Public Policy. (Photo from USC Press Room)
Executive Vice Provost Elizabeth Graddy will serve as interim provost starting July 1 as the University begins its search for a new provost, Interim President Wanda Austin announced in a memo to the USC community Tuesday.
Graddy will step into the position following Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Michael Quick’s departure June 30. Quick announced his resignation in early April.
Graddy currently oversees the offices of faculty affairs, academic affairs, undergraduate programs and the graduate school. She previously served as vice provost of academic and faculty affairs.
“Dr. Graddy cares deeply about the University’s mission and core values, and brings a well-considered and aspirational perspective to every discussion,” Austin wrote. “She is also passionate about diversity and inclusion, and understands their importance in building trust among our community and in achieving our goals for academic excellence.”
In its search for a new provost, the University has formed a committee comprising 17 faculty, staff and student leaders throughout campus, according to the memo. Professor Mark Humayun will chair the committee, which will report directly to President-elect Carol Folt, the memo said.
During the presidential search process, the University held several listening sessions for members of the USC community to voice their concerns and articulate the qualities they wanted the new president to embody. The findings from these listening sessions will be used to guide the search for a new provost as well, Austin wrote.
“The goals articulated by these diverse voices guide our work today, and we will select a provost whose values and vision align closely with the broader ambitions of our community,” Austin wrote.
Student leaders in Undergraduate Student Government and Graduate Student Government criticized the University for not including students in the Presidential Search Committee. The search committee for the provost now includes the presidents of both USG and GSG as well as staff members from the University.
“Taken together, this group represents a breadth of backgrounds, views, and experience at the University, and the chair will work closely with each member of the search committee throughout the process,” Austin wrote.
USC has hired search firm Isaacson, Miller — the same firm it partnered with for the presidential search process — to assist in finding the new provost.
University leaders will also discuss the provost search process and candidates with campus members outside of the committee, including USG, GSG, the executive board of the Academic Senate, deans, the academic department chairs of the Keck School of Medicine and professors, according to the memo. The University hopes to decide on a candidate by the end of summer, Austin wrote.
“The provost is the second-ranking officer under the president, the chief academic officer, and plays a critical role in all of the University’s operations,” Austin wrote. “To realize the dreams we all share for USC, we will need to get this appointment absolutely right.”
 
 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
