A 17-0 second half run anchored by pesky defense and stellar team play pushed the Trojans past UCLA and secured one of the team’s most impressive wins of the season.
“When we share the ball like that, and we’re making shots, we’re really hard to beat,” junior guard Jonah Mathews said. “I would say it’s top two [wins of the season] for sure.”
After over-dribbling and missing the open man led to only 12 team assists in an embarrassing loss to Oregon, the Trojans displayed some of the best on-court chemistry of the season, racking up a season-high 26 assists.
The week in-between games and the change in scenery paid dividends for USC, as a bunch that looked mentally drained in Eugene came out in full attack mode in front of a packed Galen Center. Led by the active play of senior guard Shaqquan Aaron, the Trojans jumped out to a 14-4 lead in the game’s first four minutes. 
In recent weeks, Aaron had become a bit of a forgotten piece on offense, but it was clear from the opening tip that the senior was going to leave his mark on this pivotal rivalry game. After just four minutes of play, Aaron had already checked off a three-pointer, two steals, an assist and a block. The hot start proved to be only an appetizer to what would be Aaron’s most aggressive game since mid-December, as he finished with 8 points, seven assists and six rebounds. 
“[Aaron] can help us in a variety,” head coach Andy Enfield said. “I thought he played very hard today, and he really was a big key to the game.”
Another big key to the game was the same one that has been opening the doors to success for the Trojans all season — strong upperclassmen play. 
A 5-0 run from UCLA to kick off the second half gave the Bruins their lone lead of the game, but back-to-back threes from senior forward Bennie Boatwright sparked a USC onslaught in the last 16 minutes of the game. Boatwright, Mathews and junior forward Nick Rakocevic combined for 38 of the Trojans’ 44 second half points and shot a combined 14-for-22 in the second half burial of UCLA.
With one forward operating from the perimeter and the other dominating the paint, Boatwright and Rakocevic commanded the offensive end in the second half. Bennie “Buckets” lived up to his nickname as he pulled up for three-pointer after three-pointer, going 4-for-5 from deep after halftime. While Boatwright was busy trying to pop the net, Rakocevic was occupied cleaning the glass and making the most of his soft touch around the rim, finishing the game with eight offensive rebounds and 21 points on 9-12 shooting.
“When [Rakocevic] plays within himself and does what he does well, he’s as good as any bigman in our league,” said Enfield.
The wing players and bigs may have the most eye-popping stats, but the Trojan point guard play was just as much of a factor in USC securing the dominating win.
Senior point guard Derryck Thornton was everywhere on the defensive end of the court, stealing the ball four times and even sacrificing his body to draw a charge on 7-foot-1 UCLA freshman center Moses Brown. With a sequence that featured a slashing layup, a steal and an assist, freshman point guard Elijah Weaver showcased flashes of the potential that has Trojan fans and coaches excited for what’s to come. 
“We’re very excited about [Weaver’s] future,” Enfield said. “And we were very impressed with him today.”
The win over UCLA has the Trojans within shouting distance of the top of the Pac-12. USC will look to continue to climb the conference ladder when they faceoff against Arizona on Thursday at 6 p.m. at the Galen Center.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
