





A federal judge granted preliminary approval of the proposed $215 million class-action settlement between USC and alleged victims of former gynecologist George Tyndall Thursday. 
“This settlement gives every single woman who saw Tyndall a choice in how they want to participate and hold USC accountable, while also forcing the school to change to ensure this doesn’t happen again,” said the plaintiffs’ class counsel in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “The Judge’s order is an important step toward providing each survivor the relief and measure of closure she deserves, and we look forward to obtaining final approval.”
U.S. District Court Judge Stephen Wilson originally denied preliminary approval of the settlement in April, citing a lack of information and further amendments. The settlement provides tiered compensation to nearly 17,000 former patients.
The court called for additional stipulations regarding widespread institutional reforms, such as appointing women’s health advocates, improving methods of reporting misconduct and increasing scrutiny of healthcare professionals, following the original proposed settlement. 
Additionally, it requested that USC submit all documentation about Tyndall’s tenure before moving forward with the settlement, the Daily Trojan previously reported. Two weeks ago, the University made public a 600-page report detailing decades of complaints against the former gynecologist and USC’s handling of his misconduct.
In a memo, Interim President Wanda Austin said the preliminary approval allows the settlement administrator to notify plaintiffs about their compensation, which ranges from $2,500 to $250,000.
“This is a very important step forward in healing our community,” Austin wrote. “It is an important milestone for those former patients seeking certain resolution without reliving their painful experiences.”
Austin added the University has been leading efforts to strengthen oversight at the Engemann Student Health Center by improving reporting protocol and hiring an all-women team of board-certified physicians. 
 “We believe that these meaningful and important changes go a long way toward strengthening our University,” Austin said. 
Gloria Allred, who represents 62 plaintiffs in the class-action, does not agree with the settlement.
“Awarding victims $2,500 to no more than $250,000, in my opinion, is inadequate compensation for the emotional distress that the victims suffered,” Allred wrote in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “I believe that most of more than 700 individual victims who have already filed suit in state court, including my 62 clients, will opt out of the class settlement if the settlement is approved by Judge Wilson.”
 Plaintiffs have the option to object or opt out of the settlement within 90 days following the notice date, according to court documents. 
A final approval hearing is scheduled on Jan. 6, 2020, when the court will reexamine whether the settlement terms are fair and reasonable.
The court called for additional stipulations regarding widespread institutional reforms, such as appointing women’s health advocates, improving methods of reporting misconduct and increasing scrutiny of healthcare professionals, following the original proposed settlement. 
Additionally, it requested that USC submit all documentation about Tyndall’s tenure before moving forward with the settlement, the Daily Trojan previously reported. Two weeks ago, the University made public a 600-page report detailing decades of complaints against the former gynecologist and USC’s handling of his misconduct.
In a memo to the USC community, Interim President Wanda Austin said the preliminary approval allows the settlement administrator to notify plaintiffs about their compensation, which ranges from $2,500 to $250,000.
“This is a very important step forward in healing our community,” Austin said in the statement. “It is an important milestone for those former patients seeking certain resolution without reliving their painful experiences.”
Austin added the University has been leading efforts to strengthen oversight at the Engemann Student Health Center by improving reporting protocol and hiring an all-women team of board-certified physicians. 
“We believe that these meaningful and important changes go a long way toward strengthening our University,” Austin said. 
Gloria Allred, who represents 62 plaintiffs in the class-action, said she is against the settlement.
“Awarding victims $2,500 to no more than $250,000, in my opinion, is inadequate compensation for the emotional distress that the victims suffered,” Allred said in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “I believe that most of more than 700 individual victims who have already filed suit in state court, including my 62 clients, will opt out of the class settlement if the settlement is approved by Judge Wilson.”
Plaintiffs have the option to object or opt out of the settlement within 90 days following the notice date, according to court documents. 
A final approval hearing is scheduled on Jan. 6, 2020, when the court will reexamine if the settlement terms are fair and reasonable.
This article was updated on June 18, 2019 at 2 p.m.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
