Victor McElhaney, a senior studying music at the Thornton School of Music, died Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 21.  
“Victor was a son of Oakland,” his mother, Oakland District 3 Councilwoman Lynette Gibson McElhaney, wrote in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “He was a musician who drew his inspiration from the beat, soul, and sound of the Town and he belonged in every nook and cranny of Oakland.”
McElhaney was approached by three to four suspects around 12:24 a.m. Sunday during a possible failed robbery attempt at Maple Ave. and Adams Blvd., the Los Angeles Police Department said. One of the suspects shot McElhaney, and the suspects fled the scene in a vehicle. McElhaney was taken to a hospital by the Los Angeles Fire Department shortly thereafter, where he died later that morning, according to the LAPD.
An LAPD investigation into the matter is ongoing, and no arrests have been made as of Sunday.
Interim President Wanda Austin sent a memo informing the USC community of McElhaney’s death. Austin offered her condolences to his friends and family in her email.
“He believed in the power of music to touch lives, to heal and to bring hope,” the email read.
McElhaney was part of the Jazz Studies program at Thornton, and he was interested in the relationship between music and social and political movements, Austin said. He was also dedicated to community service — he was a mentor for young musicians and taught at the Oakland Public Conversatory of Music, the email read.
Peter Erskine, the director of Drumset Studies at Thornton and one of McElhaney’s instructors, said McElhaney was an active participant at the school in an email statement to the Daily Trojan.
“Victor was already playing at a professional level when he came to USC,” Erskine said. “His audition was a welcome breath of fresh air — he had the touch, the feel and the musical understanding of a seasoned jazz musician … Victor was always the first to volunteer to play in any group class.”
McElhaney transferred to USC from California State University, East Bay in 2017. Beyond music, he was also involved at the Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs at USC, Austin’s email read.
CBSCA sent a statement to its mailing list about McElhaney’s death Sunday afternoon.
“Whether it was through his music or through his conversation, he challenged others and himself to think outside of the box,” the CBCSA email read.
As a councilwoman, McElhaney’s mother has actively fought gun violence in Oakland. She helped pass laws like Measure Z, a public safety initiative that funded prevention strategies against gun violence, according to the City of Oakland’s website.
“We are beginning a new chapter in this reoccurring circle of violence,” she wrote in her statement. “And it will take all of us together to make it through this tragedy.”
The Berkeley organization Building Opportunities for Self-Sufficiency created a GoFundMe fundraising page on behalf of McElhaney’s family on Monday, according to the GoFundMe site. The organization is a non profit that fights homelessness and community violence in the East Bay.
As of Wednesday morning, the page has raised over $40,000, surpassing its original $30,000 fundraising goal. It now has a $50,000 goal. Donations included a $10,000 contribution from the Oakland Athletics, according to the GoFundMe page. “Funds will be used to assist the McElhaney Family with final arrangements and a memorial concert in honor of Victor McElhaney and the families of victims of gun violence,” the GoFundMe page said. 
Austin wrote in her email that students will be informed of memorial plans as information becomes available. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
