USC women’s basketball returned to Galen Center Saturday with a solid 75-54 victory over UNLV. The Trojans shot 50% from the field in their sharpest performance of the season.
USC captured the early lead behind 6 points from senior forward Kayla Overbeck within the first four minutes of the game. An aggressive man-to-man defense kept the Rebels scoreless until halfway through the first quarter, leading to a comfortable 9-point edge that grew to 21 points by halftime. 
Overbeck’s power in the paint wasn’t the only factor in the team’s numerous scoring streaks. Sharp shooting by freshmen guards Endyia Rogers and Alyson Miura contributed to a 37% average from behind the arc. Rogers finished with 13 points — her sixth double-digit performance of the season — and Miura logged a team-high 15.
“It’s just been a constant fight with injuries, and I still don’t even feel fully healthy,” Miura said. “So it’s just really exciting for me to start to feel like my old self again and see the ball go in the hoop and just gain confidence.”
Once the Trojans hit the 50-point mark, their momentum slowed down and their defense lost its composure. The Rebels scored 8 unanswered points in the third, cutting USC’s lead to under 20 points. Personal fouls added up when the team transitioned to a zone defense, with freshman forwards Alissa Pili and Angel Jackson falling into foul trouble early in the fourth quarter.
Head coach Mark Trakh said the young team’s miscommunication and fatigue were the sources of its second-half slippage.
“We gotta improve on concentrating for 40 minutes and being focused,” Trakh said. “[In the] first half, we were on top of the plays, they were reacting. Second half, we were on defense a couple times [and] we were supposed to be in a zone [when] we were in a man.”
Trakh had five freshmen on the court for much of the game, a continuation of the team’s lineup in its win over Alabama at the South Point Shootout Nov. 30. Freshmen forwards Pili and Jackson combined for 13 rebounds, while freshman guard India Otto saw playing time for the first time since the season opener. 
The seven-freshman team has powered through despite the absence of graduate transfer guard Stephanie Watts due to injury. In her one full game as a Trojan, Watts had a double-double against Virginia with 14 points and 12 rebounds. Once she gets back on the court, her scoring ability should complement the young players’ energy.
The young team improved to a 5-3 record with the win. The Trojans will gear up for the end-of-the-month conference opener against UCLA with a game Wednesday against University of Texas Rio Grande Valley and the weekend’s Women of Troy Classic against Nevada and Long Beach State. 
Miura said the team will continue to improve its game by working on communication and adapting to competition at the college level. 
“Having seven new freshmen, it’s not having just [youth] and inexperience, it’s also a whole new team,” Miura said. “So we have to get that chemistry with each other and learn to play together, [which] we’re still working on, but we’re getting better and better every day.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
