The USC baseball team opened the 2020 season with a 35-run offensive outburst over the course of this weekend, taking two of three from Western Michigan at Dedeaux Field.
Nearly half those runs for USC came in the season opener Friday, when the Trojans used a 6-run third inning and 5-run eighth inning to coast to a commanding 16-2 win.  
USC cracked double digits on the scoreboard when sophomore outfielder Preston Hartsell cranked an opposite-field 2-run homer to left center in the sixth inning. It was one of two hits of the game for Hartsell, who drove in 3 runs.
Freshman infielder Johnny Olmstead added a big fly of his own, a pinch-hit eighth-inning mammoth grand slam to left in his first collegiate at bat.
Hartsell and Olmstead were two of 11 Trojans with at least one hit in the season opener.
“I think it just kind of all goes back to the intersquads,” Hartsell said. “We have two nine-person lineups that just bashed the ball, so I think we got 18 hitters coming off the bench in all situations that can bash.”
Junior righty Kyle Hurt started his second consecutive opening day for the Trojans, throwing three innings of 1-run ball before handing it over to junior lefty John Beller with an 8-1 lead. Beller twirled five innings allowing just two hits and 1 run before freshman righty Ethan Hoopingarner sealed the deal with two strikeouts in a 1-2-3 ninth inning. 
“[The offense] put up a 6-spot the inning before I came in,” Beller said. “So I’m able to come in there with a lot of confidence and just attack the zone and have a lot of faith in our defense.”
Head coach Jason Gill, who coached his first games at USC this weekend, said he told his players after the game they’d be making a mistake if they assumed things would come as easily on Saturday. 
As it turned out, Gill was right. 
Led by junior lefty Isaac Esqueda’s five scoreless innings, USC carried a 3-0 lead into the seventh inning Saturday. That’s when the wheels fell off for the Trojans. 
Three hits, two errors, three walks and a hit by pitch led to a 6-run seventh for the Broncos that ultimately proved fatal. With the bases loaded, one out and the Trojans still up by 3, redshirt senior lefty Quentin Longrie bobbled a comebacker and was unable to get a forceout at the plate. After Longrie walked in another run, junior lefty Brian Gursky came in but couldn’t stop the bleeding, and the Broncos jumped ahead late.
The Trojans had a golden opportunity to tie it up later, loading the bases with no outs in the eighth. However, WMU redshirt senior righty Jack Szott came in and retired the next three USC hitters, and the Broncos eventually came away with an 8-5 win. 
In the rubber match Sunday, the Trojans looked much more like Friday’s team than Saturday’s. 
Junior infielder Ben Ramirez led another offensive explosion, rocketing two missiles high off the Dedeaux Field scoreboard in right to drive in 3 runs and contribute to a series-clinching 14-3 victory.
“[They felt] really good,” Ramirez said of his two no-doubters. “[I] struggled a little bit [in the] first two games of the series, and something clicked today and I felt good.”
Ramirez’s three total hits left him tied with senior outfielder Brady Shockey and sophomore first baseman Clay Owens for the team lead with five on the young season.
The Trojans tallied 16 hits Sunday, giving them at least 10 in each of the season’s first three games. 
“Today I challenged them to not let [Western Michigan’s pitchers] off the hook, and they didn’t,” Gill said. “They kept pounding inning after inning, and even the innings we didn’t score, we threatened, so really proud of them.”
Despite Ramirez and the offense’s monster game, it was redshirt sophomore lefty Alex Cornwell who provided the feel-good story for the Trojans on Sunday. Cornwell, who started the finale after missing the previous two seasons with injuries, flashed elite stuff all game and was charged with just 2 runs over 5.2 innings while striking out six. 
“It was surreal,” Cornwell said of his return to the mound. “It was something that I’ll never forget for the rest of my life. I’m speechless. Words don’t describe the excitement.”
Hoopingarner closed out the series for the Trojans, striking out five in just two innings of work. Hoopingarner faced nine batters over the weekend across three perfect innings and struck out a staggering seven. 
The Trojans will have an off day Monday before getting back to work in preparation for the Tony Gwynn Classic in San Diego next weekend. 
“Even though we scored a lot of runs and did a lot of things right, there’s some things that we can’t sweep under the carpet that we’re gonna have to attack on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday before we head down to San Diego for that tournament,” Gill said. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
