A quick scroll through my Instagram feed reveals that social media is (luckily) more than just an outlet to showcase an outfit of the day or a delicious meal. In recent years, social media has transformed the way nonprofits raise money, making it easier than ever for a donor to find an organization and send money to a cause they support. With the click of a button, you can encourage hundreds of followers to donate to a nonprofit. 
Although this ease of donating through social media allows for more money to flow into the nonprofit sector, it is by no means a flawless system. This newfound social media activism makes it easier for donors to hop on a trend or check a box without understanding how their money will be used. Instead, prior to donating to a nonprofit, people should do research and educate themselves to better understand the organization and impact of their donation.   
In comparison to the millions spent by corporations or foundations, you may feel that your $10 donation to a local food bank is insignificant. In reality, the collective power of individual donors is what powers the nonprofit sector. In 2018, individual donations accounted for 68% of all charitable giving, with donations totaling $292.09 billion in the United States. The money you donate does in fact make a difference, making it all the more important you research how your money can have the greatest impact. 
After the police killing of George Floyd, my Instagram feed was flooded with reposted pleas to donate to the Minnesota Freedom Fund, which purported to pay bail and bonds for people that can’t afford them. Donating to or posting about the Minnesota Freedom Fund became a way to show allegiance with the Black Lives Matter cause and within days the small nonprofit earned 300 times its annual budget with donations totaling $30 million. 
Widespread outrage followed two weeks later when the Minnesota Freedom Fund disclosed that thus far they had only spent $200,000 of the $30 million dollars in new donations. This outrage stemmed from a lack of research on the part of donors, to no fault of the Minnesota Freedom Fund. Prior to the flood of donations, the Minnesota Freedom Fund was a small nonprofit with only one full-time employee. It did not have the infrastructure in place to deal with its budget growing exponentially  — practically overnight — and needed time to scale. Instead of immediately assuming the worst after the fact, donors should have researched the organization beforehand to realize it would be difficult for them to handle such a large influx of donations. Not to mention, the $200,000 was spent to bail out all 40 people who were jailed as a result of the protests in the Twin Cities, which was the nonprofit’s stated mission in the first place. 
The Minnesota Freedom Fund became a trending organization and despite there being plenty of other organizations people could also have donated to, it garnered a massive abundance of donations because people followed what their social media told them to do. This is not to say The Minnesota Freedom Fund is not an important organization. I admit I donated to them myself. 
As valuable as the mission and work of the Minnesota Freedom Fund are, other organizations deeply involved with important racial and civil rights work may have been overlooked. The point is that we must become more diligent before clicking a button to follow the latest social media flash point.
People also donated to the Black Lives Matter Foundation without realizing it was different from the Black Lives Matter movement and some even donated to Venmo accounts associated with nonprofits that turned out to be fake. 
These mistakes made by donors eager to support the Black Lives Matter movement are a result of the misinformation that is all too prevalent on social media. Social media users can take what they see online at face value without further consideration, especially when they have a strong desire to do good. 
Paul Schervish, former director of the Center on Wealth and Philanthropy at Boston College, states that one should give to the moment rather than in the moment. Instead of feeling the urge to immediately show activism or support through a donation in a superficial way, take time to thoroughly understand the complexity of an issue and which nonprofits are best equipped to handle it. It is easy for people to check a box and feel that they are “woke” or an “activist” just by donating. In reality, effective donations require research and contemplation. 
To be clear: Trying to make the world a better place through donating to the causes we believe in is an important and noble task. The point is that we should strive to do it effectively. Some simple steps to take to make an informed decision about where to donate include checking out sites such as Guide Star, Charity Navigator and Charity Watch to research the financial health, transparency and accountability of nonprofit organizations.  It is also important to look at the organization’s website and ask yourself: Do they concisely state their mission? Is it clear how they use their donations? Do they offer evidence of impact? Take a look at the organization’s 990 tax form that outlines all the expenses of the nonprofit the year before to fully understand how your donation will be used. 
Donations are essential to supporting the nonprofit sector and, when used wisely, are a vital vehicle for change. In order to maximize impact, do not treat donations as a trend or as an outlet for performative activism. Instead, do appropriate research so you understand where your money can go to make the biggest difference. 
Sophie Roppe is a junior writing about nonprofit organizations and social justice. Her column, “Progress Without Profit,” runs every other Monday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
