Julie Rousseau, former head coach of the Los Angeles Sparks and a current adjunct professor in USC’s Gender and Sexuality Studies department, will serve as the chair of the USC Athletics Black Lives Matter Action Team, Athletic Director Mike Bohn announced in a press release Tuesday. 
“This will be a supportive team effort aimed at eliminating social injustice and racism within Trojan Athletics, the University and its surrounding communities,” Rousseau said in the release. “Like the late, great civil rights activist and Congressman John R. Lewis once said, ‘We may not have chosen the time, but the time has chosen us.’”
Rousseau was an assistant head coach with the Sparks for the WNBA’s inaugural season in 1997, becoming head coach for the final 17 games of the 1997 season and the first 20 of the 1998 season. She then went on to coach at the collegiate level from 2001 to 2013, returning to the WNBA as an assistant and culture coach of the Seattle Storm in 2015 after spending the 2015 season as an assistant at the University of Nevada. 
Rousseau also assisted with Arizona State’s marketing, community relations and student-athlete welfare strategies from 2016-19 while she completed her doctoral degree. 
“Raised in Los Angeles with experiences as a student-athlete, college and professional coach, and educator, Julie is uniquely qualified to lead our USC Athletics Black Lives Matter Action Team,” Bohn wrote. “Julie’s passion and vision, strong leadership skills and outstanding reputation, as well as her innovative academic background, make her a wonderful fit to guide this critically important initiative.”
Joining Rousseau will be a steering committee to help carry out specific actions identified by the USCABLM Action Team. Bohn also announced that the Action Team will include an advisory committee made up of seven student-athletes, eight coaches and 10 Athletic Department staff members. 
The Action Team will collaborate with the recently formed United Black Student-Athletes Association as well as the Trojan Athletic Senate, alumni, former players and campus and community leaders.
“The time begs for us to continue the work and legacy of our ancestors,” Rousseau said in the release. “For such a time as this, I hope to be a bridge builder for creating an environment that exemplifies regard and respect for the lives of Black student athletes at USC. All Lives Can’t Matter, Until Black Lives Matter.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
