The first term of summer classes will be moved online and all international summer programs will be canceled amid uncertainty about the campus’ reopening date, Provost Charles Zukoski and Chief Financial Officer James Staten announced Friday in an email to the USC community. The University will also instate a pause in hiring and cuts to administrators’ salaries to reduce costs in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. 
“Now is the time for us to look inward to ensure that when USC emerges from this crisis, we will remain the thriving research university that has and will continue to make our community, our city, and our world a better place,” the email read. “We need to make some tough calls right now to address the serious financial consequences we face.”
The email cited a decline in donations, increased demand for financial aid and a reduction in philanthropy as circumstances that have necessitated such adjustments. Legal issues, including the $215 million class action settlement in the George Tyndall case agreed upon earlier this year, have also exacerbated the University’s financial difficulties. 
Several senior administrators, including President Carol Folt, will take pay cuts to balance the costs, the email stated. Folt’s salary will be reduced 20%, while Zukoski, school deans and senior vice presidents will have a 10% reduction in their salaries. The money saved from the pay cuts will be used to fund financial aid and emergency assistance for the USC community.
In addition to continuing to disallow nonessential travel for staff, the University will freeze Universitywide hiring for faculty and staff positions until further notice. Deans will consult with Zukoski regarding ongoing faculty searches and determine whether their hiring processes will continue this semester.
Capital projects and discretionary spending on food, meals, events and banquets will also be suspended until further notice. 
Online classes will continue through the first summer term, and all in-person events related to the session will move online, according to the email. Summer programs abroad, including Problems Without Passports and Maymesters, are canceled. The University will determine the status of in-person courses and activities for the second summer term later this month. 
“We did not make these decisions lightly but taking swift action now will leave us with more flexibility as this crisis unfolds,” the email read. “In the coming days and weeks, we will collaborate with leaders across the University on any future adjustments we may need to make to address the ongoing financial impact.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
