School of Dramatic Arts Dean David Bridel has resigned from his position after a 2009 relationship with a BFA acting senior while Bridel was on SDA faculty was revealed during a town hall Wednesday with faculty, current students and alumni of the MFA in Acting program. 
In a statement to the SDA community, Provost Charles Zukoski accepted Bridel’s resignation and relayed that the University is looking further into the matter. Elizabeth Daley will take over as SDA’s interim dean in addition to her current role as dean of the School of Cinematic Arts.
“We are grateful to Dean Daley for taking on this additional role and we are confident that the School will continue on its positive trajectory,” the University said in a separate statement. 
Bridel wrote in an email to faculty that his relationship with the student — which he said lasted weeks and ended “amicably” — was characterized by an alumna at the town hall in a “grossly inaccurate” manner. 
“I fully accept, however, that my behavior in 2009 demonstrated a failure in judgment and evidence of irresponsibility,” Bridel wrote. “I apologize, profusely, for any harm I caused by my conduct in 2009. At this time, I believe that the good health of the School and its future progress will be best served by a leader whose background is not tainted in this way.”
Bridel worked as SDA’s dean for five years prior to his resignation and was on faculty for 10 years before that. In his letter to SDA faculty, Bridel lauded the School’s accomplishments in developing new initiatives and programs geared toward the Institute for Theatre & Social Change; Musical Theatre; Equity, Diversity and Inclusion; bachelor’s in theatre, acting emphasis; and Career Center. 
“I am humbled by your achievements as faculty and staff during the five years that I have been fortunate to work with you in this program,” Bridel wrote in the email. “Your expertise and courage in the pursuit of excellence are an inspiration to USC and our discipline at large. I trust that the good work will continue unabated.”
Ana Mata contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
