The Medical Board of California will rescind the medical license of a UCLA physician accused of sexually assaulting another doctor while working at the Los Angeles County + USC Medical Center in 2015.
The revocation of Dr. Guillermo Andres Cortes’ license comes after a March recommendation by California administrative law judge Thomas Heller following the Board’s investigation and will take effect mid-June. Heller found that the complaint, lodged by Dr. Meena Zareh, who worked as a resident with then-cardiology fellow Cortes at LAC + USC Medical Center in 2015, provided “clear and convincing evidence” that the sexual assault had taken place. The investigation involved three complainants, although only Zareh’s case was determined to provide compelling evidence. 
“The assault occurred in the workplace and violated professional, personal, and workplace boundaries,” the board’s recommendation read. “[Cortes’] violation of those boundaries raises significant concerns about his judgment, impulse control, and respect for the rights of others.”
In December 2016, Zareh filed a civil suit against USC and L.A. County alleging that each establishment pressured her to continue studies outside of USC or delay them. The case is currently pending, with the trial set for Sept. 15. 
Zareh reported the assault to the internal medicine residency program director, Eric Hseih, in February 2016, which launched the investigation against Cortes. Cortes was placed on administrative leave with pay for three months and later asked to return to work before the end of the investigation, with instructions to not interact with Zareh without supervision. According to court documents, Zareh claimed she was scheduled to work with Cortes twice. 
In a statement to the Daily Trojan, Keck Medicine of USC media representative Laura LeBlanc said the University promptly and adequately responded to the allegations as soon as they came to light.
“USC takes allegations of inappropriate conduct very seriously,” the statement read. “Once we became aware of Dr. Zareh’s allegations, we took appropriate actions in response.”
Cortes completed his cardiology fellowship with LAC + USC Medical Center in June 2017, shortly before accepting his current position as a cardiac electrophysiology fellow at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. He was suspended in May 2018 following the allegations and remains suspended with pay. 
Following a Los Angeles Times article detailing Zareh’s suit allegations, the Medical Board of California began an investigation. The complainant also took a leave of absence from her fellowship program at LAC + USC Medical Center and has since become a cardiac research fellow at another location. 
Leslie Levy, Zareh’s attorney, wrote in an email to the Daily Trojan that the medical board decision did not provide complete justice, as USC and L.A. County — two entities which suppressed Zareh’s allegations — remain unpunished.
“This is one more example of USC’s failure to protect women from sexual assault,” Levy wrote. “USC and the County did not take [Zareh’s] complaint seriously and instead retaliated against her. The persons responsible for the retaliation and those who failed to act in accordance with the law remain seemingly untouched in positions of power.”
Cortes’ legal counsel declined to provide a statement before publication.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
