A judge overseeing the Operation Varsity Blues case will not be dismissing charges against the parents in the scandal, he wrote in a memorandum entered into federal court Friday. The filing follows motions by the defendants requesting the case be dropped in light of allegations of prosecutorial misconduct.
Waiving charges is admissible only in cases of egregious government misconduct and lacks precedent in the Massachusetts District Court, where the admissions case is being heard, U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton wrote in the memorandum. He contended that insufficient evidence had been presented to legitimately accuse the government of intentional investigatory wrongdoing.
“After consideration of the extensive briefing, affidavits and other information provided by the government and defendants, the Court is satisfied that the government has not lied to or misled the Court,” the memorandum read.
The 14 parents who have pleaded not guilty in the college admissions case filed a motion in March alleging that government investigators deliberately withheld evidence and that the delays in releasing the documents obstructed the parents’ ability to construct a defense.
“The Government offered no explanation for its delay in producing the exculpatory information, though its sur-reply revealed that the information had been in its possession for at least two months,” the motion read. “And the Government once again reiterated that it was ‘not withholding exculpatory evidence.’”
The defendants also accused the prosecution of manipulating scheme organizer William “Rick” Singer’s testimony when prosecutors released notes from Singer’s iPhone that called the government’s interrogation “loud and abrasive.” Singer’s notes also claimed that a prosecutor had told him to lie about having told the parents he worked with that their payments would fund legitimate causes rather than bribes. The motion submitted in March asked that the charges be waived due to the alleged coercion and the delayed release of evidence.
“Singer’s notes reveal the Government’s efforts to fabricate inculpatory evidence against Defendants, including by drafting scripts to guide Singer during calls,” the memorandum accompanying the motion read. “Other evidence in the case shows that Singer followed the Government’s directions and further undermines the substance of the recordings.”
Singer’s documents do not evidentiate claims that the prosecutors extrapolated his witness statement inappropriately, Gorton wrote. According to the filing Friday, the questioning discussed in the notes was not directly related to the parents named in the case, but rather to another scheme Singer was planning to recruit new parents, and Singer wrote the notes before agreeing to fully cooperate with government prosecutors.
“To the extent the defendants are dissatisfied with Singer’s purported denials of any wrongdoing in connection with his rehearsed telephone calls, they will have ample opportunity to cross examine him if and when he testifies at trial,” Gorton wrote in his memorandum.
The 14 parents, 11 with USC ties, who have pleaded not guilty and are fighting charges in the college admissions case will stand trial in Boston federal court beginning Oct. 5. The case is expected to proceed as planned despite interruptions to normal courtroom proceedings due to the coronavirus pandemic.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
