USC football players shared a letter to Gov. Gavin Newsom Tuesday asking him to move toward allowing a fall football season in the Pac-12 Conference.
The letter, signed “The USC Football Players,” states the group believes “science and technology have turned in favor of playing,” due to developments after the Pac-12 postponed all fall sports in August. It cited the Pac-12’s partnership with Quidel Corporation to pilot a daily antigen testing system guaranteeing test results within an hour and promising a significant infection curb.
“As California goes, so too does the Pac-12 Conference,” the letter read. “We believe that if the state of California endorses our season, the conference, other states, respective county public health officials and university leaders will follow.”
The letter also referenced other college football conferences, such as the ACC, as well as the NFL beginning their seasons last weekend and asked why the Pac-12 cannot do the same. 
Junior wide receiver Amon-Ra St. Brown was the first to tweet the letter, telling Newsom that “we want a chance.” Sophomore quarterback Kedon Slovis followed to add a message of his own.
“Most schools have a fraction of the resources that our school and conference have provided to play safely,” Slovis tweeted to Newsom with the letter. “You are the only thing holding us back.”
Head coach Clay Helton also tweeted his support of his players’ voices, and offensive coordinator Graham Harrell quote-tweeted Slovis’ message with one of his own, praising his team’s work ethic despite the postponement of the season and advocating for an opportunity to play.
The letter stated there are excessive restrictions, both at the state and local level, that limit practice and competition — among them, USC cannot practice in groups of more than 12 or use indoor facilities. 
On Aug. 26, the Trojan football and water polo teams had to pause workouts for 13 days after nine student-athletes tested positive for the coronavirus.
The Pac-12 joined the Big 10 as the only Power 5 conferences to postpone fall seasons due to concerns over testing availability and safety.
The USC Football Players’ letter addressed the #WeAreUnited Players’ Tribune letter published Aug. 2 by Pac-12 players, claiming that the movement did not reflect players wanting to opt out of the season but rather that players wanted health and safety to drive the conference’s decisions.
“We respect the careful and cautious approach you have taken to college athletics, and we have the utmost confidence that we can partner together to quickly develop a plan that allows us to compete in a 2020 fall football season,” the letter read. “Let’s find a way to say ‘yes!’ Please let us play.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
