The coronavirus test positivity rate in the USC community has climbed over the last two weeks, reaching 8.9% for students and 1.8% for employees tested at Student Health from July 5 to 12, Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman announced in a communitywide memo Thursday. 
Twenty-seven of 304 students’ tests were positive, an increase Van Orman attributed to congregate living environments and gatherings, especially those held over Fourth of July weekend. One of 55 employees — with one test pending — tested positive for the virus, and Van Orman wrote that employee exposure has come mainly from the failure to adhere to social distancing guidelines during meal breaks. 
“We are seeing some worrisome trends emerge from this smaller population that our community should take into consideration,” Van Orman wrote. “We are at a critical juncture where our individual and collective actions can change the course of our future state.”
Students exposed have been contacted and isolated, and Van Orman implored adherence to medical instruction — including contact tracing — to curb the virus’ spread.
Van Orman wrote that face coverings, 6-foot distancing, cleaning and thorough sanitation have proven effective in limiting the spread of the coronavirus and that workplace configurations have been suitable for reducing transmission.
She added that there has been no transmission among students currently living in residence halls, crediting the same precautionary measures as those implemented in the workplace as well as takeout dining.
Van Orman reiterated her advice against gatherings, linking them to the recent spike in student exposure whereas previous cases resulted from community spread and travel. Additionally, she advised that students refrain from traveling during the semester.
Los Angeles County confirmed 4,244 and 2,103 hospitalizations Tuesday — each record-highs since the onset of the pandemic. Van Orman warned that overwhelming capacity in various health care units poses a threat to individuals’ access to crucial care. 
“The public health conditions around COVID-19 in Los Angeles are becoming increasingly concerning with rapid increases in the number of infections,” Van Orman wrote. “We are counting on our community to personally reduce risks, take the necessary precautions, eliminate group gatherings, and work with our health care providers, public health officials, contact tracing team, safety ambassadors, and other campus partners to keep our community safe.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
