Former Trojan Austin Jackson has found his NFL home, as the offensive tackle was selected by the Miami Dolphins with the 18th overall pick in the first round of the NFL Draft Thursday night.
“Beyond blessed that the Miami Dolphins took this bet on me,” Jackson said via Instagram. “I’m excited to get to work and prove them right.”
Jackson was the Dolphins’ second first-round pick of this draft, and his assignment will be to protect their first: former Alabama quarterback Tua Tagovailoa, a 2017 national champion, who was selected at No. 5 overall by Miami.
“It’s no pressure at all,” Jackson said of protecting a franchise quarterback in Tagovailoa. “I’m glad I’m with a great team and a team that believes in me, and I’m just really excited to get out there with the guys and build something special.” 
Jackson was the fifth offensive lineman selected in this year’s draft.
As the youngest tackle in his draft class, Jackson will have room to grow with a Dolphins team that struggled to a 5-11 finish in 2019 — last place in the AFC East. Miami’s offense finished with the sixth-fewest total yards per game last season, including the fewest rushing yards per game with just 72.3 and the eighth-fewest points per game with 19.1. 
“I’m excited to get down there and meet up with a great group of guys and start working and see where this thing takes us,” Jackson said in a video posted to the Dolphins’ Twitter.
Jackson appeared in all 39 games of his USC career, starting every game in his sophomore and junior years. He was named Pac-12 Offensive Lineman of the Week for his performance against Stanford in Week 2 of the 2019 season and made the 2019 All-Pac-12 First Team. Coming out of North Canyon High School in Phoenix, Jackson was the No. 35 overall recruit in the Class of 2017 as a four-star.
Jackson became the 82nd first-round draft pick from USC of all time, the second most of any university behind Ohio State. The two schools entered the evening tied at 81, but the Buckeyes jumped in front when defensive end Chase Young and cornerback Jeff Okudah were drafted No. 2 and No. 3 overall, respectively. 
Jackson’s first round selection should come as no surprise, as he was projected to be chosen on day one of the draft by many NFL analysts. While Jackson will likely be the only USC player selected Thursday, he is expected to join wide receiver and fellow Trojan Michael Pittman Jr. as 2020 draftees. Linebacker John Houston Jr., defensive lineman Christian Rector and offensive tackle Drew Richmond are also projected as potential late-round selections.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
