“Full House” actress Lori Loughlin and her husband, fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli, have agreed to plead guilty for fraud in the college admissions case for paying for their daughters’ USC acceptances as false athletic recruits.
According to court documents filed Thursday, Loughlin and Giannulli have submitted plea agreements acknowledging their roles in the Operation Varsity Blues scandal and will enter their official pleas in court Friday. 
The plea agreements come after a judge on the case rejected the parents’ requests to drop charges in light of allegations that federal prosecutors had coerced William “Rick” Singer, the organizer of the admissions scheme and a cooperating witness in the investigation, into falsely testifying that the parents knew their payments would be used to bribe university officials. The parents stated they had believed the money they paid to secure their children’s admissions would fund legitimate university programs, making them legitimate donations permitted in the college application process.
Federal prosecutors have recommended Loughlin be sentenced to two months in prison, two years of supervised release and 100 hours of community service, in addition to being fined $150,000. Giannulli’s recommended penalty is a five-month prison sentence with two years of supervised release, 250 hours of community service and a $250,000 fine. 
Loughlin is set to plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, while Giannulli will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud. The prosecution has agreed to waive the other two charges, conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and conspiracy to commit money laundering, in exchange for the plea. 
Loughlin and Giannulli first pleaded not guilty in April 2019 after being named in the admissions scandal in March, when the federal investigation was first released publicly. They faced a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison each for paying Singer $500,000 to arrange their two daughters’ fraudulent admissions. 
Singer enlisted the help of senior associate athletic director Donna Heinel, who presented the older daughter to an admissions committee in October 2016 and the younger daughter in November 2017, both as award-winning rowing recruits — although neither played the sport. The Giannullis are no longer enrolled at USC, the University confirmed in October.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
