An update regarding several new health and safety measures, including campus housing, contact tracing and classes for the fall semester was relayed in an Universitywide email from Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman Monday. 
As USC continues to plan for the on-campus fall semester amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and a surge of cases in Southern California, Van Orman stated that reducing campus density is critical to the University’s assurance of safety and compliance with Los Angeles County Department of Health guidelines.
“Campus housing is being reconfigured for appropriate distancing between students residing on campus,” the memo read. “All rooms will be single occupancy this year.”
Approximately 98% of USC freshmen live in USC housing, the majority in traditional double or triple bedrooms. According to the memo, all students living in USC housing will partake in daily symptom checks available online that are required each time students enter USC housing or the campus at large. Students will use the Trojan Check system that will give students an access code.
Van Orman wrote that further details regarding USC Housing’s procedures will be announced shortly.
The memo also announced details regarding the University’s contact tracing team, which will consist of Student Health professionals. The team has been working to identify, trace and isolate positive coronavirus cases on campus since the pandemic’s emergence earlier this year. However, the group will remain in place for the fall to quarantine and isolate infected individuals and their contacts.
Additionally, the memo released new information regarding University classes — an update to previous announcements that have been made regarding hybrid, remote or in-person instruction. While some schools, such as the School of Cinematic Arts, have already announced adapting instruction in the fall, Van Orman wrote that in-person classes will likely only be able to accommodate 30 to 40 students in order to maintain 6 feet of physical distance during instruction.
The memo also states that students will be able to check if their courses are in person, hybrid or online through WebReg, the University’s registration system, in the coming weeks. Though outbreaks are expected to occur, isolation and quarantine procedures will be available and required, Van Orman wrote.
“All students should have honest and thoughtful conversations about their personal health and well-being with their families and/or personal support networks in order to decide whether any sort of campus-return is right for them,” the memo read. “While USC is prepared to provide support through dedicated accommodations and regular check-ins, quarantine and isolation may be difficult for many students.”
Van Orman also urged students to consider that student life will look drastically different in the fall and that large social gatherings and close-contact exposures, such as congregating with large groups of friends, will be strictly prohibited. However, the University has yet to make any explicit announcement regarding enforcement mechanisms or how it will prevent students from gathering. 
“Safe, physically distanced outdoor activities, as well as some in-person dining and meetings will be permitted through University and L.A. County guidelines,” the memo read. “We are currently working on a number of exciting extracurricular, professional, and cultural programs, initiatives and events to keep students engaged and thriving — intellectually, socially and emotionally.”
While more information about student life considerations will be released soon, the memo also outlined steps all students must take before returning to campus, including completing immunizations, committing to receiving a flu shot in late September and early October, completing the “Health, Hygiene and Safety for Students” online training through TrojanLearn launching July 1, updating current home addresses in OASIS and creating a support plan. 
The memo also stated that all travelers from international destinations must undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine, as required by the L.A. County Department of Public Health. 
“This requirement, combined with other U.S. government travel restrictions for non-U.S. citizens, pose difficulties for arrival and in-person attendance for our international students this semester; the University and academic programs will be sharing guidance on navigating this situation very soon,” the memo read. 
According to the email, the University will communicate further information about the fall semester return in the coming weeks.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
