The School of Cinematic Arts plans to host all incoming freshman courses online and announced plans for division-specific hybrid courses in a schoolwide email sent by Dean Elizabeth Daley Monday. SCA is the first school to outline its specific internal plans for the fall semester. 
SCA’s announcement that all incoming freshmen will attend online classes differs from University-level announcements that have been made in the past few weeks indicating no freshman-specific course plans. However, in line with Project Restart, USC’s initiative to plan for the fall semester amid coronavirus public health concerns, all incoming graduate, transfer and continuing students will have the option to attend hybrid or in-person classes or opt for remote learning. 
“While we are one school, each of our seven divisions has developed strategies that best suit the needs of their students and specific curriculum,” Daley’s email read. 
Daley outlined the current plan for each of the school’s divisions and highlighted specific classes that will be taught in a hybrid manner, with a mix of in-person and remote activities. Film and Television Production — one of SCA’s most hands-on programs, which typically requires students to collaboratively work in person — will host lecture courses online. 
For the major’s production courses, students will complete pre-production phases remotely, in-person instruction to work with actors, crew and principal photography. Post-production mixing and editing will take place online.
“This approach preserves the collaborative, creative experience of working in media production while remaining safe,” Daley wrote. “In fact, this workflow that moves between online and in-person activities is exactly what is being done today in professional film and television productions. Giving students the opportunity to learn the protocols that they will need to know on graduation.”
This announcement comes two months after a Change.org petition circulated among students encouraging the production division to suspend the physical production track if Fall classes were to be online. The petition had more than 800 signatures at the time of publication.
“Physical production requires learning the physical tools and techniques,” wrote Gerardo Garcia, a rising senior majoring in film and television production. “The students of SCA production deserve a quality education that [includes] hands-on education.”
The announced plans for a hybrid production program will incorporate online lectures and production with amended hands-on instruction compliant with public safety measures.
For SCA’s other programs, almost all courses will be conducted virtually. Interactive Media and Games, the John Wells Division of Writing for Screen and Television, the John C. Hench Division of Animation and Digital Arts, Cinema and Media Studies and Media Arts and Practice will hold nearly all of their labs and classes online, with the exception of a few smaller courses.
The email also outlines plans for the Animation and Digital Arts program to record classes for asynchronous playback to ensure that international students who may experience travel restrictions or visa delays can attend class.
“Despite COVID-19 and the challenges it has presented, we want to assure you that this semester will be an opportunity to meet those challenges alongside our industry, and that you will be supported by our faculty, staff and fellow students,” the email read. “The plans we are making for you for this coming fall will indeed follow the same protocols that are being used in the professional community.”
For programs that require specific resources and software that must be accessed in person, SCA is in the process of creating a plan for labs to be held with social distance precautions in place, including the use of sign-up sheets, adjusted equipment check-out procedure and frequent sanitation of communal spaces.
SCA also encouraged students to plan and host virtual events and online gatherings so they can connect with one another. The Cinema and Media Studies division will host a CAMS Slack channel for undergraduate students to create online social gatherings, such as forums and reading groups.
The school also announced its commitment to areas of online student engagement outside of classes and looks to create new opportunities, such as virtual entertainment industry chats and special guest sessions, for students in the fall.
The email, however, emphasized that these plans are still subject to change as more information about the fall semester and the coronavirus become available to the school.
“Our approach to a fall return is based on what we know now, but is contingent upon on-going directives by local and state officials, the spread of COVID-19, and guidance from health officials,” the email read. “Based on these dynamic factors, we will be continually reviewing safety protocols and will pivot as necessary to ensure, to the best of our ability, the safety, health and security of our students, faculty and staff.”
The email encouraged students with concerns or questions about the fall semester to reach out to division-specific advisers and administrators.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
