The Undergraduate Student Government voted to pass the Native American Student Assembly vote of confidence results during Tuesday night’s Senate meeting, thereby officially incorporating the assembly following a successful trial period that ran over the course of the fall semester. USG also passed the Transfer Student Assembly Resolution, which formally incorporates the assembly pending a successful trial period and vote of confidence, along with the DivestSC Resolution, which calls on USC to publicly commit to a transparent and rapid divestment from the fossil fuel industry. 
NASA’s incorporation into USG has been years in the making. USG was first asked to consider incorporating the new assembly in 2018 but opted not to because the prospective assembly lacked the five umbrella student organizations to operate underneath the assembly that were needed to qualify for incorporation. Last spring, a resolution was passed that allowed 50 undergraduate student signatures for NASA to qualify for incorporation. 
Now, following a successful trial period and a vote of confidence from both the programming board and Senate, NASA’s directors are ready to expand on the progress they’ve made.
“[We want to] expose the greater USC community to Native American culture, the diversity of it, the richness of it,” said Kolton Nephew, a junior majoring in journalism and NASA co-director. “Basically, just to educate the greater community of who we are, where we come from and what we stand for.”
Maracea Chase, a junior majoring in cinema and media studies, co-directs NASA along with Nephew and emphasized the significance of the assembly’s incorporation into USG. 
“So many [Native Americans] don’t get the opportunity to go and get a higher education, they don’t get the opportunities that we do for multiple reasons,” Chase said. “Just being able to sit here and say that we advocated for something and we have a space that students can look forward to — that they can get off the reservation, they can come and get higher education, they can attend the prestigious university like USC and they have the community behind them to support them while they’re there — I think it’s amazing.”
Aside from the tangible programming opportunities that the assembly will now be able to provide, its incorporation also grants a sense of acknowledgment to USC’s Native American students that both Nephew and Chase believe is incredibly important. 
“When people don’t acknowledge your existence, they don’t acknowledge the rest of you as a whole,” Nephew said. “I’ve had occurrences with my peers and fellow USC faculty that lead into little microaggressive things just because they did not understand and even acknowledge that we even still exist … being in a community, in an environment that does not acknowledge your existence plays into the different stereotypes and different microaggressions as a whole.”
The Senate also voted to pass the DivestSC resolution, which, in addition to calling on USC to divest from the fossil fuel industry, also calls on University administration to reinvest clean technologies and renewable energy while considering climate risk in its investment strategy. 
DivestSC is a student-led campaign that pressured the University to disclose its $277 million investment in the fossil fuel industry last January. For years, the campaign has urged USC to be more transparent with its investments in the industry and adopt cleaner investment practices. The campaign also hopes to get the resolution passed by the Graduate Student Government and the Faculty Senate as part of a broader effort to persuade USC to divest.
“The resolutions themselves are designed to just affirm support,” said Nathaniel Hyman, a senior majoring in public policy who co-chairs Divest SC. “We just want the faculty, the undergrads and the graduates on the record in support of this ask. It makes it more likely that the University will have to actually grapple with the issue and we believe that if they grapple with it, they’ll see the logic in the ask.”
In response to potential concerns regarding whether or not USC should prioritize divestment in light of other pressing issues such as the coronavirus pandemic, Tianna Shaw-Wakeman, a senior majoring in psychology who co-chairs DivestSC with Hyman, said that focusing on divestment need not come at the expense of other pressing priorities. 
“USC has a lot of money … which means that how it chooses to invest that matters and that it affects all of the other aspects of our life, from health, to equity, justice,” Shaw-Wakeman said. “So therefore, it’s not that divestment and  reinvestment is [more important than] working on solving these public health crises or instead of working on matters DEI. Instead, it matters in conjunction with those things — it’s all related and that it’s all connected.”
The 2021 elections code for the upcoming election cycle was presented at the end of the meeting. No new articles were added to the code, however, some changes to the code were made. Among these changes were the Wellness Initiative Pact and the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative. The Wellness Pact requires candidates to attend an hour-long wellness workshop hosted by USC Student Health Center prior to election season. The DEI Initiative requires candidates to attend a workshop and sign a pact recognizing their responsibility to “create and advocate for a more equitable and inclusive environment that benefits the entire student body.”. 
All forms of physical campaigning will be prohibited — including handouts, stickers, T-shirts or any physical items endorsing a candidate or ticket — but digital campaigning will be allowed.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
On Sept. 17, family and friends spoke at Karan Nevatia’s memorial service in Altadena. Here are four eulogies that were delivered by a few of Karan’s friends from the Daily Trojan.
Emma Peplow: ‘Karan’s life was a gift’
In her poem “Uses of Sorrow,” Mary Oliver writes, “Someone I loved once gave me a box full of darkness / It took me years to understand that this, too, was a gift.” 
A friend, who is a lot wiser than me, sent this to me the day after Karan’s passing. 
I read it and thought, “That’s a beautiful sentiment, but there’s no gift here. We were given a box full of darkness, and that’s the end of this poem. There’s no second stanza, no lesson, no sermon, no reason.”
But in the last few days, I’ve thought a lot about the idea of gifts. The gifts we give to each other and the ones we give to ourselves. Karan was by his very nature a giver. He gave to others but rarely to himself.
I remember the very first time I formally met Karan. I was interviewing him for the position of news editor of the Daily Trojan. I was very jaded about the idea of coming back for a second semester as editor-in-chief. I had been selfishly and petulantly sulking all day about losing my last semester of college to long hours and hard work. I was less than thrilled at the prospect of spending my afternoon interviewing a freshman for a page editor position, thinking about all of the energy I would have to expend over the course of the next semester to show them the ropes. 
Karan knocked on my door and his face erupted into a smile. His curls were tucked away under a newsboy cap. “The newsboy cap is a little on the nose for a news editor interview,” I thought, but gestured him in anyway.  I indolently recited my very boilerplate questions and then asked at the end if he had any questions for me. I was bracing myself for him to ask what the time commitment would be like, when he would hear back or any of the other selfish questions I myself asked when I was in his shoes. But instead, he asked, “What’s your favorite part about being on the Daily Trojan?” I paused for a moment, surprised. And then spent a half hour recounting everything I loved about the newspaper. It was like he knew I needed a reminder of why I loved this job. He went out of his way to make space for me in his job interview. 
And he would keep doing this for the three years I knew him. Karan was one of the smartest people I’ve ever known — much smarter than me, as evidenced by him absolutely destroying me in the crossword puzzles we would do every late night we spent at the Daily Trojan newsroom. He was always two steps ahead of me. But even more than that, he could figure out what I needed before I did and would do anything to give it to me. 
For example, he single-handedly commissioned the “Emma Peplow Award for News Excellence” to be given out each semester at the Daily Trojan banquet. Not because I deserved it — but because I think he knew I thought I didn’t. He was objectively a better news editor than I could have ever been, and yet he gave that gift to me and never once considered it for himself. 
In the last year of his life, Karan and I talked more days than not. And yet, even when his pain reached unbearable levels, he was still decentering himself and recentering me. He was asking questions about me, like that very first day we met in my Daily Trojan office. I had always thought it was a master class in empathy — and I still truly believe that — but I also think it was deflection. He was giving gifts to others he did not or could not give to himself. 
I thought about this a lot in the days after Karan’s passing—trying desperately to make sense of Mary Oliver’s words of how a box of darkness can become a gift. And then, one night, I was lying in bed, petulantly sulking like I was the afternoon I met Karan for the first time, when my friend Tomás said something to me over the phone that made it all come together. He said, “Emma, we were so lucky to have him for the time we did.” 
I thought about this for hours after we hung up. The idea of luck and serendipity and magic. How rare it is to find and how much rarer it is to hold onto. The gift that Karan gave to those who knew and loved him was the gift of unconditional friendship. Of joy and laughter and validation and encouragement. He was a supernova on Earth. His life was brief, but his spirit was all-consuming. His light was too bright, too powerful, too awesome to last. But for those of us who witnessed it, we got to see a little bit of magic on Earth. 
Karan gave gifts his whole life, but in his death, he gave us one last gift. He brought us back to each other. The nature of college, and really of early adulthood as a whole, is that going your separate ways is part of the design. It can feel like everything has an ending, but it is cleverly disguised by everything also feeling like a beginning. People come into our lives and they neatly exit, and we move on without goodbyes or partings that feel sufficient or correlative to the love we gave and received during our time together. In the last few weeks, I have reconnected with so many friends and people I love. And it’s because of Karan. Karan loved nothing more than to make other people happy and to bring people together. And though his death is grief-drenched, saturated in pain and confusion and sadness — though it is a box of darkness — being together is the gift. Separated by time zones and seasons of life, we were brought back to each other once again to say a goodbye that none of us could fully wrap our arms around on our own. It’s the last gift he gave us after a lifetime of gifts. 
So, maybe Mary Oliver, in all of her wisdom, was right, and I was wrong. Karan’s life was a gift. Our ability to love and be loved by him was a gift. But maybe turning this box of darkness into a gift isn’t about us receiving at all; it’s about carrying a piece of Karan’s legacy with us and giving to those we love. Making them feel as special as he made us feel. The gift is how we follow in his example. 
I think back to how unhappy I was the day I met Karan about the idea of spending another semester as editor of the Daily Trojan when I really felt like I was ready to say goodbye to it. And yet, that box of darkness turned out to be the greatest gift — because I met Karan. He changed the course of my life and asked for nothing in return. He gave me the tools to grieve and cope with his loss, maybe without even knowing it. 
I want to conclude with a gift I’ve given to myself recently. When I think about Karan, I think about how much he loved to be in the open air, his head nestled in the soft grass, watching the sunset. I hope on that final night, he watched the sunset one last time — and that, despite the smoke from the wildfires, it was beautiful. I hope he was barefoot, lying in a grassy field, and the air felt warm and buoyant like it only does at the end of the summer. I hope the sky was overwhelming and he felt at peace. I hope the L.A. skyline was saturated in oranges and pinks and purples and the world felt still for a moment. And in fact, I hope all of this so much that I choose to believe it, as a gift to myself and as a gift to Karan. He deserved one last perfect sunset, one more instant of magic before his own magic was used up. I choose to remember him there.
Each sunset will be a reminder of the gifts he gave to me, and this image of him in his last moments, barefoot and smiling, facing the L.A. skyline, is a gift I’ve given to myself. In my mind, Karan will forever be a beautiful boy soaking in the colors of a sunset. 
I hope this for all of you too. I hope you can think of all of the gifts his life gave to you instead of the boxes of darkness. I hope in interviews you take the time to ask the interviewer about themselves. I hope you ask people questions more days than not, even if just to make them feel loved and valued. I hope on your worst days you award yourself the “Karan Nevatia Award for Excellence” — not necessarily even because you deserve it, but because he thought you did. But most of all, I hope you can give yourself the gift of remembering the gift of Karan’s life and seeing past the box of darkness that is grief. 
Thank you for everything, Karan. You’re always with me. You always will be. You’re a gift. And I love you. 
For one last time, it’s you and me and all of our friends together in print.
Emma Peplow served as Karan’s editor-in-chief on the Daily Trojan from Fall 2017 to Spring 2018.

Tomás Mier: ‘My dream partner’
When I met Karan, I was a little jealous. I’m not gonna lie. Karan had this infectious smile and lovable personality that I only wish I had. 
He walked into the Daily Trojan newsroom and had this presence that just set him apart from everyone else. He made everyone feel like they belonged.
I guess I felt threatened by him … seriously. I was like, ‘Who is this new dude taking my spotlight? The eyes are supposed to be on me!! ’
Oh, and he was obsessed with a girl group?? That was supposed to be MY thing.
But I soon realized — how the heck am I not supposed to love this guy? He was the perfect addition to our newsroom. Sometimes, we were in there for hours — well into the night — and we needed someone like Karan to put a smile on our faces or hands on our shoulders … Karan gave the best massages.
He’d go around the center table and offer to give us the most relaxing shoulder rubs after a long day. That was just one of the more obvious things that he’d do to make everyone feel better, but he ALWAYS found a way to be helpful and loving.
We often bickered about which girl group was better: Fifth Harmony or TLC? I never admitted it out loud — but he was always right. (but that stays between us here today, OK?)
Our “girl group rivalry” even led us to writing a silly press release to the newsroom to make it clear that there was only love between us two.  And there really was.
Karan was great at puns and alliteration and loved filling out crossword puzzles. (I always chose to let him fill them out on his own while I just sat next to him and watched because my limited vocabulary simply provided no support as he whizzed through them.)
Perhaps we weren’t the best puzzle partners, but Karan and I made the perfect reporting team. Two years ago, when USC’s president announced that he’d resign — Karan and I worked together to write and report a breaking news story. We were speedy yet thorough. And we even got an award for our reporting. 
One time, he was assigned a story to write with someone else, and I remember him messaging me saying he’d rather work with me because we were a “dream team.”
Today, I miss my dream partner.
Before leaving, Karan said his legacy was up to us. And what a marvelous legacy he left. 
At the Daily Trojan, he started not one podcast but THREE all on his own. He created a whole department from scratch with the best foundation for it to continue for years to come. During his last semester at the Daily Trojan, he founded a wellness department where — even if he was going through his own struggles — he would schedule times to check in with every single person in the newsroom. That initiative is one that other student organizations on campus now emulate. It’s Karan’s doing that led to it. And that was just the kind of person that he was.
Karan also told us that as long as we remembered him, he’d be happy. And how could we not remember him? From his powerful writing to his beautiful personality to his interesting singing …
We’ve all heard Karan belt the lyrics to “No Scrubs.” He’d put in so much heart singing along to T-Boz, Chilli and Left Eye. His notes were off-tune, but his renditions were perfect. 
They were perfect, because they were Karan’s. 
At Daily Trojan gatherings, Karan was the star of the show. Whoever was in charge of the playlist that night would sneakily add “No Scrubs” to the queue and once the first few notes started playing, a circle of flashing phones would instantly emerge around him. Everyone would sing along and post Karan to their Snapchats. 
That’s how I’m going to remember him.
About a year ago, Karan was interviewed by NPR about “No Scrubs.” During it, he said that it made him feel good when he saw his performances bring smiles to people’s faces. 
In the interview he said, “Something I worry about after college is losing touch with people again. And I think that ‘No Scrubs’ will continue to be something that will keep us connected.” 
And he was right. “No Scrubs” will always be a reminder of the beautiful friend, son and partner we had in Karan.
My friendship with Karan shifted into brotherhood last summer when I asked Karan to be the managing editor of the Daily Trojan. Without hesitation, he’d take on more responsibilities than his job entailed just to make my job easier. 
The following semester was one of the toughest for Karan — and for me as well. His mind was weighing heavily on him, and I worried for him every single day. One night, I sprinted from the DT newsroom to Karan’s apartment after he texted me that he didn’t feel well. I needed to be there for him like he had been there for me. 
We talked for hours and he explained to me how sometimes he felt that he wasn’t meant to be in this world, that he had more to offer to the universe. His thoughts consumed him and I never knew what to respond. 
During his life, I tried desperately to protect him, to be his guardian, if I could. But now that he’s gone, the roles are reversed. Now, he’s my protector. He’s my guardian. And my memories of him provide me comfort. I’m going to pray to him and talk to him. I’m going to ask him to send me a hint of his wisdom, a hint of his passion, a hint of his courage. 
Karan, wherever you are, I hope you’re doing OK, buddy. And I hope you’re in the arms of your favorite person to ever exist: Lisa Left Eye. I hope that you’re listening to your favorite podcasts. I hope that there are enough crossword puzzles for you to fill out. I hope that you’re looking down at us now, smiling because so many people love you. And we’ll NEVER stop loving you.
I wasn’t ready to let you go, but I just hope that you’re happy. 
Thank you Smita and Ranajit for bringing such a beautiful person into my life. 
Karan, thank you for being a big part of my life.
Tomás Mier served as Karan’s news editor, managing editor and editor-in-chief on the Daily Trojan from Fall 2017 to Fall 2019.

Natalie Bettendorf: ‘Someone who listens’
Karan and I are sitting on the balcony of the Daily Trojan newsroom. The windows are open, framing the two of us sitting on the ledge and facing the production bustle. It’s evening, kind of warm out. You can see the buildings of downtown to our right, sparkling from sunset. Jonathon, the video editor, tilts his head at us, ducked behind the camera. He’s shooting our podcast recruitment video.
I’m telling you a story with my voice. Karan loved stories as much as any of us. But he also held such an affinity for the importance of audio, of listening to a human voice, in journalistic endeavors. When Jonathon asked what Karan loved about podcasts in that moment, he said simply, and these are his words: “It’s kind of cliché now to say that audio is intimate. Sound is one of the few senses where it’s immersive, whereas with vision you can only see ‘this much.’ With your ears, you can hear all around you. Like I can hear some construction happening in the back, I can hear people talking in the newsroom. I can hear myself talking as well. So that’s why I think that it’s such a good way to impart news upon people.”
Karan had the most faith in me when it came to my work at Daily Trojan. He was my news editor in my freshman year. He encouraged me to be his assistant when he re-launched the podcast section. He approached me with his idea of a Wellness Initiative for the staff, and all of last summer, we worked together on developing a plan for reconstructing the ways we talk and write about mental health in the newsroom. 
Karan listened. He listened to editors talk about what was overwhelming them in one-on-one meetings. He listened to soothing sounds when he himself was overwhelmed. He listened to The 1975. He listened to true crime, health and world news podcasts. He listened, a lot, to Left Eye. He sat next to me in the Ace Hotel when we both listened to Michael Barbaro — not through headphones on “The Daily,” but in person. He listened to families and friends who had lost loved ones and wrote beautiful obituaries for our paper. He listened, and he wrote. He listened, and he sang. 
His most prized possession were those headphones, you know the ones I’m talking about. The comfy black ones with green rims. I wish Karan could listen to the sound of the ocean, that or the songs waiting for him on his Discover Weekly playlist. I wish he could still listen to laughter, perhaps his own. He had some of my favorite qualities that a person can have. Most notably, someone who listens is someone who cares. And I know how grateful he was to you all for listening too. Thank you.
Natalie Bettendorf helped launch the podcast department and wellness initiative at the Daily Trojan alongside Karan from Fall 2018 to Fall 2019.
Kylie Cheung: ‘Such a spark of brilliance’
Karan has always been larger than life. He had the biggest hugs, the brightest smiles, the greatest capacity for love and warmth and joy. Even in this extraordinarily difficult time, what I’ll remember most vividly is how when we were together, we could be our silliest selves, our goofiest selves, our happiest selves, even our saddest selves — more than anything, we could just be ourselves, whatever we were feeling. 
In the time we spent together, I could have spent hours listening to him speak with unfiltered passion about the South Central community, education, the students and youth he volunteered with, journalism, storytelling, podcasts, wellness, music and, as I’m sure you’ll hear from other people here today, Harry Potter and TLC. It was a joy to listen to someone who cared so much and loved so much, someone with such a spark of brilliance, originality, compassion. And no one in my life has ever been a more supportive, attentive listener than Karan was, not only to me but to anyone who was lucky enough to occupy a place in his enormously loving heart. Time and again, he was someone who was willing to uproot his life to support those he loved through anything — there was nothing more important to him than making sure those around him knew how loved and special they were. 
My time at USC, my life as a whole — there is so much I couldn’t have done without this special, special person. He encouraged me to follow my dreams. He reminded me to take care of myself. And looking forward, I know everything I do for the rest of my life will be to honor the time we had together, to honor the values and the love we shared. I am going to hold Karan in my heart forever, as close and as tight as one of his iconic hugs. And I am praying for everyone here today and everyone who loves him. 
Kylie Cheung served as Karan’s associate managing editor on the Daily Trojan in Spring 2018.

Read Karan Nevatia’s obituary here.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Late nights in the Daily Trojan newsroom were hardly ever quiet. Many days Karan Nevatia’s voice would stream into the hallway of the fourth floor of the Student Union as he would begin yet another rendition of his beloved TLC song, “No Scrubs.”
A scrub is a guy that thinks he’s fly
He’s also known as a busta
Always talkin’ about what he wants
And just sits on his broke ass…
Karan’s love for TLC would jump out at all moments both inside and outside the newsroom to boost morale and connect with the people he loved. His joy would always shine through the toughest days when breaking news left editors tired and weary after a back-to-back day. 
Karan, who died by suicide Sept. 11 at age 21, served on the Daily Trojan editorial board for two years, during which he reported on some of the most hard-hitting scandals that rattled USC, built the podcast department from the ground up and advocated for mental health and wellness across the newsroom and beyond. He was a friend to all Daily Trojan editors and staffers, brightening STU 421 with his wide smile and quick-witted remarks. Among family, Karan is remembered for his kind, extremely warm and calm demeanor, his mother Smita said. 
The world was too small for Karan and his effervescent curiosity, his father Ranajit said. Karan entered USC in Fall 2017 as a journalism major on a Trustee Scholarship and was a student in Thematic Option, learning about the power of the written and spoken word. Before his junior year, in June 2020, he declared an additional major in psychology to learn more about the intricacies of the mind and become more informed on ways to support others who have been affected by mental health issues.
While at USC, Karan found a home in the Daily Trojan newsroom. He joined the Daily Trojan before even officially beginning classes at USC as a staff writer for Summer Trojan in 2017 and served as a news assistant, news editor, podcast editor and associate managing editor in the subsequent semesters. He last served as deputy wellness director in Fall 2020. 
He was a go-getter from the start, recalled alumna Emma Peplow, who served as editor-in-chief during Karan’s first year at the Daily Trojan from Fall 2017 to Spring 2018. She remembers that for one of his first stories, Karan was sent to the Health Sciences Campus — a bus ride away — to cover a breaking news story. Peplow was nervous to send a freshman, but Karan insisted he wanted to do it.
“He worked really hard,” Peplow said. “But at the same time, he just generated joy. He could come into a lifeless newsroom and generate joy from nothing. And the joy would just last even after he left the newsroom.”
Karan was always in STU 421, whether he was writing, laying out pages, working with other editors or joking around with the rest of the masthead. He would give shoulder massages to editors, fill out crossword puzzles with them and was always willing to lend a hand even on his days off, Peplow said. 
“You almost had to drag him out of the newsroom at the end of the night because I think he would have stayed there and slept there overnight,” she said. 
Most missed, however, are his renditions of TLC’s “No Scrubs,” which graced the newsroom most days and would always brighten up the room when nights grew long and hard, said alumnus Tomás Mier, Daily Trojan Fall 2019 editor-in-chief who primarily served as Karan’s managing editor at the paper. 
“Even if it was late at night, he would just belt out the lyrics to TLC’s ‘No Scrubs’ and make everybody smile, whether in the newsroom or our Daily Trojan gatherings,” Mier said. “He just had a way of bringing a smile to people’s faces that honestly I don’t think I’ve ever met anybody else who could do that with an off-tune rendition of a ’90s R&B song.”
Many of his peers remember how quickly words would spill from his fingers whenever news broke and how clearly and authentically he would reflect a person in a story. That thoughtfulness and empathy were evident in the columns Karan wrote on everything from education policy to media literacy, Peplow said. They shined especially in his Fall 2020 column titled “On My Mind,” which dealt with navigating mental health. In this column, Karan was open about his own struggles in hopes of aiding other students undergoing similar ones.
“I think Karan’s writing will be one of his strongest legacies,” Peplow said. “He opened up his heart and his mind for all of us to feel a little bit less alone. His writing was so incredibly human. He respected his readers enough to tell them the truth but cared for them enough to create a space based on empathy and understanding. He talked to the reader like they were a friend.”
Alumnus Allen Pham, who served as editor-in-chief during Karan’s second year at the Daily Trojan from Fall 2018 to Spring 2019, said he first noticed Karan’s love and dedication to journalism while covering the scandal surrounding former campus gynecologist George Tyndall that surfaced in May 2018. Karan made time to help with breaking news, despite managing a full-time internship in Brooklyn, Pham said, recalling a particular day when Karan managed to work on a piece on the train home.
“I thought it was one of those moments where I realized, he literally cares — he cares so deeply about journalism and helping other people out when they need it most,” Pham said. 
As an editor at the Daily Trojan, Karan was known for many firsts. After launching what became Daily Trojan’s news podcast “General Education” in April 2018 during his semester as a news editor, he created the podcast department in Fall 2018 and fleshed out three podcasts that still run now, two years later. He also established the newsroom’s wellness initiative in Spring 2019 to support staff and promote camaraderie during long hours in production, which has also continued to grow.
Larger than life
Growing up in Foster City, Calif., Karan discovered his first love in reading, devouring more books than others normally would in their lifetime. At age 3, he was the first in his preschool to pick up a book, Smita said, and he was curious about everything he would consume. 
“It doesn’t matter which subject we would talk about,” Smita said. “If it is politics, if it is countries or what’s going on in the world, he would just be curious about it, find out and then he would know everything.”
Joy Thomas, a family friend who watched Karan grow up, fondly remembers Karan’s inquisitive nature, always creating his own projects to learn more about a topic or issue.
“He would notice other things that other people didn’t, but he was really, really tender-hearted,” Thomas said. “And as he grew up, even though he was introverted, he had a little bit of an entertainer in him where he would put on shows and sing for people and dance.”
A book Karan immersed himself in was Cornelia Funke’s fantasy novel “Inkheart,” in which the fictional author Fenoglio transported into a world that he created. When Karan eventually began writing his own stories, Ranajit said Karan did much of the same: immersing himself into a world larger than life itself. 
Karan’s favorite books were undoubtedly J.K. Rowling’s “Harry Potter” series, which he started reading in elementary school. He became a clear aficionado of the films and visited The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood theme park with his father, going on the rides several times. For his 21st birthday party in August 2020, he organized a Harry Potter murder mystery party over Zoom, fashioning his own mystery story rife with red herrings and secrets and providing each of his 30-something guests with their own intricate character storylines to uncover who poisoned Harry Potter. 
His obsession with “Harry Potter” did not end there. As a high schooler, Karan joined the Harry Potter Alliance, a nonprofit advocacy organization where he connected with other fans while sharing his knowledge of media literacy and podcasts, among other topics. Each year, Karan would attend the Granger Leadership Academy as a student speaker and presenter and was always happy to work on projects throughout the year when asked.
“Everybody in our community has been talking about how smart he was,” said Janae Phillips, director of leadership and education at HPA. “He was so smart and such a leader. But the thing that everyone, of course, remembers was just, he walked into a room and it was just always so joyful.”
From a young age, Karan was always a writer. A few months before his sixth birthday, Karan began publishing his writing on a blog his father helped make for him, titled Karan’s Kreative Kamp, where he wrote about “everyday nothings to everything,” from his thoughts on “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban” to his field trip to the planetarium.
At age 16, Karan was nominated for an award in fiction writing for a story written in the eyes of a 5-year-old Haitian girl.
“He made me cry with that article,” Ranajit said. “Because like, you’ve never been to Haiti, and [you’re] not a 5-year-old. How can you write this?”
Karan could write faster than most can read, Ranajit said. In 2016 and 2017, he successfully completed the National Novel Writing Month challenge twice, for which he was tasked with writing a 50,000 word novel within 30 days. 
In high school, this fervent love of writing turned into a love of journalism. As a part of Aragon High School’s newspaper The Aragon Outlook, Karan wrote stories across sections, including reviews, features, news, sports and obituaries. He served as editor-in-chief his final year. People looked up to him because he was insightful in how he approached his stories, said Scott Silton, Karan’s journalism adviser at Aragon.
“People were understandably attracted to a personality that respected them and listened to them and could do their job better than they did but wouldn’t ever make you feel even the slightest bit inferior,” Silton said. “[He’d say] ‘Nope, you should do this and here’s how to do this and let’s align the bottom here and fix this page.’ He was so gentle in his way. Our world needs more humble and curious people like him.”
Karan’s investment in journalism led him to attend the two-week California Scholastic Press Association journalism workshop in the summer of 2016. Nearly every subsequent summer, Karan returned as a counselor to help teach journalism to high school students. 
For Karan, these two weeks were always the happiest time of the year. According to Meghan Bobrowsky, a senior at Scripps College who met Karan in 2016 and since became one of his closest friends, Karan loved working with kids, and they all looked up to him. 
“All of them loved him,” said Bobrowsky, who also returned to be a counselor for several summers. “He would sing ‘No Scrubs’ for them, and he would be very goofy. He had a lot of different sides to him, and he was just really great with kids — and not even kids, like high schoolers. I think he was a role model for a lot of them … He was just an example for them of what they can do.”
During the two weeks, Karan was always beaming — that is, until the final days of the workshop when he would listen to sad music because he did not want to leave, said Mohi Andrabi, a senior at Occidental College who also met Karan in 2016. Andrabi said Karan always stole the show at the end-of-the-workshop talent show, singing his classic “No Scrubs” rendition. 
“I heard it like 100 times throughout the two weeks that we were at the workshop because the students are always like, ‘Karan, sing ‘No Scrubs’ for us,’” Andrabi said. “And of course, he was always more than happy to sing it at any time.”
An avid listener
It is without a doubt that Karan was enamored with TLC, of which Lisa “Left Eye” Lopes was his favorite member. Since the end of his senior year in high school, “No Scrubs” quickly became his signature song, which became so well-known that NPR brought Karan onto an episode of “Weekend Edition” to share his love for the girl group and the iconic song.
“One day, I was just sitting in the yearbook office just working on something, and I was playing music in the background. And one of the songs I was playing was ‘No Scrubs,’” Karan said in the NPR interview in August 2019. “And because of who I am, which is, like, a nerdy Indian dude, kind of, like, took people aback when they came in and they saw me singing.”
At his high school, the CSPA workshop, the Daily Trojan and beyond, Karan became known as the person who would sing “No Scrubs” all the time. Numerous people have videos of Karan singing, his voice proudly booming over TLC’s voices, his fingers snapping to provide an accompanying beat. 
“It felt like I was putting smiles on other people’s faces, and that made me feel good,” Karan said in the NPR interview. “I’m an introvert, and, like, I’ve never been a singer. I’m kind of a horrible singer. But once I started singing ‘No Scrubs’ over and over, it kind of became second nature to me.”
In summer 2018, Karan and Bobrowsky attended TLC’s concert in Baltimore. It was the first time Karan saw the girl group in person, and Bobrowsky had never seen him happier. 
“They came out, and he was just so happy and singing all the words to the songs and bopping along,” Bobrowsky said. “I think it was just really cool to witness him see something that he’d wanted for so long and that he was so obsessed with, so that was really special.”
According to Ranajit, the name Karan means “listener,” and he lived true to his name. In addition to TLC, Karan consumed podcasts like no one else ever could; he always had his headphones on, listening to podcasts while doing his homework, editing stories in the newsroom and even doing chores around the apartment. 
It was not long into his news editor semester in Spring 2018 when Karan asked Peplow if he could create, produce and host a podcast for Daily Trojan. Despite having little to no knowledge about podcast production in his freshman year, Karan read and worked to learn more about the art of making podcasts, eventually creating the paper’s three podcasts. 
In the shows, Karan had a natural ability of bringing out the personalities of his fellow editors who hosted the “Rhythm & News” and “Talkin’ Troy” podcasts, said Natalie Bettendorf, a senior majoring in journalism who helped him launch the department in Fall 2018 as his assistant. 
“We see it all the time in the newsroom, like we would see it in production of how wonderful all these people are,” Bettendorf said. “But you can’t really relay that to the outside world. It was our own special thing, but Karan and I really worked together because we wanted to show the little bits of the newsroom in these podcasts of why it’s such a wonderful place to be in, like why it felt like our family and our home.”
In Summer 2018, Karan interned at Pineapple Street Media in New York, deepening his interest in podcast production, and from Fall 2018 to Summer 2019, Karan interned at Neon Hum Media in Los Angeles.
After a few months, Karan began working as a production assistant at Neon Hum, working on podcasts that ranged from a deep dive into “The Devil Wears Prada” to a show on the founders behind salon chain DryBar. Karan’s boss Vikram Patel said of all of the people at Neon Hum, Karan loved podcasts the most. 
“Karan was just so into the media,” said Patel, Neon Hum’s executive producer. “He just got it. He just understood why he liked it. He loved it, he loved the intimacy of it and he loved the variety of it.”
Karan became such a staple in the Neon Hum family that Patel would often joke that Karan was the chief executive intern by the time other interns were hired. According to Patel, Karan came into his internship knowing that he wanted to pursue a career in podcasting. As the company quickly grew in its first year in 2018, Karan worked on nearly every show that was released by the company.
“He was clearly on his way somewhere,” Patel said. “There’s people you come across in your life who you’re just like, I can’t lose touch with this person because I just want to be around, I just want to witness … [and] watch them continue on in that way, and he’s just so talented and such a good presence.” 
A friend and advocate
At the Daily Trojan, Karan made everyone feel at home. According to Rowan Born, who served on the paper’s editorial board from Spring 2018 to Fall 2019, Karan tied everyone together in a way no other individual did.
“He obviously had people who were closer with him or not closer with, but that didn’t matter,” said Born, a senior majoring in journalism and law, history and culture. “Just as long as you were in that space, and as long as you identified within the Daily Trojan, he was so welcoming of you and so embracive of you and wanted you to feel at home.”
Karan served as the glue to the newsroom. Born said despite Karan’s prowess in reporting and writing at the Daily Trojan, he never made his successes just about him. He found a way to share them with everyone. 
“Even when the spotlight was on him, he found a way to include other people,” Born said. “And he extended his personality outward in a positive way that affected other people and drew them and drew everyone together.”
Friendship in the newsroom extended beyond the walls of STU 421. Alumna Kylie Cheung, who served as Karan’s associate managing editor in Spring 2018, said Karan would always check in on her and find any way to make her day less stressful, such as by helping her with her class assignments. 
“For him, there’s real happiness in just helping someone, whether it’s managing their stress or brightening an already good day,” Cheung said. “For some people, the different things make all of us happy, but for him, there was such real happiness in helping someone.”
Cheung said Karan brought a significant level of thoughtfulness to his work and conversations, always thinking of how he could help others and how he could dig deeper into societal issues. 
At the Daily Trojan — and at newsrooms across the country — one issue that remained unchecked for years was mental health. Editors were facing burnout following long, grueling hours of daily production, reporting on issues such as sexual assault, and this took a great toll on the overall well-being of the newsroom. Karan looked further: How could he cultivate a positive, wellness-oriented newsroom at the Daily Trojan?
With the help of Bettendorf, Karan established a wellness initiative, spending Summer 2019 talking to mental health professionals and thinking of mindful practices to implement in the newsroom. 
“He completely opened my eyes to this issue of addressing wellness in newsrooms and journalists like how it was not something that I put together at all,” Bettendorf said. “And in student newsrooms, like very specifically, just in the broader context of how little it’s addressed just in professional newsrooms as well.”
The wellness initiative at Daily Trojan is still well underway. As deputy wellness director in Fall 2020, Karan guided the staff through meditation sessions and shared several mental health resources for them to turn to, especially given the coronavirus pandemic’s impact on mental health.
“Mark their place in history”
Karan had a fascination with obituaries. Karan, who wrote many obituaries for the Daily Trojan and San Mateo Daily Journal when he was a high schooler, found himself forming a relationship of his own with obituaries as a whole, providing him with a new insight into the world of journalism. 
“I quickly came to realize that obituaries aren’t about death at all,” Karan wrote in a story for the Daily Journal June 2017. “They’re exactly the opposite. They’re celebrations of life, documents that honor a person’s life and mark their place in history.”
Karan left a profound legacy on his family and friends. In remembering him, some said they decided to prioritize their own wellness to eventually advocate for the need for more conversations surrounding mental health. Some said they are looking to pursue their passions unapologetically, just as Karan did. 
And some are reaching out to their close friends, both in the Daily Trojan and beyond. 
“Fifteen, 20 years down in our lives, I think Karan will always be a very important part of our memories, not only at the Daily Trojan but also in helping everyone around him understand what’s most important in life,” Pham said. “I think Karan really helped us understand the value of friendship and being there for each other.”
Smita has plans to establish a mental health foundation in Karan’s legacy named the “On My Mind” Foundation, a nod to Karan’s column. With the encouragement of Karan’s uncle Satschin Bansal, his grandfather’s cousin Mukul Mittal, his cousin Swasti Mittal and his brother Yash as well as the help of Karan’s close friends, she plans to first focus on the mental health of college students and then eventually expand to that of high school students.
“It was very important for Karan to spread the word, the awareness about mental health, and I want to make sure that I can help each and every student, and also every parent who’s going through this,” Smita said. “I have Karan with me all the time in my heart, in my soul. He’s always with me.”
In addition to his parents and brother, Karan is survived by his younger sister Simran.
Correction: A previous version of this article misstated that Karan Nevatia attended the Columbia Scholastic Press Association journalism workshop in Summer 2016. He attended the California Scholastic Press Association workshop. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Editor’s Note: Kate Sequeira and Eileen Toh served alongside Karan Nevatia as news editors in Spring 2018 and managing editors in Spring and Fall 2019. 
Read eulogies given by former Daily Trojan editors at Karan Nevatia’s memorial service Sept. 17 here. 

Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
When “The Spirit of Troy,” the Trojan Marching Band, shared a blackout post on its Instagram account in June in solidarity with Black Lives Matter protests breaking out across the nation, conversations sparked regarding several areas of toxicity within the organization. The social media activism didn’t sit well with some students and alumni, who said they felt they’d been wronged by the culture created within the band. They cited decades of racial favoritism, hazing, harassment and microaggressive behavior in the organization.
One alumnus, who graduated in 2011 and spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of affecting the friendships they’d made while in the program, said the culture they’d witnessed in the program could be shocking at times.
“There is no ‘line’ in the band,” they said. “People have been known to get called racial slurs, height/weight/appearance-related obscenities or overall offensive terms, and, of course, names attacking one’s social or geographic background.”
A post eventually surfaced on the @black_at_usc Instagram account in July, detailing a program affected by “countless instances of prejudice.” It alleged blatant favoritism of white students by director Arthur Bartner. Additionally, it revealed that the alto saxophone section, as recently as 2016, would number its Black students and give them nicknames based on those numbers, and said the flute section gave students of color nicknames based around syrup and pancakes in a nod to the racially-stereotyped branding of Aunt Jemima. The anonymous alumnus who authored the post graduated in 2016.
Current band members confirmed these instances but said that they view them as a relic of the past. 
Ashwin Bhumbla, a senior majoring in computer science and narrative studies, is one of the section leaders for the alto saxophones. He said the stories are entirely valid, but they don’t represent the current values of the organization.
“When I came in as a freshman, what the post was talking about applied to one older member,” Bhumbla said, in reference to the numbering of Black students that had previously occurred within the section. “Once I learned about it — and once everybody in my class learned about it — it was with an attitude of, ‘OK, that’s terrible. We’re not going to do that.’”
The post, however, also questioned those within the organization that have allowed such an environment to persist. 
“The admin, TAs, staff and student leaders/seniors allow this prejudice and insolent behavior to run rampant and unchecked,” it read. 
Then in early August, a letter questioning the same culture was drafted and signed by 135 current and former marching band members. It detailed sexual assault allegations from three anonymous sources directed toward a tenor sax player who graduated in 2020, as well as the sexual assault-permitting culture they said was pervasive in the organization. The letter also alleged a “failure to effectively address cases of … toxic band culture” as a whole.
“We want to reiterate that we love the band,” read a note sent alongside the letter. “This letter and its message are about more than just one person, more than one case. We chose to participate because of the band’s mission of spirit and inclusion. What we are asking, in this letter, is that they prove us right.”
The letter was sent to the band’s administration, where it was then turned over to the USC Office of Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX, who subsequently launched an investigation into the sexual assault allegations. 
The Office also began an overall climate assessment for the band which included harassment education sessions and consent workshops throughout the semester. Attendance was mandatory, with the sessions aiming to comprehensively educate all members in the problematic areas brought up by the concerned party. The band also formed the Trojan Marching Band Equity and Inclusion Committee to oversee efforts to address toxicity within the group moving forward.
Bartner, who celebrated 50 years as director of the program in 2019, has been a USC mainstay and, according to his students, has one of the largest salaries of any University employee. His retirement is planned for January 2021.
Many of those students revere him — they describe him as “larger than life,” “an institution” and “a giant of contemporary marching band music.” The actual interaction students have with Bartner is somewhat limited; he appears for some full-band rehearsals and the games, but the majority of teaching is handled by the four assistant directors, the associate director/arranger and one of the instrumental specialists hired by the program.
Several students said they consider Bartner’s demeanor notorious.
“He was just all in,” said alumnus Anshu Siripurapu, who played with the marching band in 2012 during his freshman year. “My impression of him is him up there on the podium just yelling his head off about anything. I don’t think he ever spoke at less than a yell.”
An alumni-run Facebook page, “Dr. Bartner’s Quotable Quotes,” contains some of the more outlandish comments allegedly made by Bartner, including one conversation from about five years ago. 
Bartner: “What’s this guys name?”
Student: “Varun.” 
Bartner: “VerOON? What happened to names like Sam?? You know… NORMAL names?!”
According to one of the posts on the Facebook page, during a leadership meeting, Bartner allegedly said, “I had to take a harassment test. I flunked it all three times I took it.”
Other quotes shared on the page include Bartner allegedly saying, “KELDRICK IS HERE! Everyone loves keldrick, everyone loves the one black drummer!!!” Additionally, he allegedly said, “You know what the problem with women is? They don’t forget!”
The @black_at_usc post referenced an occasion where Bartner asked a student of color why they couldn’t have a “normal name” after struggling with the pronunciation. A 2007 alum, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, claimed Bartner had gone to anger management during their time with the band. When asked about that claim, the University stated, “personnel matters are confidential, so we are unable to discuss details.”
However, since Bartner works directly with the band in limited times, many members believe the man himself can’t be blamed directly for the instances of toxicity that crop up within it.
“He cares so much about the students,” said Sean Syed, a senior majoring in computer science who is the other alto sax section leader alongside Bhumbla. “He would never do anything to jeopardize the experience of the students in band.”
A look at band culture
What Syed and others believe to be responsible for the cultural issues is the insular nature of the marching band. The significant amount of time band members often spend together, they said, means folks are either less likely to find issues with the culture they’re so deeply entrenched in or, if they do see issues, unlikely to bring them up to the group as a whole.
“There are obviously things that will happen in any large organization that obviously shouldn’t happen, but people are too afraid to speak up because they don’t want to threaten the integrity of the organization,” Syed said. 
Of the factors that contribute to the high degree of member dedication, the weeklong intensive training camp all potential band members must go through right before the beginning of the school year is perhaps the most prominent. Syed said, for those who join as freshmen as he did, it’s very easy for the band to become a person’s entire social circle before the semester even officially begins.
“The week before classes, we’re spending like 11 hours a day together on the field or practicing music,” he said. “It’s kind of impossible not to develop bonds with those people.”
Those bonds carry beyond the practice room and field. Many band students interviewed had lived or were currently living with other band members. They often have their own parties and functions, where some of the sexual assault allegations from the letter took place. Students like Syed were aware of the potential for “groupthink” and potential normalization or downplaying of issues like the ones raised in the letter and the post.
Additionally, because sections tend to spend the majority of their time practicing on their own, the experience of students in one section can greatly differ from those of students in another. Normal activity for one section may surprise another, and each section will often acquire a reputation or personality characteristic. According to 2014 alumnus Tyler Ringer, reputations like “the trumpets are the hardest partiers” would circle throughout the band.
The areas where groupthink and dated toxic traditions overlap is the boundary the band is currently trying to outline through its work with Title IX. Certain things which were previously cultural fixtures, such as the nicknames assigned to every member of the band, have been illuminated as commonplace sources for race-based harassment. 
Beyond the numbering and pancake-based nicknaming mentioned in the Instagram post, students said there were also other nicknames that would often cross the line into the offensive. 
Because the nicknames are all based on the student’s identity, alumni like Ringer said they can involve appearance, such as height or weight but can also be based on race or economic/geographic background. 
“Some nicknames were just really wrong,” Ringer said, “Regardless of who gave them or whether you were ‘in on the joke.’”
Ringer said that while the allegations didn’t shock him, he was disappointed to see the same issues plaguing the band years later that he had believed were on their way out when he was a member. 
“There was this concept of the ‘old band,’ which was kind of like pre-#MeToo or even pre-internet, where they were much more wild and doing far more offensive things,” he said, comparing the newer iteration of the band he’d participated in with the band of the past. “You’d meet an alumni at a tailgate, and they might pressure you to drink or something, and you could get an idea of what the culture used to be like.”
Certainly, the band has changed drastically during Bartner’s tenure as director. Bartner was the first at USC to allow women into the band in 1971 and elevated the program to its current status through his high degree of discipline and intensity.
Many of those hired to the band’s administration are former members themselves. To some, this could represent a reinforcement of the same cultural norms that have been creating issues for the band. Other marching band members, however, believe the degree of devotion these people have to the band also carries over into their desire to make the band a safe space for all interested in joining.
“How can you change an organization if everybody that you hire that stays on for these full-time positions comes from within the band?” Bhumbla said. “I think what we’re seeing right now is that all this change is being started by people in the band. If you love something, you want it to be the best version of itself that it can be.”
Open to change
For the most part, the marching band members welcome the efforts regardless of the mandatory nature of the education sessions and workshops on topics like affirmative consent and bystander intervention. The workshops often involve role-playing and conversations about lived experiences in hopes of realigning the culture moving forward. The nicknames of the entire band were evaluated, and the potentially problematic ones were flagged for change.  
Niven Jayanthi, a tenor sax section leader who works in the band’s office, said the storied legacy which has made the band widely renowned is also the root cause for many of the issues currently being addressed. 
“One of the negative elements of that great tradition is the fact that there are still those lingering elements of the psychology and the culture of a ’70s or ’80s band in which it’s mostly white, male, cis people,” said Jayanthi, a junior majoring in business administration and mathematics. “That, I do not think, is surprising at all.”
The Trojan Marching Band is considered one of the premier collegiate marching band programs in the nation and has performed at events such as the Olympics and the Grammys and has shared the stage with artists such as Radiohead and Beyoncé. The band also appeared on two platinum Fleetwood Mac albums (“Tusk” in 1979 and “The Dance” in 1997).
The band has been in hot water before, notably in 2000 when members were accused of stealing $30,000 worth of equipment from the UCLA band equipment truck and writing a hate message on a saxophone case. No charges were brought, however. Other, more recent instances alleged include a student being allowed to wear a confederate flag at a Halloween event and an alleged anti-BLM post appearing on the Facebook page of Liz Jenkins, wife of assistant director Sean Jenkins, who works with the colorguard. Still, students like Bhumbla praise the staff for immediately taking action once the letter had been delivered. 
“They’ve approached it very well,” he said about the band’s leadership. “They’ve been very open and transparent and available on this.”
It seems that not everyone in the band, however, is comfortable with the way in which those changes are being implemented. One student interviewed, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she feared being targeted, said she fears that the work may cross over from productive to destructive.
“I think there’s going to be a lot of change from [the Trojan Marching Band Equity and Inclusion Committee], and I don’t think it’s going to be something that everyone wants,” she said. “I mean, they’re coming after our traditions.”
“I think it’s being spearheaded by a vocal minority of people.” 
She also said she had concerns about the methods of the committee.
“Some of the topics can be triggering … You might have a history with someone, and then you’re put in a breakout room with them and be talking about like, boundaries with that person.”
The band’s administration said it welcomes the changes. 
“The TMB is looking forward to participating in a Climate Assessment to improve the organization’s environment,” said the band’s leadership when asked for a statement. “The health and well-being of our members is our top priority, and the senior leadership of the program is working ardently to make the necessary changes.”
Bartner said that the University would not permit him to speak beyond the band’s official statement. However, as recently as earlier this year, Bartner has prided himself on the diversity of his organization. 
Bartner told Halftime Magazine in February, “We’re an urban band; we’re a melting pot band. You’ll find every major, every race, religion, ethnicity in this band, and that’s been the most important thing to me … I would reach out to different ethnic groups and include them.”
The Title IX climate assessment, according to the University, is “still ongoing.” The Title IX office itself chose not to comment beyond its official statement to band members, written by Vice President for Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX Catherine Spear and Vice President for Student Affairs Winston Crisp.
“We are grateful that you have made university leadership aware of these concerns, so that we have the opportunity to engage with current and former members of the band on these critical issues and to partner to identify a positive path forward,” the statement read.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the tenor sax player accused of sexual assault graduated in 2019. The individual graduated in 2020. The article also erroneously stated that a student wore a confederate flag at training camp. The student wore the flag at a Halloween event. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The news of Joe Biden’s presidential election win Saturday morning sparked celebrations in cities across the United States as well as protests from adamant supporters of President Donald Trump. At USC, responses to the election were also mixed, with some students joining in on the festivities across Los Angeles and others expressing apprehension about the country’s future. 
Javier Calleja Erdmann, a junior majoring in international relations, said he attended a celebration at Venice Beach where he joined a few hundred mask-wearing people high-fiving and dancing in the streets.
“It was such a joyous, energetic environment. Just a lot of love all around,” Calleja Erdmann said. “It felt super inclusive, there was all types of people of all ages, genders, sexual identities, etc. Truly all types of people and it was just this really kind of unifying celebration of people who are just happy.”
At Sunset Boulevard, Brigid Murphy, a junior majoring in public relations, stumbled upon people playing music and waving flags. She said she joined the street celebration because it was “amazing and uplifting to see,” but when she thinks about the next four years, her feelings are “hopeful but realistic.”
Murphy described Biden as a “transitional” rather than “transformational” president, two presidential characterizations discussed in her Annenberg School of Communication and Journalism class with professor Dan Schnur. Murphy said that while some criticize transitional presidents for being uninspiring, she believes a transition is needed right now.
“Whether it be just a transition to more cooperation across the aisle and more respect, or whether it be a transition to greater progressive politics, I think Joe Biden is not quite the candidate most liberals hope for, but I think he’s going to set a path in the right direction and transition into a better era for everyone,” Murphy said.
Members of the Trojan Left, USC’s progressive student organization, expressed views aligning with Murphy’s suggestion that Biden was not every liberal’s dream. Garrett Humble and Jack Green, social media organizers for the organization who identify as anarcho-communists, both said they felt a mixture of relief and disappointment when Biden’s win was announced.
Humble, a sophomore majoring in philosophy, politics, and economics, said he was glad Trump was voted out of office but that the overall election was still a loss. The margin should not have been that close, he said, and reflected the “inherent anti-democratic institutions that we have in our government — that you have to win by that much to get rid of a proto-fascist.”
“What made me sad about the election results was the fact that after months and months of Democrats saying that Biden is the most electable candidate, and that centrist middle of the road positions are what wins, the Democrats have not won the Senate, and it’s highly possible that they will not in these Georgia runoff elections.”
Leading up to the election, Democrats ran expensive ad campaigns and efforts to encourage voter turn-out, hoping a “Blue Wave” would sweep over the Senate. While votes are still being counted, the “Blue Wave” does not seem as powerful as Democrats had hoped. For the party to win the Senate majority, they’ll need a sweep of Georgia — where two runoff elections are set for early January. 
Moving forward, Humble said he hopes the Democratic Party will stop “holding progressive voices hostage” and either reform, following the direction of politicians such as Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar, or establish a third party — which he said was the “unofficial official” stance of the Trojan Left. 
In messages to the Daily Trojan, the University’s official Republican student organization USC GOP declined to comment on the election results. 
Regardless of where students stand on the political spectrum, it is undisputed that the Biden-Harris win will stand in history. Harris’s election, as a Black and South Asian American woman, marks the first time the U.S. has seen a vice president with any of her intersectional identities.
Freshman Sasha Hussain, a biology major and the political director for the Trojan Democrats, said Harris’s speech on Saturday night was inspiring for her as a young woman of color. When the Biden-Harris victory was announced, Hussain said she felt relief because she finally saw representation and a less worrying future.
Her reaction in 2020 stands in contrast to how she felt in 2016, when Trump was elected. She remembered a classmate, who knew Hussain was a naturalized citizen, asking if Hussain would get deported. Since then, Hussain said she has observed an amplification of microaggressions and a regression in political efforts to combat systemic issues such as police violence. 
Despite Hussain’s relief, she said Biden’s election is just the first step in a longer fight against these issues.
“We need to continue fighting and continue holding Biden and Harris accountable for what they promised,” Hussain said. “We definitely have a lot of work to do.”
Green, a junior majoring in history and art, agreed that there is more work to be done and emphasized the role of individuals in continuing the fight — albeit with more censure against the Democratic Party. 
“I think the most effective thing you can do is to go out and protest … and don’t capitulate to the Democratic Party just because they were the lesser of two evils. It’s imperative right now, more than anything, that people stand up for what they believe in, to stand up for climate justice, for racial liberation, for trans rights. It’s issues like these that are driven fundamentally by actions of the people, not the actions of the state,” Green said. “Take from this election what you will, but our action does not stop here.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
2020 has been a moody year. Just as the state of the world has been unpredictable and ever-evolving, so has Hailey Long, a senior majoring in health and human sciences.
This concept of moodiness is nothing new for Long. She claimed “mood” as a sort of personal catchphrase that she would copyright if she could. But what’s different about Long’s moods this year is that she decided to encapsulate them in a self-founded, self-produced magazine.
Aptly titled MOODzine and published every two months, Long’s arts-and-culture print-only publication is centered primarily around creators. Each issue of MOODzine features a different social issue such as sustainability and femininity, lending a glimpse into Long’s “current mood” through the curated photography, writing, art and fashion of hand-selected creators, as well as original interviews and pieces from Long herself. Long — a self-proclaimed busybody — said she started the project by teaching herself how to use Adobe InDesign and Photoshop in an attempt to cure boredom during the statewide lockdowns mid-March.
“I started it as kind of a joke at first,” Long said. “I was like, ‘It’ll just be like my own personal thing.’ But then it kind of spiraled into me being like, ‘Well, what if I interviewed someone? That would be kind of cool.’ So I picked four artists that I kind of liked. And I was like, ‘OK, I’ll ask to interview them for my magazine,’ and after that, I was like, ‘This is my passion. I absolutely love it.’ And I just kept making issues.”
Although Long said she entered college strictly focused on her interests in STEM, her perspective changed when she was signed to a modeling agency her junior year. In addition to her modeling work, Long interned for Jill and Jordan Styling, a styling company where she helped identify emerging designers, artists and trends for the company to work with and to use as inspiration. Long said this experience with fashion A&R and finding emerging creators is what laid the foundation for MOODzine.
At the center of MOODzine is a desire to feature underrepresented voices, Long said. In addition to featuring artists with relatively small followings who she encounters via social media and online blogs as well as in her community, Long — who is a quarter Black — said that she seeks to primarily feature artists of color and international artists.
“I just think a lot of times, there’s instances in larger publications like Vogue or Glamour where they only really feature artists who are very privileged or very Eurocentric, where it’s like, you’re not really giving the space for artists of color who are really small artists to be spotlighted when half the time those artists are really really talented,” Long said. “So it’s kind of giving people [that spotlight] who don’t already have the opportunity to be in Vogue and the opportunity to be in a magazine.”
In many ways, MOODzine is reviving a lost medium, according to Long. In an era when so much information is transmitted digitally, Long wanted to create a publication that was print-only to combat a cultural reliance on technology and to preserve the contents in the form of a physical keepsake. MOODzine also contains a classifieds section — something Long hopes will bring back the sense of community curated by print publications of the past by encouraging readers to respond to each other’s ads.
“[MOODzine’s print-only availability] forces people to just have an hour by themselves just actually reading a paper thing, and I like the fact that you can hold information,” Long said. “Like, I have such a problem with Snapchat and apps where it’s like, ‘Oh, I put up this thing, but you can only see it for 24 hours.’ It’s just too temporary whereas, with print, it’s forever printed and you can have it forever. People are so focused on one thing, so focused on being an influencer or whatever, that they don’t realize that you can actually influence and educate people in many different ways without [social media].”
Long’s partner Elan Bia, a junior majoring in screenwriting, has witnessed MOODzine’s production process close-up. Bia said Long undergoes a tedious and laborious process when producing an issue of MOODzine. But according to Bia, Long more than rises to the occasion.
“When she’s in work mode, she’s always working and she talks about ‘her team,’ but her team is really just her and sometimes help from her mom,” Bia said. “Coming from it being a concept in her head several months ago to how far it’s come now has just been an insane process to watch.”
Long isn’t the first in her family to explore their creative side: Her mother is a graphic designer and creative director, and her father is a painter. Long’s mother Angela Williams, who helps with post-production editing on MOODzine, said she is impressed not only with Long’s speedy acquisition of technical skills but with her personal growth as well.
“I think it’s just about building confidence,” Williams said. “I’ve seen her getting much more confident about her ideas and her opinions and, you know, she’s getting support, not just from us, but just from her whole community … And that’s been really nice to see also.”
Long just released the fourth issue of MOODzine and doesn’t plan on stopping any time soon. Long said this community support has been an encouraging factor in her decision to continue the project. 
“It’s just been getting gradually bigger and bigger. And I think it’s also because everyone has a good response to it,” she said. “Like, everyone’s been liking it so far. So I was like, ‘I’ll just keep going!’”
Issue No. 4 of MOODzine is available for purchase from Nov. 1 to Nov. 30.
Visit https://www.mood-z.com/buy to subscribe or purchase an issue.

Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Four days ago, film director and revolutionary Fernando Solanas died. In a film school dominated by histories of Hollywood and the emergence of mega-media, I’ve only had one class, one lecture and one reading dedicated to his work. 
Solanas, along with Argentine filmmaker Octavio Getino, helped launch the Latin American collection of “Third Cinema” film movements with the publication of their manifesto “Toward a Third Cinema” in 1969. The manifesto and the movement it gave rise to reflected Solanas and Getino’s membership in the Grupo Cine Liberación, which was a smaller Argentine film movement that reflected the pro-labor and working class values of the then-Peronist Left, named after Argentine president Juan Perón (though arguably the lasting impact was achieved by First Lady Eva Perón — have to give a woman credit where it is due). 
“Toward a Third Cinema,” in a very basic overview, rejected everything about Hollywood, or the “First World.” In their view, the system is inextricably tied to neocolonialism and the sustainability of capitalism, creating films that were and meant nothing more than potential profit and the passing off of bourgeois values. The “Second World” is of the European auteurs, focused solely on the individual amongst the breadth of new art house filmmaking but still benefited from the First World funding at the time Solanas and Getino were writing.
“Third Cinema” rejects and is an active resistance to commercialization and the idea of the singular individual. Instead, Third Cinema filmmakers are a collective, producing films in a guerilla style necessary for anti-imperialist thinking to survive. These films need to be risky, they need to be shown outside of the normal exhibition model and they absolutely need to engender revolutionary appeal and spark activism for the masses. The movement saw ripples all across South America and Cuba, along with filmmakers in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia and indigenous filmmakers within the First World. 
In 1986, the Edinburgh Film Festival — yes, the Edinburgh in Scotland — hosted a conference on Third Cinema and its implications. They invited zero Latin American filmmakers, Solanas and Getino included. 
Film festivals have historically been credited with bringing “new” films, filmmakers and national cinemas to the fore, despite many being established in their city, country or region of work. 
For example, Djibril Diop Mambéty, a Wolof filmmaker working in Senegal who has been included in Third Cinema conversations, had made short films that saw success in the Tunis Carthage Film Festival before going on to win the International Critics Award at Cannes and the Special Jury Award at the Moscow Film Festival for “Touki bouki.” In a different vein, his niece, Mati Diop, made history last year for being the first Black female director in competition for the Cannes Palme d’Or for her film “Atlantics.”
Some argue that these high-profile festivals such as Cannes, Venice, TIFF and more are better to show at least some films from underrepresented groups rather than none at all. Others argue that the publicity and sometimes funding from festivals are necessary for representation in the greater market and, as artists’ life work, for survival.
Let’s take on the second argument because the first doesn’t merit discussion. The International Film Festival Rotterdam in the Netherlands has provided decades-long support for filmmakers through the Hubert Bals Fund. Bals was a director who had a particular interest in Asian cinema (the white-man-making-Asian-culture-their-passion jokes write themselves) and, after an untimely death, his interest sparked a fund that awards money to “developing world” filmmakers in every stage of the process.
There are catches, of course. The films must come from countries that make the DAC List, a grouping of countries who can receive official development assistance, an eligibility criterion determined by the World Bank, and members of the United Nations’ Least Developed Countries list — both heavily influenced by Western standards of development at certain stages in, usually, capitalism. The films usually center around at this point allegorical representations of poverty, quite often featuring young children within underrepresented groups who have to navigate specific traumas that constitute a bulk of the “poverty porn” shown at festivals. Also, the films must premiere at IFFR, a seemingly small consideration but one that can remove them from opportunities at other competitions and put years in between the project’s founding and when local audiences of the filmmaker’s country can see it. 
Lastly, IFFR, by handing European money to these filmmakers, become the co-producer, filling a spot that puts pressure on filmmakers to perform to the standards set by the Fund while also allowing the IFFR to point to these films and say, “Look what we discovered, look who we helped and what stories we helped bring to light.”
This is not to say that the Fund has not helped bring incredible projects to the screen. However, it does raise the question of who film festivals are posturing for, because it certainly isn’t for filmmakers and it is certainly not for the masses who enjoy film. The festivals need to position themselves as international productions of culture, fixtures in the highbrow film realm that continually bring the best of the best to the limelight. 
What these festivals cannot escape is the white financiers that spin the projector with one hand and pat themselves on the back with the other. They work beyond reproach to further some of the same neocolonial paternalism because criticism of them is drowned out by publicity and more funding. Solanas worked within his entire artistic life to reject these sorts of influences, and his ideas will remain eternally relevant. 
Lauren Mattice is a senior writing about film culture. She is also the digital managing editor at the Daily Trojan. Her column, “Film Schooled,” ran every other Wednesday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
“Now we blowin’ up, you can’t explain this / I remember being fame-less in the basement / Now they always asking ‘how do you do what you do?’ I simply do” sings NOT A TOY in “J Cash.”
NOT A TOY, whose name originates from the warning label on plastic bags, is a Colorado-based collective of four creatives who do not conform to any genre but, instead, do what they feel fulfills their artistic vision. 
On Oct. 28, °1824, a new collegiate marketing, content and experiences team, held a press conference with Branson Hoog, NOT A TOY’s lead vocalist and Benji Spoliansky, the group’s drummer, to discuss the art behind their free-spirited creative group and some of the songs from their self-titled EP released earlier this year.
The conference began with an exclusive viewing of NOT A TOY’s debut single, “J Cash,” which will be released to the public Nov. 18. During the livestream, Hoog was behind a microphone, Spoliansky was behind the drums and their two other members, Jeremy Marmor and TJ Wessel played the guitar and keys. 
With their performance set in their garage filled with paintings, plants, books and instruments, the setting perfectly exemplified the creative do-it-yourself aspect of the four artists. NOT A TOY’s bold performance of “J Cash” also showcased their versatility as they employed diverse sounds into their song including strong vocals, guitar riffs and piano solos, which came full circle to end in a melodic, acoustic-like tone.
“The song is about us being fameless in the basement striving for what every artist or band narcissistically wants, which is to be successful with their music and be famous,” Spoliansky said.
Following the livestream performance, which had the Zoom audience rocking their heads to the beat of the expressive music, Hoog and Spoliansky were directed into a Q&A session with the participants. 
Hoog and Spoliansky began by addressing their unique branding. Spoliansky said NOT A TOY allows for completely free thought of ideas and aims to not put collective members in any box.
“The biggest project with NOT A TOY is that we didn’t want it to feel like one band or one entity’s music taste, we wanted it to feel like a snapshot of this generation’s artistic expression,” Hoog said. “We wanted NOT A TOY to feel more like a movement than a band.”
In light of their recent signing to Fearless Records last May, they also discussed their experience breaking into the music industry during a pandemic. 
According to Spoliansky, the biggest hindrance of a global quarantine was not being able to go on tour to expose more people to their music. However, he also said that NOT A TOY’s use of quarantine time was quite productive, which allowed them to focus on a new sound, social media and merchandise.
“I think that the biggest blessing is being able to stay home and focus on the art and what’s still to come,” Spoliansky said.
The two creatives also talked about the music video for their song “Quit Quitting,” which was filmed while abiding by pandemic restrictions, which limited them to a three-person crew.
“The meaning of the song is about contemplating where you’re at in life, which we were doing very heavily at that point and questioning all the different directions we could go,” Hoog said. “Especially because of this pandemic there’s a lot of uncertainty. The whole video has this energy of a late night drive in your own head, contemplating where you’re at in life, the places you want to go.”
Hoog and Spoliansky later discussed their music influences and processes as an up-and-coming new group of artists. According to Hoog, NOT A TOY was influenced by Warped Tour-genre bands such as Taking Back Sunday, The Used and My Chemical Romance. Hoog also mentioned that they were inspired by diverse artists and creatives, including Kanye West.
“I think in the long run, the biggest influences have actually been the artists that have been the most creative and have tried pushing music as an art form themselves,” Hoog said. “I think one of our biggest consistent ones is Kanye. As a producer, we all love his outside of the box, no rules mentality, and that’s what NOT A TOY has really tried to hone in on.”
As creatives, the four members work with tattoos, art and a clothing line in addition to the band.
“It was easier for us to not just be a band, we were passionate about too many other things,” Hoog said. “It was really hard to keep the other art forms out of the music just because we were passionate about so many things.”
Spoliansky mentioned that often, the band begins their writing process asynchronously. With “J Cash,” for example, the collective initially had the beat and acoustic guitar instrumentation done, then Hoog added vocals on top of that. 
“Us coming together, we’re always figuring it out,” Spoliansky said. “Every song comes together differently.”
Hoog encouraged the next generation of musicians to try to find a way to create something original and push music as an art form. He acknowledged the challenges that new and younger bands might face due to gathering restrictions, but he encouraged them to keep creating something original that hasn’t been done before, which he said is NOT A TOY’s MO.
“I would say to any young musicians out there, keep trying to push this amazing artform that we all are so passionate about and finding how this generation will be represented by music,” Hoog said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
The Daily Trojan features Classified advertising in each day’s edition.  Here you can read, search, and even print out each day’s edition of the Classifieds.
Click the icon to download the PDF of today’s Classifieds:

To place an ad, please contact an ad representative:
(213) 740-2707
USC Student Publications Student Union – Room 400
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0895
http://dailytrojan.com/ads
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
When Valentina Dangond found out that campus was transitioning to a virtual learning structure in March, it also meant figuring out her lease agreement for the remainder of the semester. Dangond, an international student from Colombia, is one of many international students who have had issues navigating their housing contracts amid the pandemic.
After deciding that living with her parents would be more financially affordable, she ultimately chose to move back home. However, she was still bound by the provisions of her lease agreement and continued to pay rent for her apartment until August. In late summer, she and other international students in her apartment complex were allowed to halt their rent payments for the following six months. 
From her experience, Dangond said she believes international students are at a particular disadvantage because they have limited options for remote learning, such as taking a leave of absence. As a result of the economic impact of the coronavirus on global markets, many international students have experienced hurdles in paying tuition. Dangond said tuition prices are even higher for students outside the United States because of currency differences. Since the U.S. dollar is valued higher than the Colombian peso, the shifting currency conversions has impacted Dangond. 
“It’s a problem, and a lot of people at USC are probably facing it,” said Dangond, a junior majoring in international relations and political economy. “A lot of people are taking leaves of absences and putting their visas in jeopardy because they cannot pay for college.” 
With the three-hour time zone difference and the redundancy of online classes, Dangond said she has felt constrained to the walls in her room in Barranquilla, Colombia. 
“It has been difficult, especially my late classes,” Dangond said. “I’m going to be finishing class at 8 p.m., and I have a lot of friends who are struggling and finishing classes at 11 p.m., so it’s very difficult for them.” 
As she did not have to pay rent for her apartment for the past six months, Dangond has saved money and plans to move back into her off-campus apartment in the spring. 
Other students have also faced difficulty figuring out housing plans during an uncertain academic year. When it became clear last spring that classes would be virtual, Nicholas Wong, a junior majoring in human biology, also decided to move back home with his parents in Anaheim, Calif. For Wong, health and financial concerns were two significant factors that played a role in making the decision, but he still hasn’t transitioned well to learning from home. 
“I don’t know if I’ve adapted well yet,” Wong said. “It’s definitely a process. With last semester being so abruptly made online and so many different things being changed, it’s really hard to say [whether] I actually was able to adapt last semester.” 
Students with special circumstances and in need of housing were provided spaces this semester at USC Village. Michaela Mengen, a sophomore majoring in global business and data science, was approved to move into Ilium Residential College. After facing difficult circumstances at home, Mengen applied for emergency housing at the University. Since her September move-in, Mengen said that having her own space has felt liberating. 
 “I have my own apartment, and I really like baking also, so I can make a mess and no one says anything about it,” Mengen said. “So that’s really been really fun, the freedom of having your own space, especially if you want to just relax.” 
Although Mengen has been able to adapt to living by herself, she is concerned about the actions of her fellow students living in areas close to campus. 
“I feel like some people don’t recognize how dangerous this virus could actually be,” Mengen said. “They just kind of take their healthiness for granted without thinking about the surrounding community, which has proven to be a community that’s at higher risk for COVID and potentially more deadly for them.” 
According to the Department of Public Safety’s Daily Crime and Fire Log, officers have responded to 72 reports of parties around campus.  
As a result of coronavirus outbreaks in off-campus housing, Wong expressed his concerns about a potential hybrid learning format next semester, with recent videos surfacing online of irresponsible social interactions among students.
“Being a part of Greek life, I see a lot of the issues actually stem from Greek life, as much as I have loved my time being in there, I see a lot of houses not practicing social distancing,” Wong said. “I think USC needs to do a better job in terms of cracking down on these places, on these houses in on- and off-campus housing making sure no one’s partying, and also being a little more transparent on what the plan is.”
Wong also expressed concerns about the lack of accountability from USC students living in off-campus housing. Wong said that USC administrators need to be more stringent upon enforcing Los Angeles County health and safety guidelines for students living close to campus. 
As he doesn’t expect the coronavirus infection rates to change, Wong plans to continue taking classes at home to also save money for his future housing plans in Fall 2021. 
For Jonah Kijel, a sophomore majoring in business administration and political science, the proximity to campus was a priority for housing. During the fall semester, he hoped it would enhance his productivity and provide a better working environment than his home in Orange County. In the summer, he decided to rent an off-campus apartment at the Lorenzo.
“I think I’ve carried over pretty well from the summer, which means that I didn’t really have a social life in summer, and I don’t really have one now either,” Kijel said. “Pretty much just any free time I have, now, I spend it by going to the [USC] Village. Most of my free time is spent doing that, if not driving around.”
Throughout the semester, Kijel said he usually finds a table at USC Village to work and spend time alone. Although his work ethic has improved, Kijel thinks USC should create opportunities for students to interact in smaller groups in a hybrid semester next spring to foster more face-to-face interactions. 
Whether or not USC moves forward with a hybrid learning plan, students will be allowed to take all courses online, Provost Charles Zukoski announced in a University-wide email last month. He also stated that the University plans to bring 5,000 students to university housing following L.A. County approval.
Kijel also acknowledged that considering the rampant spread of coronavirus, the virtual environment might become a prolonged reality for USC students.
“I think that it’s really tricky because I don’t foresee things getting better, in terms of the County or even the school in general,” Kijel said. “Nobody really knows what to do or what is the best solution. There is no right answer, essentially.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
After the Instagram account @black_at_usc shared testimonies from USC community members about their experiences with racial injustice and microaggressions, journalism professor Miki Turner felt motivated to create change within Annenberg after reading posts about the school’s culture. To create a safe environment for all students in Annenberg, Turner created the Annenberg Cross-Cultural Student Association. 
“The best way to get through this moment is to increase awareness,” Turner said. “And I’ve always said that the key to ending racism is for everyone to celebrate everyone’s differences.”
The organization is meant to empower students of diverse backgrounds, as USC is a predominantly white institution. Turner asked students and faculty to fill certain positions in ACCSA and said she wanted ACCSA’s leadership to represent different races and cultures. 
Co-chair Alyna Santos, a senior majoring in communication, said that being in a leadership position as a person of color for the organization is important as it shows the group values the inputs of people from different backgrounds and cultures.
“Diversity may be people of color in the club … inclusion includes people of color having agency in the club,” Santos said. “Having control or having power [when] someone who isn’t a person of color would have otherwise … is why this club is really empowering because everyone has agency and control over the club.”
Co-chair Jillian Carroll, a junior majoring in journalism, said in the early stages of creating the organization, Turner asked her for ways in which Annenberg could improve its inclusion efforts. Carroll said one of her main priorities was to create a safe space for students to openly share negative experiences that they have had at USC, regardless of their race, ethnicity or gender.
“I personally felt like I was lucky that I did feel like I had some people I could go and talk to,” Carroll said. “But I had been talking with a lot of students … who had negative experiences in the classroom but felt that they couldn’t necessarily go to another professor or someone else in Annenberg … worrying about the fact that they might receive some sort of backlash.” 
The organization is structured through a variety of sub-cultural committees, including subgroups that focus on the needs of Black, Asian, LGBTQ+, Latinx, disabled and international students. These groups come together to discuss issues and plan events for all students to attend.
Last week, the group hosted an Election Day town hall for the Annenberg community because members of ACCSA felt it was important to create a space for students to discuss their election opinions and concerns openly and to make students aware of mental health resources, Carroll said. 
The organization will continue to have a presence through events, forums and speakers to listen to all voices in the community and will be a consistent presence at Annenberg in the future, according to Carroll. 
Creating this organization within Annenberg was particularly important, Turner said, because students at the school are training to be communication, public relations and journalism professionals who will have the opportunity to shape narratives put out into society.  
Turner said she hopes ACCSA will expand across campus at different schools to teach students how to collaborate and engage with peers from different cultural backgrounds. 
“I think the first inclination for most of the schools is to create a Black Student Association or an Asian Student Association … when you do that, you’re really not teaching the students how to interact with other people who don’t look like them,” Turner said. “You need to learn how to deal with one another because you’re going to have to work with some of these people.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Days after this tumultuous election, it is worth thinking of those on the opposite end of the political spectrum. It is worth asking oneself if they are coping well, if they are eating enough and if they are struggling to focus on their work in the same way much of the left is. Even if it seems hard, humanizing and empathizing with the millions of people who voted for President Donald Trump this year is paramount to better shaping American policy for the future. (However, it is important to note that Trump has not yet conceded the election and many Republican leaders have supported his legal challenges to its credibility — technically, there has been no transition period yet.)
Regardless, the divisiveness that has characterized this election is not an invocation against partisanship, which plays a crucial role in sustaining democracy. Instead, the closeness of this race is a sign that the current Democratic political agenda has failed to support Americans as a whole.
This is not to say that it is time to forgive and forget, but instead, the opposite. People are rightfully angry about the delegitimization of marginalized communities exercised by the Trump administration, along with the xenophobia and misogyny endured by the American people in the last four years. There is nothing to humanize about hate, but in order to examine and resolve the cause of the divide, it is crucial to realize that people are not inherently hateful. Voter demographics demonstrate that the rise of the “Trump movement” is an immediate effect of issues that the U.S. has failed to address, like the decline in the quality of education and big business stiflement of U.S. entrepreneurship. 
In many instances, the modern Democrat is loud but seldom profound. Sheltered liberals post pictures with blue cupcakes and I have personally seen them exclaiming how they “cannot believe” and “forgot” that people would vote for Trump. They express their disappointment in the nation and tweet silly, egregious things like “if you voted for Trump, you’re dead to me,” or “if you’re a Trump supporter, I hate you.” 
Many blue voters seem to know exactly what the other side has gotten wrong but have never taken the time to examine what the other side has to say, which covers a vast range. Some Republicans describe Democrats as “elitist and out of touch;” others cannot comprehend how “lazy and unpatriotic” they are. These complaints are not necessarily unmerited.
In recent years, the Democratic image has become increasingly cosmopolitan. The party is no longer relatable to Americans who rely less on the government, cities or suburbs to provide a living. Blue politicians engage with the social issues that run rampant among skyscrapers and bustling streets but rarely pay any mind to rural industries, resource extraction, property ownership or other issues that dominate Republican political discourse. To many scattered across the country, the Democratic Party is no longer representative or relevant to the lives of the “working American,” and this is important. 
People care about politics because they want jobs, education and health care; they want to live in societies where they feel safe and happy to be themselves. Voter disparity is really quite simple — people are hard-wired to vote for the people who see them, hear them and understand them. In the modern political climate, understanding that seems to be the last thing either side wants to do. The ability to exercise compassion has become a privilege exclusive to shared party affiliation. 
The truth is that most politicians boast expensive degrees, write books and run campaigns worth small countries but have a hard time understanding the average citizen. This reason is precisely why the Trump movement has become so hard to control. To many who feel as if they have been neglected by the traditional politician, Trump is a megaphone through which they can finally communicate their cacophonous anger.
For the millions of families who find their jobs replaced by automation and artificial intelligence, believing in Trump and his hollow promises is an act of desperation. To the ones who are frustrated because they lost businesses that have been passed down from their fathers and grandfathers, whose children are attending underfunded schools and who are angry that the American Dream is dissolving but don’t have anyone to blame, shooting in the dark is still better than not shooting at all. This is not to lump all Trump supporters into one category or to draw attention away from the uber-wealthy who were selfishly hoping for his tax breaks or his evangelical, anti-abortion fanbase — rather, the goal is to elucidate some of the tamer, relatable Trump voter rationales and begin to unravel the reasons why this election was so close. 
Democrats pride themselves on being the people’s party, but they have left a large chunk of America behind. In order to flip more voters, they have to break out of the “They’re crazy!” mindset and extend their policies to be more all-encompassing. The United States isn’t dealing with surface-level issues that will vanish with a new president and a new administration. Instead, what plagues Americans are deeply-rooted ideological fallacies and systemic injustices that will require large-scale societal upheaval and redistribution to resolve — that necessitates cooperation. 
In the present, Americans may not be willing to compromise on issues such as gun control; these are important battles both sides will fight for passionately. However, there are also issues that voters, regardless of partisanship, can agree on. Reshaping a better United States begins with rewiring the college industrial complex to become far more extensive and accessible. Policies that restrict and dismantle large corporations must be enacted with the goal of redistributing wealth to those who need it.
While screaming at a television screen can feel validating, the hard work behind the scenes is what determines progress. The months in the immediate future are not going to be easy, with a pandemic to conquer and wounds to heal, but along the way both sides must take a long, hard look at what America has come to. In order to solve a problem, one has to acknowledge it exists and right now, the great political divide in the United States is problematic. Americans may not agree with one another and probably never fully will, but attempting to understand one another is a step in the right direction. 
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Voter suppression has tarnished election processes in the United States for decades. Many were concerned that the 2020 election would be no different. In recent years, the most notorious cases of voter suppression centered around the southern states of Florida and the 2020 election superstar, Georgia.
However, Florida’s monumental passing of Amendment 4 in 2018 restored voting rights to upward of one million Floridians with previous felony convictions. (Washington Post) The passage of this ballot measure was momentous for Black Floridian voters; according to a 2016 report from The Sentencing Project, in Florida (as well as Tennesee, Virginia and Kentucky), upward of 1one in 5five Black constituents were disenfranchised and ineligible to vote in the 2016 presidential election. 
Unfortunately, since the passage of Amendment 4 in 2018, Republican leaders have bogged down this bill with litigation and counter-measures. Gov.ernor Ron DeSantis went as far as to enact a bill instituting a new-age poll tax on individuals previously incarcerated for felony charges, respectfully known as returning citizens. DeSantis’ 2019 bill required that, for returning citizens to remain eligible to vote, they must pay all fines and restitution associated with their previous incarceration.
The constitutional legitimacy of this measure remains tied up in litigation. Still, according to a report from the Washington Post, members of DeSantis’ cabinet published memos encouraging election officials to implement various voter suppression and intimidation tactics less than a month before Election Day. Luckily, a statement published by the ACLU of Florida reminded officials of state election laws that DeSantis’ moves would violate, thus halting any last-ditch efforts to remove potentially eligible voters or block them from the polls. Since Amendment 4 and its countermeasures are still under litigation in the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, there was no “credible or reliable information” to remove returning citizens from voting polls before Election Day. Nonetheless, moves made by Republican leaders confused and likely discouraged many eligible constituents from voting on November 3. 
Similar efforts to suppress liberal-leaning marginalized voters came after an extremely marginal Republican win in Georgia’s 2018 gubernatorial elections. Such actions did not take the form of felony disenfranchisement, but rather, were enabled by the cumulative purging of voter rolls by Republican Governor Brian Kemp. 
According to a report from The Guardian, in 2017 alone, Kemp purged 668,000 voters from voting rolls; through litigation, at least 340,134 of these constituents were found to be wrongfully purged. Furthermore, in the three months leading up to the 2018 midterm elections, another 85,000 Georgia voters were purged of their eligibility to vote. 
The most contentious aspect of such purging is that potentially eligible voters were never notified of their removal from voting rolls. At the time, the state of Georgia did not allow for same-day voter registration. This means that many constituents showed up to their polling locations intending to cast their votes and faced extremely long wait times, only to learn that they weren’t registered and ineligible to cast their votes. 
Former Georgia House of Representatives minority leader Stacey Abrams as well asand president and executive director of the Florida Rights & Restoration Coalition Desmond Meade decided to tackle this issue head-on. Abrams and Meade have been working tirelessly over the past two years to combat the suppression and disenfranchisement of potentially eligible voters within their states and across the nation. 
Meade led the FRRC to the successful passage of Amendment 4 in 2018 through grassroots organizing and responded to the additional barriers put in place for returning citizens. The FRRC, in a partnership with the League of Women Voters of Florida, organized outreach and voter registration initiatives, provided pro-bono legal services and established a fund to help pay any outstanding fees and fines that now prohibit returning citizens from voting. (FRRC)
Abrams has become the face of a similar movement aiming toward increased voter registration and turnout in Georgia, and rightfully so. After her contested and extremely marginal loss in 2018 to Republican Kemp, Abrams spearheaded the Fair Fight campaign, which directly combats voter suppression tactics in Georgia and across the country. (NPR) Additionally, in 2014, Abrams founded The New Georgia Project, an initiative also focused on eligible voter engagement and registration. 
The 2020 election outcome would not have occurred without the hard work and efforts put forth by community leaders like Abrams and Meade. Organizations and coalitions like the FRRC and Fair Fight 2020 worked to protect the civil rights of those most marginalized by this nation. Without the dedication and hard work of these trailblazers, the results of this election would not have been so favorable. So when looking back on the only highlight of 2020 thus far, remember it was the hard work and dedication of Black community organizers and activists that got us there. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Student journalists across college campuses are helming worthy efforts to cover developments amid the coronavirus pandemic. From quarantines to fall reopenings, student journalists have wielded their voices — and their power — to champion comprehensive and nuanced coverage about the next generation’s experience in unprecedented times. 
It goes without saying that even without the pandemic, student journalists have been and are always doing important and necessary work covering their communities. Yet, at a time when college campuses are under scrutiny for their plans to address the coronavirus by national and international news, student journalists have the firsthand perspective and insight about the workings of their campuses. The pandemic has only highlighted this fact as student journalists who have important stakes in their coverage argue for awareness and accountability on their campuses.
Along with the Daily Trojan’s own coronavirus coverage, which disseminates timely and relevant information about the coronavirus to the student body and public at large, student newspapers at college campuses across the United States are engaging in initiatives to inform the public about college reopening plans. 
Student journalists at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s Daily Tar Heel, for example, played a pivotal role in motivating the university to move all classes online. After a series of cluster cases on campus, student journalists quickly condemned the college’s decision to reopen in an editorial. UNC moved classes online a few hours later. 
Other student journalists, such as Eli Hoff at the University of Missouri, have reported on a fraternity member testing positive, a cautionary warning about Greek life gatherings during the pandemic. Some have turned to implicitly calling peers out for partying, while more have reported on the quarantine experience. It’s clear that student journalism represents not only sheer coverage but also a way to call attention to real social, cultural and political issues using the microcosm of the college campus. 
With the adaptation of new, interactive digital modes of reporting, many student journalists have demonstrated their ability for real-world learning amid Zoom University. For student journalists, the greatest “lesson” for the semester may arguably be adaptability, which is a necessary skill not only in each aspect of journalism but also in every area of life. 
While it might feel self-referential to cover news that directly affects students themselves, student journalists underscore the importance of community news and local reporting. By focusing on the specificity of the communities that are most impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, student journalism comes from a unique vantage point where the content of coverage influences the very students who are reporting it. 
Student journalists occupy a unique position in the media and have the capacity to make substantial contributions to the field of higher education news. However, it is important to look beyond student journalists as working within the label of merely “education” and instead critically examine how student journalists can serve a professional role in advocating for the student body and communities at large. 
Professional journalists may have a lesson to learn from student journalists, who are redefining journalism as a whole. Recommendations about how to best improve college plans may shy away from the frequently mentioned notion of journalistic “objectivity” and reveal a new dimension of journalism as it relates to current times. The idea of journalism as conducive to real, tangible change is one that has become increasingly prominent with student journalism’s role in holding institutions accountable and engaging with new perspectives amid the pandemic. The Washington Post even lauded college newspaper reporters, calling them the “journalism heroes for the pandemic era.” 
Ultimately, student journalists have always been and will continue to be an increasingly important force for change. It is more necessary than ever to respect student journalists and their work because the headline of today may just lead to the necessary actions of tomorrow. 

Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
And just like that, after four years of lies, gaslighting and hate, we have chosen to turn the page on the Trump administration. By choosing President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, we have chosen hope and compassion. That being said, this is not the end of Trumpism. 
Smelling the political winds, former Republican presidential candidates like Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, probable future Republican Presidential candidates Josh Hawley and Tom Cotton and Republican Senate boogeymen Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham have adopted and accepted Trump’s brand of incoherence and bravado. It has substantiated the political ideology that excites their Republican base (Trump may have lost, but it was not the blowout rebuke that Democrats hoped for). It’s also convenient.
Lying is a very convenient short-term political strategy. Republicans cannot lose an election when they are all “rigged” by Democrats, and they don’t have to hold themselves accountable for their actions when negative reports can be dismissed as “fake news.” They don’t have to deliver for everyday Americans when they are crusading against (falsely labeled) socialists.
But something’s gotta give. Despite the relatively close race, something gave. Americans braved the coronavirus, intimidation and overt attempts at voter suppression to vote in record numbers for Joe Biden. They trusted Biden and Harris to bring in new light to our dark country.
I, too, trust Biden and Harris. I trust them to steer our nation in the direction of progress, reason and empathy. They are less representative of some fictional perfect past, but of a future of possibilities. Namely, the possibility to create a country that leads the world in justice — racial, economic and social. 
Our Senate has stalled progress for years, beyond the ascension of Trump. It has functioned as the chief roadblock for change on behalf of the American people. It massively serves smaller states and, by extension, Republican voters — leading to the near-disenfranchisement of voters from populous states like California and New York.
In fact, it is no hot take that divisions across political lines within the Senate and the House have enabled a long-term stalemate characterized by power grabs and the conspicuous pushing of partisan agendas. At this point, in order for any meaningful, substantive change to be made, it will be necessary for the Democratic Party to secure not only the presidency but also both a House and Senate majority — the latter of which has previously felt out of reach but presents a viable opportunity for a turn in representation as I write this.
This cycle was perhaps the Democrats best shot at retaking the Senate, but unfortunately Senate candidates fell short in states like Maine, North Carolina and South Carolina. As the projected Senate stands, Democrats need two more seats to ensure a majority (with the VP-elect Harris serving as a tiebreaker). 
Those two seats will run through Georgia — a new battleground state for Democrats. Democratic candidates Reverend Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff each advanced to a January runoff in their respective races against Senator Kelly Loeffler and Senator David Perdue (each of whom are more interested in fighting Trump’s battles than serving Georgians). 
Both represent broad visions of a future where the government serves working families. They want to make the American Dream a reality and understand that blind timidness and deference will not serve that desire. In order to preserve and sustain the hope instilled by Biden and Harris’ historic win, it is absolutely critical that we get behind Warnock and Ossoff to the fullest extent. Civic engagement shouldn’t stop at the presidency and securing a Senate majority could mean the difference between a presidency plagued by stagnancy and one defined by progress, innovative policy and unified growth.
We cannot achieve our goals without bold and decisive action. Democrats have a mandate from the American people for just this type of action. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi knows it. Senate minority (at least until the Georgia runoffs) leader Chuck Schumer knows it. And I believe that President-elect Joe Biden knows it. The road ahead is long, but we are on the right path.
Michael Mikail is a senior writing about race, culture and politics. His column, “As It Were,” ran every other Wednesday. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
While most people picture Tommy Trojan or Traveler the Horse when asked about USC’s mascots, students will tell you about Professor Beau, a campus wellness dog who could be found trotting through campus the past four years. 
Until this semester, professor Beauregard Tirebiter, a trained goldendoodle, worked with the USC Student Health Office for Health Promotion Strategy and appeared at events ranging from marching band rallies to Career Center office visits. Though the technical term for trained dogs like Beau is facility dog, USC began using the term “Wellness Dog” to make Beau’s role on campus more understandable. Unlike service dogs or emotional support dogs, facility dogs are highly trained to work with groups of people without feeling stressed in environments with high stimulation like a college campus.
On Aug. 19, professor Beau announced his retirement on the Student Health Instagram account. Many students were disappointed that they didn’t get a chance to say goodbye to Beau because of quarantine, but wished him well. Though professor Beau will not be fur-gotten, USC students can expect to build new paw-some memories with USC’s new wellness dog, professor Rumi Tirebiter!
Rumi is a six-month-old flat-coat goldendoodle, who is currently receiving positive reinforcement training through the Canine Good Citizen program. After completing and passing the CGC, Rumi will be an eligible candidate for Therapy Dog training, where he will be learning how to be a great wellness dog that serves the USC community. Some of Rumi’s favorite things to do include going on socially distanced park walks and engaging in training exercises. 
According to Dr. Amanda Vanni, Beau’s handler, associate director for Community Engagement within the Office for Health Promotion Strategy, the expressed desire to have a consistent presence of one dog on campus inspired her to start the wellness dog initiative at USC. 
“We heard pretty consistently from students that they loved the consistent presence of dogs on campus,” Vanni said. “But in particular, they shared that [when] they felt like they would start to create a bond or a relationship with one particular dog, they [would] never know when that dog was going to be returning [from the] volunteer organization.”
Thus, USC became the first college in the country to introduce a full-time wellness dog on campus, professor Beau, in 2016.
During professor Beau’s time at USC, he participated in scheduled events, visited classrooms and held office hours where students could visit him. Tirebiter Assistants helped facilitate interactions based on commands and tricks Beau learned to perform. Known for his soothing and calm temperament, visiting Beau was the highlight of many students’ campus life at USC. 
“Beau was trained to go around to each person in a room, give everyone a little bit of attention, without being very in their face about it,” Vanni said. “He was trained to not [invade] people’s personal space, not to lick, not to bark, or jump up on people. So his training really helped facilitate those types of interactions, to very calmly walk to them and stand close to them so that they can touch him.”
Zoe Laub, a junior majoring in creative writing, remembers first seeing Beau in person at a meet and greet during her freshman year. Laub said that seeing Beau walking around campus and being able to go up to him and say hello helped her relieve stress, especially during finals week.
“I used to follow the page before I got to USC,” Laub said. “I followed it for two years in high school. And when I met him for the first time at this event I went to my freshman year with my suitemates, I was so excited. They put me on the Instagram story in a picture with two of my suitemates. I showed it to all of my family, and I posted it on Facebook.”
One memory Vanni treasures in particular was when an international student came to the office to meet Beau, but expressed that she was nervous because dogs were not commonly kept as pets in her country. Another student then reassured her that though she might be scared, Beau was the perfect dog to meet for the first time because of his gentle and kind demeanor.
“Slowly, but surely, she took that step of courage and reached out and started petting him and began to laugh,” Vanni said. “It was just this beautiful moment to see these two students who clearly have very different upbringings, sharing a scary moment, but a courageous moment for this young woman who never interacted with a dog before. They ended up staying for at least an hour. Talking with him, the students in the room, and petting Beau.”
Alisa Kim, a USC alumna, also noticed the community-building benefits of having a wellness dog on campus.
“[Visiting Beau] also provided another way for other students to meet each other and connect with each other, talking about their own dogs or bonding over loving Beau and having both these dogs in their lives,” Kim said.
While Kim was a doctoral student at the office for health promotion at USC Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy , she conducted a qualitative research study on the impact of a full-time facility dog at a university on the specific needs of the college student population. She discovered that the presence of wellness dogs helped reduce stress, loneliness and homesickness.
“A lot of students talk about how Beau would take their minds off of school and give them a little break from everything that was going on,” Kim said. “There was something about the emotional support of a dog, not needing to talk about your feelings when you go see Beau, and just feeling like they understood what you were feeling, which was a big contrast from more traditional approaches, like counselors and therapists that a lot of students mentioned.”
Beau was also strategic in helping spread awareness on the importance of mental health through Student Health’s Instagram page, and he was a mascot who encouraged people to seek counseling and therapy services.
“Because we had that in-person connection [with Beau,] it made us more excited when we saw a post during quarantine to send it to each other,” Laub said. 
What makes a dog in particular such a suitable animal for therapeutic purposes is their aptitude for training, as well as their relatability to people. 
“I think a lot of people can just relate to dogs a little bit more,” Kim said. “Of course there are so many other types of pets out there, but dogs are one of the most common pets in the American household, or in the world. So, it is just, I think, a little bit more relatable for students.”
As soon as it is safe for regular campus operations to resume according to the Los Angeles County’s health guidelines, Trojans can schedule appointments with professor Rumi via the link in @beau_usc’s Instagram bio.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Throughout the Trump presidency, conservative ideas have come to be associated with the hysteria of egotistic and ignorant Republican politicians and white nationalist movements, for whom typically conservative ideals such as individual freedom and limited government are synonymous with the law of the jungle. But cutting food stamps, redistributing money from the poor to the rich and refusing to wear a mask have little to do with conservatism. 
On college campuses, where liberal ideas dominate conservative ones, the radicalization of the right has stoked fears and resulted in the suppression of conservative voices, often towing a fine line between pertinent political dissent and hateful speech.  
Part of the problem is that there is little pushback against liberal ideas, leaving students no choice but to accept them or feel marginal because they have very few other points of reference to compare them to. But excluding differing points of view and those who hold them drives fear and anger (and extremism) not just among students but also (and particularly) among ordinary Americans living far from the bubbles of college campuses.
Perhaps the reason for the hegemony of leftist ideas on college campuses is that the principles of conservatism have been defeated by ignorance-fed fear, hate, resentment and selfishness on the right. 
As a political philosophy, conservatism is rooted in tradition. It emphasizes respect and appreciation for tradition and has afforded many wisdoms and privileges that still hold true today. Concretely, this translates into an emphasis on family, heritage, humility, hard work and pride, hence the right’s fondness for policies that encourage self-reliance, hard work and respect for authority. 
The link between those principles and current policies of the Republican Party are not obvious. Political beliefs always result from cultural values and specific histories; in fact, U.S. conservatives do not have the same beliefs as many of their European counterparts, though they may be underpinned by the same ideologies. For example, the overwhelming majority of British conservatives support their country’s health care system and other social programs, just like how U.S. Republicans are not interested in defunding public schools, much less the police. Really, there is nothing quintessentially conservative about unfettered capitalism, which doesn’t exist anywhere. 
At a time when words such as “capitalism” and “socialism” are being thrown around recklessly, learning about the roots of conservatism as well as the forms it has taken around the world would provide an invaluable perspective in a public discourse polluted by irrational fears, blind partisanship and private interests that keep any kind of consensus from emerging and the general public interest from being served.
Fostering a fruitful dialogue is difficult because liberals and conservatives have wildly different experiences and interact rarely. Conservatives are usually older while liberals make up most of millennials and Generation Z; liberals tend to live in urban areas, work in the tertiary sector and high-skill digital industries and earn relatively high incomes while conservatives tend to live in rural areas and work in low-paying, low-skill manufacturing and agricultural industries. These differences are a breeding ground for stereotypes and — potentially — radicalization and violence. 
College campuses are at the center of that violence. They have become theatres of ideological clashes and epitomize the tension between freedom of speech and political correctness in the eyes of many Americans. Thus, reestablishing a healthy political discourse at the national level begins on college campuses.
Academia’s liberal bias (specifically, in the context of humanities and social sciences) is nothing new. If anything, it is quite natural. Universities provide optimal environments for progressive ideas to flourish through their emphasis on openness, diversity, exploration of the unknown and challenging the status quo as opposed to a reliance on tradition, inherited knowledge and a contentment with the status quo — the latter all being characteristic of conservatism. This does not mean that conservative political, social and economic theories cannot flourish, just that it is unlikely when an overwhelming majority of faculty are liberal, as is generally the case at U.S. universities. 
What is new, however, is for this bias to lead to intolerance and exclusion. Universities are places of emancipation, where students should be shielded from the influence of those seeking to impose their views. Universities are for learning about politics, not doing politics. 
It is paradoxical for political divides often rooted in identity to be exacerbated instead of bridged on such diverse college campuses. 
At a time when political beliefs and personal identity have become so deeply intertwined, more unity could be achieved by stepping out of the safehouses of identity and engaging in political conversations informed by philosophy and history instead of the simplistic agendas of politicians who do not need to unite to win elections. 
It is impossible and unnecessary to end all disagreement. However, by making an effort to understand others and see beyond the cultural specificities, influences, myths and lies surrounding our politics, we can overcome the current political tribalism that furthers division.
Doing so can help diffuse hypersensitivity and encourage nuance, humility and sharp thinking as opposed to political complacency and conformity and intolerance, which are two sides of the same coin.
Some universities are taking concrete steps to foster more intellectual diversity. Under the initiative of its president Michael S. Roth, Wesleyan University has launched new courses on “the philosophical and economic foundations of private property, free enterprise and market economies” and “the relationship of tolerance to individual rights, freedom and voluntary association,” among others, to teach students about conservative, religious and libertiarian modes of thinking.
More initiatives like these are needed at USC (and other universities), especially in these troubled times — not just for students’ intellectual development but also for the political future of the nation. In order to combat the restrictive, polarizing partisanship that characterizes the political landscape today, it becomes essential to debunk conceptions of conservatism that have been butchered by politicians like Trump and impart an understanding of its key philosophies. 
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
This week’s column is going to be a little different.
Yes, it’s still grounded in recent news. But unlike previous articles, I won’t be criticizing anything too much or issuing any warnings. Rather, I’ll be talking about a section of esports that holds a special place in my heart: speedruns.
For those who are not aware, speedruns are when someone tries to complete a game as fast as possible. 
It’s that simple. 
Of course, there are some other details to take into consideration, such as how much of the game you must have completed before finishing it, whether glitches can be used, what version you play in, etc. But the core idea is a simple one, and maybe that is one of the reasons it has persisted for so long, being “founded” as a sport back in the early 90s with the video game “Doom.” 
Or maybe just because it’s so much fun.
As Matt Harris from the UK Speedrunning Marathon, an organization dedicated to holding speedrunning tournaments for charity, puts it: “There’s the element of the world record — it’s easy to understand why people would want to see something done at a speed that has never been done before. Why do people get excited about someone running 100 meters really quickly? It’s the same with speedrunning — only now in the form of completing a video game really quickly.”
The same can be said about how “Minecraft” speedruns have recently become popular. Of course, that likely has something to do with the resurgence in popularity of the game itself in the past few years. But I would bet it’s also because the game is fairly easy to get into. 
With a relatively low barrier of entry, anyone can try to beat it fast and be somewhat successful (as long as they know what to look for). This means that even if you’ve never beaten the game before, you can feel as if you’re going fast, which makes you have fun, thus making you want to keep optimizing your time. As you can see, it’s particularly easy to create a positive feedback loop. After all, if you’re having fun, you’re less likely to quit, going deeper into the world of speedrunning. 
And what a world that is.
Unlike many other sectors of the esports world, speedrunners barely gain any money from tournaments, earning their income from streaming themselves practicing. This is because the tournaments are usually held to raise money for charity, with organizations such as Games Done Quick raising a total of $28,511,640.60 throughout all its years of existence. Taking into consideration all other similar organizations, it’s impressive just how much this sector has contributed to society. 
There are various possible theories as to why the speedrunning community took a more altruistic turn. In my opinion, it has something to do with its universality. Like I said earlier, speedrunning is relatively easy to understand. While it may take years of dedication to find the best possible route, it is easy to have fun as an amateur.
This accessibility leads various people from all different backgrounds to become interested in the sport and, by communicating with one another either through the internet or in real life, help keep the original sense of community in gaming intact. And when your sport attracts such an honest, plural community, it’s only natural that you hope to uphold it. 
With such an earnest demonstration of community engagement, the speedrunning tournaments beg the question: Why aren’t other sectors doing the same?
I know, I know. I said I wouldn’t criticize anything too much. But can you really blame me? Since speedrunners cannot rely on tournament prizes, I’d be surprised if even a few of them managed to live off of their skills. And yet, they still hold tournaments where all earnings go to charity. So how come the most popular sectors of the esports industry rarely dedicate even a portion of their earnings to similar organizations?
If, as I argued before, the esports industry is supposed to relish the sense of community present in amateur gaming, then it needs to follow the speedrunning tournaments’ example and actively contribute to the maintenance of community, even if that means lowering profit somewhat.
Of course, I’d never argue for all tournaments to be non-profit. All I ask is for every tournament to take a look at its profit and make a decision over how much they can donate. But they should donate something. 
This is a common discussion in every sport. But thanks to speedrunning tournaments’ commitment to preserving the community, it’s especially pertinent in esports. Games Done Quick and other organizations like it show that even in a highly competitive and professional scenario, there is still space for social engagement and awareness, even if that comes only through financial support. With a success story like this one so widely known, it’s honestly surprising that the general industry hasn’t made donating a habit. 
And while I can’t say for sure how much Valve has profited from its “Dota 2” championships, one look at the prize pool of recent years shows that if they’re willing to spend this much money, they are certainly making a lot back. I could talk about how companies should have already implemented these changes, but none of that is productive. 
As the old saying goes: “The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now.” 
Guilherme Guerreiro is a sophomore writing about esports. His column, “Press Start to Play,” ran every other Wednesday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
No. 20 USC escaped with a narrow victory against Arizona State last Saturday and now must prepare for another matchup this Saturday at Arizona. 
Head coach Clay Helton highlighted that, similar to Arizona State’s, the Arizona defense is relatively unfamiliar to the Trojans. This is because Arizona’s season opener against Utah was canceled due to coronavirus cases on the Utes.
Helton said it is important for the Trojans to lean on their strengths.
“It’s hard when you don’t have a scouted look, you got to really focus on your execution and what you believe in and do things that your kids are good at,” Helton said in a virtual press conference Tuesday. “You worry more about fundamentals and technique and being an execution-based offense, rather than just trying to trick people.”
The Trojans will also need to make adjustments on the defensive side of the ball. Arizona is a huge run-pass-option team and plays with a fast, up-tempo offense. Against Arizona State, the Trojans allowed 258 rushing yards including several big running plays. 
According to Helton, it will be important to cut down the yards allowed against a team like Arizona.
“It’s just being real disciplined in our assignments, being able to force that ball back in because this is a huge RPO team and as good as you’ll see in our league,” he said. “The biggest thing for us this week is to handle the tempo of Arizona. This will be the fastest paced team that we face all year.”
On the offensive side, Helton, alongside offensive coordinator Graham Harrell, had high praise for sophomore quarterback Kedon Slovis against Arizona State. 
Helton said Slovis did not force throws and resorted to checking down if a throw was not there — signs indicating Slovis’ development. 
“Where I was most proud [of]with him was the 11 checkdowns that he had instead of forcing the ball,” Helton said. “It’s where his growth has gone to, and that’s what I hope to seek consistently.”
Harrell was also proud of Slovis eliminating his turnovers. Instead of looking to force big plays leading to a turnover, Slovis managed to throw short passes to a running back instead. Harrell called this an “obvious sign of growth.”
“I think that’s a good sign for us,” he said. “I would imagine a lot of people’s goal would be to get soft and try to take away explosives and when they do that you gotta be disciplined enough not to turn the football over and check it down.” 
Turnovers were, of course, the main problem for the Trojans against ASU. They had four — one Slovis interception and three fumbles. Harrell said this kept them out of their rhythm on the offensive end. 
“We gotta take care of the football,” he said. “We moved the football all day long, so I was confident that we could continue to do that. It just came down to taking care of the football and finding a way to get into the end zone.”
Even with multiple turnovers, the Trojans still managed to run 95 offensive plays. With fewer turnovers, this pace can result in more points on the board and plays overall, which is exactly what Harrell wants. 
“I love 95 plays a game for sure,” Harrell said. “The more the better for us I think, but we did a pretty decent job at times playing with good tempo. Lots of plays are fun and good for us.”
One of the fumbles came from redshirt senior running back Vavae Malepeai in the first quarter, when he coughed it up reaching for the goal line on a run. Malepeai, who had a hamstring injury during camp, ended up leading the Trojans in rushing yards. 
Malepeai credited the other running backs and the coaching staff with helping him stay confident and in the game. 
“Coach Graham and really our whole coaching staff really emphasizes selfless[ness], tough[ness] and discipline and I feel like that played a big role in my mindset in the game,” Malepeai said. “It was just a matter of being happy, being able to enjoy their hard work pay off.”
Sophomore receiver Drake London grabbed the game-winning touchdown and led USC with 125 receiving yards. His evolution as a receiver is crucial for the Trojans, and Harrell emphasized that his performance was not a surprise.
“He’s always been confident and that just continues to grow with the more success he has, so he’s a guy that’s going to play a key role for us,” Harrell said. “He’s as gifted of a receiver I’ve been around, just with the skill set that’s rare in football with his size and ball skills and body control.”
Harrell said the deciding touchdown was a play call they’ve “been really good at” and that their prior success made the younger players feel comfortable
Arizona has veteran coaching and players with the potential to limit the production of London and USC’s other receivers. 
The four new defensive coaches for the Wildcats — coordinator Paul Rhoads (28), defensive line coach Stan Eggen (41), outside linebackers coach Andy Buh (17) and defensive backs coach Greg Burns (18) — have a combined 104 years of Division I coaching experience. The Wildcats also have five players who started eight or more games last season on the defensive end. 
Redshirt senior defensive back Lorenzo Burns is one of the more experienced of the bunch. He leads Arizona with 35 career starts and nine interceptions. Redshirt junior linebacker Jalen Harris leads returning Arizona players in sacks and tackles for losses. Both will have an important role in containing the Trojans’ offense.
The Trojans will face off against Arizona Saturday at 12:30 p.m.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
Students will be able to choose a pass/no pass grading option for Spring 2021 until April 30, Provost Charles Zukoski announced in a Universitywide email Monday. Wellness Day dates that will be offered in lieu of Spring Break throughout March and April were also announced.
The announcement for spring grading was made shortly after the expanded pass/no pass option was made available to students for the current semester following a circulating petition urging USC officials to provide the option. The Undergraduate Student Government also backed the petition at a Senate meeting Oct. 6.  
In a student media briefing Monday, Vice President for Enrollment Management Kedra Ishop said the University hopes students can strategically plan for the upcoming semester in regards to course grading options and workload. 
“We also want to balance the need to ensure that we are maintaining the integrity of your academic experience on campus while providing as much flexibility as we can,” Ishop said. “It was both extending from three weeks to the end of the semester for the fall and getting ahead of the game and making the announcement for the spring semester so that as students were registering you could make good decisions and informed decisions about your coursework and course load.” 
A circulating Change.org petition with over 5,200 signatures at the time of publication is also demanding the current semester’s grading policy be extended until after final grades are posted, as it was in the spring semester. USG released a statement Monday in support of the extension. 
“It would be dishonest to claim that the student body, although remarkable in their academic prowess, are able to operate at their full potential due to these realities,” the statement read. “Additionally, it is worth noting that conditions in online classes already disadvantaged students, regardless of external circumstances limiting their focus and investment.” 
Given USC’s intention to hold hybrid classes in the spring and avoid surges in positive coronavirus cases through travel, five Wellness Days will be offered. These Wellness Days are to serve as a day where there are no scheduled classes or work expected of students to provide a time to rest or connect with friends and family, Ishop said. 
“A lot of the conversation was also about ensuring that Wellness Days are Wellness Days,” Ishop said. “That it’s intent for not only students, frankly, but faculty as well, to take a day to take a breather, to take a day off, no exams, no major papers due the next day or exams the next day.”
The dates chosen — March 12, March 23, April 7, April 22 and April 30 — were decided by USC administration after consulting with the deans of each school and student government, to offer students a break while simultaneously avoiding major disruption to coursework and limiting travel by avoiding long weekends, Ishop said. 
“[We’ve] gone through a myriad of versions of the days, this wasn’t the first and only version of the days we came up with,” Ishop said. “All of those changes came through conversations with faculty and with academic leadership and students in a way to try to meet as many needs as possible while also still maintaining those goals of protecting the health and safety of the campus and providing those days off.”
The spring semester will begin on a Friday, Jan. 15, and will be met early on with two days off on Mondays due to national holidays, which is why Mondays are not included in Wellness Days, Ishop said. 
The University did not update on plans for the structure of learning next semester but said it is continuing to work closely with the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health on returning back to campus. 
“We are as anxious as you are to return to in-person learning,” the email read. “We continue to work with L.A. County Public Health authorities in the hopes of receiving approval to bring back more students, faculty, and staff for Spring; however, state and county restrictions still prevent us from resuming more on-campus activities.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
