The University has launched Project Restart, an initiative comprising faculty, staff and student working groups, to offer recommendations regarding the return to classes in the fall, Provost Charles Zukoski announced in a communitywide email Thursday. Remote instruction will still continue through both summer sessions due to the coronavirus pandemic.
USC will continue to offer all degree programs and courses during the fall semester, according to the email. The University is looking into several possible scenarios for the return to campus and plans to release more information next month.
“We are planning for a full return to campus operations when it is safe to do so, including all academic programs, athletics, and large-scale gatherings,” the email read. “Most importantly, our commitment to providing an exceptional education, in and out of the classroom, is unchanged.”
Most or all classes will offer online equivalents next semester, the email read. Administrators are working to plan for populations with unique circumstances, including at-risk students and faculty, people with disabilities and international students who may not be able to return by August due to visa restrictions.
“Our goal is to make our restart as safe, efficient, and speedy as possible, and, as you can imagine, the logistics of bringing back tens of thousands of people with different needs are very complex,” the email read.
Project Restart is composed of more than 100 members divided into committees including a public health policy advisory, undergraduate and graduate programs and an academic quality work group. 
Only employees who have received permission to return to work on campus may do so, according to the email. As of now, the California stay-at-home order has been loosened for several low-risk businesses, but no changes to campus access or nonessential University workers’ resumption of in-person activities have been announced.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
