Federal prosecutors have denounced former PIMCO chief Douglas Hodge’s plea for resentencing in the college admissions scandal in documents filed Friday, arguing that the new information that surfaced after his sentencing did nothing to change his degree of culpability in the scandal. In a memorandum filed May 1, Hodge claimed that the government withheld evidence that would serve in his favor and that it erroneously labeled his involvement in the scandal as bribery following the surfacing of new information pertinent to the case in February.
“Hodge’s motion is without merit and his factual contentions are demonstrably untrue, belied by among other things his own sworn statements to this Court and his statements to government investigators,” prosecutors wrote in the documents filed Friday.
Hodge, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering in October, was sentenced in February to nine months in prison — the longest of any of the parents sentenced in Operation Varsity Blues to date. The court also ordered him to pay a $750,000 fine, complete 500 hours of community service and undergo two years of supervised release.
Hodge, who paid $850,000 to gain four of his children admission to USC and Georgetown University as fake athletic recruits and aimed to gain his fifth child admission to Loyola Marymount University, has sought to partially withdraw his plea to conspiracy to commit money laundering and receive a resentencing for his fraud charge. 
This new plea comes three months after prosecutors disclosed that scheme mastermind William “Rick” Singer took notes on his phone in October that Hodge said skewed in his favor because they demonstrated that Singer purposefully omitted labeling the payments as donations, a distinction that he said reframed his criminal intent. In the notes, Singer, who facilitated the admission of Hodge’s children along with those of others indicted in the bribery scheme, wrote that he intentionally misled parents to believe their payments were legitimate and that he was directed by prosecutors to testify that the parents knew the money would be used to bribe university officials.
However, prosecutors argue that Singer’s statements do not change the circumstances pertaining to Hodge’s case as he knowingly made payments to Georgetown’s tennis coach and admitted to the court that his payments were made in exchange for his children’s fraudulent university admissions.
“The Hodge children did not ‘obtain favorable consideration.’ Hodge stole admission slots for them from deserving applicants using illegal payoffs,” the documents filed by the prosecutors read. “Singer did not, sua sponte, provide Hodge’s children with a ‘false athletic brand.’ Hodge conspired with Singer to fabricate their credentials and impersonate real athletes. This is not ‘branding.’ It is fraud, and Hodge stands rightly convicted of two federal felonies because of it.”
Prosecutors also asserted that Hodge made it clear his payments were donations before the release of new information because he stated so in his sentencing memorandum and an editorial published in February in the Wall Street Journal shortly after his sentencing.
Hodge’s attorneys did not respond to requests for comment in time for publication.
Early this month, U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton rejected a request from 13 parents indicted in the scheme asking for the court to dismiss charges against them because prosecutors withheld evidence that would have supported their defense also following the release of Singer’s notes.
To date, 26 of the 36 parents indicted in the scheme have pleaded guilty, including 10 who paid for false admission to USC. Actress Lori Louglin pleaded guilty last week for her involvement and will serve two months in prison if the deal struck with prosecutors is accepted. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
