As a Chinese American, I’m no stranger to the “lunchbox moment.” For those who aren’t familiar with the term, the “lunchbox moment” typically refers to a moment in an Asian American’s life when one’s lunch is shunned for being “smelly” or “gross.” It’s such a pivotal moment of the Chinese American consciousness that to ignore it would be to ignore the ways that food has shaped Chinese American identity. 
While we usually associate this moment with our childhood, it’s clear that the “lunchbox moment” is still happening, just in a different format. “Spill Your Guts or Fill Your Guts,” a recurring segment on “The Late Late Show with James Corden,” often utilizes this trope of Chinese food being disgusting, albeit in a more understated way. 
The whole premise of the segment is that celebrities must answer difficult questions about their personal lives, and if they fail to respond, they must eat a “disgusting” food of their opponent’s choice. Yet the majority of the foods deemed “disgusting” are foods deeply important to Chinese culture: chicken feet, 1,000-year-old egg and bird’s saliva. When I first watched the segment, I remember feeling shocked and a bit saddened that the food I had long considered not only “normal,” but a part of my own conception of “home,” was being ridiculed and laughed at. 
Shunning Chinese food feeds into this larger narrative of “othering” Chinese food and identity while profiting off of it for entertainment value. This goes beyond a “lunchbox moment.” When white cookbook authors build their entire careers off of being “authorities” on Chinese food and when restaurant owners project their own ideas onto Chinese food to make it “upscale” or “trendy,” we run into a serious problem of not only cooptation but the idea that Chinese culture should only be respected when white people produce it. 
The purpose of mentioning James Corden’s segment isn’t to say, of course, that we should stop watching that segment altogether. It is entertaining, which is what entertainment is meant to be. Yet in holding the show accountable, we should be mindful of what exactly we’re finding “entertaining” and how our consumption of entertainment reflects certain dominant discourses about Chinese Americans. 
While writing this column, I wanted to think carefully about how food reflects Chinese American identity. As a Chinese American, I believe it’s necessary to move beyond individual anger at the “lunchbox moment.” Instead, we need to move toward a collective understanding of the implications of subverting that narrative. I would implore everyone to think more critically about what — and how — they consume, whether it’s TV segments about food, food writing or food itself. 
In the context of Chinese food, we ought to look more carefully at the ways that representations of Chinese food are connected to broader issues of culture and power. If reclaiming our lunchboxes means subverting that larger narrative of Chinese food being a source of entertainment or ridicule, that might mean paying more attention to what Chinese food is. 
Journalist Clarissa Wei is doing some great writing on the complexities of Chinese food. Recently, Los Angeles Times reporter Jie Jenny Zou called out a non-Chinese cookbook author on Twitter for describing Asian supermarkets as “full of strange and alien ingredients” in her writing. In addition to so many Chinese writers speaking out about the necessity of nuanced perspectives when it comes to food, we have actual Chinese-owned Chinese restaurants who have been hit hard by anti-Chinese rhetoric and racist attacks amid the coronavirus pandemic. We should take the time to acknowledge these individuals who are doing necessary work within their communities to truly understand the significance of Chinese food for Chinese Americans. 
Throughout “Soft Power,” I intend to focus on my personal response to culture across national boundaries and the empowerment of the individual and collective through cultural criticism and understanding. I hope that, in turn, we can rethink our ideas of “soft power” beyond American political scientist Joseph Nye’s definition of it in international relations — a country’s power derived primarily from cultural resources — and apply it to our understanding of our own identities and the cultural forces that shape them.
Valerie Wu is a sophomore writing about the arts and pop culture in relation to her Chinese American identity. Her column “Soft Power” runs every other Monday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
