USC COVID-19 testing data has shown a slight decrease in student positivity rates last week according to testing results released by the University Wednesday. With positivity rates also showing a slight decrease in Los Angeles County, USC Student Health also announced in a student media briefing that USC is in the process of creating preparations for the spring semester, including the possibility for in-person activities on campus. 
Student Health conducted 2,445 tests Sept. 6-12, with a total of 45 students and zero employees testing positive. Of the 45 student cases, 18 tested positive through surveillance testing with a 0.8% positivity rate, with the remaining 27 students testing through Student Health’s testing for those who are symptomatic or have been exposed to the virus with a 17.6% positivity rate. The number of positive cases have slightly decreased from the week of Aug. 30 where 100 students and one employee tested positive for the virus, Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said. 
L.A. County has also seen a decrease in the number of coronavirus cases, with three days of less than 1,000 coronavirus cases Sept. 13-15, according to data collected by the New York Times. Although L.A. County’s case trend is improving, Van Orman said California’s tier reopening guidelines requiring a minimum of three weeks of case reductions are due to fluctuations in data collection and events such as Labor Day weekend. 
On Wednesday, L.A. County experienced more than 1,000 cases. According to the Department of Public Safety’s Crime and Fire Log, 13 parties were shut down — due to noise complaints or in violation of coronavirus isolation guidelines — at the time of publication, with five taking place during the Labor Day weekend. 
University administrators and Student Health are also in the process of creating plans for the spring semester. However, with more than three months before the start of the upcoming semester, Van Orman said contingency plans, including an online semester, are also being made, with in-person plans dependent on L.A. County’s university reopening guidelines and the virus’ community prevalence. The California State University system announced last week that its campuses will likely continue with coursework remotely in the spring semester, and the top health official in the University of California system suggested classes should remain online for the next year.  
“This is all so subject to change, and it’s really driven, not by the University, but rather by what the local public health conditions are,” Van Orman said. “We know that there will likely need to be, even if we’re in person, some component of hybrid education … But we also know there’s a possibility if, one, conditions are poor in the county, or we start to see cases spike, that we need to pivot to a remote environment. And, finally, we always know there’s a possibility that we might not be able to start in person. So with all of those caveats, though, we are hopeful and planning for in-person experiences in the spring.”
In a Universitywide email Wednesday, Student Health announced that flu shots will be required for those returning to in-person class for the spring semester. USC students taking in-person classes or living in USC Housing during the fall, are required to complete their influenza immunization by Nov. 1. For students living in off-campus residences are strongly encouraged to get the vaccine. According to Van Orman, more than 2,100 influenza shots have been administered by Student Health on HSC and UPC campuses as of Wednesday. 
Although the USC Hotel has not reached capacity, Van Orman said a residence hall will be available to house students with coronavirus if necessary. According to data kept by Student Health tracking the number of students who have tested positive or who have been exposed to the virus, around 350 students are in isolation and around 300 students in quarantine. As of Thursday morning, 36 students are quarantining in the USC Hotel, with 115 rooms currently available, according to USC Hospitality. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
