On June 11, amid the national uprising against anti-Black racism and police brutality, President Carol Folt announced in a missive to the USC community that the Board of Trustees voted to remove the name and bust of noted racist and eugenicist Rufus von KleinSmid from a historic University building. 
Folt further acknowledged that the USC community had been fighting for the name change for years. The removal of his name from a building memorializing him is certainly a good thing, but this acknowledgement begs the question: Why is the Board just now voting to rid USC of this obvious monument to hate? Were they searching for a sense of occasion? Did they just now finally awaken to the scourge of racism in this country? On our campus?
Earlier this month, I wrote a letter to the editor to the Daily Trojan listing 10 commitments the administration could make to support Black Trojans. Student activist Jephtha Prempeh created a Change.org petition titled “Carol Folt and USC MUST Acknowledge the Fight Against Antiblackness,” which has now amassed more than 7,000 signatures. The Black Student Assembly wrote a letter calling the USC community to action with eight specific requests. USC’s Latinx Student Assembly, Student Coalition Against Labor Exploitation and United Black Student-Athletes Association are among other student organizations and organizers who have made similar demands surrounding representation and equity on campus.
No person or organization is asking for anything that student advocates and community members haven’t been organizing for and demanding for years. To rename VKC in the wake of one of the largest uprisings against anti-Black racism and police brutality in the United States, all while ignoring and side-stepping other pressing demands, is a failed attempt by USC leadership to pacify Black students and allies seeking justice. Maybe the pacification would have worked had this moment been simply a moment, but this moment is also a movement.
To meet this moment — one of unprecedented recognition of the reality of violent systemic racism — USC must commit to reimagining the Department of Public Safety and disinvesting from the Los Angeles Police Department. In her letter, Folt announced her intention to create a Community Advisory Board to advise “the university on best practices regarding safety, policing, and the engagement of DPS with our community.” The name gives it away, but this Advisory Board would be simply that, advisory — meaning no teeth, no real mandate to get anything done. It is also worth noting this Community Advisory Board is the almost-forgotten brainchild of a 2015 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Taskforce, which in and of itself was a toothless committee. 
The 2015 DEI Taskforce recommended more than 20 changes, and according to Folt “it brought about a number of changes.” That number appears to be two: diversity liaisons and online diversity demographic data. Former graduate student Philana Payton served on the 2015 DEI Taskforce and detailed her frustrations working on the committee in a Twitter thread soon after Folt’s June 11 message. Payton noted that 10-20 students met weekly for the entirety of the 2015-16 school year, devoting countless hours to the committee, only for the vast majority of recommendations to go unimplemented. 
It is then truly something to see Folt acknowledge this fact and in the same breath announce her intention to revive the taskforce “to evaluate and strengthen our support for DEI programs” and “to identify the structural and institutional processes that perpetuate racism and inequality.” We are past the identification stage. So many of the main institutional problems at USC are not ambiguous, and they are definitely not new. As I noted in my previous op-ed, to think so is to ignore and erase the actionable demands Black community members have consistently brought to the administration well before the recent protests.
On Tuesday, as an initial draft of this op-ed criticizing USC leadership’s penchant for committees, surveys and platitudes over action was being edited by the Daily Trojan editorial team and I, Folt released a second letter to the USC community. The letter addressed experiences of racism on campus shared by Black Trojans through the recently created Instagram account @black_at_usc. In under a week more than 300 testimonials were shared, and the page has since garnered more than 10,000 followers. 
I don’t think @black_at_usc is a page for Black Trojans because Black Trojans already know racism is pervasive on campus — these are our lived realities. It’s for everyone else. The courage shown by students, staff and faculty who shared their experiences has made the page into a true cultural juggernaut. The administration could not ignore it. And yet, parts of me wish it did. That is how truly disappointed the Black community at USC and I feel about Folt’s June 30 letter. 
The letter, true to form, delivered a few platitudes (beautiful as always), named anti-Black and systemic racism (at least there’s this) and announced a few non-initiatives to supplement the other non-initiatives posed in her June 11 letter. 
These are the four non-initiatives:
To meaningfully address the demands of the movement, USC must listen to and act on behalf of Black Trojans rather than pay lip service. The listening part is over. Black Trojans have spoken. A new DEI task force will not come up with anything that hasn’t been said before and without power it will have little to no impact beyond wasting students’ time. The same goes for student interviews, public forums and community surveys. 
Black students are not at USC to be diversity, equity and inclusion advisers. It is time to end the endless cycle of committees and surveys. If USC leaders want to put an end to the structures that perpetuate racism and inequality, they should take a look in the mirror. It took the public killing of Black folk just to remove the name of an infamous racist from a building. I wonder what it will take to admit more Black students or to hire more Black professors? 
Michael Mikail
USC Class of 2021
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
