Former men’s sexual health doctor Dennis Kelly surrendered his medical license Thursday after the Medical Board of California found that a physical or mental condition he was diagnosed with in November would impair his ability to safely practice medicine. 
According to MBC public information manager Carlos Villatoro, Kelly agreed and decided to instead surrender his license. 
“The mission of the Medical Board of California is for protection and the surrender of [Kelly’s] license meets that protection,” he wrote in an email. 
Though separate, this comes nearly a year after six former USC students filed a lawsuit against the doctor, accusing him of sexual battery, sexual harassment and gender violence. Since February, nearly 50 men, most of whom identify as gay and bisexual, have joined a class-action lawsuit alleging sexual misconduct and gender discrimination.  
“I think we’re obviously relieved to know that he will no longer be practicing medicine or seeing patients,” said attorney Kelly Van Aken, who represents several plaintiffs in the lawsuit against Kelly and USC. “So, you know, we see this as a good thing.”
According to court documents, Kelly’s condition is progressive and renders him “permanently unsafe to practice medicine.” Kelly has had his medical license since 1974.
“This is a personal decision and licensing matter between the medical board and Dr. Kelly; the university was not a party to this matter,” USC said in a statement. “USC is committed to a culture of respect and support for all patients, students, faculty and staff and, in these cases, the concerns of the LGBTQ+ community are especially important to us.”
Kelly’s lawyers did not respond to requests for comment regarding his surrender of the license in time for publication.
Kelly worked at USC for nearly 20 years before resigning in August 2018. He was the only men’s sexual health doctor at USC during his employment. Former patients have accused him of conducting unnecessary rectal examinations and refusing to give “standard medical covering, drapery or robe for privacy” to plaintiffs, according to court documents. He is also accused of discriminating against plaintiffs’ sexual orientations and using derogatory terms when asking about the plaintiff’s sexual history and practices.
“The case is continuing to proceed in the complex litigation department and Los Angeles Superior Court,” Van Aken said. “The parties are working cooperatively to move the case along, but we’re still in the pretty early stages.”
She is unsure if the diagnosed condition will impact the case. 
Kelly has worked as a men’s health specialist at Cal State Northridge since 2002, where he is still employed, though he was placed on administrative leave in February after the first lawsuit surfaced. 
Twesha Dikshit, Shaylee Navarro and Natalie Oganesyan also contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
