Five individuals involved in the Operation Varsity Blues admissions scandal and their prosecutors must prepare for a possible trial, a federal judge ruled Wednesday in a hearing to contemplate dropping charges. The defendants include former USC senior associate athletic director Donna Heinel and water polo head coach Jovan Vavic, who face allegations of taking bribes to help University applicants secure admission through athletic recruitment.
The defendants first contested the validity of one of their charges — conspiracy to commit racketeering — in October, arguing that the charge was erroneous because the scheme lacked deliberate collaboration between the athletic officials. Cooperation is typically a hallmark in cases of alleged racketeering, a charge often levied against members of organized crime.
Heinel stands accused of cooperating with organizer William “Rick” Singer to coordinate more than two dozen students’ admissions as fraudulent athletic recruits over a four-year period beginning in 2014. According to the complaint filed in March 2019, Heinel presented applicants to admissions committees in exchange for payments from Singer totaling more than $1.3 million. Heinel has been charged with conspiracy to commit racketeering; conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud; conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery; aiding and abetting wire fraud and honest services wire fraud; and aiding and abetting mail fraud and honest services mail fraud.
As part of the admissions scheme, Vavic allegedly accepted bribes from Singer, including $250,000 and private school tuition payments for his children, to arrange for two USC applicants’ acceptance to the University as water polo recruits.
Vavic faces charges of conspiracy to commit racketeering, conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud, conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and aiding and abetting wire fraud and honest services wire fraud.
Conspiracy to commit racketeering; conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud; and mail and wire fraud and honest services mail and wire fraud carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine each. Conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery has a maximum sentence of five years in prison with a $250,000 fine. Both Heinel and Vavic have pleaded not guilty in the case and are contesting charges.
Heinel and Vavic, along with two non-USC athletic officials also accused of racketeering for their roles in the college admissions scandal, will next appear in Boston federal court July 15 for a status hearing.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
