The Pac-12 has officially postponed all sports competitions through the end of 2020 due to concerns over the coronavirus, the conference announced in a press release Tuesday. It will attempt to carry out spring seasons for all the impacted sports should the outlook on the pandemic improve in the United States.
“Another incomprehensible consequence of an unprecedented time,” Athletic Director Mike Bohn wrote in a statement. “We wanted to play, we wanted to coach, and we still hope for the opportunity to do both when conditions improve.”
Affected student-athletes will have their scholarships honored, the release read, and Pac-12 Commissioner Larry Scott urged the NCAA to grant an extra year of eligibility to those who opt out of competition in the 2020-21 academic year. 
“We are strongly encouraging the NCAA to make decisions as quickly as possible to extend eligibility for student-athletes,” Scott said in a press conference with Pac-12 officials Tuesday. “We saw what happened in the spring, and we’re going to put our shoulder completely behind supporting our student-athletes if they don’t get to play a season to have another year back.” 
The release said the Pac-12 COVID-19 Medical Advisory Committee was concerned about carrying out contact practices and that the prevalence of the coronavirus in member campus communities posed an additional threat. 
Dr. Doug Aukerman, senior associate athletic director of sports medicine at Oregon State, said during the press conference that increasing evidence of cardiac complications as a result of the virus was another factor in postponing the season. The release also cited the implausibility of creating a bubble — as used by the NBA, NHL and NWSL — in order to play a fall college season.
Scott added in the webinar that the vote by the Pac-12 CEO Group to postpone the season was unanimous.
“The health, safety and well-being of our student-athletes and all those connected to Pac-12 sports has been our number one priority since the start of this current crisis,” Scott said in a release. “Our student-athletes, fans, staff and all those who love college sports would like to have seen the season played this calendar year as originally planned, and we know how disappointing this is.”
Bohn wrote that despite “gargantuan” efforts, there was too much uncertainty to progress with the fall season and he thanked President Carol Folt for “advocating for the health and well-being of our student-athletes.” He lauded USC’s coaches and staff for implementing and communicating policies and protocols to ensure health and safety, also praising student-athletes for their cooperation over the last several months. 
“I am in awe of our student-athletes’ discipline and dedication to adhering to all of our guidelines in a profound commitment to themselves, their teammates, and their shared desire to compete,” Bohn’s statement read. “We are indebted to our campus partners, operations staff, and medical team for their leadership and partnership.”
Scott said in the webinar that teams will be allowed to continue workouts of up to 20 hours per week even without games this fall. The USC football team had been gearing up for the start of training camp, scheduled for Aug. 17, prior to the postponement. 
“I am very proud of how our football team has conducted themselves and for all the hard work they have put in this year in preparation for a season,” head coach Clay Helton wrote in a statement. “I am confident that we will come out of this a stronger, more resilient football team and look forward to getting the opportunity to compete and showcase all the hard work that has been put in.”
David Ramirez contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
