USC and the Board of Trustees are being sued in a second class-action case for declining to provide partial tuition refunds after courses moved online in early March due to the coronavirus pandemic.
“USC, like many universities, has a choice. They can choose to do the right thing and reimburse students and parents. Unfortunately, USC has chosen otherwise, and we believe that choice violates the law,” said Steve Berman, an attorney for students in the class action, in a press release. 
The lawsuit was filed under the pseudonym Jane Doe, a California resident who was enrolled as a full-time student in Spring 2020, on behalf of all students who paid tuition and fees for the spring semester, according to the complaint. It follows an announcement from Provost Charles Zukoski last week that the University will not be refunding tuition and fees, although prorated housing and meal plan refunds have been issued to students who vacated their campus residences.
“Whether our instructors present their classes in person or online, they bring the same expertise, depth of knowledge, and commitment to their teaching, and students continue to earn credits toward a USC degree,” the email read.
In response to the lawsuits, the University reiterated that its faculty continue to conduct rigorous, high-quality classes, albeit in a different format. 
“We are disappointed by the lawsuit, but believe the evidence will show that USC took extraordinary steps to ensure continuity of the educational experience for its students,” the University and Board of Trustees said in a statement. “That information will become clear when we defend the university against the lawsuit.”
According to the complaint, Doe argued that the University continued to “reap the financial benefit of millions from students” for resources and an academic experience students have since been deprived of with the transition to remote learning. 
“So while students enrolled and paid Defendants for a comprehensive academic experience, Defendants instead offer Plaintiff and the Class Members something far less: a limited online experience presented by Google or Zoom, void of face-to-face faculty and peer interaction, separated from program resources, and barred from facilities vital to study,” the complaint read. 
The complaint alleged Doe’s professors consistently provided her with conflicting class information, emailing incorrect class times and assignments. The lawsuit also stated her professors were unable to adapt their teaching approach based on student needs, as the online class format complicated such adaptation.
“Instead, professors present sterilized lectures and/or PowerPoint presentations, cutting classes short instead of using the full time that the professors previously used,” the complaint read.
The complaint indicated that Doe’s education has also been affected by her professor’s inability to successfully transition to online classes through the cancellation of important assignments. Without these assignments, Doe argued that she was deprived of important opportunities to learn and take advantage of physical resources in campus libraries. 
“Though the reasons for such closures are justified, the fact remains that such closures and cancellations present significant loss to Plaintiff and the Class Members,” the complaint read.
The complaint cited the University’s residential college experience, more than 1,000 recognized student organizations and more than 20 libraries and numerous other facilities, which all benefit from tuition costs and fees, as evidence that USC focuses its environment on students’ campus presence. The lawsuit argued that the campus closure warranted partial refunds since tuition goes toward covering such facilities’ costs.
The lawsuit also based its reasoning on a USC student-led change.org petition in early March calling for prorated tuition refunds, which has now been signed by more than 7,300 people at the time of publication. 
“While we recognize and sympathize with the difficult position that the Coronavirus has put University of Southern California in, this transition to online classes represents a notable reduction in educational and instructional quality, which we fear will negatively affect our educational and professional outcomes moving forward,” the petition read.
The lawsuit also cited an April 15 opinion article from the Daily Trojan that argued the negative impacts of the pandemic on USC students’ studies and social experiences justified a partial tuition refund.
The class action seeks compensation for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, conversion — unlawful use or possession of one’s property — and unlawful or fraudulent business practices as prohibited under California’s Unfair Competition Law.
“Defendants’ practices are immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious because it deprives Plaintiff and Class members of their bargained for educational experience, opportunities, and access to facilities, and forces students and families bear the burden of USC’s COVID-19 related shutdown,” the complaint read. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
