The Black Student Assembly condemned the University’s allegedly disproportionate support and protection for underrepresented students on campus in a letter to the USC community Thursday. The statement, which was posted on BSA’s Instagram account, is in response to President Carol Folt’s Aug. 6 letter in solidarity with former Undergraduate Student Government Vice President Rose Ritch, who resigned last week citing student harassment on social media against her Zionist identity. 
Ritch’s resignation came after efforts from student activist Abeer Tijani, a senior majoring in global health who circulated a petition mid-June calling for the resignation of USG President Truman Fritz. The calls for Fritz to step down came after anonymous submissions to the @black_at_usc Instagram account alleged he made anti-Black remarks on several occasions. Tijani filed a formal impeachment complaint July 1 citing Ritch’s complicity in Fritz’s racist conduct. 
Following Ritch’s resignation and Folt’s comments, Tijani said she endured online harassment and accusations of antisemitism.
“As I type this, I am being bombarded by messages from friends and strangers notifying me that my name, pictures, and social media accounts have now been plastered all over the internet by people painting me as an anti-Semite and a bigot,” Tijani said in an Instagram statement last Friday. “I have now been forced into a position where I must consider taking legal action to protect myself against the defamation of my character.”
According to BSA’s statement, Folt’s letter failed to include the necessary context of Tijani’s efforts that called for Fritz and Ritch’s impeachments. 
“The manipulation of that context, the victimization of Truman, and the martyring of Rose that followed took away from our movement and centered whiteness amidst it all,” the statement read. “This is anti-Black. This vivid manifestation of white privilege and blatant disregard for Black students and Black voices became very apparent in the treatment of Abeer Tijani.”
BSA co-director Jaya Hinton said BSA released the statement to demonstrate the organization’s support for all Black students on campus and to compensate for what they felt was a lack of protection of Tijani from the University. 
“Recognizing the intersectionality of our students is something that BSA is really trying to focus on this year so it only felt right to put out a statement in defense of all of our students,” said Hinton, a junior majoring in business administration. 
In Folt’s statement, she denounced anti-Zionism by conflating the political ideology with antisemitism, which alienates Jewish students who aren’t Zionist, BSA wrote. BSA’s statement also showed the organization’s support for USC’s Palestinian community, which it wrote continues to be isolated by the University. BSA said Folt’s statement shows USC continues to uphold the Zionist ideology while refusing to recognize Palestine as an independent state with its flag at the Center for International and Public Affairs. 
“For far too long on USC’s campus, Palestinian students have not been afforded the luxury and privilege to study in a place where they feel welcomed,” BSA wrote.
Citing Folt’s “Stronger than Hate” campaign, a program meant to counter hate on campus led by the USC Shoah Foundation, the letter stated that the new initiative has further alienated and excluded demographics on campus, including anti-Black organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League. In a letter to the community Friday, Folt wrote that the campaign would confront antisemitism and anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and identity-based hate.
In an interview with the Daily Trojan, Vice President for Student Affairs Winston Crisp said the USC is looking into all instances of alleged harassment that the University knows of. 
“We are investigating every allegation of bullying, harassment and threatening behavior that we are aware of and that we find out about,” Crisp said. “I do not believe that we are treating students differently when it comes to how we are trying to keep them safe.”
At the time of publication, the  University has not addressed the online harassment targeting Tijani in a public statement as it did following Ritch’s claims of anti-Zionist and antisemitic attacks.
In future email correspondence, BSA wrote that it hopes the University takes into consideration how their negligence toward Palestinians, anti-Zionist Jewish persons and Black students is harmful to their learning and social environment on campus. 
“My hopes for USC remain the same as they were a few weeks ago,” Tijani wrote on Instagram, “I want nothing more than for USC’s administration to help build and foster an anti-racist and non-discriminatory campus where all students feel safe, respected and valued.”
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
