Former campus gynecologist George Tyndall has pleaded not guilty to the six new felony charges brought against him earlier this month. The charges, issued by the Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office July 9, include five counts of sexual penetration of an unconscious person and one count of sexual battery by fraud.
“Dr. Tyndall takes all these charges seriously, but he remains adamant that [after] all the evidence is presented in a court of law and allegations are tested by cross examination, he will be totally exonerated,” Leonard Levine, Tyndall’s attorney, told the Daily Trojan. 
Tyndall had also pleaded not guilty to 29 previous felonious charges: 18 counts of sexual assault and 11 counts of sexual battery. If convicted of all 35 charges, Tyndall faces a maximum sentence of 64 years in prison.
Friday’s arraignment hearing follows the $215-million class-action settlement an L.A. federal judge approved in January, which requires the University to compensate the more than 18,000 former patients Tyndall saw over his 28-year tenure as a doctor at Student Health. 
More than 600 lawsuits have been filed against the University to date, alleging that it failed to protect its students from assault and that it covered up accusations against Tyndall when it offered him a termination package with a payout of undisclosed value in exchange for his quiet resignation. 
A 2018 Los Angeles Times investigation that revealed Tyndall’s alleged misconduct also found that the University had failed to immediately report him to the Medical Board of California. Tyndall’s medical license was not surrendered until nearly three months after his arrest in June 2019, although it was temporarily suspended in August 2018 following the release of the L.A. Times’ report. 
The University declined to issue a statement on Tyndall’s plea, citing its policy of not commenting on ongoing criminal investigations.
A judge will determine whether sufficient evidence exists to proceed with the case and try Tyndall for the charges against him at his preliminary hearing, scheduled for Sept. 25.
Raymond Rapada contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
