USC got its man — and then some.
Saturday’s All-American Bowl Declaration Show on NBC was filled with good news for the Trojans: Five-star defensive end Korey Foreman, the nation’s top overall recruit in the Class of 2021, announced his commitment to USC, and four-star Ceyair Wright, the No. 6 cornerback and No. 77 overall 2021 recruit, joins him in USC’s incoming class. The Trojans’ class entered the day ranked No. 14 in the country and shot up to No. 8 after the two announcements.
Foreman had long been USC’s top target. The Corona, Calif. native initially committed to Clemson in January 2020, but USC kept up its recruiting efforts while instituting significant turnover of the defensive coaching staff. Foreman decommitted in April, a decision that reportedly stemmed from Clemson’s policy prohibiting players from taking official visits to other schools once they’d already committed to the Tigers.
The five-star’s top five included Arizona State, LSU and Georgia along with USC and Clemson, but it was believed a two-team race between the latter two, with the Trojans taking the majority of 247Sports’ Crystal Ball projections.
Foreman, who 247Sports pegs as its No. 12 all-time recruit, initially signed with the Trojans on Dec. 16 but kept his commitment under wraps until Saturday’s broadcast.
“I weighed everything possible, I dotted all my I’s and crossed my T’s,” Foreman said on NBC’s declaration show. “The coaching staff at ’SC, I’m blessed to be under them and I’m thankful for everything else that they have brought to me. And I’m blessed to see what journey has to come with this. And, yeah, it’s Fight On. It’s Fight On.”
Foreman grew up a USC fan and attended Centennial High School with his good friend and current Trojan sophomore linebacker Drake Jackson. 
The 6-foot-4, 265-pound edge rusher is known for his athleticism and explosiveness, with his elite agility helping him pick up five sacks through eight games in his junior year of high school. Foreman trained with Winner Circle Athletics after his senior season was canceled by the coronavirus pandemic. 
Wright, a two-sport standout athlete in high school who ran a blazing 10.84 in the 100-meter dash, brings top-notch speed to the Coliseum. Wright has earned high praise for his long frame, awareness and ability in press coverage. He’s also known for his ability to close on the ball, though his 6-foot-1, 175-pound build has created questions about his physicality at the next level.
“[Philadelphia Eagles cornerback] Darius Slay is somebody that I can model myself after,” Wright said on the broadcast Saturday. “We have the same build, he’s around the same height as me, same weight — stuff like that. He’s great with technique and I think that I try to emulate myself after him.”
His top seven consisted of Arizona State, Michigan, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon and Stanford along with USC, but the Trojans were squarely at the top of the L.A. native’s Crystal Ball prediction. 
Off the football field, Wright has a strong interest in acting, which offered another incentive for him to stay in the bright lights of L.A. Wright, who cited Will Smith as his role model on the screen, starred in “Space Jam 2” as LeBron James’ son and has previously worked on television shows as well.
“Acting is something I’ve been doing for a long time,” Wright said. “I feel like L.A. is the best place to do it, so staying home is the move for me.”
Wright will help recharge a secondary that has already lost NFL Draft declarees in safety Talanoa Hufanga and cornerback Olaijah Griffin, who may be joined soon by redshirt junior safety Isaiah Pola-Mao. Wright, along with recent transfer and former four-star safety Xavion Alford, will play a significant role in reinvigorating the unit.
The work is not done for USC in rounding out its 2021 class. The Trojans are seen as the favorites to land the nation’s No. 45 recruit and No. 4 outside linebacker Raesjon Davis, a former LSU commit who went to Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif.
With or without Davis, though, the Trojans’ future undoubtedly got brighter Saturday.
“Me and Ceyair, we talk from time to time. He’s my guy. I’ll call him after this,” Foreman said. “Go Trojans.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
