Nearly a month after striking for two days in mid-July, Keck Medicine of USC nurses regathered to draw attention to understaffing and patient safety concerns Monday ahead of contract negotiations with Keck Aug. 17 and 18.
As students moved into campus and families took pictures in front of Tommy Trojan ahead of welcome week, nurses on the University Park Campus stopped parents and students to hand out fliers that read “Put a stop to USC’s greed” and “Put patients first,” citing their difficult working conditions, USC’s “mishandling” of the George Tyndall accusations and the tuition increases despite online courses over the past two school years.
At the same time, nurses at UPC delivered a letter to President Carol Folt requesting a meeting about patient safety concerns while nurses on the Health Sciences Campus delivered a similar letter to Keck Medicine’s Senior Vice President for Health Affairs Dr. Steven Shapiro. Nurses who did not attend the in-person events sent emails to Folt and Shapiro at 10 a.m.
The letter delivered to Folt and Shapiro emphasized Keck’s declining hospital rankings in U.S. News, high employee turnover, low morale, understaffing and caring for sick patients.
Michael Simonton, a nurse who works in the ICU at Keck, said in an interview with the Daily Trojan that the action was motivated by a lack of progress since the strike. 
“Since we went on strike, staffing has been just as poor,” Simonton said. “There hasn’t been a week since the strike where I haven’t missed a break, or where I haven’t missed a lunch because we don’t have the appropriate level of staffing.” 
Since mid-July, nurses have criticized Keck Medicine’s over reliance on contract nurses — nurses who work at hospitals for short periods of time — in order to follow California law that requires one nurse for every two patients. 
Joe Keluke, a nurse who has worked at Keck in the abdominal transplant ICU for six and a half years, said that contract nurses often receive “a day” of training, while permanent nurses “had years of training.”
“We want more of a commitment from the hospital to hire more USC nurses — not temporary nurses — that are getting maybe a day of training for a heart or liver transplant,” Keluke said.
In a statement to the Daily Trojan, Keck Medicine said they are “hopeful” for new contract negotiations, emphasized an “A” hospital safety grade and denied being understaffed. 
“Keck Medical Center of USC is recognized locally and nationally for its patient safety, which includes high levels of staffing that meet and often exceed nurse-to patient-ratio requirements,” the statement said.
 Keluke, who collected more than 200 Assignment Despite Objection forms — forms in which nurses may use to “object to an unsafe, or potentially unsafe, patient care assignment”— left the forms with Folt’s secretary when he dropped off the demand letter. Nurses are often put into situations where, if they don’t work long hours, patients will not have adequate care, Keluke said.
“We have nurses that are almost forced, or they’re pressured, to stay 18 hours caring for the sickest patients in our hospital,” Keluke said. “While they’re not forced to work 18 hours, they feel that they have to stay because, if they don’t, there’s not going to be another nurse for that patient.”
Mandy Poppin, who has worked as a nurse at Keck for 10 years where they perform heart and lung transplants and monitor heart devices, said understaffing has decreased the quality of care for patients, “especially [those on] our heart devices.”
“We all know that patients are human beings in the bed[s] … And they benefit by having an appropriately trained nurse looking out after them, caring for them and being their advocate. That’s our role,” Poppin said. 
Rudy Weller, who has worked in the Keck Hospital cardiothoracic unit for 25 years, said nurses are pushing the hospital to require 10 hours in between shifts to ensure better patient care. 
“Nurses are not getting the proper rest periods. They’re on call for long hours. Sometimes they go beyond 20 hours, and they [have] to come back the following day,” Weller said. “Surgery is a serious matter, so we want to make sure that our nurses are alert when they come back to work.”
If Keck refuses to address their demands “nurses of USC are probably going to give notice that we’re going to go on strike again,” Simonton said.
The problem, Weller said, comes down to an unwillingness to adequately staff the hospital.
 “We’re understaffed every single day,” he said. “And that’s the problem we’re having because during negotiations the hospital has refused to commit to hire more nurses, which is the root of the problem.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
