A USC student  has tested positive for the Omicron coronavirus variant — the third confirmed case in Los Angeles County and one of only a few dozen in the United States, Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said in a student media briefing Monday afternoon. 
The Los Angeles Department of Public Health first announced the positive case in a news release Monday morning. According to the release, a college student tested positive after their travels to the east coast over the holidays. The student is “fully vaccinated, had mild symptoms, and is self-isolating,” the statement read. 
The release also stated that L.A. Department of Public Health has alerted those in close contact with the individual. Those individuals are all currently quarantining and have received testing.
According to an update on USC’s Covid-19 Resource Center website the same day, the case was identified via the University’s surveillance testing. The L.A. Department of Public Health also reached out to the University to confirm that the positive case was a USC student. Upon hearing of the case, Van Orman arranged a media briefing to share the news with the community.
“We did want to make sure that we were being transparent with our community and letting them know that this was a returning USC student,” Van Orman said. 
USC will continue to check for potential Omicron variant cases at USC by sending positive coronavirus samples to the L.A. Department of Public Health. The department’s lab shares the existence of variants with the University, but does not release the  information to the individual and, instead, uses the lab results for public health purposes. 
According to Van Orman, the predominant strain found in testing over the last several months has been the Delta variant.
USC Student Health encourages unvaccinated students to get vaccinated, eligible students to receive their booster shot and all students to continue testing for the coronavirus and to stay home when sick. 
Growing numbers of coronavirus cases pose a concern for Student Health, particularly as students plan to travel as early as this week. 
“Again, the overwhelming majority [of coronavirus cases] are still Delta,” Van Orman said “There are still parts of the country where cases are really surging, and, so, we are very concerned about travel.” 
With growing travel restrictions in a number of countries, such as Canada and Australia, Student Health urges international travelers to have a “Plan B” if they happen to test positive for the coronavirus during their travels. 
The University is evaluating the possibility of requiring a booster shot for students but lacks the data necessary to create a requirement. However, the University encourages all students to get their booster shot, Van Orman said.
Early research from a hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa suggests that the Omicron variant could cause less severe illness than previous variants, but that a prior coronavirus infection offers less immunity. However, according to Van Orman all the data surrounding the Omicron variant is very preliminary. 
“The one thing we do know about Omicron is that people who were previously infected do appear to be at higher risk of reinfection with Omicron than some of the other variants,” Van Orman said.
With the upcoming winter break, Van Orman urges students to get tested before traveling home as it is expected that the Omicron variant will spread in L.A. County over the coming days and weeks. 
“We don’t want people to leave campus and spread any COVID into the communities that they’re coming home to,” Van Orman said. “With the rapid travel for Thanksgiving, travel back and then travel for the holidays, there’s a lot of risk.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
