After trailing by 13 points just 8 minutes into the game, things were not looking great for USC. The Trojans came out of the gates flat, shooting poorly and looking sloppy on offense. 
The slow start sparked a timeout speech from USC assistant coach Chris Capko so loud the seats across town at Galen Center were probably rocking. USC was facing defeat — possibly its fourth in the last two weeks after losing just three over the first month in a half. 
The Trojans were speechless with their mouths shut, looking for a spark, and the Bruins were confident, ready to secure a much-needed victory. 
However, a determined second half effort helped USC scrap and crawl back into a position to win the game. With seconds remaining and the game left in the balance, the Trojans had possession and were down only two points.
Doing his best Jonah Mathews impression, redshirt senior Tahj Eaddy nailed a fading three-point basket with one second left to give USC a 64-63 victory over UCLA at Pauley Pavilion.
The three-point field-goal was only the fourth one of the game for the Trojans. And even though Eaddy shot 5-14 for the game, he hit the biggest shot of the day.
“I was taught at an early age that great players have a short-term memory,” Eaddy said. “I understand what I’m capable of offensively, I know how well I can shoot the ball, I know how well I can score the ball. My confidence will never waver.”
The final minutes of the game were a scramble. After cutting the deficit down to two with 11:49 remaining, USC found themselves down 8 points with five minutes left.
USC proceeded to go on a 7-0 run, cutting the UCLA lead down to one point with 2:25 remaining. The Bruins responded with a basket at 1:57 to extend their lead to 3. UCLA failed to score afterward, putting USC in position to steal the win.
After a jump ball went the Trojans way forcing an out-of-bounds play, they were only moments away from what would eventually be Eaddy’s game-winner. .
However, there was still a long way to go from that point for USC.
“Sometimes in the game of basketball, the defense takes away your first option or your second option and you have to just play basketball,” head coach Andy Enfield said in a virtual press conference Saturday. “And that’s what we did on that last play and Tahj made a big time shot.” 
It was a shot that salvaged the Trojans’ chances of winning the Pac-12 championship, after a stretch where they lost three out of four games. 
Freshman forward Evan Mobley had a game-high 13 points along with 11 rebounds and 3 blocks. Redshirt senior Chevez Goodwin added 12 points — USC is now 5-0 whenever he scores in double digits.
Fortunately for USC, the game proved to be a tale of two halves. In the opening seven minutes, UCLA came out with a vengeance, shooting 8/10 from the field, sparking an 18-7 lead. USC played without energy and looked flat enough for Enfield to furiously fold the scouting report he had into his pocket. 
The Bruins shot 60% from the field in the first half and 67% from the three-point line, catapulting the team to an 11-point lead at halftime. However, the second half was a different story. 
The Trojans suffocated their hosts, forcing the Bruins to shoot 42 % from the field and 33% from beyond the 3-point line. USC also shot 51% from the field and 41% from 3 after not making a single one in the first half, as well as winning the rebounding margin 32 to 26. 
“Their shot makers were making shots … I was just hoping that they would start missing a few of them,” Enfield said. “Eventually, our defense tightened up and we challenged as many shots as we could and we’re fortunate to have [had] a chance at the end based on how hard we were playing defensively.”
The win against UCLA puts USC in position to win the Pac-12 title if Oregon State defeats Oregon Sunday. Enfield praised the group after the game for having so much success despite only three returning rotational players from last season.
“The thing that sets this team apart is when you walk in the gym every day they come to work, and there’s not a lot of nonsense,” Enfield said. “And they have a great spirit and a team camaraderie about them.”
USC will play in the quarterfinals of the Pac-12 conference tournament Thursday in Las Vegas.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
