How to even begin.  
Having written about music over the past year, and since this will be my final piece, I feel it necessary to talk about endings — quite the paradox to this column’s title. 
“The Beat Lives On” was a spinoff name inspired by Sonny and Cher’s 1967 song “The Beat Goes On.” If there could be a theme song for this column, that would be it. The song timelines some of the events and trends that faded in and out of popular culture during its release. 
I’ve always thought of the “beat” as something that represents not only music but also a metaphor for life. Just like a melody lingers after the song has ended, through the hurdles we climb and chapters we enter and exit throughout our lifetime, we carry on. 
I’m a firm believer in the idea that when everything around us seems to be changing, we turn to music to heal. Each of us has our own specific interests, tastes and musical niches — but what causes an artist to last the test of time and circulate through the masses for decades?
Is the staying power of musicians fleeting?
The media is a vast and ever-evolving space — one where information is more accessible than ever. It has undoubtedly changed the way we interact with music. 
While we all may be listening to different niches, certain songs reach a point where they’ve been shared so frequently across media platforms that they gain momentum in popular culture and quickly become widely known. 
With this change in pace, it can be difficult to distinguish an artist’s longevity today. Given that we have the liberty of exploring hundreds of genres and subgenres at any time, you can be a connoisseur of one style of music and be completely unaware of what’s going on in the next. 
Music is undeniably everywhere; some musicians fade out and some remain in the contemporary loop of popularity for what seems like forever. 
Though a song hitting No. 1 on the charts for multiple weeks at a time can be an indicator of the artists that may endure, there’s also been iconic, lasting hits that never hit close to the top 10.
Therefore, there is no single formula to lasting success and it can be a challenge to identify the specific elements that determine whether a song will last through time. 
According to Billboard, the most popular musicians tend to circulate the music scene for nearly 24 years. Obviously, there are outliers in the mix, such as Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, Prince and The Beatles, who’ve endured much longer. However, today, it’s hard to pinpoint when and what exactly turns a musician into a multi-platinum selling, generation-crossing, international superstar. 
One determinant of music’s lasting impact is whether an artist can consistently release quality records that are both well-received and praised by fans and critics alike.  
Another factor to consider would be the timing of a song’s release and what’s going on in the world at that time. Suppose a song is focused on the public’s stance toward current world affairs or social  movements and gets circulated through the media. In that case, it has the capability of being a defining song of the time. 
Finally, and likely, most apparently, music that hasn’t been done before, that’s innovative, new and revolutionary in some way, tends to attract the eyes of many. 
Ultimately, the longevity of an artist depends on who you’re asking. Some may think that an artist popular now will fade out in a few years, while others can promise they’ll be listening to the same artist 60 years from now. 
In the end, only time will tell what soars to the top and what fades out. 
Through every beat of life that comes and goes, don’t forget to sit back and enjoy the music. 
Emily Sagen is a senior writing about music’s lasting impact. She is also an arts & entertainment editor at the Daily Trojan. Her column, “The Beat Lives On,” ran every other Friday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
