Women’s soccer climbed to the top of the Pac-12 conference after beating a visiting Colorado team 4-1 and witnessing history in the process. Senior forward Penelope Hocking put her name on the scoresheet to cement her status as the all-time leading goalscorer in USC women’s soccer program history, surpassing USC Hall-of-Famer Isabelle Harvey’s 48 goals. 
Despite the slow starts in the last four Pac-12 matches with their opponent scoring first, the Trojans began their bout against the Buffaloes on the right foot. Following pressure from USC’s attack, Colorado conceded an early own goal during the 5th minute. The goal marked the first occasion where USC scored first against a Pac-12 opponent.
USC continued its intensity and doubled the scoreline seven minutes later when Hocking raced across the right flank and crossed the ball into the box for senior forward Jada Talley to convert USC’s second goal in twelve minutes. 
In the 20th minute, Hocking once again raced through the right wing before cutting in and chipping a shot with her left foot, ultimately hitting the top left corner of the goal. The match’s third goal marked Hocking’s seventh goal on the season and cemented her as the all-time leading goalscorer record with 49 goals. 
“My first thought is to win games,” said Hocking in an interview with the Daily Trojan. “I’m really grateful for everyone that has helped me along the way because I feel like I owe a lot of it to the coaches and the people around me because they have helped me in my success.”
USC continued applying pressure in the second half as redshirt senior midfielder Savannah DeMelo and junior midfielder Croix Bethune delivered multiple passes to allow freshman forward Simone Jackson to assist the fourth goal. Colorado freshman midfielder Ellen Jones responded in the 75th minute with a consolation goal that stole a potential clean sheet for USC’s defense and made it 4-1.
USC scored three goals in the opening 20 minutes to all but secured its fourth win in conference play. The early scoring, without need for a comeback, was a welcomed sight for the team.
“I feel like we have lacked energy coming in the first half because we are so young,” Hocking said. “I’m happy for this team because we came out with energy in the first half today and we scored off the bat. I feel like moving forward we are not going to take a second for granted.” 
With their win over the Buffaloes, the Trojans continue their nine-game winning streak, four of which have been conference wins.  
“In the beginning, we had a few slip-ups, we lost a few games,” Hocking said. “We took it game by game, and I think we have done a really good job staying positive and focusing on the game in front of us. I’m really proud of our team and how far we have come.”
USC’s run of form puts it at the top of the Pac-12 and No. 11 in the NCAA rankings. The Trojans are also the only team in the Pac-12 to have won all of their first four conference games. The Trojans’ last loss came against BYU Aug. 26 and have gone unbeaten since then.
“The first two games are two exceptional teams [BYU and Pepperdine University] and it gave us a chance to see exactly who we were,” said head coach Keidane McAlpine in an interview with the Daily Trojan. “For us the most important is creating that chemistry, creating that bond … and I think we are starting to find that.” 
USC will return to Soni McAlister Field as it faces Utah at 2 p.m. Sunday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
