Inside Keck Medicine of USC, Kerri Dodgens, a nurse, was stuck. In one room, her patient who was on a breathing machine regularly tried to pull out his tubes and jump out of bed. In another room, her patient had chest pains. Both patients needed her attention, but she couldn’t care for them simultaneously.
“I was in tears,” Dodgens said. “Standing in tears in my patient’s room, I did not know what to do. There is only one of me, and I was getting no help from management.” 
The problem was understaffing, Dodgens said, one of the many factors that led to 1,400 nurses striking at Keck Medicine of USC and USC Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center July 13 and 14. Following the two-day strike, nurses were not allowed back into the Keck medical centers until Sunday. 
The nurses, who have been in contract negotiations with the hospital since November and December, said in interviews with the Daily Trojan, that long shifts, over-reliance on contract nurses and insufficient time between shifts has decreased the quality of care patients receive while also being unfair to nurses. 
Nurses also allege that the Keck Medical Centers cut their sick time during the pandemic, ignored arbitration rulings, broke off  contract negotiations and offered limited access to coronavirus testing, even as USC students on University Park Campus received testing multiple times per week. 
In a news release published on Keck Medicine of USC’s website, Keck Medical Center denied being understaffed. 
“Our staffing levels are regularly audited by the California Department of Public Health, and these audits confirm that even during the height of the pandemic, our staffing levels were consistently higher than required,” the release said. 
By California law, hospitals are required to have one nurse for every two patients in intensive care and one nurse for every four patients in emergency rooms. 
However, Michael Simonton, a nurse who works in the ICU, said Keck only complies with the legal number by relying on contracted nurses to make up for the staffing shortage. Contract nurses — who work at hospitals for short periods of time — receive less training and spend less time in the hospital than other nurses do, Simonton said, hurting the quality of care Keck provides and ultimately straining nurses.
“When [contract nurses] come to our facility, they’ll get a three day training seminar at most, while in our heavier ICUs, nurses will get three months training,” Simonton said. 
The Daily Trojan reached out to Keck multiple times regarding the allegations but did not hear back in time for publication.
In the cardiothoracic ICU on the fourth floor of Keck — where doctors perform open heart surgeries and take care of some of the “sickest patients in the nation,” — nurse Zeinoon Malaeb regularly works 12 hour shifts. On occasion, his shifts last 18 hours. Malaeb’s patients are often “on the brink of death,” and the long hours have impacted his job performance, he said. 
However, Malaeb said he feels a moral obligation to work when the hospital is understaffed. Driving home from 18 hour shifts, Malaeb said he often blasts music and air conditioning to stay awake. 
 “I want the USC community to know that it is not fair that their loved ones are being taken care of by sleep deprived nurses,” Malaeb said. “It is not safe for the patients, and it’s not fair to us.”
While the coronavirus pandemic overwhelmed hospitals with patients, USC publicly called Keck nurses heroes, releasing a press release over the summer that included photos of healthcare workers that they said would “fill you with Trojan pride.” But, beneath the surface, Malaeb said the nurses were treated much differently.
“They cut our sick time by two thirds, and [Keck management was] disciplining and firing nurses for taking sick time to take care of themselves or their loved ones,” he said. “They were calling us heroes, and at the same time, they cut our retirement benefits. They marketed the nurses to the public. And, in private, they were disciplining us and giving us breakdowns, which really, really left a bad taste in the mouth of nurses.”
Across the country, nurses have organized strikes following similar concerns over understaffing and nurse and patient safety. In Massachusetts., St. Vincent Hospital nurses in Worcester have been on strike since March 8. Nurses at Stroger and Provident hospitals went on strike in late June.
Inside USC hospitals, replacement contract nurses took care of patients while hundreds of nurses, donned in cardinal and gold, waved signs outside the hospital reading “On strike for safe patient care” and danced while music blasted and car horns honked.
Nurses returned to work Sunday, with the hope of continuing contract negotiations. 
“The nurses of USC don’t plan on striking again, but they’re more than willing to,” Simonton said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
