Lincoln Riley was officially announced as the next USC head football coach by Athletic Director Mike Bohn Sunday night. Riley served as the head football coach at Oklahoma from 2017 to 2021 and had a 55-10 record, including three College Football Playoff appearances in five seasons. 
“We are ecstatic to announce Lincoln Riley as our new head coach and welcome his wife Caitlin and their daughters Sloan and Stella to the Trojan Family,” Bohn said in a statement. “Lincoln is the rarest combination of extraordinary person and elite football coach. His successes and offensive accolades as a head coach the past five years are astonishing. Lincoln will recruit relentlessly, develop his players on and off the field, and implement a strong culture in which the program will operate with the highest level of integrity and professionalism.” 
In his first official USC press conference Monday afternoon, Riley noted the illustrious past of Trojan football and how that played into his decision to leave Oklahoma. He had high praise for the alumni attending the press conference and made it clear that he wanted them involved in the future. 
“The history of this program is as good as it gets in college football, period,” Riley said. “It’s because of the great players, the great coaches, the great administrators, so many people in the past. I want you to know that our doors will always be open. You are a part of us forever. We can’t do this without you guys and we’re certainly going to enlist you to help us build and recruit, and in return, we hope we can give you a program that you’re damn proud of.” 
USC will buy out the rest of Riley’s $38.9 million contract, an extension he signed in 2020 which was set to last through 2025. Riley will join a USC team with freshman quarterback Jaxson Dart serving as the team’s signal-caller after he replaced junior quarterback Kedon Slovis. 
Riley has experience developing young quarterbacks into star level talent, as he showed with Baker Mayfield, Jalen Hurts and Kyler Murray, all of whom were transfer quarterbacks to Oklahoma that thrived under Riley and made the NFL. Much like when Mayfield, Hurts and Murray transferred to Oklahoma, Dart is a young quarterback who will look to flourish under Riley. 
Riley will look to bring a spark to USC’s recruitment, as Oklahoma ranks No. 7 in the nation and first in the Big 12 for its 2022 recruiting class, according to 247Sports. USC is ranked No. 67 nationally and ninth in the Pac-12. 
“USC has an unparalleled football tradition with tremendous resources and facilities, and the administration has made a deep commitment to winning,” Riley said in a statement. “I look forward to honoring that successful tradition and building on it. The pieces are in place for us to build the program back to where it should be and the fans expect it to be. We will work hard to develop a physical football team that is dominant on both lines of scrimmage, and has a dynamic balanced offense and a stout aggressive defense.”
Oklahoma’s Defensive Coordinator Alex Grinch will join Riley’s staff at USC, according to ESPN. Grinch was a safeties coach at Ohio State during the Buckeyes’ 13-1 season in 2018. 
Co-Offensive Coordinator/Offensive Line Coach Bill Bedenbaugh and Wide Receivers Coach Dennis Simmons are expected to follow Grinch to USC, per On3 Sports.
Reports from On3 Sports claim Riley informed his Oklahoma staff Sunday that he was leaving. Riley shut down questions about potential interest in LSU’s head coaching job Saturday, saying, “I’m not going to be the next head coach at LSU.” 
The hire will mark a new era for USC. During Riley’s tenure with Oklahoma, USC went 33-23 under Clay Helton and lost both bowl games it attended during the time. Helton was dismissed this season after two games.
“This is a very special day,” USC President Carol Folt said Monday at the press conference. “I’ve had a wonderful time talking to so many people and watching the reaction on social media. I love it when they all say they were ‘surprised’ and ‘ecstatic.’ That’s a good day. That’s a lot of good days. We’re seeing all the Trojans come together.” 
This story was updated on Nov. 29 at 8:31 p.m. to reflect statements from USC Athletic Director Mike Bohn, USC Head Coach Lincoln Riley, USC President Carol Folt and updates on expected football staff members
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
