As weekly testing more than quadrupled between Aug. 15 and Aug. 21 with the return of USC’s student population, coronavirus cases surged to the largest weekly jump since mid-January. However, with a lower positivity rate compared to other areas in Los Angeles County and California — 2.75% and 5.2% respectively —, student positivity rates decreased to .4%, the lowest since June 26. 
Of the 27,740 tests administered, 118 students and 13 employees tested positive for the coronavirus. Although student positivity rate decreased, a slight uptick appeared in staff positivity rate, which currently stands at 1%.
The positivity rate among unvaccinated people sits at 1% –– double the rate compared to fully vaccinated people. 
“We are a very highly vaccinated population right now, but we suddenly found the positivity rate was double that, within the unvaccinated versus the vaccinated. We are seeing almost double the rate of positivity in unvaccinated individuals,” USC Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said in a student media briefing Thursday.According to Van Orman, the low positivity rate is a “really powerful statement for vaccines.”  
Van Orman also said that the initial batch of confirmed cases were “entry cases” — those connected to outside travel from areas with substantial transmission — rather than a result from a particular event or large gathering on campus. 
The increase of reported positive cases was “expected,” Van Orman said, and the number of cases are expected to rise in the next two weeks.
USC’s coronavirus case models created by David V. Conti, professor of population and public health sciences, suggest that the University could see upward of 40 to 50 cases a day two weeks after the start of classes, Van Orman said. 
“We actually think we expect the cases to grow. We think the cases should reach a peak about two weeks after school starts, and then, if people are cautious and if we keep testing –– the cases should start to drop after that,” Van Orman said. 
If the positivity rate decreased by “four or fivefold,” Van Orman said the weekly testing requirement could be dropped in the future. Looking towards a feasible decline in test positivity and case counts in about 4-6 weeks, Van Orman said the University’s goal also depends on the community prevalence of the coronavirus in L.A. County.
As a result of site closures and long lines, students complained about scheduling and submitting weekly coronavirus tests before the first week of classes. Van Orman sympathized with the frustration felt among many and thanked students for their patience as the University shifts to a full reopening.
 “We appreciate the students’ patience with the testing. We know it’s a pain. We know it takes extra time, but unfortunately it is just, I think what we need to do right now,” Van Orman said. 
Although the testing effort is “challenging,” Van Orman said sites are staffed at full capacity.
In an effort to ease the strain on the testing system, Student Health is offering an incentive for those who choose to be tested with the nasal swab. The new initiative will award five students a day with $100 gift cards to the USC Bookstore.
As of Aug. 26, vaccination rates have remained constant, with 95% of staff and 92% of students who are fully vaccinated, according to Van Orman. Of USC’s total population , 99% are in compliance which includes those who are in between doses or have received a medical or religious exemption. Total vaccination rates are expected to rise as more individuals receive their second dose in the coming weeks. 
Although a full-scale campus lockdown remains “unlikely,” the campus community may experience “targeted shutdowns” dependent on the locations of coronavirus outbreaks. 
“It is possible a student could be involved in a dorm that is locked down, classes in a cohort are locked down, so I don’t want people to sort of minimize what could happen,” Van Orman said. “If we see outbreaks in certain areas or populations, we have to shut something down for two to three weeks while that outbreak clears, and then things come back to normal.” 
However, Van Orman believes community transmission will play a significant role in deciding coronavirus policy on campus.
Following the Centers of Disease and Prevention’s announcement recommending U.S. residents to receive booster shots 8 months after their second dose, the University also plans to distribute boosters beginning Sept. 20. Those initially eligible will primarily include health sciences students and some faculty and staff, Van Orman said. 
Following a flurry of reports received by Van Orman’s office of students not complying with health protocols, Van Orman implored students to have a sense of personal responsibility and reaffirmed the University’s interest in enforcing guidelines and even taking non-compliant cases to Student Affairs.
“If [students] are gathering at large outdoor events without masks, they’re really jeopardizing their fall [semester],” Van Orman said. “I would really transfer the responsibility back to individuals, as adults, to follow the guidelines.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
