After a solid 6-1 win to start the road series Thursday, USC dropped two straight games to finish 1-2 against Cal over the weekend. The Trojans are now 12-11 overall as they near the halfway point of the regular season.
Redshirt junior Isaac Esqueda, the team’s strongest pitcher this season, carried the Trojans for eight innings on Thursday, allowing only five hits and one run throughout his time on the mound. The left-handed pitcher is now 3-1 on the season, throwing an average 2.27 ERA and allowing the Trojan offense to mount significant leads.
Five Trojans reached home base on Thursday early in the game. Redshirt junior infielder Ben Ramirez started the scoring streak off with a single homer to right field in the second inning. Infielders redshirt junior Jamal O’Guinn and redshirt senior Tyler Pritchard responded in the same inning, driving in two runs to establish the 3-0 lead. Ramirez went on to seal the deal in the third with a two-run homer, followed by redshirt freshman outfielder Rhylan Thomas scoring off a single in the fourth. 
On Friday, the Trojans were the ones playing catch up right from the start. Cal senior infielder Quentin Selma homered in two runs in the bottom of the first, establishing a 2-0 lead. For the next four innings, USC’s batting lineup churned up only one walk, with junior pitcher Grant Holman striking out four Trojans.
Ramirez once again broke the scoring seal for the Trojans, homering to right field at the top of the fifth. Cal walked in a run at the bottom of the fifth, but redshirt junior pitcher Brian Gursky put a stop to the offense leading to USC’s response in the sixth. O’Guinn reached first off a fielding error and was taken home off a triple from Thomas. Redshirt senior John Thomas drove Rhylan in off a single to make it a tie game 3-3.
Until the ninth the Trojans were left stranded on first, unable to break through Cal sophomore pitcher Josh White again. First baseman Clay Owens took the right-handed pitcher to task, doubling to right center and forcing the Bears’ bullpen open for sophomore pitcher Joseph King. Ramirez kept his batting streak hot with a single to advance redshirt freshman pinch runner Connor Cirillo to third. But, a reach at bat kept the scoreboard the same as Cirillo was thrown out at home. 
Cal managed to convert off a walk in the bottom of the ninth, advancing to home in just three plays to make the final score 3-4. 
Saturday marked a near-complete dry spell for USC’s offense, with only three hits and one run over the 9 innings. Redshirt sophomore pitcher Alex Cornwell let the Bears slip ahead early, giving up five runs in his four innings on the mound. Ramirez wound up scoring off a double in the top of the ninth to prevent the shut out and round out the final 1-5 score. The infielder finished the series on a three-game scoring streak.
USC faces a quick turnaround after the Easter weekend and plays San Diego on the road Tuesday. The Trojans lost to the Toreros 5-6 in March and are hoping to turn things around the second time around. First pitch is at 5 p.m. at Torero Stadium in San Diego. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
