
Coronavirus cases rose significantly on USC’s campus and in Los Angeles County last week, clouding University plans for this upcoming fall semester, Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said in a student media briefing Wednesday. 
With less than a month until USC Welcome Week, the extent of in person classes, mask mandates and on-campus events remains uncertain, Van Orman said, and she expects the University to issue further guidance in early August.  
Following L.A. County guidance, USC reinstituted its mask mandate July 15 after lifting it on June 29. The rise of the more contagious Delta variant, — which has caused cases to increase — and “relatively low vaccination rates,” has significantly worsened the pandemic in L.A. County and across the country, Van Orman said.
L.A. County reported 2,551 cases on Wednesday, the highest number since March. There were 585 hospitalizations, compared to 213 June 21, according to an L.A. County press release.
“This is not where I would have thought we would have been two weeks ago,” Van Orman said. “But I would say that the situation within L.A. County has really deteriorated quickly.” 
Van Orman “anticipate[s]” that students will be required to wear masks indoors in the fall, regardless of vaccination status, including in residence halls, classes and “any kind of crowded setting.”
While Van Orman said she does not believe it is likely that USC will need to go fully remote, there is a possibility that parts of a school or a certain class could shut down due to coronavirus cases or exposure. For example, if there were positive cases in a dance program and other students were exposed, it could be shut down for two weeks.
Following the recent rise in coronavirus cases, USC will no longer permit students to submit a vaccine declination form and will only allow students with religious or medical exemptions to refuse the vaccine. 
Before the increase, students would have been allowed to submit a declination form to the University regardless of medical or religious reasons until the vaccines were fully approved by the FDA, rather than the current emergency use authorization. 
Eighty to ninety percent of people who tested positive for the coronavirus on campus were vaccinated, Van Orman said, although the vast majority of the testing sample already contained vaccinated individuals, including nearly 90% of faculty and staff.
There were three new employee cases from July 11 to July 17, an increase from 1 the previous week. The employee positivity rate rose to .57%, an increase from .24% the week prior and the highest it has been since January 2021. 
The majority of vaccinated students who tested positive were symptomatic and believed they had a cold, Van Orman said. 
There were 39 new student cases, 31 students in isolation and six in quarantine from July 11 to July 17 compared to 19 cases the week before. The positivity rate was 4%, the highest it has been on campus since August 2020, although the sample size is significantly smaller than it was during the spring or fall semesters because many students are not currently on campus.
Van Orman stressed the importance of getting tested for coronavirus even if you are fully vaccinated, a change in University guidelines as a result of the increase in breakthrough cases. 
“One of the really key messages we’re getting out is that even if you’re fully vaccinated, if you develop cold-like symptoms, you need to immediately isolate and get tested,” she said. 
Van Orman said that the University plans on working with faculty to ensure that students will stay home and isolate themselves rather than attend class if they develop cold-like symptoms. 
Despite the increase in breakthrough infections, the vaccines are still “incredibly effective” at preventing serious illness such as hospitalizations and death, Van Orman said. As USC students and L.A. County residents continue to receive vaccinations, the risk of community spread, deaths and breakthrough cases will decrease, making a return to normal in the fall more likely, Van Orman said.
“The more we can be cautious for [the next] two weeks, the better our chances are to be in a better place,” Van Orman said. “As a community, if we could stay home, wear your mask, get your vaccines, stay home if you’re sick — that will make a difference.”
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
