
The USC presidential mansion, which has housed University presidents for over 40 years, sold for $25 million, according to an article from the Los Angeles Times Wednesday. The sale is an effort to cut costs as a result of the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic that has strained the pockets of universities around the country, as well as the $852 million settlement with former campus gynecologist George Tyndall.
The mansion, located on seven acres that includes eight bedrooms, 11 bathrooms, tennis courts, a log cabin and a pool, sold for $500,000 more than its asking price, the most expensive home sale in San Marino history, according to The Times. 
After the coronavirus pandemic shuttered the University’s doors last March, USC announced a hiring freeze and a 20% reduction in President Carol Folt’s salary in April, from $1.3 million to just over $1 million. Selling the $25 million mansion was portrayed as a way to cut costs, as Folt downsized to an $8.6 million home in Santa Monica. The University also increased tuition by a total of 5.5% since the 2020 academic year, citing coronavirus costs, increasing costs of education and inflation.
Folt lived in the Santa Monica home since she began her tenure in 2019, as the San Marino mansion — also called the Seeley Mudd Estate — required $20 million in renovations, USC Board of Trustees Chairman Rick Caruso told the Los Angeles Times in 2020. 
In a statement to the Daily Trojan, the University said, “The University decided to purchase a much smaller, more sustainable property for the President’s residence. There were significant costs associated with the upkeep on a 14,000 square foot, eight acre estate, and it made financial sense to downsize to a less expensive, more efficient property.”
The mansion was the home to USC presidents since 1979, with the sprawling grounds serving as the site for countless fundraisers, galas and dinner parties, according to The Times. Former President Max Nikias hosted over 15,000 guests at the Mudd Estate during his eight-year tenure.
 Built in 1934, the American Colonial-style mansion was willed to the school by the Seeley Mudd Estate in 1978.
The buyer of the historic mansion, surrounded by trees and English rose gardens, remains unknown.
A previous version of the story stated that Huntington and Patton donated the mansion to USC. The mansion was willed to the school by the Seeley Mudd Estate. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
