Former USC forward Evan Mobley was selected by the Cleveland Cavaliers as the No. 3 overall pick of the 2021 NBA Draft Thursday. He followed Onyeka Okongwu as the second consecutive USC lottery pick, and was tied with OJ Mayo for the highest selected Trojan in the NBA Draft. 
Jumping onto the scene as a five star recruit out of California and the top center in the 2020 class, Mobley made an immediate impact on the USC team as a true freshman. He led a defensively sound Trojan squad to a Pac-12 Championship appearance and an Elite Eight run in March Madness. Mobley averaged 16.4 points and 8.7 rebounds per game on 57% shooting over the course of the season.  
Mobley was the first collegiate basketball player to earn conference honors as player of the year, rookie of the year and defensive player of the year all in the same season in Pac-12 conference history. After a decorated season, Mobley was an essential lock to enter the draft. The Houston Rockets, who had the No. 2 overall pick, were reportedly torn between eventual second overall pick Jalen Green and Mobley. As it turned out, Mobley fell to Cleveland. 
The 7 foot tall bigman will slot into a Cavaliers roster in need of a power forward. Jarrett Allen currently occupies the center role, which Mobley could also play. The guards, Collin Sexton and Darius Garland, will look to combine with Mobley and Allen for pick-and-roll offense, and Mobley’s ability to stretch the floor with range will cater to the spacing of the modern NBA. 
Most scouting evaluations on Mobley praised his mobility and ball-handling ability for a seven-footer, but there have been questions asked of his physicality compared to NBA competition. He has drawn comparisons to the likes of former player Chris Bosh and current Los Angeles Laker Anthony Davis. ESPN analyst and former NBA player Jalen Rose said that Mobley exemplified the “modern-day big” on the network’s broadcast of the draft. 
Mobley joins the ranks of USC alumni active in the NBA, bringing the total up to nine, including Nikola Vucevic of the Chicago Bulls, Kevin Porter Jr. of the Houston Rockets and DeMar DeRozan of the San Antonio Spurs. 
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
