The Keck School of Medicine will begin administering PCR surveillance testing in addition to symptomatic testing on Monday and transition from using the testing company Color, Dr. Sarah Van Orman announced in an email Friday. A new off-campus testing site at The Lab by the USC Hotel will also be offered beginning Monday in addition to sites located by the Engemann Health Center, Pardee Lawn and at the Health Sciences Campus. 
The change comes following Keck’s increased capacity to offer both self-service exposed and surveillance testing as well as a desire to streamline result information, Van Orman said during a student media briefing Thursday. Appointments for both tests can be made online through the mySHR portal to make it more accessible for students and reduce barriers. Coronavirus tests will now be through saliva collection, with anterior nasal swab collection to be added in the next few weeks. 
Forty-six students and 28 employees tested positive for the coronavirus from Dec. 27 to Jan. 2, according to USC’s COVID-19 Dashboard, and symptomatic positivity rates spiked to 15.6%, Van Orman confirmed in the media briefing. The rise in cases is likely a result of the holiday season and will likely continue to rise as students return to the area, Van Orman said. 
“We’re especially concerned because [of] the nature of what a university is,” Van Orman said. “We had a break, and that we know we had people who, because of the break, are sort of inclined to leave and then come back, we’re particularly concerned about what’s going to happen here in the next couple of weeks.”
Van Orman reiterated that students should delay their return to Los Angeles as much as possible.
“What’s happening in the USC community is what’s happening in Los Angeles — that there is widespread community transmission, there is huge amounts of infection right now,” Van Orman said. “People really need to assume that wherever they’re going, whoever they’re interacting with, those individuals probably are infected.”
As of Jan. 7, there were 19,719 new cases, 218 and 8,098 current hospitalizations according to L.A. Public Health. 
For those returning to campus this semester, students and employees must complete the “Health, Hygiene and Safety” module through Trojan Learn to access Trojan Check. Undergraduate students will be required to test twice weekly for the coronavirus while graduate students, faculty and staff only need to be tested once weekly. An influenza vaccination will also be required and, through Trojan Check, campus visitors must complete a daily symptom check prior to entering.   
“The testing sites will also link your test to your Trojan Check,” Van Orman said. “If you’re out of compliance with your weekly tests, you’re not going to be able to get onto campus with your Trojan Check. We’ve built what we think of as a compliance feature to really require people to get their testing done.” 
The increase in positive cases among employees should also remind those that do return to quarantine for ten days as mandated by L.A. County, Van Orman said.
“The cases, unfortunately, we see in our employees are the people that have to be here. They’re our security, they’re facilities,” Van Orman said. “For those people’s sake that have to come to work, everything that we can all do as a community is really critical.”
USC will continue to administer the vaccine to designated persons in the Phase 1A group, which includes both student and faculty healthcare workers, and will open a vaccination center at the Lyon Center Monday, Van Orman said. Although unsure of the exact timeline for the next phase of vaccinations, Van Orman approximated 8,000 to 9,000 people in the 1A group. As of Jan. 5, more than 4,000 vaccinations had been administered, according to a previous Van Orman email.
The University must wait until they receive permission from L.A. County to proceed to group 1B which will include essential on-campus workers and those over the age of 75. 
“Campus is preparing, our health sites are preparing, we are vaccinating actively,” Van Orman said. “We just don’t know when vaccines will reach the more general population.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
