Former USC junior quarterback Kedon Slovis is transferring to the University of Pittsburgh, according to a Players’ Tribune article and post on his Instagram account. He has two more years of college football eligibility. 
In his 3 seasons as a Trojan, ​​Slovis threw for 7,576 total yards — the seventh-highest all-time in USC history. His 58 career touchdowns are also tied for the fifth-highest all-time.
Slovis entered the transfer portal on Dec. 13 after playing only nine games in the 2021 season, throwing for 2,153 yards, 11 touchdowns and 8 interceptions. After throwing for 3,502 yards in 12 games his freshman season, Slovis combined for 4,074 yards in 15 total games his sophomore and junior season.
“I thought we would continue that success throughout my career. But football is kind of like life — you can’t control everything,” Slovis wrote in a Players’ Tribune article. “Whether it’s injuries, or having to navigate a season with COVID and so many unknowns … some things you just don’t plan for. And everything didn’t go as I planned during the rest of my time at USC.” 
The junior quarterback split time with sophomore quarterback Jaxson Dart as the year progressed before missing the rest of the season with a leg injury. 
A three-star prospect, Slovis was sprung onto the scene when 5-star quarterback JT Daniels tore his ACL in the first game of the 2019 season. 
He threw for 377 yards in his first career start — breaking a record for most passing yards by a freshman in their first start. While Dart broke the record for most passing yards in a debut with 391 against Washington State in September when Slovis was hurt early, Slovis still holds the record for most passing yards in a first start.
During the 2019 season, Slovis also became the first USC quarterback to throw for over 500 yards in the Trojans’ victory against crosstown rivals UCLA. He also had over 400 passing yards in four of the final five games of the regular season, including three straight exceeding 400. Slovis threw for 30 touchdowns on a 71.9% completion percentage. 
That level of passing didn’t translate to his sophomore season in 2020, however. Slovis didn’t throw for more than 400 yards in 6 games and had a completion percentage of 67%.
His junior season got off to a bumpy start. He threw for 256 yards, the fourth-lowest total in his college career, against San Jose State in his first game. Then, he had 223 yards the next game against Stanford — the lowest total of his career in a full start. He finished the season with a leg injury that forced him to miss the final three games. 
Slovis joins Max Browne as former USC quarterbacks to transfer to Pitt. Browne did so in 2016 as a graduate transfer.  
“USC will always be a special place to me,” Slovis wrote. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
