Coronavirus cases increased slightly and positivity rates decreased as students returned to campus, Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said in a student media briefing Thursday. The decreased rate coincides with increased population testing, mandated by USC once a week for vaccinated students and twice a week for unvaccinated students.
 Of the 10,000 administered tests to USC’s student population from Aug. 15 to Aug. 18,  42 tested positive. The week before, 44 cases appeared from the more than 6,000 tests. 
“[The testing numbers are] actually a really good thing from a public health standpoint,” Van Orman said. “We’re catching cases, but we’re not seeing a rapid increase in positivity. And we want to find those cases before school [begins].”
The University’s coronavirus case models — created by Professor of Population and Public Health Sciences David V. Conti — suggest that the “peak of cases will be about 14 days after people return,” when there could be 40 to 50 cases a day, Van Orman said. The maximum number of students in isolation will take place about one month into the semester before numbers are expected to drop. 
If the model proves accurate, USC may easecurrent precautions such as weekly testing, Van Orman said. 
“We think about it as these layers of protection,” shesaid. “As cases drop, we hope we can kind of peel those back.”
As part of Trojan Check compliance to enter campus by the start of classes Monday, the University previously required the completion of the “Hygiene Health and Safety” module and a negative coronavirus test  However, in an email to students Friday, Van Orman announced the deadline’s extension until Friday, Aug. 27.
Students, faculty and staff vaccination numbers also rose slightly: more than 92% of both undergraduate and graduate domestic students — which include students who are U.S. residents and those who are undocumented — 90% for both faculty and staff, 80% of international graduate students and 70% of international undergraduate students are fully vaccinated, Vaccination numbers for the international student population are expected to increase as they continue arriving to the United States.
According to Van Orman, more than six percent of students, faculty and staff are in the process of being fully vaccinated, with 1.3%  approved for a medical or religious exemption and 3.3% who lack compliance with the policy — unvaccinated people without an exemption. Non-compliant students   will be unable to access campus and have holds on their registrations; non-compliant faculty and staff will be restricted from campus access and have been contacted by the University. 
Van Orman confirmed that coronavirus cases have taken place in USC housing, an “expected” development as nearly 10,000 students moved in over the past week. Students living in USC housing who test positive  will be quarantined in the USC Hotel;students who test positive outside of University affiliated housing will also have the option to quarantine at the hotel. 
If a fully vaccinated student’s roommate tests positive, the student is expected to complete a “modified quarantine,” Van Orman said, where the student may go to class but is expected to “be cautious” such as by eating takeout, avoiding gatherings and wearing their mask.
“We want people to be able to continue to go to class and do those things but, just in the event there were to be exposure, to be a little extra cautious,” Van Orman said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
