Effective immediately, masks will no longer be required on campus for those that have been fully vaccinated and have submitted their vaccination record to the MySHR portal, the Office of the Provost announced in an email to staff Tuesday. The decision comes a day before USC resumes in-person classes for the second summer session. 
While the University plans to return to in-person classes for the fall, USC anticipates for most students and faculty to resume some form of in-person work in the coming weeks as different schools and departments begin creating individualized resumption plans.
“Whether you are back in person or working in a hybrid capacity, our vaccination and masking policies are focused on keeping the Trojan community safe, enabling the university to meet our teaching, research and community engagement missions, and being compliant with the latest health guidelines,” the email read. 
The memo also stated that USC will require all employees and students to continue self-reporting their daily symptoms through TrojanCheck. Masks will still be required while riding on public transit, including all USC shuttle buses and in healthcare settings, including Keck Medicine of USC facilities. The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health strongly recommends mask wearing in indoor public settings, including those who are fully vaccinated, as the Delta coronavirus variant, which is twice as transmissible as other coronavirus strains, continues to become widespread. According to the Los Angeles Times, the Delta variant is now the third-most common strain in California. 
With the exception of being alone in a private office or eating or drinking while socially distanced, students and faculty who are not vaccinated are still required to wear masks indoors at all USC campuses. Unvaccinated students, faculty and staff must continue to get regularly tested for the coronavirus — once per week for faculty, staff and graduate students and twice per week for undergraduate students. According to the email, those who are unvaccinated may be unable to participate in activities and events that require a fully vaccinated status for attendance. 
On March 5, the University announced they would require all students to receive full vaccinations with the exception for medical or religious reasons. Students are required to submit their vaccination status or an exemption or declination form to the MySHR portal by July 15, Provost Charles Zukoski and Senior Vice President of Human Resources Felicia Washington stated in the email. 
International students who have applied for housing and are unable to get vaccinated by July 15 will be expected to notify student housing and receive their vaccination upon arrival,a memo issued June 18 states. Students who arrive to campus from outside of the United States and are not fully vaccinated must adhere to a seven-day quarantine.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
