In a matchup rescheduled two weeks ago following positive coronavirus cases within the UC Berkeley team, it was fitting that viewers from home had to wait for another game to finish before watching the Pac-12 showdown on TV.
Three hours later and the unusual start time for the game ended in the usual fashion for USC this season: a loss.
Golden Bear fans roared as Cal defeated the Trojans 24-14 at California Memorial Stadium Saturday night, capping off a USC season with no Bowl Game for the second time in the last four seasons.
It is USC’s first loss on the road against the Golden Bears since 2003. The Trojans’ eight losses this season are its most since 1991. Their 4-8 record is also the third-worst season in USC football history. The fourth-worst season occurred three years ago.
With the season over, Head Coach Lincoln Riley’s tenure is officially here, bringing renewed optimism to the program.
Freshman quarterback Jaxson Dart left the game near the end of the third quarter after a hit to his head. Freshman quarterback Miller Moss took over and threw for 74 yards and a touchdown.
With USC down by 10 points entering the fourth quarter, Cal senior running back Christopher Brooks put the game out of reach for the Trojans after a rushing touchdown within six minutes of the quarter. Moss threw a touchdown to redshirt senior wide receiver K.D. Nixon with less than two minutes left in the game, but an onside kick attempt was recovered by the Golden Bears.
Without key offensive players — such as sophomore wide receiver Gary Bryant Jr. and senior running back Keaontay Ingram with Ingram falling to a rib injury during the UCLA game and Bryant Jr. a hamstring injury after BYU — USC struggled to put points on the board. After 409 total yards of offense, the Trojans only had 2 touchdowns to show.
USC’s first drive of the game went 12 plays for 47 yards but concluded in a missed 50-yard field goal by sophomore kicker Parker Lewis. The Trojans’ next drive ended following 4 plays and 15 minutes into the game.
However, the Trojans opened the second quarter in a different fashion. Dart found redshirt sophomore wide receiver Kyle Ford on third-and-16 for a 45-yard touchdown.
Unfortunately, for USC, it was its only touchdown of the half. The Trojans went scoreless from 9:28 in the second quarter to 1:36 in the fourth.
The five drives after the touchdown in the second resulted in a fumble, missed field goal, punt, turnover on downs and another fumble.
Redshirt sophomore running back Darwin Barlow coughed up the ball on the Trojans’ next drive for a fumble and Cal returned it for a 55-yard touchdown. Then, with the first half coming to a close, USC settled for a 43-yard field goal, missed again by Lewis.
On the season, USC had 25 touchdowns in 42 appearances. Its three trips Saturday resulted in 1 touchdown and 2 turnovers.
A red zone trip under 10 minutes left in the game ended with the Trojans’ second turnover of the game. Moss fumbled the ball on a sack and Cal recovered to score a touchdown.
The Trojans’ defense kept the Golden Bears in check throughout the game. Cal had just 260 total yards — a stark contrast to the 396.7 average yards per game. The Golden Bears were also 3-10 on third downs.
USC finished its season at 4-8, but even with that record, USC looks forward to Riley’s tenure, redshirt senior defensive end Nick Figueroa said after the game Saturday.
“We are starting tomorrow with Coach Riley, and we are excited about it,” Figueroa said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
