Thanassis Rikakis will serve as dean of Iovine and Young Academy, Provost Charles Zukoski announced in a communitywide email Thursday. 
Rikakis will start Aug. 23 and act as the school’s second dean since its establishment in 2013. Erica Muhl, founding executive director of IYA who formerly occupied the role of inaugural dean, now serves as President of the Berklee College of Music since July 1. 
Currently a professor of bioengineering and performing arts at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and a principal investigator at the Virginia Tech Carilion Smart Rehabilitation Lab and the Interactive Neurorehabilitation Lab, Rikakis is also the founding director of Calhoun Discovery Program — a Virginia Tech honors college program with collaborative studies in nine areas including engineering, design, humanities and policy. Rikakis also serves as director of the Calhoun Center for Higher Education Innovation.
“Throughout his career, Thanassis Rikakis has been passionate about connecting creativity and technology — and seeing the overlap among diverse disciplines, from the arts to engineering,” President Carol Folt told USC News. “As a musician, engineer and educator, he erased lines separating academic disciplines through his spirit of reimagination. That spirit aligns directly with the academy’s mission at the intersection of art, entrepreneurship, tech and communication.”
According to the email, Rikakis previously worked as Vice President and Provost of Virginia Tech and has held various leadership positions at Columbia University, Carnegie Mellon University, Arizona State University and Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Rikakis’ research has comprised 45 peer reviewed articles on subjects including design and the arts, engineering and education. From his work, Rikakis has received recognition and grants from the  National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research and the National Science Foundation. 
“I’m really excited to be coming to such a well-structured, forward-looking initiative,” said Rikakis in an interview with USC News. “Creating a space for people who learn differently is going to be a major goal for education in the 21st century, whether at the college level or the high school level.”
USC previously appointed Annenberg School of Communication and Journalism Dean Willow Bay to serve as interim dean of IYA July 1. Bay also co-chaired the IYA search committee alongside Executive Vice Provost Elizabeth Graddy since Jan. 6.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
