Los Angeles City Councilmember and USC alumnus Mark Ridley-Thomas announced he will “immediately step back” from full City Council and Committee meetings following his indictment on federal bribery charges last Wednesday, according to a letter sent to his colleagues Monday obtained by the Daily Trojan. 
Ridley-Thomas, who has a doctorate from USC in social ethics, said in the letter he will remain in office and “[has] every intent of fighting these outrageous allegations and [expects] to be fully exonerated.”
“I fully appreciate the importance of the Council being able to conduct its business with minimal distractions,” he wrote in the letter. “With that in mind, and with deep respect for each of you, I write to let you know of my intention to immediately step back from participating in both full Council and Committee meetings.” 
The 20-count indictment filed Wednesday alleges Ridley-Thomas offered bribes to Marilyn Louise Flynn, former Dean of the USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work, allowing Ridley-Thomas’ son, Sebastian, to receive a full-tuition scholarship and work as a professor of practice of policy and social work at USC. 
Ridley-Thomas presented motions and agenda items to benefit the University — including establishing a partnership between the County and the School of Social Work — through his position on the L.A. County Board of Supervisors, according to court documents.
In a statement to the Daily Trojan last week, Ridley-Thomas’s lawyer Michael J. Proctor said the federal allegations shocked Ridley-Thomas and that he has never used his position for political gain.
“Ridley-Thomas has been in public service for thirty years, and his actions have been open to public scrutiny for a full three decades,” Proctor wrote. “Over those thirty years, he has demonstrated the quality of his character. We ask you to allow due process to take its course.”
Since his indictment last Wednesday, multiple City Councilmembers said Ridley-Thomas should either step-down or take a step back from his duties. 
“I am shocked, saddened, and disgusted by the Federal bribery charges against Mark Ridley-Thomas,” City Councilmember Joe Buscaino wrote on Twitter. “These charges tarnish the reputation of the entire LA City Council, and because of that, Ridley-Thomas should immediately step down from his position.”
Growing up in South Central, Ridley-Thomas was elected to represent City Council District 8 — which encompasses his hometown — in 1991, where he served until 2002. Later, he served in the California State Assembly, California State Senate and L.A. Board of Supervisors.
Ridley-Thomas will be arraigned Wednesday in Downtown. 
Correction: A previous version of this article implied that court documents allege Ridley-Thomas accepted bribes in exchange for his son’s full-tuition scholarship and position as a professor of practice of policy and social work at USC. Court documents allege Ridley-Thomas guided public funds to the University in exchange for his son’s scholarship and position at USC. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
