If there’s been a team to beat this year for the USC women’s tennis team, it’s the Pepperdine Waves. Over the weekend, USC faced the No. 4 Waves for the third time this season and was handed its worst loss yet, a 4-1 defeat.
Heading into the match, the Trojans were short one of their key players: redshirt senior Angela Kulikov. Kulikov and her partner sophomore Eryn Cayetano had not lost to Pepperdine in the two previous matchups this season, including a 6-2 doubles win in January against the Waves. The pair is ranked No. 12 in the nation, but with Kulikov’s absence from both singles and doubles, Cayetano played with freshman Naomi Cheong, with the pair suffering a 6-2 loss.
While other notable changes were made to the lineup this week, the Trojans were able to maintain some sense of consistency. Cheong did not face Pepperdine’s graduate student Ashley Lahey this week, an opponent she was able to defeat during the last USC’s previous matchup with the Waves. Cheong was matched up against graduate student Jessica Failla instead. Redshirt senior Claire McKee faced sophomore Lisa Zaar this week, the third head-to-head between the two since January.
Along with the pairing of Cayetano and Cheong, on doubles were junior Salma Ewing and McKee and redshirt senior Summer Dvorak and junior Danielle Wilson. The Trojans fell short of securing the doubles point, with Dvorak and Wilson falling first in a 6-4 loss while Ewing and McKee did not finish after the Waves had secured the two matches needed for the decisive one-point advantage.
“We started off pretty well across all three courts, and Pepperdine made some quick adjustments and played a little more offensively,” head coach Alison Swain said. “Doubles is really about who can get on offense early, and [Pepperdine] did that better at the ends of the matches then we did.”
Reeling from their third doubles loss in a row to Pepperdine this season, the Trojans headed into singles with much ground to recover –– and they did it by capturing four of the six first sets played in their singles matches. However, only one singles match resulted in a win for the Trojans.
Ewing was able to clinch the sole point in the 4-1 loss, a straight set 6-2 7-5 singles victory over graduate student Shiori Fukuda, who’s ranked No. 12 in the nation. Ewing had previously faced Fukuda in the first matchup between the Trojans and Waves back in January, suffering a straight sets loss then –– a complete turnaround from the conviction in her play in the most recent meeting between the two.
Ewing attributed her win to the energy she brought to the court and the complete focus on her game plan that allowed her to win. Additionally, Ewing landed her serve well, placing it both out wide and down the middle, a key component when facing someone like Fukuda who hits a strong backhand.
“[Fukuda] likes to stand closer to the doubles line so she could get a backhand because I think she favors her backhand,” Ewing said. “At times it was hard for me to serve out wide to her forehand, but I was still able to do that well. At times I would just go ‘T’ because it was so wide open and that’s where I got a lot of my aces this match.”
While Ewing was the only member of Swain’s group to emerge with a win on Sunday, three other Trojans forced third sets on the Waves in lengthy singles matches. This included McKee who forced a third set against Zarr after taking only one of the first two sets.
“I’m really proud of [Claire],” Swain said. “She came out with a very specific game plan. She executed that very well in her first set. Her opponents stepped up the second set and, again, it’s about us investing back and playing to our strengths and playing with confidence when our opponents are playing their best and I think that’s where we can continue to improve.”
While mid-game improvements proved crucial in Pepperdine’s win over the Trojans, the Trojans will look forward to matchups with two Pac-12 opponents next weekend. USC will face both Colorado and Utah this weekend in Los Angeles at Marks Stadium.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
