In a national championship event, the heart beats faster, time moves slowly and the pressure can be suffocating. It’s where collegiate athletes can make or break their career path. 
Behind record-breaking performances, the Trojans won their second NCAA outdoor National Championship in three years Saturday.
Redshirt senior sprinter and hurdler Anna Cockrell stole the show. She not only broke the 400-meter hurdles school record but became the second person to ever win the 400-meter hurdles and 100-meter hurdles in the same season. 
USC put up 74 total points after a full day of competition, which is the most points they’ve ever received. It is also the highest point total since Texas A&M scored 75 in 2014. 
Points are given based on finishes in the top-six of individual events — first place receives 10 points, second place gets 8; points then decrease by 2 until sixth place, which receives only 1. In relay events, first place is awarded 20 points, second place gets 16. Points then decrease by 4 until sixth place which receives only 2. 
The Trojans are now the only program to finish in the top three in each of their last four championship meets. During USC Director of Track & Field Caryl Smith Gilbert’s six-year tenure, USC has put up a combined 289 points in the NCAA Championship — the most in a six-year span by the Trojans. 
A day after their victory, USC Athletic Director Mike Bohn announced that Smith Gilbert would leave USC to become the University of Georgia’s new director of Track & Field.  
The 4×100 relay team of Jasmine Jones, Angie Annelus, Lanae-Tava Thomas and TeeTee Terry won the event for the second year in a row with a time of 42.82. The last time a team repeated this event was in 2013-14 when Texas A&M did so.  
Redshirt senior sprinters Kyra Constantine and Nicole Yeargin and junior sprinter Bailey Lear all finished within the top seven in the 400-meter final. Constantine’s personal record time of 50.87 moved her to third all time on USC’s list. Her performance also marked her as the fourth Trojan to score in the event twice. 
Freshman jumper Temi Ojora also contributed with an eighth-place finish in the triple jump. Ojora’s teammate freshman jumper Morgan Smalls placed fourth in the high jump with a collegiate-best clearance of 6-0.50. The clearance ties for the highest by a Trojan in the finals. 
In the final event, the championship already secured, USC’s 4×400 relay team ran the second-fastest time of 3:24:54 in school history. The Trojans were crowned champions, and eleven athletes were named All-Americans including Smalls, Ojora and Constantine. 
Even with the tremendous success of the women’s team, men’s Track & Field managed to finish fifth in the Men’s NCAA Outdoor Track & Field Championship. Redshirt senior Isaiah Jewett also set the school record in the men’s 800-meter run. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
