USC will move the first week of spring semester classes online, Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Charles Zukoski and Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman announced in a communitywide email Friday. In-person classes are slated to resume Jan. 18.
The University will also require booster shots for eligible faculty, students and staff, according to the email. USC will issue a booster shot deadline by next week but currently urges community members to book their shot as soon as possible.   
The announcement follows the spread of the omicron variant across the United States and in Los Angeles County. L.A. County currently reports a daily average of 4,564 cases, a 181% increase in a two week period, according to the New York Times. Hospitalizations also increased by 31% compared to the previous two weeks, though rates remain lower than before vaccines were widely available.
In a communitywide email Thursday, USC Student Health announced that current campus positivity rates are at 10%, an increase from the week of Dec. 12-18., when the student positivity rate was 1.6% and the employee positivity rate was 0.7%. 
Despite the remote start, residential housing will open on Jan. 6 as planned, according to the email. Before attending in-person classes and moving into University housing, students will be required to show proof of a negative coronavirus test. Surveillance testing will continue during the spring semester. 
The Bookstore, Jefferson Lot, Pardee Marks and Pappas Quad testing centers will be open on a modified schedule Jan. 3-7. and resume normal testing hours Jan. 10.  
USC will also delay the Spring New Student Convocation, initially scheduled on Jan. 7, by around two weeks. Other University events “will continue as planned” with compliance of guidelines issued by the L.A. County Department of Public Health. 
Work plans for faculty and staff upon return from the holiday break Jan. 3 will remain the same, with any changes announced by respective work supervisors. 
Other institutions, such as Harvard University and Stanford University, have also delayed in-person operations following a rise in cases of the omicron variant. Harvard, which announced its plans Dec. 18, will conduct its campus operations remotely for the first three weeks of January, with in-person spring classes scheduled to begin Jan. 24. 
Stanford University announced on Dec. 16 that the first two weeks of classes of its winter quarter, starting Jan. 3, will be held online. In-person classes are expected to resume Jan. 18, according to the Stanford Daily. 
Seven University of California institutions, including its Los Angeles and Irvine campuses, will conduct classes virtually for the first two weeks of its winter quarter — scheduled to begin Jan. 3. Berkeley, which follows a semester system, currently plans to continue with in-person instruction on Jan. 18. Merced, which also operates on a semester system, has yet to announce its plans. 
Syracuse University pushed back the start of its semester by one week, starting classes with in-person instruction Jan. 24 and ending a week later, according to the Daily Orange.
USC will provide additional updates next week, according to the email. 
“We continue to closely monitor the spread of cases in our community, as well as the situation at other institutions,” the email read. “Fall was a success at USC, and we remain committed to keeping our campuses safe and continuing in-person instruction this spring.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
