The Daily Trojan won a total of 11 awards on Saturday from the California College Media Association, including two first-place honors and placing second best newspaper. 
The first place awards include Best Newspaper Column for Marlize Duncan’s “The Minority Support,” published Fall 2020, which tackled overlooked Black, Indigenous creatives and creatives of color in the entertainment industry and Best Features Story for Eileen Toh’s “Behind the Scenes: A closer look at SCA’s rigorous culture” published Spring 2020. 
Second place awards included Best COVID-19 coverage for the work of Andrea Klick, Natalie Oganesyan, Eileen Toh, Lauren Mattice, Julia Lin and Maria Tsiao. The Daily Trojan also placed second for Best Newspaper Front Page Design for Ally Wei and Claire Wong’s work on the summer orientation issue in Summer 2020, and Best Sports Photograph for James Wolfe’s shot, “Trojans triumph over Arizona at Galen Center,” in Spring 2020. 
Third place awards were given for Best Multimedia Package to Vincent Leo, James Wolfe, Nicole Ng, and Megan Friedenberg’s “Physical Restricted, Distantly Connected” photo story published Fall 2020 and Best Special Issue / Section for “A long way from home” which featured stories about international students in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, published Spring 2020. The Daily Trojan also placed third for Best Overall Newspaper Design, Best Photo Series by Ling Luo and Lauren Mattice for “Community, students call for USC accountability” and Best Non-Breaking News Story for Stuart Carson’s profile on Viet Thanh Nguyen “‘Write like you are the majority’” published Fall 2020. 
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
