When sophomore quarterback Caleb Williams arrived in Los Angeles last February, much of the USC program was in a crisis.
The Trojans were coming off their fourth-worst winning percentage in 101 seasons. Even with his splashy hire, Head Coach Lincoln Riley was in the midst of a major program overhaul. Roster turnover was imminent and a program that seemed to be losing its fire needed a spark. 
In came former five-star recruit Williams, the ultimate firework USC needed to bring it back to relevancy. Would he live up to the hype? A year later he answered with a resounding yes.
A win in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 2 will give USC its most wins since 2008. Much of it wouldn’t have been possible without Williams, who threw for 4,075 yards, 37 touchdowns and just four interceptions this season. He also ran for 372 yards and 10 touchdowns. 
Williams was praised throughout the year, but he was etched into college football and USC history when he won the Heisman Award Saturday night. He is the eighth Trojan to do so, a college football record. 
Reggie Bush was the last USC player to win the Heisman in 2005. But he vacated the trophy in 2010 because the NCAA found him and his family guilty of receiving extra benefits when he was a student-athlete. The Heisman does not officially list Bush as the winner in 2005.
Williams earned 544 first-place votes, nearly 400 more than TCU quarterback Max Duggan who finished second. Williams was one of four finalists along with Duggan, Ohio State quarterback C.J. Stroud and Georgia quarterback Stetson Bennett 
Every finalist except Williams will play in the College Football Playoff, something he joked about during his speech. 
“And I may be standing up here today,” Williams said. “But you all get to go to the College Football Playoffs. Guess you can’t win them all.”
He has one more year to win it all, but for now, he’s the winner of the biggest individual award in college football. 
Statistically, he had one of the best years in USC football history. His 4,447 total offensive yards are the most ever by a Trojan. His 47 total touchdowns in a season is a new record. After one season of play, Williams is on pace to become USC’s all-time passing leader. He was also the first USC quarterback to have three rushing touchdowns in a game in 25 years. 
In his speech, Williams spoke about his journey, including a time when he told his dad he wanted to be a quarterback at 10 years old. Then two years later, he was crying in his hotel room after losing the national championship, a game he didn’t play in because his coach said he was too small. 
Instead of giving up, he developed a plan with his dad. It began with 5:30 a.m. workouts nicknamed the Breakfast Club, then a lifting session at 6:30 p.m. to get bigger, stronger and faster. 
Williams said his journey wasn’t easy, but it was the precursor to his belief in himself. 
“The early setbacks that I encountered lit a fire, they started my journey,” he said. “Your journey will be your own. Just keep believing and keep pursuing your goals.”
His belief has him forever part of Trojan lore that joined him in New York. Former USC Heisman winners Matt Leinart, Carson Palmer and Mike Garrett were all on stage for his speech. 
Special guests were also flown out by Williams — all eight of the offensive lineman that blocked for him this season. He named them all during his speech, saying the Heisman wouldn’t have been his if it wasn’t for them.
But, it was bittersweet at times for Williams, whose magic ran out in the Pac-12 Championship game against Utah. Hindered by a hamstring injury, Williams wasn’t himself and the Trojans couldn’t hang around. USC saw its playoff hopes crushed, but Williams isn’t.  
“I’d like to thank all my USC brothers. I know we didn’t finish the way we wanted to, but the culture bond that we formed will last forever,” he said. “As I said, we do still have some unfinished business.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
