No. 3 USC kicked off play in the MPSF Saturday with a 13-7 win against UC Berkeley, handing the Golden Bears their first loss of the season. 
Coming off a heartbreaking loss last week, losing to UCLA in the game’s final 23 seconds, the Trojans came back and got a hard-fought win by a comfortable margin. The two teams traded goals throughout the first period, with neither side getting ahead for too long. Then, in a six-minute stretch from the end of the first period to the end of the second period, USC rattled off 4 consecutive goals. From then on, the Trojans stayed firmly in the lead and never let it get closer than 3 goals the rest of the game. The result marked only the third time in the last 10 years that USC has beaten Cal by 6 goals or more.
All season, Head Coach Marko Pintaric has preached strong defensive presence, and on Saturday, Pintaric felt that they executed. 
“A minor adjustment defensively [was] to not allow the ball to move freely, and once we went into a zone defense, and to really give our goalie a chance and not allow high percentage shots,” Pintaric said. “Confidence comes from playing good defense, and, overall, I liked the confidence [today].”
The defense was once again anchored by junior goalie Carolyne Stern in  her third consecutive start this season. She finished the game with 5 saves and 1 assist. Having alternated previously throughout the season with redshirt junior goalie Erin Tharp, Stern appears to have a hold on the starting spot for now.
“This is my third year, and I’ve been working really hard, so now that I’m finally able to play and be a starting goalie, it’s really awesome,” Stern said. “This was a really big win … and I’m super excited for next weekend and all the other weekends to come.”
USC continued its outpouring of offense against the Golden Bears, scoring in double digits for the eighth time in its last nine games. Three Trojans scored a hat trick: redshirt junior driver Paige Hauschild, redshirt sophomore 2-meter Tilly Kearns and senior driver Grace Tehaney.
Hauschild now has 18 goals on the season, following her return to USC after leaving for two years to play for the United States National Team. 
“I think we’re still working out some kinks and things. Obviously it’s really early on in the season, but I think today was a great momentum builder for us,” Hauschild said. “[Last weekend’s loss] was a great learning experience, and we made a lot of adjustments … and were able to implement changes today and come out on top.”
The Trojans are preparing for the Barbara Kalbus Invitational, where they will meet many of the top-ranked teams in the country. They will start off the weekend Friday against No. 18 Loyola Marymont at 12:30 p.m.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
