Following a nearly unanimous vote to allow for the authorization of a strike, resident physicians at the Los Angeles County+USC Medical Center gave L.A. County official notice of a three-day unfair labor practice strike Thursday. The strike is set to start June 13 and June 15 if a favorable agreement is not reached between L.A. County and members of the Committee of Interns and Residents/Service Employees International Union. 
Resident physicians accuse L.A. County of bad faith bargaining and unlawful conduct over the course of almost one year of contract negotiations after L.A. County’s decision to rollover the residents’ prepandemic contract, which expired in the fall, to the spring. L.A. County officials, physicians allege, have not met the union’s proposals and have repeatedly canceled bargaining sessions. The union’s proposals include a wage floor increase of 10% to keep up with inflation and cost of living increases in L.A., a rise in the amount allotted as a housing stipend and improved diversity training. 
Months of grievances and frustration at the bargaining table led SEIU Local 721-represented L.A. County employees, including nurses, to call a strike authorization vote, which began May 16 and ended May 31 with an overwhelming 99% majority voting affirmatively. 
“A super majority of our members have been watching us at the bargaining table for months and months now and watching County really leave us with no choice but to take more decisive action,” said Mahima Iyengar, regional vice president of public hospitals in Southern California of CIR and first-year internal medicine and pediatrics resident at LAC+USC. “County dragged out this bargaining process over months [and] failed to make movements on our proposals.”
The authorization vote enabled the resident physicians to call a strike if they believed L.A. County continued to bargain in bad faith. The move to strike, if unaverted, will mark the first time resident physician members of CIR/SEIU nationwide strike in 32 years. 
“We do not take the decision to strike lightly, and we have presented the County with more than sufficient notice of our strike plans in order to help ensure that they have time to safely staff our hospitals in our absence,” a Thursday CIR/SEIU press release read.
Union members said they are still hopeful that a strike can be averted and urge L.A. County to “do the right thing.”
The CIR/SEIU bargaining team is hoping to find a resolution as soon as possible, Iyengar said, as residents, interns and fellows stay on and work at the hospital for a limited amount of time.
“We have members that are going to be graduating soon that worked through the pandemic — intubating people, taking care of people — and they deserve to have some sort of resolution to this contract that’s expired before they graduate,” Iyengar said. “We also have incoming interns that are going to be starting in just a couple of weeks, and we’re already getting calls about them not being able to find housing on the salary that’s in the old expired contract.”
In a statement issued Thursday to the Daily Trojan, the L.A. County Department of Health Services reaffirmed that labor negotiations are ongoing and are led by the L.A. County Chief Executive Office. 
“Our Residents and Interns, who are completing their medical education and/or training, along with our Doctors, Nurses and other healthcare personnel are dedicated to those we serve and know first-hand how hard everyone worked to get us to where we are now,” the statement read.
Resident physicians have been engaged in intensive bargaining sessions with L.A. County over the past week, with some sessions lasting more than six hours. Though the CIR team went into the sessions hopeful that L.A. County would meet them at the table in good faith, Iyengar said, the parties have been unable to reach a definite agreement. 
“We are just hoping that [L.A. County officials] bring everybody to the table that’s able to help make some decisions and that they really respond to all of our proposals … If we feel like they’re coming to the table with some movements and they’re responding to our proposals fairly, we’re still hopeful that we’ll be able to avert a strike,” Iyengar said. “It’s really a last resort for us. We don’t want to go on strike. We want to just be doing our jobs and taking care of our patients.”
The L.A. County CIR/SEIU physicians gained the support of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who expressed his solidarity with the members in a May 24 tweet.
“New doctors should not be forced to work 80 hours a week for incredibly low wages,” Sanders wrote. “I’m proud to stand in solidarity with @CIRSEIU frontline physicians in @countyofla fighting not only for decent wages and working conditions, but to improve care for their patients.”
Iyengar said she’s received calls from incoming residents who are excited to join the residency union and become a part of the current members’ efforts. Energy among the resident team is “really high” right now, she said, and her coworkers often discuss the talks among themselves. 
“I’m excited to continue to get to be part of this really incredible team of people that really put all of their time into making sure that we are able to have everything that we need outside of work so that when we’re at work, we’re able to give everything to our patients,” Iyengar said.
Negotiations between physicians and L.A. County representatives continue over the coming days.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
