Eight minutes into USC’s game against UC Berkeley Saturday, the Trojans began in a way that is evolving into a regular routine. USC had just 9 points while giving up 20 to the Golden Bears, which had 29 in just the first half of their previous game against UCLA. 
A certain fan had seen enough, exclaiming: “Wake up, Trojans” to a team that combined for 23 points in the first 10 minutes of play in its previous two games.
But just like against Arizona State and Stanford, No. 15 USC eventually woke up, dragging itself towards a 79-72 win against Cal, sweeping the season series and staying alive in the Pac-12 title race.
The Trojans have now won their last eight games against the Golden Bears. It was USC’s fifth game in 10 days, going 4-1 during the stretch.
“Give Cal a lot of credit, they played outstanding offensive basketball. They made shot after shot,” said Head Coach Andy Enfield in a postgame press conference. “When a team shoots like that, hats off to them. They played very well, and I thought they competed at a very high level.” 
The Trojans’ defense struggled for a second game in a row with Cal shooting 50% from the field and 3-point line. The Golden Bears shot just 33% from downtown coming into Saturday. The rebound margin was also close — both teams tied at 28, compared to USC’s 15 rebound advantage in the first meeting. 
Cal hung around in the second half, cutting the Trojans’ lead to 3 with 1:40 left in the game as USC went ice cold late in the second half. But the Trojans managed to pull away after a basket from junior forward Isaiah Mobley and conversions from the free throw line ended any chance of an upset.
After 9 points against Stanford Thursday, Mobley broke out for a career-high 24 points on 9-for-21 shooting during Saturday’s game. Junior guard Boogie Ellis added 21 points, his highest total since the first game of the season.
USC also had its season-low in turnovers with 4. Enfield credited junior guard Ethan Anderson with controlling the game and calming the offense down. Anderson had 4 points and 5 assists with no turnovers after back-to-back games with no points and 1 assist combined.
“This was a really good game for me. I needed this mentally just because I know how much I can bring to the team,” Anderson said. “I know how much my teammates trust me and I feel like I can make the game easier for all of our guys.”
However, most of the offensive action went through Mobley as the game progressed. The 6-foot-10 forward’s aggression accelerated across the night with more drives toward the basket and low post play.
Mobley also added 6 rebounds, 2 blocks and a late basket to stretch out USC’s lead. 
“He’s a great player. Great players make great plays,” Ellis said. “We have a great belief in him. We knew that’s what he’s capable of. When we saw him do that, it’s just normal.” 
Following its slow start, USC buckled down on defense and closed out the half on a 32-15 run. Cal, meanwhile, went without a field goal for nearly five minutes during the same stretch. The Trojans went into the half up 6.  
Mobley and Ellis came alive as the half progressed, combining for 25 points and igniting a struggling USC offense. 
A key substitution that sparked the 12-minute run was redshirt senior guard Isaiah White. White has fallen below in the rotation, averaging 10 minutes per game this season after 20 last season. 
Flying around the court with his hustle, White provided a spark on defense with his hustle and was a team-high plus 20 in 20 minutes. 
Enfield had high praise for White.
“I thought [White] was the key to the game in the first half. We were struggling on both sides, and he came in with some energy and just was aggressive,” Enfield said. 
USC will travel on the road to face Arizona State Thursday at 8 p.m.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
