Los Angeles-based real estate company Champion Real Estate has plans to upgrade two recently acquired properties along Greek Row for general student housing by Fall 2024. The company made two separate deals to purchase a former Chi Phi fraternity house at 2715 Portland Street and a former Gamma Epsilon Omega house on 624 West 28th Street for a total of $16.7 million. 
The 6,400 square feet property on Portland Street has 14 bedrooms and six bathrooms, and the property on West 28th is 15,000 square feet, with 34 bedrooms and 19 bathrooms. Although both have housed fraternities in the past — the Portland house has also previously been home to Kappa Alpha Order and Theta Chi — the properties were unaffiliated with fraternities and rented out as general student housing at the time of sale.
Gamma Epsilon lost its recognition as an organization in 2017 due to hazing and health and safety violations of the University conduct code. Chi Phi remains a recognized chapter governed by the Interfraternity Council. 
Kappa Alpha Order is one of the six IFC chapters that recently disaffiliated from the University, a move that was denounced by the University Friday. In an Instagram statement, the University expressed disappointment over the organizations’ aim to seemingly “eliminate university oversight” and resist important procedures and protocols put in place to address issues of sexual assault, drug abuse, mental health and underage drinking. The University strongly recommended students to avoid joining the unaffiliated organizations. 
Upgrades Champion Real Estate plans for both properties include the installation of TVs and soundbars in each bedroom, and the addition of lounges and study rooms. 
The houses will be branded under Champion Real Estate’s Victory Student Housing. Victory properties, such as Victory on 30th Street and Victory House East, provide students with opportunities to live in luxury off-campus housing. As part of the Victory collection, the houses on West 28th Street and Portland Street will have similar high-end furnishing and amenities. 
Like other Victory properties, the houses on West 28th and Portland will be fully furnished, “bring your bag and move in” operations, Champion Real Estate Senior Vice President Garrett Champion said in an interview with the Daily Trojan. Utilities will be included as part of rent.
Renovations will take place through the 2023-2024 school year once the properties are vacated. The houses will not be leasable during the renovation period.
Currently, Champion Real Estate is planning to make these properties available to all students at USC, but Champion said he does not rule out leasing to fraternities in the future under a “master lease.”
Champion said the company decided to invest in these properties in part because of the demand for better housing conditions in the USC area. 
“We felt like it was a market where USC students and their parents would appreciate a more clean and upgraded living experience that you’re really seeing with all the new student housing projects that are being built around USC today,” Champion said.
Champion said he believes the properties’ locations will be highly appealing to students. 
“One of them is on Greek Row on West 28th Street, and then the other is just off of Greek Row, which is really the social center of USC,” Champion said. “Because of that, it’s the most desirable place to live for students.”
The Portland and West 28th properties are the seventh and eighth additions to Champion Real Estate’s growing portfolio of student housing near USC. It has also expanded its student housing assets around universities as far east as Syracuse, NY. 
USC is among the many universities across the nation that have seen a growth of private student housing developments locally. Luxury student housing has become a multibillion-dollar industry. According to the nonprofit education news publication The Hechinger Report, an estimated $2.5 billion was raised for student housing projects in 2018, accounting for a total of $138 billion raised for all types of real estate that year. While the expansion of luxury student housing has supplied sought-after living conditions, it has also raised concerns for some students and faculty at schools, including the University of North Carolina, Wilmington and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, that the developments will drive up off-campus housing rents and exacerbate socioeconomic divides within student bodies.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
