Scott Rabenold will join USC in February 2023 as senior vice president for university advancement and alumni relations, President Carol Folt announced in a communitywide email Tuesday. Tracey Vranich has served in the interim role since April 2020, where she led a multi-year fundraising effort that acquired $7.16 billion for the University.
Rabenold spent the last six years at The University of Texas at Austin as the vice president for development, where he spearheaded a variety of large-scale fundraising efforts.
“At UT-Austin, Scott led a department of 450 development professionals and more than doubled the amount of annual giving in six years,” Folt wrote. “During his tenure, the university raised nearly $4 billion toward UT-Austin’s $6 billion ‘What Starts Here’ campaign to support the institution’s strategic plan.”
Rabenold’s experience in fundraising for higher education will play a key part in supporting Folt’s goal of furthering the University’s commitment to leading in the health and computing fields, outlined in her State of the University address in April. In the long run, the University is seeking to remain a frontrunner in academics and research around the globe.
Rabenold will work with leaders across USC to determine what alumni and supporters would like to see the University accomplish in the future.
“Scott has proven that philanthropic success is achieved by building high-performing teams and nurturing strong, collaborative relationships with leaders across campus,” Folt wrote.
USC’s strengths in a variety of areas, ranging from research to arts and athletics, drew Rabenold to the University. His role will be an impactful one in increasing funding to support these pursuits — such as scholarships, research centers and campus spaces.
“I know Scott will be a champion for our students, faculty, staff, research, and health care teams,” Folt wrote. “He will be integral to advancing USC’s vision and aspirations, reporting to me and serving on the senior leadership team.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
