Content warning: This article contains references to sexual assault and violence.
USC instituted several changes to its policies regarding discrimination and harassment, including expanded definitions and new reporting directives, Senior Vice President of Human Resources Felicia Washington wrote in a communitywide email Tuesday.
The changes mainly account for sexual misconduct and gender-based discrimination reports but also cover other forms of discrimination and retaliation, including those based on race, religion and disability.
Washington’s announcement includes a new requirement that the University publicly acknowledge reports of sex discrimination “when it has constructive notice” and update definitions of “certain forms of sexual misconduct” — ranging from sexual assault to domestic violence. The University will also implement an expanded reporting process called the Centralized Reporting Directive, which will require employees to forward all “information about sexual or gender-based harassment and violence” to the University’s Office for Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX within 72 hours of being informed. 
Additionally, beginning in April, University supervisors will forward “any past complaints or reports of sex discrimination” since Jan. 1, 2016 to EEO-TIX.
The affected policies — the Policy on Prohibited Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation and Resolution Process for Sexual Misconduct — were changed to comply with new California laws, according to Washington. But the changes also come after multiple sexual assault and drugging reports at fraternities last semester led to mass student protests, as well as criticism of the University’s “troubling delay” in reporting the assaults.
“My team and I will follow up with supervisors in the coming weeks with additional details and specific training,” Washington wrote. “I want to thank each of you for doing your part to ensure centralized reporting, which is the foundation of an inclusive and diverse University community where discrimination, harassment, and retaliation are not condoned, tolerated, or enabled.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
