The March Madness magic that saw USC make a run to the Elite Eight last year wasn’t around this year. 
Despite some late-game heroics from senior guard Drew Peterson, seventh-seed USC fell to tenth-seed Miami 68-66. 
The Hurricanes led by 7 points with 44 seconds left after a back-and-forth half that had nine lead changes. Enter Peterson. 
After hitting a three point shot off an assist by junior guard Ethan Anderson, Peterson forced a Miami turnover and scored another 3-pointer to bring the game within one point. Peterson then scored a layup to tie the game with 14 seconds. 
The March Madness magic felt within reach for the Trojans despite their earlier struggles. 
“Thankfully, my teammates found me in some great spots, so I hit a few shots, but obviously, it was too little, too late,” said Peterson in a postgame press conference. “We all really thought we could make that second half comeback.” 
Miami redshirt senior guard Charlie Moore handled the ball for the Hurricanes in the waning seconds of the game, drawing a foul from Anderson with three seconds remaining. Moore made both free throws, and USC needed a miracle. 
Peterson found space several feet behind the three-point line, but his shot banked in and out as the Trojans found themselves out of the NCAA Tournament and into the offseason. 
“I thought that shot had a chance; it was close,” Peterson said. 
Miami led by 11 points at halftime, thanks to an explosive performance by sophomore guard Isaiah Wong and an abundance of USC turnovers. The Hurricanes had just one turnover at the half, while USC had 12. Miami also had an impressive 12 steals for the game.
Head Coach Andy Enfield, who recently extended his contract until 2027 with USC, expressed his disappointment with the team’s effort in the first half. 
“It is frustrating, as a team and a coaching staff, when you know your players aren’t performing as well as they could,” Enfield said. “But they came out in the second half and did a great job.”   
Peterson took accountability for USC’s first half offensive woes. 
“They were going to pressure us,” Peterson said. “That’s on me for not helping stabilize that, and we kind of just let it get out of control. As lead guards, me and [junior guard Boogie Ellis] didn’t do well enough with handling the pressure.” 
According to redshirt senior forward Chevez Goodwin, the high pressure environment could also be to blame for USC’s uncharacteristically poor first half performance. The Trojans had a season-low 20 points in the first half.  
Anderson led the Trojans to a strong second half start, scoring the first bucket of the half and moving the ball around effectively. Junior forward Isaiah Mobley got involved late, scoring his first three points of the game off of an assist from Anderson. 
Wong scored 22 points for the Hurricanes and fouled out with around two minutes left in the game. He took advantage of the Trojans’ lackluster first half defense, scoring from the paint and behind the free throw line. Wong was 8-9 from the charity stripe.
Miami’s ability to rebound kept the Trojans in the game. USC had 38 boards, while Miami had 26. The Hurricanes were also ice cold from three, only making 1-for-14 attempts. 
Freshman guard Reese Dixon-Waters scored a career-high 16 points off the bench, adding two rebounds and an assist. Despite a groin injury earlier in the week, Dixon-Waters played 28 minutes. 
“The pain was definitely there, especially after my fall,” Dixon-Waters said. “But I feel like I need to be there for the team and just get through it and play … I’ll push through it for any team, especially this one.” 
As USC may lose some key players  — such as Mobley, Goodwin and Peterson — to graduation or the NBA Draft, Peterson said that Dixon-Waters could prove a potential leader for USC’s team next year. 
“I couldn’t speak more highly about [Dixon-Waters]. He’s one of the hardest workers I know,” Peterson said. “It’s good for him to step up in such a huge game.” 
Despite his team’s early exit from the NCAA Tournament, Enfield had high praise for his players as the team scored a total of 46 points in the second half. 
“They did a great job when the pressure was on. I’m very proud of them,” Enfield said. “In the biggest stage, they fought, and they executed extremely well until the last possession defensively.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
