USC will extend remote instruction until Monday, Jan. 24 from the scheduled Jan. 18 return, Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs Charles Zukoski and Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman announced in a communitywide email Friday.
The University encourages students to delay returning to campus during the two weeks of remote instruction, although University housing will remain open. Schools will update graduate and professional students about program-specific instruction. 
“Current modeling indicates the next few weeks will see a continued high positivity rate and high level of community spread, until we pass a peak point and cases begin to decline,” the email read. “A variety of projections indicate that may happen in the latter half of January.”
The University of California system recently extended remote instruction periods. UCLA, Berkeley, Riverside and Merced announced extensions Friday until Jan. 31, and Davis, Irvine, Santa Cruz and San Diego announced extensions Thursday. Schools within the California State University system also pivoted to begin the spring semester online, with nine of the 23 campuses opting for remote starts.
USC recorded a 13.4% student positivity rate and 13.3% employee positivity rate from Dec. 26 to Jan.1, with 505 student cases and 68 employee cases. The highest student positivity rate during the fall semester was 0.5%. 
The seven-day average positivity rate in Los Angeles County is 22.56%, the highest rate since the beginning of the pandemic. 
Shortages and coronavirus cases may impact staffing levels and campus operations, according to the email. Testing will remain a “priority resource” as students return to campus, though increased demand may cause delays in scheduling testing appointments and receiving results. 
The email cited booster shots, which the University will require for the spring semester, as effective at reducing coronavirus spread.
“A higher number of boosted individuals provide less ‘fuel’ for transmission to burn through in our community,” the email read. “Reaching a higher rate of boosted vaccinations provides greater protection for all of us, and a better chance of a faster end to the current surge.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
