Content warning: This article contains references to war, death and violence. 
Dear fellow USC students, 
It is with great sorrow that I write this piece. Last Thursday, my home, my dear, tender, loving Ukraine, was invaded by Russia. Cities were bombed, and many soldiers, as well as good innocent people, have already been killed while defending the country. My friends and family spent the first hours of that evening in the basement, waiting out possible missile strikes and air raids. They are urged to spend their nights in a bomb shelter as intelligence warned about an increase in striking activity. 
On the night of Feb. 24, I called my father and brother to tell them the war had begun; the most difficult three words that I have said in my entire life, and I never imagined that I’d ever have to be the first to share such news. At once, everything — midterms, school, work and my personal well-being — became trivial to me. All I can do is think about the situation and pray that my loved ones are safe. I can’t sleep, and when I finally can, I dream of being on the heated frontline alongside my countrymen. I hope that none of you ever experience this, and if you have, my heart goes out to you. I understand. 
Ukrainians are very strong, both mentally and physically. There is no Russian tank that will break our spirit. I have no doubt that we will prevail and bring President Vladimir Putin and his regime to justice. However, Ukraine is alone right now. It shouldn’t be. Ukraine is standing up for freedom and democracy when everyone else is simply watching. Ukraine is not a movie, and the war is not a Hollywood production. Innocent people are hurt, killed, separated from their families at this very moment. Ukraine is not only protecting itself and its citizens, it is actively defending the ideals and values that every single one of you holds dear and true. It also fights for you so that you may never, ever experience what Ukrainians are experiencing now. 
I hereby call on the USC community to stand up and let your politicians know that you are concerned. Demand more concrete aid and not just empty words and sanctions that Vladimir Putin does not care about. Demand that your government protects and enforces the freedom and democracy that it advocates. Demand more humanitarian aid to Ukraine, ask for more civil and military supplies, ask your politicians to vote for initiating the U.N. peacekeeping mission and close the airspace above Ukraine. Putin has no appetite for peace; he went all in and there’s nothing stopping him from going further than Ukraine. The world must respond to Russian overt and undeniable terror and aggression because if it doesn’t, sadly, you may be next.
However, hope is not lost in Ukraine. There are other ways to support the defense, and you can directly help today. You can donate to several official and secure funds:
1. Special National Bank of Ukraine Account that directly, without any intermediaries, channels donations in support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The information for wires is laid out here: https://bank.gov.ua/en/news/all/natsionalniy-bank-vidkriv-spetsrahunok-dlya-zboru-koshtiv-na-potrebi-armiyi
If you wish to donate in USD to National Bank of Ukraine Account, use the following information: 
BENEFICIARY: National Bank of Ukraine
BENEFICIARY BIC: NBUA UA UX
BENEFICIARY ADDRESS: 9 Instytutska St, Kyiv, 01601, Ukraine
ACCOUNT NUMBER: 400807238
BENEFICIARY BANK NAME: JP MORGAN CHASE BANK, New York
BENEFICIARY BANK BIC: CHASUS33
BENEFICIARY BANK ADDRESS: 383 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10017, USA
PURPOSE OF PAYMENT: for crediting account 47330992708
2. If you wish to donate in Bitcoin, “Come Back Alive,” a charity organization that supports the Ukrainian military and critical infrastructure, is the best choice. The link: https://savelife.in.ua/en/donate/
Together, we can restore justice and protect the democracy and freedom of the world. You are the heroes nobody speaks about. Ukraine will be forever grateful to you.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
