USC has improved its relationship with Los Angeles County after years of disagreements regarding the management of the L.A. County-USC Medical Center. Since 2019, officials at LAC+USC have accused USC of breaching the contract between the two parties, the L.A. Times reported. Accusations include double-booking doctors at LAC+USC and Keck Hospital and understaffing in multiple departments. 
“Through open and candid communication, we have made substantial progress in addressing the highly complex financial and accounting issues that have arisen under our contract at LAC+USC Medical Center,” the University said in a statement to the Daily Trojan. “We look forward to building on our strong relationship with the county to address the medical needs of some of L.A. County’s most diverse and underserved populations.”
While USC officials have recognized staffing issues that have since been resolved, they have denied breaching the contract. They have additionally claimed L.A. County leaders have been hostile and continuously brought up past conflicts. The disagreement is documented in a series of lengthy letters exchanged between officials representing both parties.
Tensions between L.A. County and USC rose after a 2019 contract shifted doctors’ compensation to an hourly wage rate, which is not usual for doctors, Shapiro told the L.A. Times. Months after the contract went into place, LAC+USC Chief medical officer Dr. Brad Spellberg informed the University that it was failing to meet contractual expectations by not having enough doctors meet their hourly requirements. One of the departments with insufficient personnel was anesthesiology, which had a weekly deficit of 200 hours.
While L.A. County audits claim hundreds of instances of double booking and not enough physician coverage, the University denies breaching the contract. The University acknowledged some areas in which it could improve, including not booking doctors to work at LAC+USC and Keck Hospital on the same day, a practice that resulted in L.A. County accusations of simultaneous booking at both hospitals. 
Accusations of double-booking and insufficient patient care are also described in a lawsuit filed by former Keck School of Medicine of USC professor Dr. Justin Cheongsiatmoy. The lawsuit claims lives could have been saved if the University had not been negligent. Cheongsiatmoy was allegedly fired in retribution after filing a complaint detailing the issues. 
The disagreements have involved multiple individuals in USC’s leadership, including former Keck Dean Dr. Laura Mosqueda and former interim Dean Dr. Narsing Rao. Since the changes of leadership at the Keck in 2021, relationships have improved, and the University is working on addressing remaining issues and improving its relationship with L.A. County, a public affairs officer at LAC+USC said in a statement to the Daily Trojan.
“The Department of Health Services (DHS) continues to feel strongly that USC has a contractual obligation to provide the work that is specified in the [Multi-Sector Service Accountability Agreement],” the LAC+USC statement read. “Los Angeles County + USC Medical Center and DHS are working in good faith with the new leadership at Keck School of Medicine of USC to ensure that those obligations are met.” 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
