Dozens of attendees packed Tommy’s Place Tuesday night, where LavaLab held their end-of-semester Demo Night. LavaLab, a student-run entrepreneurship club, awarded more prize money than ever before. 
LavaLab brings together students to design and develop an original product, and their semesterly Demo Night gives the student groups an opportunity to showcase their products. First, there was an hour-long expo in which attendees spoke to the groups about their projects and, after a fire alarm evacuated the building for 15 minutes, a series of presentations by groups to a panel of industry professionals. Attendees then voted on their favorite product demo and pitch. 
Pomelo, a site for clothing shoppers who are unsure about sizing that matches customers with content creators who have similar body types, won the Best Demo vote and a $1,000 prize. The judge panel awarded a separate $2,000 prize to Hue, a video app for product reviews, and Spotlight, a Google Chrome extension for event tickets, won a $1,000 prize for Best Pitch. 
Nikhil Patel, a junior majoring in computer science, is LavaLab’s president. He, along with the 10-member executive board, planned the event.
“Demo Night is a celebration of all these teams’ work,” Patel said. “The teams demo their ‘MVPs,’ which are minimum viable products […] We’re getting up to $4,000 in prizes, which is more than we’ve ever had.”
Seven groups, each with four people, showcased their products — starting with Pomelo. Project manager Cat Tang said her work was inspired by her own shopping experiences. 
“I’m pretty short and that always poses a problem for me if I want to size, say, pants online,” said Tang, a senior majoring in cognitive science  “One way we’ve found people overcome that is they try to find influencers who are wearing those products in similar sizes. We centralize that.”
Anay Karwal, a junior majoring in business administration, is the product manager for Leap, an app that lets parents manage a virtual credit card for their children, teaching kids about financial literacy and allowing them to build credit. He sees a viable market for his product because of the value financial knowledge it provides.
“We definitely think this is a product that every single 10 to 17- year-old in America can use,” Karwal said. “Three out of four teens aren’t comfortable with the amount of education they have with financial skills, so we think that this is a really good spot.” 
In addition to product managers are designers, one on each team, including Andrew Kim, the designer for Pomelo. Kim, a sophomore majoring in arts, technology and the business of innovation, said he gained valuable experience this semester in the club.
“You get a lot of guidance from previous designers from the club,” Kim said. “[My team] learned a lot about how  seemingly good ideas can also be bad ideas and why just solving certain features and making really cool products isn’t necessarily going to be a winning start up idea.”
Rounding out each team are two developers. Scott Susanto, a senior majoring in computer engineering and computer science, is a developer for Spotlight. 
“We’re responsible for bringing designs to life,” Susanto said. “Translating [them] into code, adding functionality, stuff like that. [LavaLab] is special for us developers because it’s a place where we actually build the product and make it come to life.” 
Anjali Patel contributed to this report. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
