USC will require faculty, students, staff and visitors to wear surgical or N95 masks on campus for the spring semester rather than cloth or other facial coverings, said Chief Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman in a Student Health media briefing Monday. 
The change follows the California Department of Public Health’s Dec. 13 updated guidance that recommends wearing surgical, N95, KN95 or KF94 masks. Following the omicron variant’s spread, Van Orman wrote in an email to the Daily Trojan Tuesday, the University decided to follow that guidance. 
The Care Crew, located at entrances around campus, will provide students and visitors with acceptable masks if they do not have one that day, Van Orman wrote. Further information on the new masking requirement will be available within the coming days. 
Van Orman said in Monday’s briefing that the University is “completely committed” to an in-person return on Jan. 18. While a high amount of student and faculty infections or airline cancelations could force a class or program to stay remote, there are currently “no plans to delay the instruction.”
“Certainly, if something were to change in terms of Los Angeles County or the number of cases or staff or faculty who were ill or students who were ill, we certainly would change the return. But there’s no plans in the works to do that,” Van Orman said. 
Twenty-five percent of faculty, staff and graduate students and 23% of undergraduate students have uploaded their booster shots to MySHR, but many are still receiving their booster shots or have not yet uploaded them, Van Orman said. 
For the week of Dec. 19, the positivity rate for students was 10.2% for students and 7.4% for employees, with 402 student and 46 employee cases. The overall positivity rate for faculty, staff and students during the week of Dec. 26 was 13%, with the addition of “roughly 500 new cases,” Van Orman said. In comparison, the highest positivity rate during the fall semester was 0.5%.
The University provided about 35,000 tests a week during the fall semester, and Van Orman said it has the ability to conduct approximately 50,000 tests a week for the spring semester. Students will continue to be required to test once a week. 
Students are required to be fully vaccinated — including booster shots if eligible — by Jan. 18. For people who got the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, they must get their booster shot six months after their second dose. For Johnson & Johnson, a booster shot is required two months after the first dose. Students will lose campus access if they do not meet the requirement by Jan. 31. 
USC will follow the L.A. Department of Public Health’s recent isolation recommendation, which requires a negative antigen test in addition to wearing a face covering to leave isolation after five days, rather than the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s. However, Van Orman said there is currently a “real shortage” of antigen tests, and that not everyone will have access to them to leave isolation. If a student is unable to access a test, they will be required to isolate for 10 days.  
Faculty and staff who returned from break on Monday were encouraged to test upon their arrival. Van Orman said some staff are currently choosing to work remotely because of recent travel or symptom concerns. 
“I think we’re cautiously optimistic that we can get through this. I don’t view this as like a permanent situation right now, but we do need people to be very cautious right now,” Van Orman said.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
