USC agreed to settle claims of alleged sexual misconduct for 80 patients — primarily LGBTQ+ men — of Dr. Dennis Kelly, a former doctor of men’s sexual health who practiced at Engemann Student Health Center since 1997, after a three-year litigation battle behind closed doors. In a joint statement to the Daily Trojan Friday, the University and plaintiffs’ lawyers announced that “all parties have mutually agreed that the details of the settlement will remain confidential,” and that “the parties hope that this amicable resolution will bring closure to the plaintiffs.” 
Former patients have accused Kelly of asking inappropriate and uncomfortable questions during examinations, subjecting them to needlessly invasive procedures and failing to provide “standard medical covering, drapery or robe for privacy” as reported previously by the Daily Trojan. These questions typically came after patients disclosed sexual relations with other men.
The plaintiffs acknowledged filing claims of negligence directly with the University, but no further resulting action was taken. 
Of the 80 plaintiffs in the suit, 76 identify as LGBTQ+. Kelly identifies as gay and claims his motives were solely professional. 
USC and Kelly deny all wrongdoing. Kelly was fired by the University in 2018 when six former students publicly filed complaints against Kelly for sexual battery and harassment. Kelly surrendered his license to practice in 2020. 
The settlement comes on the heels of last year’s highly publicized Dr. George Tyndall settlement, which concluded in a payout of $852 million for victims. Tyndall, charged with 35 accounts of misconduct, faces upward of 64 years in prison.
“USC’s highest commitment is to the safety and health of all members of the Trojan community,” the University wrote in a statement to the Daily Trojan Friday. “Settling the cases provides closure for all involved and avoids several more years of litigation.” 
Since Kelly’s firing, USC revised many of its medical policies, including reworked “sensitive exam policy, protocol and training,” required participation in “updates about LGBTQ+ health needs” and new easily accessible methods for filing misconduct. 
This article will be updated with comments from the plaintiffs’ attorneys.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
