This past weekend, USC community members joined observers around the world in celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival, a yearly fête characterized by a full moon, said to be at its brightest and fullest size in the middle of the autumn harvest. Traditionally, family and friends connect and celebrate the festival, which landed on Saturday this year, by carrying and displaying lanterns that symbolize lighting one’s way to good fortune, and by enjoying mooncakes — traditional pastries characteristic of the festival.
The Chinese Students and Scholars Association started off a series of festivities in celebration of the Mid-Autumn Festival Friday, when more than 1,000 students enjoyed dance and musical performances and partook in a variety of activities, such as diabolo, a juggling object derived from the Chinese yo-yo; fortune telling; and shuttlecock kicking, a traditional sport similar to foot badminton. 
Free mic sessions allowed students to share their thoughts about the festival and give wishes to the people they love. The event featured collaborations with other student organizations, including the CreSCendo Music Club, and two consulates from the Chinese Embassy of Los Angeles attended the festivities.
The festival provided an opportunity for students of Asian descent to connect with their heritage at their home-away-from-home, while others had the opportunity to learn about Asian cultures and traditions. 
CSSA president Betty Sun, a senior majoring in business administration, said the most striking moment of the event was when a singer sang a song familiar to many members of the Chinese community. The song drew the attendees to the center of the event, where they sang together. 
“That’s basically the meaning of Mid-Autumn Festival — that people get to gather together and celebrate together and give support and love to each other,” Sun said.
Sun also noted the luck that it rained the day of the festival. 
“In Chinese culture and traditions, rain is a really good thing,” Sun said. “It means good fortune; it also means money. So we consider it as a really good sign.”
Alvin Chang, a junior majoring in civil engineering, said he celebrated the festival with friends.
“I had a quick potluck with a couple of friends and we had a good time just chatting, socializing and we had some mooncakes which was really nice,” Chang said. “That was pretty similar to what we tend to do back home, at least for me.” 
Other students who celebrated the festival both back home and at USC echoed similar experiences in celebrating through conversation and food to connect with their loved ones. The main difference between celebrations at home and at USC was who they were celebrating with — family back home versus their “family” of friends at USC. 
Students also celebrated the festival through organized events. At McCarthy Honors College, three resident assistants organized the McCarthy Mid-Autumn Festival Celebration. The RAs invited residents from all floors to attend and gather in the courtyard to share in conversation as they enjoyed an array of Asian treats — such as pineapple buns, egg tarts and mooncakes — and decorated paper lanterns. 
Nicole Song, a senior studying cognitive science, was one of the RAs involved in organizing the McCarthy event, which she helped initiate after connecting with RAs of Chinese descent from different floors who had all celebrated the Mid-Autumn Festival with their families and hoped to emulate the celebration at USC for the residents. Around 120 residents attended the event.
“Everyone really liked the food and really appreciated having a space on campus to celebrate,” Song said. “So overall, we were really happy with the event and we were very glad and excited that residents enjoyed it and that we were able to do exactly what we hoped to do.”
Later this week, the Chinese American Student Association and the Taiwanese American Student Association will host a joint Mid-Autumn Festival event Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Taper Hall. 
“It’s about providing an opportunity and a space for people to socialize, make friends, and have fun and just participate and learn about Chinese culture along the way,” said Jason Wang, a junior majoring in business.
All USC students are invited to join the event, where attendees are invited to eat and make their own mooncakes, and play games.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
