Department of Public Safety Assistant Chief David Carlisle will serve as interim chief for the department effective Thursday, Associate Senior Vice President of Safety and Risk Assurance Erroll Southers announced in a campuswide email Wednesday. 
Carlisle will replace former Chief John Thomas, who worked with DPS for 15 years and served as chief for nine.
“I consider it an honor that the University had the confidence in me to take on this challenge,” said Carlisle in an interview with the Daily Trojan Wednesday. “I’m following in the footsteps of a great leader, and that was my friend, colleague, John.”
Southers, who was appointed to his new role Jan. 3, will work with USC senior leadership and a search committee that includes “faculty, staff, students, and community stakeholders” in a nationwide search for Thomas’ permanent replacement.
Robin Tilley, the most tenured member of the DPS Command Staff who joined DPS in 1988, was appointed interim DPS Executive Officer and will report directly to Carlisle. Thomas will remain with the University as an adviser reporting to Senior Vice President for Administration David Wright, working with the DPS Community Advisory Board Implementation Team and aiding his successor’s transition. 
In an interview with the Daily Trojan Thursday, Southers said he looks to find a new chief who understands the community, is committed to the One Safety Vision — the advisory board’s recommendations to create “community safety” for all — and will “reimagine public safety.”
“This is not about, if you will, ‘law enforcement,’” Southers said. “This really is about community and public safety. We want a person who’s going to embrace those kinds of values going forward, much as Chief Thomas did in the past.”
During his nine-year tenure as chief, Thomas participated in the Community Advisory Board and took part in the DPS Cadet Program, where first-generation students from the surrounding community learn about crime prevention and work with USC officers. 
Thomas said the seriousness of the advisory board, its emphasis on community oversight and input on public safety contributed to his decision to retire because of his confidence in the program.
“I don’t think I would have retired when I did, had it not been for the work that I see with the [Community Advisory Board] that will be the catalyst for pushing the department forward in a very progressive way,” Thomas said. “So that gave me a sense of comfort.” 
Thomas said Carlisle brings more than 40 years of experience, knowledge of institutional and historical perspectives and awareness of the “ups and downs” within DPS. 
“[Carlisle] loves USC,” Thomas said. “He understands some of the challenges of keeping the community safe. He understands some of the challenges of working in concert and collaboration with the surrounding non-USC affiliated community, so I think it worked out perfectly.”
 Christina Chkarboul and Kacie Yamamoto contributed to this report. 
Correction: A previous version of this article said that Thomas “oversaw the creation of” the Community Advisory Board. Though he suggested establishing the new advisory board, he did not oversee its creation. The Daily Trojan regrets this error. 

Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
