Following months of bargaining to settle a new contract, resident physicians at the Los Angeles County+USC Medical Center reached a tentative agreement with Los Angeles County June 5. Under the new agreement, all housestaff will see a pay rise of 5.5% during the first year, followed by 3.25% increases for the next two years and a $3,000 increase in annual housing stipends, according to a Committee of Interns and Residents/Service Employees International Union press release. 
The agreement will go into effect almost immediately after it is ratified — the process awaits a ratification vote taken by all represented residents and fellows at LAC+USC, as well as a vote of approval from the County of L.A. Board of Supervisors. The agreement’s approval is not on the agenda for the Board of Supervisors’ June 14 meeting, and the ratification vote among LAC+USC physicians is currently taking place. 
A product of more than 20 hours of bargaining since June 1, the agreement came three days after the physicians, represented by the CIR/SEIU, gave L.A. County notice of an unfair labor practice strike scheduled to take place between June 13 and 15. The physicians alleged bad faith bargaining on the part of L.A. County’s bargaining team, who physicians said had not met the union’s proposals and engaged in poor conduct, including repeatedly canceling bargaining sessions. 
On May 31, LAC+USC resident physicians voted nearly unanimously to allow their union to authorize a strike if they believed the L.A. County bargaining team continued to bargain in bad faith. Calling the strike galvanized movement at the bargaining table, said Adam Freeman, a third-year resident pediatric physician at LAC+USC and one of CIR/SEIU’s bargaining team members. Following the authorization, he said, many areas that L.A. County had made minimal movements in saw significant increases in monetary amounts and proposals offered.
“The fact that we were so upset and willing to strike over this bad faith bargaining really forced County to understand our sense of urgency,” Freeman said. “It definitely made them realize that we were not joking and we were completely serious and totally willing to go on strike if that needed to happen.”
In addition to wage increases for all housestaff, the new tentative agreement includes a signing bonus for incoming interns and a 14.5% pay rise for first-year residents at LAC+USC, who Freeman said are a historically underpaid group. 
“Especially as we move slightly out of the shadow of the pandemic, incoming interns are going to, hopefully, now be able to focus entirely on training and being able to learn and grow and develop as physicians,” Freeman said. “They won’t need to be concerned about being able to qualify for housing by the hospital or being able to eat and take care of their other personal needs and requirements when they’re not at the hospital.”
Also included in the proposal is the creation of a $125,000 fund to support diverse recruitment and diversity training initiatives at the hospital. The physicians have received the funding and are now in the process of deciding on the best ways to put it to use. 
“We feel that we should have an actual direct impact on improving diversity both within our medical schools and our workforce and with how we work with our patient population, and so we fought very hard to be able to control a monetary amount that we can utilize to try and improve diversity and diversity education for our staff,” Freeman said.
While the tentative agreement reached between the two parties signaled an averted strike, had the physicians gone on strike, they would have become the first CIR/SEIU members to do so in 32 years. Though the strike was seen as a last resort and not something the team decided on lightly, Freeman said he is proud of the collective will his team demonstrated in fighting for resident physicians’ rights. 
Healthcare workers should not shy away from calling strikes, Freeman said, if they believe such action is necessary to “advocate for what they feel they deserve.” Workers should avoid agreeing to exploitative terms because of a deep concern for patient care, he said, because better working conditions and better pay will ultimately benefit workers and patient care alike.
“I believe that our team really removed a lot of the stigma around going on strike or authorizing a strike, and we were able to emphasize that while our focus is patient care, the inability to compensate us and the inappropriate way that we’re being treated affect patient care,” Freeman said. “Even though we didn’t end up needing to actually go on strike, we were fully committed to doing so if that was required of us, and I think it will be a point of pride for all other unions.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
