USC Hospitality made changes to the meal plans offered for student dining, with the 2022-2023 Cardinal Plan allowing unlimited meal swipes at any of the three on-campus residential dining halls and a limit of two weekly swipes at the Ronald Tutor Campus Center, a court popular among students for its quick-service restaurants, such as Mexican grill Verde and smoothie bar C&G Juice. 
The Cardinal Plan, required for all freshmen living in USC Housing and sophomores, juniors and seniors living in Housing Residence Halls and Suites, previously allotted 19 weekly swipes to be used at most campus dining facilities, including the RTCC, Popovich Cafe and the Law Cafe in addition to the three residential dining halls — Everybody’s Kitchen, Parkside Restaurant & Grill and USC Village Dining Hall. The unlimited dining program in place before the coronavirus pandemic began was temporarily replaced with the limited 19-swipe plan, now reversed. 
“As in pre-pandemic years, the unlimited plans support the Residential College Experience, which provide an opportunity for students to create new connections and bridge learning through conversations over a meal in the various dining halls,” USC Hospitality said in a statement to the Daily Trojan. 
In an Aug. 23 email to students ahead of the fall 2021 semester, USC Hospitality introduced the RTCC’s function as a “fourth residential dining hall.” Located near the unofficial center of campus — the Tommy Trojan statue on Trousdale Parkway — RTCC serves as a hub for students who prefer a quick meal or smoothie over a sit-down meal at one of the residential dining halls, from which students may not take away any food except for pieces of fruit. 
The meal plan modifications also include a new Cardinal Flex Plan “for students who need more flexibility,” USC Hospitality said, which will cost $3,715 a semester compared to the Cardinal Plan’s semesterly price of $3,465. Compared to the Spring 2022 Cardinal Plan price of $3,315, the new plans are a hike of $400 and $150, respectively. The Flex plan includes 50 meal swipes per semester to be used for special meal combos at Seeds Marketplace, The Kitchen, Verde and Burger Crush on top of unlimited admission to the three dining halls. The Gold Plan, which includes 500 Dining Dollars that can be used on any items sold at all USC Hospitality retail venues, was brought back for the coming school year. 
The reintroduction of unlimited swipes under the Cardinal Plan elicited some uncertainty from meal swipe donation groups such as Meaningful Meals and Trojans Give Back, which recently incorporated a Dining Dollar donation mechanism into the USC Mobile Order app. In the past year, the organizations collected weekly donations from students with unused meal swipes that would otherwise become null and void when the 19-swipe count was reset. Meal swipes were then used to buy transportable meals and snacks to donate to students in need and residents of the surrounding South Central community. 
Founder of Trojans Give Back and Undergraduate Student Government senator Yoav Gillath said the change puts into question the organization’s ability to conduct its operations, as it relies on meals and snacks from campus quick-service restaurants, including the RTCC. 
“We’re hoping to be able to get some sort of swipe donation mechanism going,” said Gillath, a rising sophomore majoring in political economy. “That’s gonna have to probably be more through institutional means now that USC is kind of taking away our ability to do it on our own. But I am optimistic — I think there is an appetite for this.”
Preston Doll, a rising sophomore majoring in business administration and a member of Meaningful Meals, said he found the timing of the meal plan update during the summer and without any official communication to students “very cheeky.” Though he said he doesn’t want to overthink the University’s motive for the change, it is “confusing” to him, and he said he’s somewhat concerned about dining hall capacity with the unlimited swipes program.
“We only have three dining halls, and they’re always almost full,” Doll said. “Cafes are hardly ever occupied to the same capacity. So I can’t imagine how much more traffic that would be for the dining halls if students with that meal plan are being limited to two swipes [at the RTCC] per week.”
The new basic Cardinal Plan may pose inconveniences and impracticality for students who enjoyed the flexibility of the 2021-2022 meal plans, said Jacob Young, a member of Meaningful Meals and a rising sophomore majoring in political science and political economy. 
“I’m pretty disappointed because you’re just so significantly limited to where you can eat now. And let’s say you want to study and just grab a burrito from Verde and take it back to your office, that’s no longer an option — you have to go to the dining hall and wait in the lines and those places are going to be a lot more crowded now … because it’s not spread out over the campus,” Young said. “It just makes the whole meal process a lot more difficult.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
