A security guard was fatally shot early Wednesday morning at the off-campus Lorenzo apartments, a housing complex for USC students. 
Details were scarce as of Wednesday night. The shooting occurred just before 1 a.m. outside of the building, near the corner of West 23rd and Flower streets, KTLA reported. Police said the guard was shot after confronting a man who may have been trespassing. The victim, so far unidentified but believed to be a man in his 40s, was declared dead at the scene. 
“The individual was just trying to work, just trying to do his job, and was just trying to keep this building safe when this incident occurred,” said Los Angeles Police Department Lt. Ryan Rabbett in an interview with Fox 11.
According to an LAPD press release, officers detained a person of interest for questioning after being alerted to a possible suspect who was sleeping in a parking lot near the lobby of the Lorenzo apartments. After reviewing video footage, LAPD arrested the suspect — identified as 31-year-old Alexader Crawford. LAPD determined that Crawford was in possession of a handgun that matched the caliber used in the murder. Crawford’s physical appearance and clothing also closely matched the suspect’s description. 
L.A. homicides reached 397 in 2021 — the most since 2006 — according to the LAPD, up from 355 in 2020 and 258 in 2019.
The Central Bureau Homicide is set to continue the investigation and present the case to the L.A. District Attorney’s office for filing consideration.
The LAPD urges anyone with relevant information to report it by calling 213-486-8700.
This story was updated at 9:55 a.m. on Dec. 29 to add details surrounding Crawford’s arrest. 
Correction: A previous version of this story contained a misspelling of Alexader Crawford’s name. The Daily Trojan regrets this error.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
