No. 20 USC women’s soccer secured its sixth win with a 5-1 victory over Oregon State Thursday night. With this win, the Trojans record their 10th consecutive triumph over the Beavers and continue their electric start to Pac-12 conference play. 
Following a significant triumph over then No. 19 Stanford, USC looked to come out on top against the highly physical Oregon State suffering from injuries.
“They always defend super hard, play very physical and play very strong,” Head Coach Jane Alukonis said in an interview with the Daily Trojan. “I knew it wasn’t going to be an easy game, but I thought every single player that played minutes for us did really well. Everything seemed to click.”
USC dominated the match’s opening minutes with its offensive third of the field, dynamic movement and an aggressive attack. Before the Beavers could take their first shot, USC opened the scoring in the 21st minute when sophomore midfielder Simi Awujo scored her second goal of the season off of a one-touch pass from junior defender Zoe Burns.
As the first half came to a close, sophomore forward Simone Jackson fired a shot outside the penalty area which was tipped into the goal by senior midfielder Croix Bethune — her third goal of the season.
Coming out of halftime, the Beavers were determined to assemble a response to the Trojans’ dominant first-half performance. Within seven minutes, OSU’s junior forward Amber Jackson capitalized on a flicked header, reducing the USC lead to 2-1. 
“We always say if we stick to our identity, how we want to play, do the right things and stay really tuned in for every moment, that the score will take care of itself,” Alukonis said in response to the Oregon State score.
Despite the Beavers’ hopes to equalize the match, this goal proved to be the final scoring opportunity for the Oregon State offense.
Bethune regained control of the game as she knocked an OSU defender off the ball, sprinted down the field and assisted Jackson in scoring her fourth goal this season. Bethune’s assist sent USC into a frenzy of three second-half scores.
“I thought [Bethune] had a really special performance … [she] showed great leadership, [and] rolled down and defended in a lot of times where the team really needed it,” Alukonis said. “We talked before the game and I [said], ‘It’s going to be a scrappy game. Just find pockets of space where you see fit and move the ball fast.’ She did all that and more. I was really proud of her leadership, hard work and mentality for the team.”
USC revealed the depth of its roster in the 83rd minute when sophomore forward Kayla Colbert buried an assist from sophomore forward Izzy Kimberly for each of their first this year.
USC’s senior forward Hannah White also scored her first goal of the season and cemented the Trojans’ overwhelming victory over the Oregon State Beavers in the final minute.
Coming off three consecutive wins, the Trojans intend on carrying their momentum into both practice and the heat of Pac-12 conference play. 
“The vibes are good, the mood is good, everyone is keeping up the hard work,” Alukonis said. “I’m really excited that we’ll be a contender, hopefully, for the Pac-12 Championship.”
USC will continue its road trip this weekend and face Oregon, who is 1-1-0 in conference play and 5th in Pac-12 standings. Kickoff will be at 12 p.m. PT Sunday.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
