Lauretta Hill will serve as the new assistant vice president/chief of the Department of Public Safety beginning Jan. 23, Associate Senior Vice President for Safety and Risk Assurance Erroll Southers announced in a Universitywide email Friday morning. Hill will replace current Interim Chief David Carlisle. 
Hill has extensive experience with law enforcement. According to the University’s statement, she graduated from the FBI National Academy, the Police Executive Research Forum’s Senior Management School and Cornell University’s program in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Building a Diverse Workforce.
Before coming to USC, Hill served as deputy chief at the Miami Beach Police Department and as the assistant chief at the Arlington Police Department in Texas. Hill then became the chief of police at the Dallas College Police Department and led the police forces of seven separate campuses for six years. Hill oversaw a community of between 75,000 and 90,000 students at Dallas College, compared to USC’s 49,500. 
At Dallas College, Hill oversaw transformations that included new policy implementation, new staff hires to align with said policies and a total restructuring of the department. These changes — according to the Universitywide email — “resulted in consistency in operations across all seven campuses in the college system and enhanced accountability and transparency by the department to the students, faculty, staff, and community stakeholders.” 
The search to find and appoint a new DPS leader followed the retirement of former Chief John Thomas on Jan. 12. The University formed a committee of 22 community members — including students, faculty, staff and community leaders — and hired external executive search firm Spelman Johnson to find the best candidate to fill the position. 
The DPS Chief Search Committee hosted eight community input sessions in Spring 2022, where community members gave input on the future chief and DPS as a whole. Each of the candidates went through several rounds of interviews with subcommittees and senior vice presidents, as well as many assessments by consultants hired by the University. The candidates also met with community members who work closely with DPS as well as President Carol Folt.
In April, the University announced that the 36-candidate pool had been narrowed down to two. Each candidate participated in a community input session at Wallis Annenberg Hall and responded to questions from community members before going through a final round of interviews with University leadership. 
USC had said that the new chief would be named in May; however, the search was later extended and the position title, which was previously executive director/chief of public safety, changed. The search committee accepted potential candidate applications until the end of August. In November, the pool was cut back down from 30 candidates to six semi-finalists. 
In an interview with the Daily Trojan Friday, Southers said that, among other things, Hill’s time at Dallas College impressed the University and led them to offer her the position. Southers said Hill holds a deep understanding of community needs and relationships at USC. 
“She understands the student body, understands faculty and staff,” Southers said. “She understood Clery [the set of procedures for reporting and cataloging crime on and around campus] and compliance issues that we have to adhere to in a university which are very, very important.” 
Southers said that he hopes Hill can take USC’s security “to the next level” and looks forward to working with her beginning in January. 
“With Chief Hill’s hiring,” Southers said, “I honestly believe that we will be a department that other colleges or universities will look to when they try to implement or consider innovative and transformative policies and procedures to take care of their campus community.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
