USC Student Health observed an increase in coronavirus cases on campus in the last several weeks, with cases almost doubling week after week. For the week ending April 30, self-reporting and campus testing totaled 300 positive cases, Chief Student Health Officer Dr. Sarah Van Orman said during a briefing with the Daily Trojan Thursday. The spike is not as severe as the exponential growth in cases during the height of the Omicron variant’s transmission in early January, when weekly counts neared 2,000 cases. 
The rise in positive cases parallels coronavirus conditions in Los Angeles County, which saw a 40% increase in cases this week over previous weeks and 126 cases per 100,000 residents, moving L.A. County back into the high transmission category. In stride with the increasing case counts, L.A. County revised its definition of a “close contact” to include someone sharing the same indoor space as a coronavirus-positive individual for a total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. 
The modified definition prompted Student Health to begin issuing daily campuswide case tallies, Van Orman announced in a communitywide email Tuesday. Beginning Wednesday, all students and employees received the first daily count notification along with instructions for individuals who believe they’ve been exposed to the coronavirus through a close contact. Upon exposure, individuals must test immediately through pop testing, wear a well-fitted medical-grade mask while around others for 10 days and monitor their symptoms for 10 days. 
The daily notification alerted community members of 65 cases reported Wednesday, 56 reported Thursday and 51 reported Friday. Though case numbers have been elevated compared to earlier this month, Van Orman said Student Health has not observed a rise in hospitalizations or deaths — which are lagging indicators, meaning they would become apparent some time after a spike in cases — in the University community. 
“We think this increase [in cases] is being driven by just increased community transmission in general within Los Angeles, and we’re seeing this in pockets across the nation,” Van Orman said. “We’re very hopeful that some of the mitigation measures that are in place throughout [L.A. County], including high vaccine rates and availability of antivirals, will prevent [hospitalizations and deaths].”
Students and employees should use the daily notifications to judge their personal risk and the precautions they choose to take, Van Orman said. Despite the March 5 lift of the campus masking mandate, Student Health still highly recommends masking indoors to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Enforcement of isolation requirements and masking for close contacts is challenging, Van Orman said, so Student Health asks that community members do their part to abide by close contact protocols to minimize transmission. 
“We’re also trying to move from an enforcement perspective to really giving people good information,” she said. 
Though some students may hesitate to enter isolation if they have symptoms or refrain from being in a close-contact indoor setting because of final exams, which continue until May 11, Van Orman said she hopes students will choose to protect themselves and others. Student Health will support students who contract the coronavirus or develop symptoms before their in-person exam and work with individual schools to make accommodations. Shifting exams online would be an option, Van Orman said, if a significant outbreak took place, but that’s not “on the table” now.
Approximately 200 University-provided isolation spots are currently occupied. Students who have entered isolation recently and whose isolation period extends beyond their move-out date in USC Housing must contact the USC Housing Customer Service Center for their facility, said Director of USC Housing Chris Ponsiglione in a statement to the Daily Trojan. USC Housing will handle late vacate arrangements on a case-by-case basis.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
