U.S. News & World Report issued USC a letter Monday in response to investigations that found the Rossier School of Education had been misreporting data to the publication’s graduate school rankings.
The letter, addressed to Board of Trustees Chair Rick Caruso and President Carol Folt, included a new requirement that the University provide letters certifying the accuracy of its submissions to U.S. News for the next three years. The letter cited “the existence of irregularities in the School’s calculation and reporting of research expenditures” among “other potential data misreporting issues” that “warrant further examination,” according to law firm Jones Day, which conducted an independent investigation into the matter.
U.S. News said certification letters must also be signed by the Rossier dean or top academic, the president and the Board of Trustees chair, in order for Rossier to be eligible in the 2024, 2025 and 2026 Best Graduate Schools of Education rankings.
The letter comes almost four months after Rossier announced it would not be participating in this year’s U.S. News rankings in February, citing a “history of inaccuracies” spanning the last five years. The announcement followed ranking controversies at other universities across the nation, including Temple University and Columbia University, that brought into question the validity of college rankings such as that of U.S. News.
In April, Jones Day released a report detailing the results of its independent investigation into the matter. The report found that from at least 2013 to 2021, Rossier “misreported data to US News about the selectivity of its doctoral candidates,” the submissions of which were reviewed and approved by both the current and former Rossier deans.
“The U.S. News Education rankings strive to provide readers with accurate data that assist consumers as they evaluate their education options,” U.S. News wrote in a press release Tuesday. “As a result, U.S. News takes misreporting very seriously. U.S. News will continue to handle each case of data misreporting on an individual basis.”
In a statement to the Daily Trojan Tuesday, the University said it reached out to U.S. News & World Report as soon as it learned about the matter and continues to work closely with the publication. No decision has been made about Rossier’s participation in future U.S. News graduate rankings.
“We have been diligently following up on the issues raised by Jones Day since their report was issued, and the Rossier School has already put in place a number of measures to ensure accuracy and promote greater transparency about decision making in the school,” the statement read.
Measures include posting data typically requested by rankings organizations on the Rossier website and creating a dean’s advisory council of students drawn from across the master’s and doctoral programs, the University said.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
