Two parents convicted of bribing their children’s way into USC in the 2019 college admissions scandal will remain free on bail while they appeal their cases, a federal judge ordered Thursday. John Wilson and Gamal Abdelaziz paid for their children to be admitted to USC as designated athletic recruits.
In 2019, more than 50 parents were charged with participating in “Operation Varsity Blues,” a scheme organized by private college admissions counselor William “Rick” Singer to secure their children’s spots at top universities across the United States. In the conspiracy that set off discussions about wealth, privilege, college admissions and higher education across the nation, the parents collectively paid more than 25 million for their children to receive unearned designations as athletic recruits, and modified test scores. At least 18 parents had cases related to the University.  
Wilson allegedly paid $220,000 to have his son admitted to the University as a water polo recruit, and another one million dollars to secure his twin daughters’ admissions into Harvard University and Stanford University.
Abdelaziz, a former casino executive, was accused of paying Singer’s nonprofit, Key Worldwide Foundation, $300,000 and former USC Athletic Director Donna Heinel $20,000 per month to have his daughter admitted to the University as a designated basketball recruit. His daughter had not played the sport in more than a year and was not on her high school’s varsity basketball team. 
In 2021, federal juries found Wilson and Abdelaziz guilty of all charges and handed a sentence of 15 months in prison to Wilson and a year in prison to Abdelaziz. The two men received the longest sentences yet of all defendants in the college admissions bribery scheme. 
Wilson and Abdelaziz filed appeals to overturn their convictions in April.
Attorneys for Wilson and Abdelaziz argued the two believed they were making legitimate donations to the University, as Singer, the central orchestrator of the college admissions conspiracy, made the scheme appear lawful.
Donating to universities to facilitate admissions is a common practice and is not considered bribery, the appeals claimed. 
Attorneys for Wilson and Abdelaziz expressed satisfaction with Judge ​​Nathaniel Gorton’s decision Thursday, the Charlotte Observer reported. Abdelaziz’s attorney also communicated determination to reverse the convictions. 
Wilson’s attorney did not immediately respond to the Daily Trojan’s request for comment and Abdelaziz’s attorney declined a request for comment.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
