When Thornton professor Andrew Leff brought up the idea of creating an academic journal dedicated to the music industry, students in his “Business and Legal Aspects of the Music Industry” and “Ethics in the Music Industry” classes enthusiastically took to the idea. Launching the initiative in Spring 2021, Leff and the students released the first issue of the USC Journal of Music Industry Jan. 30.
Described as providing “an interdisciplinary analysis of the music business by shedding light on contemporary topics, perspectives and innovations,” the journal grants contributors the opportunity to discuss music industry related topics in an academic way and via a peer review process of a professional caliber.
Aidan McIntyre, a junior majoring in music industry and economics, is one of the three co-founders of the journal and serves as its executive director. 
One of the purposes of the journal, McIntyre said, is to be able to provide academic discourse and “elevate diverse voices.”
“We’re excited that we have now set the precedent,” McIntyre said. “We’ve now set the foundational platform for more students at USC to get more academically and intellectually involved with the current state of the music industry, contemporary topics, future developments — all of these things that are going to be very important.”
Members of the journal intended to release its first issue in Fall 2021. However, the intensivity and time constraints of the peer review process and quality control affected the release schedule, McIntyre said.
“The biggest challenge is that we were doing this entirely from scratch,” McIntyre said. “We had this idea of what we wanted the journal to be, and we had this idea of how to get there with none of us ever having done that, so the beautiful thing about this process is it really was a learning experience, and there were roadblocks for sure.” 
Check-ins with the team occurred over Zoom as some founders graduated or were studying abroad. The Zoom meetings allowed for staff to discuss matters such as the format of the journal or the appearance of the official website. 
Olivia Wendland, a junior majoring in music industry and public relations, conducts research and quality control for the publication and said the process of ensuring the accuracy of submitted texts was a “tedious” task.
“It’s ensuring we’re putting out quality work,” Wendland said. “Another part of the process that we had to double check is that all the citations were accurate and all the sources that we’re getting were good sources to pull from because we want this to be very professional and trustworthy.”
Rebecca Clemmons, who graduated in May 2021, co-founded the journal and operated the website and social media. While she no longer plays an active part in the journal, she said she hopes the journal will provide a community for students from various academic backgrounds with an interest in the music industry.
“The thing that I would like to see the most is a variety of authors,” Clemmons said. “I want to see people writing about the music industry from Annenberg and from Marshall and from Dornsife [and] from Roski, and I want that interdisciplinary participation, and I want to see it from a bunch of different demographics of authors.”
The first issue of the journal contains content ranging from interviews with music professors to research articles delving into aspects of the music industry. One text piece that stood out to the personnel of the journal was a feature titled “How East Meets West: An Analysis of the Cross-Cultural Transferability of Western K-pop Fans’ Consumer Behavior” by Miranda Jackson.
McIntyre said Jackson’s text originated from her master’s thesis, which was condensed to be included in the journal. McIntyre and other collaborators were glad that Jackson went through the process of ensuring that her piece fit into the first issue.
“The first time I really [closely] read it, I learned so much in such a short amount of time and in a really easy-to-read way,” McIntyre said. “It just sort of blew me away that it was just nothing I’d ever really looked into before and it was just interesting, and the point of the journal is to do these interesting academic deep things in a way that’s easy to read.”
Olivia Wendland sees the journal as an open space to serve people’s passion for the music industry. She and her colleagues look to encourage and foster music-related content through the journal.
“The goal is really to open it up to any type of music industry-related writing,” Wendland said. “There’s so much in [the] music industry that hasn’t been researched and hasn’t been made academic.”
The journal is currently looking for submissions to its second issue, which has yet to set a release date. Submissions, accepted until March 31, can come from USC undergraduates, graduates, alumni, professors and faculty with an interest in the music industry.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
