Much like when the Greeks gifted them a horse, the Trojans let their guard down after traveling to Palo Alto. 
No. 5 USC traveled to Stanford Jan. 11 looking to remain one of two unbeaten teams in the nation, but instead were upset by the unranked Cardinals 75-69. The game against Stanford was the Trojan’s second game back after pausing due to the coronavirus. Up until its game against UC Berkeley Jan. 6, USC hadn’t played since Dec. 18. 
The rust showed for the Trojans, as both the team’s signature stifling defense and explosive offense were absent. The defense allowed Stanford to shoot 43.9% from the floor, the highest any opponent has shot against USC all season, while the offense struggled to find a rhythm all game, settling for contested threes often and ending the game shooting 6 of 21 from beyond the arc. 
On offense, USC struggled to work together, as the team only mustered up 12 assists throughout the game, falling below their season average of 15.5. Ultimately, when the Trojans did get an open shot, it often just didn’t fall the right way. 
The USC defense found no answer for Stanford’s freshman forward Harrison Ingram, who ended the game with 21 points and 10 rebounds. Five of his rebounds were offensive rebounds, which led to costly second-chance points. 
Despite issues in USC’s play, the game remained close throughout. USC entered the half with a one point lead led by junior guard Boogie Ellis’ 10 points. After the second half kicked into gear, a multitude of missed free throws slowly gave Stanford the reins. USC shot 18-28 from the line in the second half alone. 
Senior guard Drew Peterson went to the line with a chance to bring USC within two while they were down 66-70 with under a minute remaining. The first shot barely rimmed out and all but sealed the game’s fate. 
Although the loss to an unranked team on national television ended the Trojans’ undefeated season, the team has two more opportunities to bounce back before the next AP Poll rankings. USC hosts both Oregon State Jan. 13 and Oregon Jan 15. 
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
