Keck Hospital of USC and the United States Department of Health and Human Services’ Office for Civil Rights reached a voluntary resolution agreement Wednesday addressing a compliance review initiated by the OCR regarding the hospital’s policies and procedures for response to sex discrimination and harassment complaints. 
The review began in 2019 and served to assess the hospital’s compliance with Title IX in handling such complaints. Title IX prohibits any sex-based discrimination in schools or any academic programs that receive financial assistance from the federal government. The resolution agreement comes as a result of multiple sexual assault and harrassment accusations and sex discrimination complaints the University has faced in recent years.
Recent medical scandals at the University include the misconduct of former gynecologist George Tyndall, who pleaded not guilty to 35 felonious charges, including unlawful penetration and sexual battery, after being dismissed from practicing at the Engemann Student Health Center in 2016, and former men’s health doctor Dennis Kelly, whose alleged sexual misconduct toward many of his patients, most of whom are gay and bisexual men, was the subject of a lawsuit brought by 80 former students against the University.
“We appreciate KMUSC’s willingness to work with OCR to ensure voluntary compliance with its federal civil rights obligations under Title IX,” said OCR director Lisa J. Pino. “As a result, OCR and KMUSC reached this agreement, reflecting KMUSC’s commitment to promoting safe and equitable patient care and a healthcare environment that is free of unlawful discrimination, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in federally assisted education programs or activities.”
The agreement includes a new policy around sensitive health exams that the parties hope will serve as a model for other institutions, the University said in a statement to the Daily Trojan Thursday. The new sensitive exam policy “requires authorized members of the health care team to be present at sensitive medical exams and allows patients to request chaperones according to gender,” the University said. During the exams, patients will be provided privacy to undress and dress and be given appropriate gowns and sensitive draping to ensure their physical privacy.
Keck also agreed to conduct staff training, provide annual reports during the agreement’s two-year term and continue to maintain positions of Title IX Coordinator and Deputy EEO-Title IX Coordinator for Healthcare. The responsibility of these positions is to help coordinate and ensure the actions from USC align with Title IX.
Keck Medicine of USC will also continue to maintain the Policy on Prohibited Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation — a University policy meant to create a safe environment by preventing any discrimination, harassment or retaliation; the Resolution Process for Sexual Misconduct — which maintains that the University intends to give an equitable and timely response to all reports they receive and complaints regarding Title IX Sexual Harassment, California Education Code Sexual Harassment and other forms of sexual misconduct; and the Resolution Process for Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation — which stipulates that the University is dedicated to providing a fair and prompt response to all reports they receive and complaints regarding discrimination, harassment and retaliation.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
