The National Labor Relations Board certified a unanimous vote to unionize interns, residents and fellows at the USC Keck School of Medicine Friday. Eligible workers at Keck will now be represented by the Committee of Interns and Residents/Service Employees International Union, the largest housestaff union in the United States that represents more than 20,000 resident physicians and fellows.
The CIR/SEIU released a petition March 10, signed by a “supermajority” of 85 interns, fellows and residents, calling on Keck to formally recognize their union.
“We’re on the frontlines every day yet cannot negotiate the terms and conditions we work under or advocate for ourselves,” said Drew Sheldon, pulmonary disease and critical care medicine fellow at Keck, in a CIR/SEIU press release March 9. “We’re demanding that USC/Keck respect our right to freely join our union colleagues in having a fair contract and a voice at work.”
CIR/SEIU stated in its press release that Keck housestaff “receive unequal compensation, benefits, and protections compared to their [LAC+USC Medical Center] counterparts,” who were already being represented by the union.
“We’re doing the exact same work yet see ourselves go without the kind of support our colleagues are rightly afforded,” said Eduardo Fernandez, hematology and medical oncology fellow at Keck, in the press release. “Why are we treated differently?”
On April 5, the NLRB announced that full-time and part-time interns, residents, chief residents and fellows at Keck were eligible to vote for or against union representation. Eligible voters mailed ballots from April 13 to 20.
On May 4, 56 votes were tallied: fifty-three for, zero against and three void.
“Working in a broken healthcare system and increased cost of living in our city, it was clear to me and my colleagues that joining the union was the only way we’d have a path toward real change in our residency program,” said Fernandez in a statement to the Daily Trojan Friday. “The fact that we unanimously won our election, with not a single voter in opposition, shows just how committed we are to improving residency and patient care and USC/Keck.”
The decision comes as the cost of living in Los Angeles rose 7.59% in the last two years — causing USC faculty to demand salary raises in an open letter to University administration issued February. CIR/SEIU also noted in its press release a “national trend” of housestaff seeking to unionize, citing its petitions against Stanford Health Care and the University of Vermont Medical Center, which have both since culminated in NLRB certifications.
In a statement to the Daily Trojan Friday, the University said it supports “the rights of our employees to choose whether they want to join a union.”
“We appreciate the residents’ decision and greatly value their partnership in delivering quality health care to patients across Los Angeles County,” the University statement read.
Christina Chkarboul contributed to this report.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
