No. 7 USC secured a spot in the Pac-12 Championship by beating UCLA in a back-and-forth offensive fireworks show that saw the Trojans down by one point at halftime.
“Pretty cool to be sitting here, getting the 10th win and the chance to go to the [Pac-12] Championship game. It’s very meaningful,” said Head Coach Lincoln Riley. “With all that was riding on it on top of that, for us to find a way to get it done, that was a clutch performance by our team, a big-time win.”
Sophomore quarterback Caleb Williams threw for two touchdowns and rushed for another — breaking a series record in the process with 503 combined yards, the most of any single player in the history of the rivalry.
“He’s been one of the best players in the country this year. He’s really played well,” Riley said of William’s Heisman candidacy. “It’s got to stay about the ball, and that’s the most important thing. I know that’s the most important thing to him and all of us.”
While UCLA scored the most points against the Trojan defense all season, USC recovered two fumbles and intercepted redshirt senior Dorian Thompson-Robinson three times.
One of Thompson-Robinson’s four turnovers ensured victory for the Trojans when sophomore rush end Korey Foreman came up with a timely interception as the Bruins were threatening to cross the 50-yard line with less than 1:30 remaining.
“It was really cool for [Foreman]. You just never know when it’s going to be your moment, and he was ready,” Riley said. “[Senior linebacker Shane Lee] made sure he had the call, and then he dropped back and made a great play on the ball. It wasn’t an easy play.”
Williams threw his third interception of the season on a pass over the middle that fell right into the hands of redshirt junior Kain Medrano. UCLA, already up 7-0, scored a touchdown on the following play. A play action pass caught USC’s secondary off-guard and redshirt senior tight end Michael Ezeike was left all alone for an easy score.
“You just want to limit the damage,” said Defensive Coordinator Alex Grinch. “We certainly did not by any stretch of the imagination do a good job of it.”
Suddenly, the Trojans found themselves two touchdowns behind at the end of the first quarter. Williams scored on a 6-yard rushing touchdown to open the second quarter, putting the Trojans on the scoreboard.
Riley viewed the team’s response to an early deficit as a sign of growth for the 10-1 Trojans.
“Being down 14-0 and then not even flinching, not even thinking about flinching. You build these games up in your head,” Riley said. “You can’t write the script first, you have to just be ready to respond. For us to respond like that, over and over.”
After a “low-scoring” 21-20 first half, the floodgates broke loose. At one point in the second half, there were 6 consecutive touchdown drives, three by each team. Trojans across the board got involved and in the end zone.
Senior running back Austin Jones had 21 carries for 120 yards and two touchdowns, taking on a large share of the carries left behind by senior running back Travis Dye, who exited last week’s game against Colorado with a season-ending ankle injury. Jones added 57 yards on four receptions.
“He was huge, but exactly what we expected him to be. Exactly what he has been. There’s not one person in the locker room surprised about the way he plays,” Riley said.
Junior wide receiver Jordan Addison had his first breakout game since returning from an injury picked up against Utah. The star receiver had 11 receptions for 178 yards and a touchdown.
Seven different Trojans had more than two receptions, with a team average of 14.7 yards per completion.
“Guys stepped up who haven’t had a statistically huge year tonight,” Riley said. “You go down the list, we keep talking about the closeness and culture and togetherness of this team, and I think it was on full display tonight.”
The Trojans secured a spot in the Pac-12 title game for the first time since 2020 and will face either Oregon or Washington in Las Vegas in early December. But first, USC will host its final home game of the season against a No. 18 Notre Dame team that has won its last five games and beat No. 9 Clemson.
USC will face the Fighting Irish Saturday at 4:30 p.m.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
