Rick Singer will face a judge next week to be sentenced for his role in orchestrating the 2019 Operation Varsity Blues scandal, in which wealthy parents exchanged bribes for their children’s fraudulent admission into USC and other elite universities. 
In advance of the sentencing, federal prosecutors recommended Wednesday that Singer be sentenced to six years in prison and fined more than $10 million. 
This would be the longest sentence handed to anyone involved in the scandal, more than doubling the previous high of 30 months, the sentence given to former Georgetown University tennis coach George Ernst. Prosecutors argued that Singer deserves the longest sentence of all the defendants implicated because he organized the entire scheme across multiple universities. 
“As the orchestrator and leader of the scheme, the most culpable participant in it, and the defendant who profited from it the most, Singer deserves a sentence significantly exceeding the high end of [the range of previous sentences],” wrote prosecutors in their sentencing memo. 
Prosecutors also cited the need to deter future similar crimes, writing that the sentence “should serve as a warning to anyone who might consider picking up where he left off.”
Singer facilitated more than seven million dollars in bribes to employees at several schools, including former USC coaches for water polo and soccer. The scheme involved cheating on standardized exams and bribing school officials to designate otherwise unqualified students as recruited athletes to gain admission. 
Two of Singer’s highest profile clients, actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Laughlin, served brief prison sentences in 2019 and 2020, respectively. 
Singer’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for Wednesday in a federal court in Boston.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
