As many students were leaving campus Wednesday and heading into their Fall Recess, the carne asada was just heating up at the Latinx Student Assembly’s Noche de Cultura, the lively and festive closing ceremony to USC’s month-long celebration of Latinx Heritage Month.
The program displayed many aspects of Latinx culture, pride and history. Mariachis Los Troyanos de USC, USC’s official mariachi band, opened the night on the center stage with deep, harmonizing ballads that brought the crowd together in various forms of dance, and Break on 2, USC’s premiere Latin Fusion dance team, carried the celebratory momentum well into the night with a series of mesmerizing performances. 
Jessica Jimenez, a junior majoring in public policy, started attending events hosted by the Latinx Student Assembly to become more involved with USC’s Latino community and to find people with a similar background and upbringing. 
“It honestly makes me feel like I’m still connected with my community,” Jimenez said. “Growing up, it was so hard for me to find Latino friends, so being able to find this community easily at USC feels very welcoming.”
“Growing up, it was so hard for me to find Latino friends, so being able to find this community easily at USC feels very welcoming.”
Bringing together such a big community required immense support from several Latinx organizations on campus. Among the clubs present, there was La CASA, the Latino Alumni Association, the Association of Latino Professionals for America, the Spanish Undergraduate Student Association and the USC Prison Education Project as well many Latinx multicultural fraternities and sororities. 
The event was catered with a spread of traditional Latin foods, sweets and drinks. Birrieria Gomez and El Pollo Inka were among the local vendors feeding line after line of ecstatic guests, and the Latinx Student Assembly also maintained a constant supply of aguas frescas — jamaica, pina and horchata — as well as paletas, traditional Mexican popsicles made with fresh fruit, to cool everybody down in the afternoon heat.
Recognizing the intense diversity of the Latinx identities, histories and cultures on display, there were many installations and presentations that not only emphasized the stories within Latin culture but also celebrated what binds and differentiates people within the community. 
President Carol Folt also took the center stage to join in on the festivities, as well as to provide insight into the power of the unique identities in the USC Latinx community.
“Stories really go to the heart of what makes us human. It is something we do across cultures, it’s the way we share our ideas, get to know each other, hold our memories and share our truth … we learn a lot when we do our stories,” Folt said. “Latinx Heritage Month is the first of our cultural heritage months of the academic year. It is wonderful, and we have many more to come. We have a chance, every single time, to learn together. So, in this case, we learn on, while also fighting on.”
Dancing, cooking and performing music were just a few of the ways the individuals present shared their stories through art. Others used language and poetry to communicate their unique experiences as Latinx people. 
One of the most impactful stories of the night was that of keynote speaker and former Los Angeles Poet Laureate Luis J. Rodriguez. He spoke about the current situation within the L.A. City Council, after recordings of ex-councilwoman Nury Martinez verbally disparaging members of the Black, Indigenous and Asian communities in a closed-door meeting Oct. 9. Rodriguez went on to criticize the council members implicated for using their language to put other marginalized communities down. 
“This is a time for new words, new ways of thinking, new ways to heal. This is an opportunity in this crisis to say ‘Can we create a new and better Los Angeles?’”
“I have seen the power of language and words, being able to change people’s lives, being able to reconfigure how you think…. words can hurt people, words matter,” Rodriguez said. “This is a time for new words, new ways of thinking, new ways to heal. This is an opportunity in this crisis to say ‘Can we create a new and better Los Angeles?’ We need it, and we’ve been fighting for it for a long time.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
