USC defeated Stanford 41-28 Saturday in a nationally-televised primetime game that validated what fans saw in the Trojans’ season opener against Rice. The defense had 4 turnovers — again. Sophomore quarterback Caleb Williams threw 2 touchdowns to junior receiver Jordan Addison — again. And, the Trojans had seemingly already won the game as they entered halftime — again. 
“I’m thrilled for the victory… I mean just look at 12 months ago. This is a good Stanford team and a lot has changed. I’m proud of the way our guys responded,” said head coach Lincoln Riley, referencing USC’s recent struggles against Stanford — particularly on the road. 
USC had not won in Stanford Stadium since 2014 when former NFL third-round draft pick Cody Kessler was quarterback for the Trojans. 
Williams, who will likely be selected before the third round of the NFL draft, continued to live up to the preseason Heisman hype. The Oklahoma transfer threw for 341 yards, 4 touchdowns and had a 74% completion rate. 
Addison continued to look like one of the best receivers in college football, adding 7 receptions for 172 yards — with a 75-yard house call to answer Stanford’s first touchdown of the game. 
On Stanford’s opening drive, redshirt junior defensive back Max Williams snagged his first interception of the season. Max, who has suffered two ACL tears in his football career, including one last season, was happy to validate the hard work and physical therapy he had gone through to reach this point. 
“This time last year, I was rehabbing from an injury on the sidelines, watching [with] nothing else to contribute, so it just makes me much more appreciative,” Max said. “I’m having fun out there, I’m healthy and it’s just a blessing to be back out there to make plays.” 
Max’s head coach and starting quarterback quickly jumped in with their own words of admiration for the cornerback. 
“This guy has been a warrior for us,” Riley said. “This guy, in a lot of ways, embodies what we want in this program — a toughness and a desire to be out there.” 
“Since I’ve gotten here, he’s made me better,” Caleb Williams said. “He came back in fall [after reaggravating an injury] and he played five different positions on defense, wherever they needed him.” 
Following Max’s interception, the Trojan offense quickly found the end zone for the first score of the game. Caleb Williams found a wide-open redshirt freshman tight end Lake McRee for the 5-yard score. It was McRee’s first touchdown of the season. 
While USC’s offense surged in the first half, Stanford exposed some flaws in USC’s run defense. Junior running back E.J. Smith, son of NFL Hall of Famer Emmitt Smith, took delayed handoff after delayed handoff, lulling USC into pass protection before taking off for solid gains seemingly every time he touched the ball. Smith finished with 102 rushing yards and 2 touchdowns, with one coming in the air. 
“We missed a couple of gaps in the run game,” Riley said. “I thought we defended the throws honestly pretty well… we were explosive defensively with the sacks and turnovers… we got to get more consistent.”
USC’s first major mistake on defense came off of a reverse sweep by Stanford, which resulted in a 50-yard gain for junior tight end Benjamin Yurosek. Smith scored on a wide open reception, bringing the Cardinal within one touchdown of the Trojans.
Caleb Williams took no time in answering Stanford’s first score of the game, throwing a perfect ball to a streaking Addison — who caught the 75-yard pass in stride, shook his defender and scored his second touchdown of the game.
On the following drive, Stanford slowly but surely pushed the ball down field, with junior quarterback Tanner McKee completing passes to Yurosek and senior wide receiver Elijah Higgens for 18-yard completions. However, Max Williams forced an E.J. Smith fumble on the Trojan 2-yard line and redshirt senior defensive back Mekhi Blackmon dove on it for the recovery, continuing the pattern of USC’s defense covering up their mistakes by causing turnovers.
This prompted a 7-play, 98-yard touchdown drive in which sophomore wide receiver Mario Williams caught his first touchdown of the season. USC now led 28-7 and Stanford Stadium shook with the jubilation of thousands of raucous USC fans. 
After a Stanford score brought the Cardinal within 2 touchdowns of USC, redshirt senior running back Travis Dye took a 27-yard house call for the final score of the half, bringing the Trojans’ to a 35-14 lead. The Trojans scored on 5 consecutive touchdowns, but did not get in the end zone in the second half — settling for just a pair of field goals. 
“We just didn’t do a good job executing how we were in the first half, so we just got a little bit of stuff to clean up, but we just got to finish that game off stronger,” Addison said. “But we got out of there with the win and no win is easy.”
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
