After a first-round exit to Miami in last year’s NCAA Tournament, the Trojans were hoping to make a deeper run in March Madness this year. Unfortunately, those dreams were shattered with a 72-62 loss at the hands of a talented Michigan State team. 
The Spartans came into this 7-10 matchup as the No. 7 seed following a loss to Ohio State in their first game of the Big Ten Tournament. 
Similarly, the Trojans came into this battle as the No. 10 seed following their first-round loss to Arizona State in the Pac-12 tournament. Once again, USC got off to a slow start in this one and found themselves down 24-13 halfway through the first half.
USC didn’t back away though, going on an 18-6 run of their own to take a 31-30 lead to close out the half. The Trojans were fueled by 8 straight points from redshirt junior forward Joshua Morgan. Morgan, who averaged just 7 points per game this season, led USC in scoring with 14 points on an efficient 7-9 shooting. 
A jump hook by junior guard A.J. Hoggard tied the game for the Spartans right before half, with the two squads heading into the locker room knotted at 34.
Coming out of the half, USC looked to continue their pick and roll offense that was successful in the first half, but the Spartans had other plans. Michigan State clamped down on defense, holding the Trojans to just 34.38%, on 11-32 shooting from the floor in the second half.
At the 11:19 mark of the second half, graduate forward Drew Peterson’s jumper pulled USC back within four points, but that’s as close as they would get for the rest of the game. Back-to-back 3-pointers from graduate forward Joey Hauser and sophomore guard Jaden Akins capped off a 13-2 run from Michigan State that put the game out of reach for the Trojans.
Hauser led the way for the Spartans with 17 points and four key 3-pointers. Coming into this matchup, MSU was 16-3 when Hauser made two or more shots from behind the arc, and his 3-point shooting proved to be the difference maker again in this game.
“Timely shot-making by Michigan State and some timely misses on our part, I [think], was the difference in the game in the second half,” said Head Coach Andy Enfield in the postgame press conference. “We also had 8 turnovers [in the second half], only 3 at halftime.”
Sophomore guard Kobe Johnson’s two late-game triples alongside Michigan State missing the front end of three consecutive one-and-ones made things interesting down the stretch, but the Trojans were unable to take advantage on multiple occasions.
“When you’re trailing and you are trying to figure out and gauge whether to get threes or easier twos … we tried to find the best shot possible,” said Drew Peterson when asked what their mindset was when Michigan State missed their one-and-ones. “We missed some timely shots, and they hit their timely shots … I think it’s just sometimes the way the ball rolls in March.”
The Spartans’ ability to slow down USC’s star veterans, senior guard Boogie Ellis and Drew Peterson, also led to their victory. The tandem, who had been averaging a combined 32 points per game on the season, combined for just 17 points on 7-22 shooting. Ellis took responsibility for his play after the game.
“I let my teammates down today,”  Ellis said. “I didn’t make shots and [Michigan State] made things tough for me.”
Michigan State will now face No. 2 Marquette in the Round of 32 on Sunday.
On the other hand, after another disappointing end to the season, Coach Enfield and the Trojans will have to go back to the drawing board this offseason. Although many players will be returning, USC will have a new look next season, as this was the last game in cardinal and gold for star captains Peterson and Ellis. 
Despite this, there should be a lot to look forward to next season, as 4-star recruits Arrinten Page and Silas Demary Jr. are coming to Southern California alongside the number-one-ranked player in the country, Isaiah Collier. 
The 2023-24 NCAA basketball season is set to start on Nov. 6 USC will seek its fourth straight NCAA Tournament in their last year in the Pac-12 Conference.
Extra en Español
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
