William “Rick” Singer, the California businessman who orchestrated the Varsity Blues scandal, was sentenced to 3.5 years of prison in a federal court in Boston Wednesday. 
Singer’s sentence is less than the six years prosecutors recommended last week. Singer was also instructed to pay more than $10 million in fines, as was suggested by prosecutors. 
Despite Singer’s sentence falling short of the prosecutors’ recommendation, it was still the longest sentence handed down to any defendant in the scheme. It surpassed the previously highest 30-month sentence given to former Georgetown University tennis coach Gordon Ernst, whom Singer bribed millions of dollars to falsely claim Singer’s clients were tennis recruits. 
“This defendant was responsible for the most massive fraud ever perpetuated on the higher education system in the United States,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Frank said.
Prosecutors revealed the scheme, which involved Singer bribing coaches and officials at USC, Stanford, Yale, UCLA and other elite universities, in 2019 with the indictments of Singer and many of his clients, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin. Singer had begun cooperating with prosecutors before that, however, and prosecutors credit several other indictments related to the scheme to Singer’s assistance. 
“[Singer’s assistance] permitted the government to prosecute dozens of parents and other co-conspirators who otherwise would have escaped charges because of the historical nature of their conduct and the difficulty of proving their criminal intent,” prosecutors said.
Singer’s sentencing does not mark an end to the Varsity Blues legal proceedings. Among those still awaiting resolution is former USC water polo coach Jovan Vavic, who was granted a new trial after his conviction was overturned in September.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the presidential commissioner for children’s rights in Russia, allegedly ordered the seizure Ukrainian children from border cities.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
