On a night when USC debuted its Legacy Gold jerseys, the Trojans’ defense shined once again in a 63-43 win. The Trojans never let the Bears get comfortable, scoring 21 points off 20 turnovers and forcing several errant shots.  
“It was a great win, coming off of last weekend,” said Head Coach Lindsay Gottlieb in a postgame press conference. “We were a little sloppy on offense at times, but I think our effort was sustainable.”
It is the 10th time this season that Gottlieb’s squad has held opponents to 50 points or less.
“[Our defense] has been pretty darn good,” Gottlieb said. “We focus a lot on it, our players buy into it and the level of our opponent hasn’t really impacted it. Coach [Beth Burns] is a huge defensive mindset person, she’s been a great addition for us.”
Graduate guard Destiny Littleton led all players with 18 points to go along with five assists and five rebounds.
“I really do best when I get my teammates involved,” Littleton said. “The points happened because they were good basketball plays, and I just made the right ones.”
Littleton’s strong effort was supported by 17 points and 11 rebounds from sophomore forward Rayah Marshall. 
“This season, I’ve just been coming out dominating and doing whatever is necessary,” Marshall said. “Whatever I have to do to help my team, even if I have to play the point guard, I just want to win.”
Marshall and Littleton accounted for over half of the Trojan’s total points. The dynamic duo has played well while graduate forward Kadi Sissoko recovers from a day-to-day leg injury.
“Kadi’s skillset and her abilities aren’t going anywhere,” Gottlieb said. “So, when she comes back, it will just add to our confidence level.”
The Trojans went on an 13-0 run to start the game, capped off by redshirt freshman guard Taylor Bigby’s free throw. Sophomore guard Jayda Curry finally ended Cal’s scoring drought with a layup of her own with 4:47 to go in the first quarter.
But the Trojans kept pressing the Bears, forcing two shot clock violations in the final three minutes. USC led Cal 19-6 at the end of the first quarter.
In the second quarter, Littleton swiped the ball from Curry and heaved it down the court to Williams, who laid it in for another for a 25-8 Trojan lead. By the end of the half, the score was 33-14 in favor of USC.
The Bears exploded for a 7-2 run to start the second half, pushing the score to 36-23 and forcing USC to call a timeout. 
Littleton responded by leaping and scoring a 3-pointer before driving through several Cal defenders and taking it to the rim. The graduate scored 2 more by drawing a foul and hitting both free throws with 4:39 to go to give her 7 points in three minutes.
At the same time, the Trojan defense kept the Bears off the board for five minutes, decisively swinging the momentum in USC’s favor. The Trojans maintained a 50-33 lead at the end of the third quarter.
“We got back to ourselves in the third quarter,” Gottlieb said. “We knew that [the Bears] could be good offensively, and we just reset our principles: don’t overhelp, force tough shots. We made a really great mid-game adjustment.”
Littleton’s old-fashioned 3-point play with 8:56 left in the fourth quarter brought Galen Center to its feet and put the game away for the Trojans. 
USC’s next task will be to take on one of the top teams in the country as they’ll host No. 2 Stanford. The Trojans have lost 28 straight to the Cardinal and are 20-67 all-time against Stanford. 
“It’s an incredible opportunity to play such a great team,” Gottlieb said. “They have so many weapons, and they are well-coached. We have to get ready and bring what we can bring, challenge ourselves against one of the best teams [in the country].”
USC will play No. 2 Stanford on Sunday at 2 p.m. at Galen Center.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
