The USC Pacific Asia Museum canceled its Lunar New Year Festival scheduled for Sunday after a gunman opened fire at a ballroom dance studio in Monterey Park late Saturday night. 
“All of us at USC PAM are heartbroken to hear about the horrific violence that happened in our home in the San Gabriel Valley,” said Dr. Bethany Montagano, USC Pacific Asia Museum director, in a statement on the museum’s website. “Our hearts mourn with the victims’ families and our community members at this time.”
University President Carol Folt said she was “grief-stricken” in a tweet Sunday morning, and urged those impacted in the community to reach out for support.
The shooting occurred at 10:22 p.m. near the site of Monterey Park’s Lunar New Year’s Eve festival, which had concluded earlier in the evening. The Lunar New Year’s Day celebration, planned for Sunday, was canceled.
Ten people were killed and the injured victims are being cared for at various hospitals in the Los Angeles area, including the L.A. County-USC Medical Center, L.A. County Sheriff Robert Luna said Sunday morning. Injuries range from minor to life-threatening. The identities of the victims have not been announced. 
Luna also confirmed that the same shooter entered a similar ballroom in Alhambra 17 minutes after the Monterey Park shooting. Patrons at the ballroom wrestled the weapon out of his hands before he fled the scene, and no one was injured.
The L.A. County Sheriff’s Department has not announced a motive at the time of publication, and said they could not yet determine whether the shooting was connected to the Lunar New Year festival. Chinese Chamber of Commerce chairman Chester Chong said to ABC7 on Sunday morning that the shooting may have been the result of intimate partner violence. 
In a press conference broadcasted as part of ABC7 coverage — led by Jim McDonnell, the director of the USC Safe Communities Institute — Luna said the department could not confirm whether the weapon used was a high-powered assault rifle. SWAT teams on Sunday afternoon barricaded a white van connected to the suspect in Torrance, in which the driver was found dead by a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
This shooting is the deadliest mass shooting in the United States since May, when 19 children and two teachers were killed in an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas. 
“As we’re looking for the suspect, we will not forget the victims and survivors,” Luna said. 
A victim resource center has been created at the Langley Senior Center in Monterey Park, and a memorial for victims has been erected at the Monterey Park City Hall. 
For mental health support, community members can call the 24/7 USC Student Health line at 213-740-9355 or email uscsupport@usc.edu.
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
