USC will broaden its nationwide footprint by opening a new campus next month in Washington, D.C., the University announced Wednesday.
The 60,000-square-foot Capital Campus will provide a home for USC initiatives in policy and connect community members with global leaders. The location will also serve as a gathering space for alumni and prospective students, the University wrote in a news release. The campus, a roughly five-minute drive from the White House and less than three miles from the Capitol, will increase opportunities for members of the USC community to collaborate with policymakers and prominent research institutions.
“In such fields as sustainability, media, culture, AI and health care, our scholars can bring to bear the full strength of our diverse disciplines to Washington, D.C.,” said Ishwar K. Puri, senior vice president of Research and Innovation, in the news release.
Comprising the seven stories of the Capital Campus are classrooms, event venues and office spaces, with further plans to develop a bookstore and a theater.
The purchase of the property, located in the Dupont Circle neighborhood, cost $49.4 million, the Washington Post reported. The tower had previously been the home of the National Association of Broadcasters and recently underwent extensive remodeling to modernize the property.
President Carol Folt said in the news release that Washington is a prime location to develop an East Coast center for the University.
“Washington, D.C., is the natural place for us to establish a thriving hub,” Folt said. “It is a nexus for the arts, public policy organizations, research agencies and foundations.”
The Capital Campus, which will have its official grand opening next month, will enable new multidisciplinary undergraduate and graduate programs, the news release read. USC already has operations in Washington, including the Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences’ semester-long program providing internships and courses for students in the nation’s capital.
USC’s Office of Research Advancement, which works to secure federal funding opportunities for research, has also been operating in the capital and will move to the new campus. The ORA has contributed to the submission of 320 successful project proposals, receiving a total of $848 million in funding, according to the office’s website.
“Washington, D.C., offers unparalleled opportunities for our experts, researchers and students to learn and listen, connect and share views on the national stage,” Folt said in the news release. “USC is known for its service to the Los Angeles community, and we look forward to being an active participant in the civic life of Washington, D.C.”
Extra en Español
The Tree Yoga Cooperative offers peace and healing for a diverse range of customers.
In a joint media briefing, Andrew Guzman discussed his vision and the importance of continuing diversity initiatives.
Braveband alerts emergency contacts of an user’s location when they are in danger.
About 5% of the graduating undergraduate class in 2021 were humanities majors.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. 
Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer.
These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.
Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site.
We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain.
We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings.
These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.
If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:
We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page.
Google Webfont Settings:
Google Map Settings:
Google reCaptcha Settings:
Vimeo and Youtube video embeds:
The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:
