The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill students protest outside of Choose Life event
CORRECTION APPENDED
Students entering the Shatner Building Thursday afternoon were greeted by demonstrators with signs reading “I regret my abortion” and “I regret lost fatherhood” alongside about a dozen pro- choice advocates protesting their presence on campus.
SSMU club Choose Life invited three representatives of the Silent No More Awareness Campaign (SNMAC), a non-denominational Christian organization that shares testimonials and aims to discourage women from obtaining abortions, to speak in the Lev Buhkman room.
Nancy Garez, a member of SNMAC who had an abortion in 1982, was grateful for the presence of pro-choice advocates. “I want to talk to them. I was like them before I had my abortion – we were all for choice in my family.”
President and Choose Life founder Natalie Fohl (U3 Political Science and Biology) also saw the interac- tion as a positive experience.
“[It was] a great opportunity for dialogue,” said Fohl.
However, one protester who asked to remain anonymous was upset by SNMAC’s use of signs on campus, as well as Choose Life’s display of fetus photographs at the crossroads last November.
“I am deeply disturbed…that someone might walk to class and encounter signs that target a dif- ficult decision that they had to make…. Whether they are made to feel ashamed for a minute or for the rest of the year, it’s not okay,” they said.
Arts Senator Sarah Woolf (U2 Political Science and Women’s Studies) student participated in the pro-choice protest and agreed that Choose Life’s activities, including hosting SNMAC, are offensive.
“As a woman on campus, their activities are offensive to me. Within the context of their current activi- ties, I don’t want them on campus,” Woolf said.
Woolf added that she would be interested in hearing proposals from students on why Choose Life’s club status should be revoked.
Critics questioned other tactics of SNMAC, including the implications of their emphasis on testimony.
“I think that this kind of pro- life activism is actually a lot more dangerous than traditional pro-life activism because it dresses itself up as being…non-judgmental. But it is,” said Erika Pierre (U4 Cultural Studies), who attended the event.
“By presenting themselves as saying…‘We regret our abortions, therefore, you will also regret your abortion. We know better than you.’ They’re being a lot more sly and a lot more manipulative than traditional pro-life [activists],” Pierre added.
Woolf echoed Pierre’s views.
“The manipulation of personal – obviously tragic – stories to convince people that abortion is wrong on all fronts…[is] unacceptable,” she said.
SNMAC eventually moved to the Lev Buckman room, where Garez, fellow member David MacDonald, and the campaign’s national coordinator, Angelina Steenstra, shared their experiences with abortion.
The three spoke once at 1 p.m. and again at 2:30, each time to a group of around twenty students, while protesters sang songs and played guitar outside the room.
Woolf described the demonstration as “A joyous protest,” adding, “You can have protests about things you’re angry about but still do it in an upbeat manner.”
Inside, Garez described her life after her abortion.
“My life became a mixture of broken relationships, anxiety crises, and heavy smoking,” Garez said. “[Abortion affected] my life and the life of my children. They have a sibling missing.”
MacDonald explained that his views on abortion were derived wholly from his personal experiences with two abortions.
“I came to my views on abortion long before I picked up a Bible,” he said, adding, “My position on abortion came really from a whole bunch of messed up stuff.”
Steenstra spoke of choosing to receive an abortion after she was a victim of date rape at 15.
“Abortion did not solve my problem. It ended it,” Steenstra said.
Steenstra recalled the pressure placed on her to obtain an abortion by a coworker.
“I didn’t know that abortion was an industry…my fears were used against me,” she said.
Steenstra dealt with psychological problems for 14 years following her abortion. She explained how accepting that “[her] abortion had taken a human life” was vital to her healing process.
“It’s the truth that set me free. Not euphemisms, not band-aids, not cover-ups,” Steenstra said.
MacDonald expressed simi- lar views, asking, “What is it that’s killed? Is it a blob of tissue? Well, there’s not a biologist on the planet that would say that.”
U3 Arts and Science student Miranda* took issue with Steenstra and MacDonald’s lan- guage, asking if women who sought help from SNMAC would be encour- aged to view their abortions as killing.
Steenstra responded by saying, “They would be encouraged to tell their story.”
While speaking with The Daily after her testimonial, Steenstra elaborated: “When I talk about abortion in the context of killing, I’m talking about my own revelation.”
Fohl supported Steenstra’s and MacDonald’s language, saying “It would be bizarre…if not dishonest, for them to use any other lan- guage.”
Steenstra asserted that SNMAC’s only goal is to share testimonies and offer support to women and men. “Our goal is to reach out to people, one person at a time. We’re not political,” she said.
But SNMAC is is not without some political interests. In a January 2007 issue of The New York Times Magazine, Emily Bazelon reported that the campaign’s co-founders, Georgette Forney and Janet Morana, participated in a rally near the US Supreme Court with banners reading “I Regret My Abortion.”
SNMAC is funded partially by Priests for Life, whose web site encourages readers to “Help with voter registration and distribution of voter guides. Become involved, as citizens, in political campaigns. Vote in such a way that will advance the protection of life.”
Fohl said that Choose Life plans to host a pro-life speaker in two weeks and is currently looking for a pro-choice speaker to participate in the event.
CORRECTION: In a recorded interview with The Daily, Nancy Garez stated that she received an abortion in 1992. After this article went to print, Garez called The Daily and said she had misspoken – she received her abortion in 1982. As well, due to an editing error, the original version of this article incorrectly stated that Sarah Woolf is a U3 student. She is, in fact, a U2 student.
*Names have been changed to protect the identity of the student
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists feel a plan to revamp the corner of Ste. Catherine and St. Laurent does not respect history
Montreal’s controversial plan to redevelop the strip of St. Laurent between Ste. Catherine and René Lévesque was fast-tracked through the City’s Executive Committee – Montreal’s highest authority on zoning and planning – last week. The contract to revitalize the area, commonly known as the Lower Main, was granted to Angus Development Corp in 2006, and has faced stiff opposition from local business owners and residents.
Founder of the Canadian Centre for Architecture, Phyllis Lambert, said that the plan seems to lack a coherent long-term vision.
“[You] can’t build a city by plopping in projects that don’t fit with the area or what people want…. The question is whether [the project] can be accommodated in the area or not,” she said.
“We shouldn’t be going back to a sort of dark ages, where rich people can come along, plop down buildings, and decide everything.”
After holding public consultations throughout the spring, the Office de consultation publique de Montréal (OCPM) submitted a report in August recommending a number of specific changes to Angus’s plan, and suggested that the firm proceed cautiously while maintaining close contact with the community throughout the process.
On September 18, a letter was released expressing concerns that the OCPM report had been swept aside by the Executive Council. This letter was signed by Lambert, as well as Héritage Montréal, Culture Montréal, and Club Soda.
Locals have also long expressed reservations about the project, and this summer a petition opposing the plan, which had garnered 1,000 signatories, was submitted to the OCPM.
Louis Rastelli, a local writer and artist, emphasized the importance of preserving the cultural milieu of the Lower Main.
“I find the city is being overly dismissive of the corner and some historic businesses like Montreal Poolroom, Main Importations, and Café Cléopatra that figure prominently in countless novels, stories, films and art from the city. I’m a native Montrealer and to me that corner is the ‘real’ downtown,” Rastelli said.
The redevelopment will involve the construction of a 12-storey office building and the establishment of a number of eco-friendly and fair trade boutiques.
Alanah Heffez, who has researched and written on the issue for urban geography blog Spacing Montreal, felt the City’s decision set the wrong precedent.
“This is a big issue. They did a consultation, then ignored it. It tells developers that public consultations aren’t binding.”
The original plan included the demolition of eight buildings, and the use of eco-friendly materials in the construction of their replacements, so it would meet gold-level certification with the Leadership in Energy and Environment program of the Canada Green Building Council. While the new plan will likely prove less exhaustive in its scope, many of the details remain unclear.
Rastelli was especially skeptical that the installation of a high-rise building would benefit the community.
“If you look at the most successful streets for nightlife downtown, Crescent and St. Denis near Ste. Catherine come to mind. There are no skyscrapers, loading and truck docks, or multi-level underground parking lots involved,” he said. “These streets have attracted an endless stream of interesting and popular bars, restaurants, and terraces over the years precisely because they have a human scale and have preserved and renovated their heritage buildings.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Last Wednesday, Mayor Gérald Tremblay cancelled the City’s $355 million water meter contract with the private consortium GÉNIeau. This move comes after a recommendation made last Tuesday by Montreal auditor general, Jacques Bergeron, to cancel the contract.
In the wake of the auditor general’s report, Tremblay fired the City’s general manager Claude Léger and the City’s director of corporate affairs, Robert Cassius de Linval.
At a news conference last Tuesday, Bergeron pointed out that the entire process had been, “too fast, too big, [and] too expensive.”
La Presse columnist Michèle Ouimet wrote in French about the incident last Wednesday.
“At the beginning the city simply wanted to install water meters in businesses, industries, and residences containing more than 12 lodgings. The bill: $32 million,” Ouimet wrote.
“The project got out of control, and the City found itself with a gold-plated contract, a luxury Cadillac, by adding a component: a sophisticated system that measures water pressure – a contract that goes over $618 million and will only generate $20 million in savings a year,” she wrote.
The massive contract was initially suspended last April amid allegations of conflict of interest. There was also an announcement by the Canada Revenue Agency that they were investigating Tony Accurso, a Montreal entrepreneur involved in the contract, for possible tax fraud.
Suspicions arose after it was revealed that the Frank Zampino, ex-president of the City’s executive committee and who the CBC called the Mayor’s “former right-hand man,” had been long time friends with Accurso, and vacationed on Accurso’s yacht during the bidding process.
Michel Parent, president of the City’s blue-collar worker’s union, expressed anger over the private contracts to the press last Tuesday. He insisted that instead of training hundreds of plumbers from private firms, the City could have used in-house plumbers.
“By contracting out the maintenance for a 15-year period, the City of Montreal would have completely lost its expertise, and would have been at the mercy of the private sector,” Parent told the media.
The Montreal Gazette reported in August that the contract had been changed “at the 11th hour,”  so that the City would regain control of 30,500 water meters near the end of their functional life.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Adil Charkaoui removed his GPS tracking bracelet from his ankle for the first
time in four years, after Federal court Judge Daniele Tremblay- Lamer dropped the restrictive bail conditions that have left him living under house arrest since 2005. The decision came midway through Charkaoui’s public hear- ing, held Thursday at the Federal Court in Old Montreal.
A permanent resident, Charkaoui spent two years in prison after he was arrested on suspicions of terrorism in 2003. He was detained under Canada’s security certificate legislation, which permitted the federal gov- ernment to detain him indefinite- ly or even deport him on secret evidence.
The judge’s announcement came in the wake of the federal government’s July 31 admission that the evidence in Charkaoui’s secret file was inadequate. Five months ago, federal lawyers retracted confidential wiretap evidence that had been used to implicate Charkaoui.
Charkaoui emerged from the courtroom flashing the peace sign, and said that he was extremely satisfied with Tremblay-Lamer’s decision. He also asked when the government officials responsible for his two-year detention – and subsequent four-year ordeal – would be held accountable for their mistakes, and the detriment they have caused to his life, reputation, and freedom.
“Today I’m celebrating,” Charkaoui said. “Though I hope we’re all going to talk about accountability.”
Johanne Doyon, Charkaoui’s lawyer, said that the security cer- tificate issued against her client was wholly unreasonable, and that Charkaoui has been severely stigmatized. “Their ‘proof’ is empty,” Doyon said in French. Judge Tremblay-Lamer allowed the federal government the opportunity to lift the security certificate in advance of delivering her ruling. Federal lawyers left the decision to the judge – a move that would allow the government to appeal the decision at a later date.
When hearings resumed on Thursday afternoon, Doyon recounted the federal government’s and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service’s (CSIS) abuses against Charkaoui. They have been accused of using unreliable evidence and presenting false information in court. Moreover, the government is alleged to have used information acquired under torture, such as evidence gathered from Abu Zubayda, a high level CIA detainee who was subjected to water boarding.
The restrictions imposed on Charkoui have also prevented him from continuing his career as a French teacher these past two years. Though he was released from prison in 2005, he was subject to a strict set of bail conditions that forced his parents to accompany him at all times. He was obliged to wear a GPS tracking bracelet – what he has called his “bracelet of shame” – and forbidden the use of cell phones, fax machines, and the Internet. He was prohibited from travelling off the island of Montreal, and police were permitted 24-hour access to his home.
Despite being denied access to the Internet since 2003, Charkaoui completed his Master’s in French in 2005 and is working toward his PhD.
Tremblay-Lamer’s ruling thus signifies the end of the economic stranglehold faced by Charkaoui’s family, which comes just as he and his wife expect their fourth child.
“This is a huge day,” Charkaoui said.
“After two victories in the Supreme Court, it’s clear this law is against [the Charter and indi- vidual rights].”
Charkaoui’s mother Latifa was also elated by the news.
“We had faith in Allah and con- fidence in the judge – we knew it would happen, and now it has,” she said.
Sophie Harkat, whose hus- band Mohamed Harkat is one of the other four Canadian Arab Muslim men named under security certificates, said she was ecstatic for the Charkaouis.
“It’s fantastic for all security certificate detainees – it gives us hope that we can pull through,” Harkat said.
Harkat had a similar victory last Monday, when the government’s own risk assessment con- cluded that her husband was no longer a threat, and removed most of the conditions currently imposed on him. He must, how- ever, continue to wear his GPS tracking bracelet.
In February 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that security certifi- cate legislation is unconstitution- al, but delayed implementation of the ruling by one year. In the year that followed, the Harper government pushed through new security certificate legislation, Bill C-3, which patched loopholes in older legislation, adding a provision that would allow for a special advocate who would be privy to confidential information, but unable to disclose this information to the detainee.
Legal critics, such as Mohamed Harkat’s lawyer Yavar Hameed, have maintained, however, that this addition does not satisfy the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and the Quebec Bar Association has argued that security cer- tificates under Bill C-3 remain unconstitutional.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
