The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Plan will affect 72 per cent Quebec land, and four aboriginal nations
Five Innu First Nations communities are threatening legal action against Quebec’s governing Parti libéral du Québec (PLQ) over the government’s proposed “Plan Nord,” a loosely defined set of potential mining, foresting, fishing, and industrial projects. Together, the projects would reshape the landscape of northern Quebec.
The five Innu groups boycotted a meeting on the Plan Nord on November 6, which was attended by over 200 people, including senior government ministers and representatives from Cree, Inuit, and Innu groups. The head of the Innu coalition, Chief Raphael Picard of the Pessamit Nation, has promised to block any Plan Nord projects in Innu territory that do not provide his people with a share of the revenue produced.
“With its Northern Plan, the government must understand that without the participation and consent of the Innu, not a single development project will go forward,” Picard was quoted as saying in Friday’s Globe and Mail.
Pierre Corbeil, Quebec Minster of Aboriginal Affairs, said though he would prefer dialogue, the government could pursue other means.
 “If [the Innu] pursue legal means, we will, unfortunately, have to engage with them,” Corbeil said in French.
The scope of Plan Nord is huge. 72 per cent of Quebec’s land is implicated in the development plans, or 1.2 million square kilometres. Christian Tanguay, the press secretary of Natural Resources Minister Natalie Normandeau, said there are 63 separate communities in the affected area, and over 120,000 people living there. Four indigenous nations also exist in the region: the Cree, the Inuu, the Inuit, and the Naskapi.
The government has recently announced new projects that will make up Plan Nord.  Describing the projects as a “new paradigm,” Tanguay said that about $25-billion will be invested in hydroelectricity alone. Another $825-million will finance the construction of 14 new airports in the north of the province. The government also received praise from Inuit business groups for the estimated 1,000 new houses to be built in the Nunavik, an area that roughly comprises the northern third of Quebec.
The hydroelectric development on the Romaine River, one of the projects launched under the banner of Plan Nord, has already deeply divided the Innu community.
Representatives of four of the Innu communities signed a revenue-sharing deal with Hydro-Québec in 2008 to get a portion of the profits from the $6.5-billion-dollar project. The Unamen Shipu alone will receive $14.5-million, according to their leader, Chief Georges Bacon. However, at least two Innu groups vowed to block the development “by any means necessary,” according to a Le Devoir story from December 2008.
The concerns of the Innu groups opposing the resource-driven projects stem from the absence of a territorial treaty between Canada and the Innu nation. Chief Ghislain Picard of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador explained, “There are communities that are not being respected…. There is no acknowledgment on a political level that the rights of the Innu exist.”
Inuit and Cree representatives support Plan Nord and attended the meeting on November 6. So did several Inuu groups, a fact that Natural Resources Minister Natalie Normandeau has emphasized in her comments on the plan. Ghislain Picard argued that the support of a few First Nations groups does not invalidate the criticism of those in opposition.
“This has become a too-easy game for the government, to say we have 25 of 31 groups that support us, so the others are wrong,” Picard said in French.
While officially supporting Plan Nord, the Cree have serious concerns about the PLQ’s commitment to respecting Cree territorial rights that were established in treaties in 1975 and 2002. Ghislain Picard noted that there were “25 years [between the treaties] during which the government did not respect their agreements.”
In a Montreal Gazette op-ed piece, Cree Grand Chief Matthew Coon Come cited the pending legislation, Bill 57, which would alter the 2002 territorial treaty, know as the “Paix des Braves.”  It does this, he wrote, by circumventing the agreement on forest management that the Crees and Quebec established in 1975 and in 2002.
Chief Coon Come also mentioned an independent report by Judge Rejean Paul of the Superior Court of Quebec, which determined that the Quebec government had disregarded its obligations to the Cree by handing over governance of the James Bay municipality, traditionally Cree territory, to non-Cree politicians in 2001.
PLQ-rivals like the Parti Québécois (PQ) and Québec Solidaire also have doubts about Plan Nord. Luc Ferland, the PQ Member of the National Assembly for Ungava, a constituency of 24, 944 people in northern Quebec, said that the government is jeopardizing its environmental goals for the north with these developments. He pointed out that while the PLQ has promised to protect 12 per cent of northern Quebec from development, it has so far cordoned off just 8 per cent.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Supreme Court deliberates Guantánamo prisoner’s repatriation
OTTAWA – Canada’s highest court debated whether the federal government has an obligation to repatriate the country’s last remaining detainee at Guantánamo, Omar Khadr, on Friday. The same day, the United States Department of Justice announced that the U.S. will continue to prosecute Khadr by military commission.
Khadr’s Canadian attorney, Nathan Whitling, announced the U.S. government’s decision to the court, and drew attention to the growing urgency of his client’s circumstances. Whitling argued that the Canadian government had failed in its duty to protect Khadr, and asked that the Court order the federal government to repatriate his client at the earliest possible date.
The 23-year-old Canadian has been held at Guantánamo Bay since 2002. He is charged with war crimes, and accused of having thrown the hand grenade that killed an American soldier in Afghanistan. He was 15 years old at the time of arrest, making him a minor under Canadian and international law. Khadr has been subjected to crude interrogation methods: sleep deprivation and sexual humiliation at Guantánamo.
Whitling argued that the federal government’s decision to send Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) agents to interrogate Khadr at Guantánamo, knowing that he had been subject to torture, amounted to complicit participation and was a fundamental breach of Khadr’s rights under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
A Security Intelligence Review Committee report criticized CSIS for proceeding with the interrogation given that Khadr had been “kept incommunicado, and denied access to legal counsel, consular representation or family members.”
Though Chief Justice Beverley McLachlin recognized that Khadr had suffered over the course of his ordeal, she questioned whether it was within the Court’s jurisdiction to order the federal government to repatriate Khadr, and whether sufficient grounds could be established to permit such an ruling.
Federal lawyer Rob Frater told the justices that the Court has no authority to request Khadr’s repatriation.
“State to state representation is an area where the executive holds the full range of discretionary authority,” said Frater. “We are in the realm of diplomacy here. The government has the full authority to decide what sort of request [for repatriation], whether a request can be made, how it can be made, why it can be made, and what is the most effective way of having influence with the United States.”
The federal government has repeatedly told the media that  Khadr faces serious charges, and that he will not be allowed to return to Canada until his prosecution in the U.S. is concluded.
Last August, the Federal Court of Canada ruled in favour of repatriating Khadr to Canada. The Harper government appealed the decision at the Federal Court of Appeals. The court, however, upheld the initial ruling, prompting the government to take the case to the Supreme Court – Canada’s highest legal authority.
Figures released earlier this month show that as of July, the federal government has spent $1,335,342.37 on legal fees to keep Khadr out of the country.
Simon Potter, a representative of Avocats sans Frontières and le Grouple d’Étude en droits et libertés de la Faculté de droit de l’Université Laval, defended Khadr’s repatriation, arguing that “there cannot be a carte blanche” for the federal government. He told the Court that he found it strange that there could be an unaccountable executive sphere, and that the Court should have no power to ensure that the executive uphold its legal duties.
Potter was one of a larger group of lawyers from Amnesty International, the National Council for the Protection of Canadians Abroad, the Canadian Civil Liberties Association, and other organizations, who all spoke in favour of Khadr’s repatriation.
Kathy Vandergrift, chair of the Coalition for the Rights of Children and Justice for Children and Youth, said that the federal government’s failure to consider Khadr’s young age was extremely disappointing. Khadr moved to Afghanistan with his parents in 1988, and is viewed as a child soldier by human rights organizations in Canada and abroad.
“There is no question in my mind that the will of Parliament is quite clear [on the Optional Protocol on the Rights of a Child]. It is the prime minister’s office that has not followed through,”  said Vandergrift in an interview with The Daily. “It’s time that we take children’s rights seriously, rather than holding it up as some vague idea. So we see this court case as an important moment in this trajectory. People should be able to appeal to the courts when the government fails to protect their rights.”
Dennis Edney, who also represents Khadr, has been the one of the most outspoken advocates of repatriation. He was critical of the federal government’s arguments.
“It’s nothing you wouldn’t expect. At the end of the day, I always thought that every citizen under the law is accountable, and here we are, saying that our government in Canada has breached Omar Khadr’s rights in a fundamental way…but those actions are to be accepted in order to keep a good relationship with other governments,” Edney told The Daily.
“I sometimes wonder about the fiction of justice we create. The reality is that a boy went to Guantánamo, and has been there ever since, and has been abused horribly, so then why should the government not be made accountable?” Edney added.
Khadr’s lawyers have asked the court to expedite the judgment in his case, and a ruling is due in the coming months. In the meantime, much attention has turned toward the continuation of military prosecution in the United States, since it remains unclear when and where Khadr’s U.S. hearing will take place.
The continuation of the military commission process came as a surprise to many today, including Khadr’s American attorney Barry Coburn, who said he was shocked by the decision.
An executive order issued by President Obama days after his inauguration called for the closure of the Guantánamo Bay dentention centre, as well as a stay on the military commissions process. This led many to believe that prosecution by military commission had come to an end, including Lieutenant Commander William Keubler, Khadr’s former Pentagon-appointed attorney to the case. He told The Daily last year that “[Khadr’s] military prosecution is effectively dead and…there are significant obstacles to any future prosecution of Omar Khadr by U.S. authorities.”
Coburn commented, however, that he was optimistic that the Supreme Court of Canada would uphold Khadr’s right to repatriation.
“We are extremely hopeful that the Supreme Court will uphold what the lower court did, and we think that was a really well-reasoned opinion, and from our sense of it, we think that court was right and we hope the Canadian Supreme Court agrees,” said Coburn.
After the Court had adjourned, Coburn, who attended Friday’s hearing, commented that Khadr’s advocates would not be walking away from the case, despite the challenges.
“I’m going to continue as his counsel from now until the end,” said Coburn. “That’s my intention. For as long long as he wants me, I’m going to continue to defend him, until his process comes to an end.”
In the original version of this article The Daily erroneously stated that Omar Khadr had been waterboarded at Guantanamo Bay. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill urges students to remain patient
The government of Quebec has imposed strict guidelines over who can and cannot receive the H1N1 vaccine, but some have attempted to skip ahead in line at some Montreal hospitals.
When the vaccine was first released, the government demanded that only those who provide direct care to patients and those who are at very high risk receive the vaccine.
Despite these limitations, the Montreal Gazette reported on November 7 that 200 of the top donors to the Jewish General jumped the queue and received inoculations before they were eligible. Additionally, loose restrictions at Royal Victoria Hospital failed to prevent non-medical students from slipping into the line as early as two weeks ago.
According to Santé et Services sociaux Québec, the list of at-risk individuals who could receive the vaccine consists of pregnant women, chronically ill people under 65, children between six months and five years old, people living in remote or isolated locations or communities, health care workers, and people living with high risk patients who cannot be immunized, like babies under six months old and immune-compromised people. As of Friday, November 13, all Quebeckers under the age of 20 are eligible for the vaccine.
Wayne Wood, the head of McGill’s Pandemic Contingency Planning Committee, believed that the implementation of new policies and the distribution of sanitizer and information has already slowed the spread of H1N1 on campus.
“There has been a drop in the number of visits to the McGill Health Clinic, perhaps related to the self-reporting, which allows students to stay home and get well rather then go out and cause infections,” Wood said. “H1N1 is quite mild for most adults and young people, and they don’t really need medical attention.”
Wood said that one-seventh of the Quebec population has already been vaccinated, and that as this process speeds up, it becomes less likely that McGill’s day-to-day operations will slow to a halt.
Pierre-Paul Tellier, director of Student Health Services and director of the Office of Student Affairs for the Faculty of Medicine, told The Daily that he supports the government’s efforts to reduce risk and urges younger McGill students who are now eligible to be inoculated as soon as possible.
“As of [Friday], we are starting to immunize all those who are 19 and younger, so those students who are eligible can – and should – be vaccinated. This is good news because this date has been moved ahead by a week, so these students may all be fully protected by the time examination period begins,” Tellier said.
Tellier said he observed rigid application of the rules while at Place Alexis Nihon – the vaccination centre on Atwater where many McGill students are zoned to attend.
“They’re doing the vaccination according to risk, so those who are more likely to become fairly ill once they have become infected get the vaccine first. We have a list of diseases and immuno-suppressing medications that was given to us by the government,” Tellier said. “If a person comes in and requests the vaccination, but doesn’t have anything that is on that list, they are asked to come back at the time that they are supposed to be vaccinated.”
Tellier stressed that all McGill students should wait their turn rather than rushing to receive the rationed vaccine. “Skipping lines is natural human anxiety. However, the government has been very strict and been trying to apply the rules as stringently as possible to prevent the entire medical system from being overwhelmed.”
Two convenient clinics for McGill students are at Place Alexis Nihon at 1500 Atwater, or CLSC du Plateau-Mont-Royal at 4625 de Lorimier.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Iraqi activist Asma Al-Haidari discusses the plight of Iraqi refugees
Iraq’s refugee crisis extends across the world, as millions of Iraqi refugees have been displaced since the American-led invasion in 2003. The majority of Iraqi refugees are living in dire conditions and without permanent status in countries bordering Iraq, with the largest populations residing in Jordan and Syria. As media headlines remain focused on the ongoing violence inside Iraq, the refugee crisis expanding across the Middle East is often forgotten. It is estimated that there are around one-million Iraqi refugees currently residing in Jordan, where many face serious poverty and economic marginalization.
Asma Al-Haidari is an independent Iraqi activist based in Amman, Jordan, who speaks to the situation facing Iraqi refugees today in the Middle East. Stefan Christoff is a Montreal-based journalist and activist, who spoke for the Daily Publications Society’s Journalism Week at McGill on Thursday.
Stefan Christoff: Today, Iraqi refugees present a major crisis for the Middle East. Given the number of Iraqi refugees living in Jordan, could you outline for us the current reality facing Iraqis in Jordan?
Asma Al-Haidari: There are over one-million Iraqi refugees in Jordan and around five-million throughout the Arab world. Today, the largest number of Iraqi refugees is currently in Syria, while the second largest Iraqi refugee population is in Jordan. Iraqi refugees have put serious pressure on the social infrastructure in both Jordan and Syria.
There are less Iraqi refugees in Jordan than in recent years as there have been some placements for Iraqi refugees elsewhere in the world, a small number going to the U.S. and to Europe. However, there is still a very large number in Jordan, while some have now returned to Iraq. The majority of Iraqi refugees in Jordan are in a very bad state; they can hardly pay for their food or their health needs. Today, Iraqi refugees are going to school in Jordan, but that only began last year after a major effort organized by non-governmental organizations, specifically Save the Children International. Still, there are many Iraqi children who don’t go to school because they haven’t been able to register or they need to work to support their families.
A very serious but often hidden problem in Jordan is that young Iraqis are being forced into sex work, due to poverty and coercion. This is a very real problem as many young Iraqi women are being abused and, despite this being a taboo subject in Arab society, people need to talk about this and take action.
SC: Can you talk about the poverty that Iraqi refugees face today in Jordan, the economic situation that Iraqis are facing in Jordan?
AH: Certainly Iraqi refugees living in Jordan receive no government pensions from their own government in Baghdad. Also Iraqi refugees get no major economic assistance from the local governments, in Jordan, or even the UN, and they don’t have food rights or vouchers. It is often charities who assist a number of families, but not all families. Many Iraqi families who live in serious poverty today in Jordan have never lived in such poverty in their lives. Iraqi refugees in Jordan have often been forced to sell their homes in Iraq in order to survive in Jordan and to pay for their children’s education. Iraqis are not officially able to work in both Jordan and Syria.
If Iraqis are working in Jordan, they are working under the table and this puts them in immediate danger of being deported. Clearly the Jordanian government knows that thousands of Iraqis are working, and often authorities turn a blind eye; however, there is always the possibility that authorities can clamp down.
SC: Most of the news on the Iraq war is centred on reports from the ground in Iraq, headlines detailing armed combat, direct confrontations, realities of war. However, this other effect of the war, the refugee crisis, which has expanded across the Middle East, certainly isn’t getting as much media attention. Could you talk about the crisis facing Iraqi refugees throughout the Middle East, a crisis which has been compared to the Palestinian experiences of exodus and exile in both 1948 and 1967?
AH: I think that the situation is similar in some ways but also different. Remember that the numbers of Iraqi refugees today is much larger than the Palestinian refugee crisis in either 1948 or in 1967, as there are millions of Iraqi refugees displaced across the Arab world. When Iraq was invaded by the Americans and the British, many Iraqis had good lives and jobs despite the crippling sanctions. Economic security has been erased for all Iraqis due to the invasion. Our society was ripped apart.
Also many Iraqi women were forced to flee sexual violence in Iraq. Many Iraqi women were raped by U.S. or Iraqi security forces and fled for their lives. Actually, it is Iraqi women and children who have suffered the most during the past six years since the U.S. invasion.
SC: I was wondering about your perception of the political situation in Iraq today. There has been a great deal of fanfare and attention drawn to the projected withdrawal of U.S. troops announced by Barack Obama. What are your thoughts?
AH: Total U.S. withdrawal will not happen. Obama’s plan is simply to try to present a tidier picture for the world. U.S. forces came thousands of kilometres across the seas to settle in Iraq and have spent billions of dollars. Americans came not only for the oil but also to try to control the entire region politically.
I also think that the American political establishment aimed to destroy the Iraqi spirit, to crush the Arab nationalist spirit present in Iraqi and in Arab culture generally. U.S. troops are in Iraq to stay; if you read the U.S.-Iraq Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) agreement this is clear. U.S. troops will remain in Iraq under the SOFA agreement, staying in the massive U.S. military bases from which they can emerge when necessary. U.S. forces won’t leave the country until they are forced to withdraw.
This means that the Iraqi resistance must make it very expensive and very dear for the U.S. administration to stay. In the end, the U.S. will be forced to withdraw as they were forced from Vietnam.
Iraq has been invaded many times throughout history and each time, occupying forces have been forced to retreat. However, it is this invasion that has been the worst. Attempts have been made to make Iraqis forget their culture, their history, and their independent spirit but military occupation will not destroy our memory.
Christoff’s interview was first posted on the web site of Tadamon!, a Montreal-based collective that works in solidarity with Middle Eastern struggles for self-determination, equality, and justice.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Club sent to Equity Committee by SSMU Council to revise constitution
SSMU Council voted 16 to 7 by secret ballot in favour of suspending Choose Life’s club status on Thursday.
Two separate motions were put forth to change the club’s status. The first resolution called for the club’s status to be revoked. After being defeated 11 to 12, a motion to suspend followed.
The students who put forth the two motions claimed that Choose Life had disseminated false health information and exposed students to graphic images associated with abortion and fetal life. Additionally, the students felt that past events hosted by the club had threatened safe space for students on campus, and violated SSMU policy.
On behalf of the authors who presented the resolution to revoke Choose Life’s status, Jane* said, “Regardless of whether a formal promise was made, there had been a verbal agreement with SSMU Council and they still contravened the equity policy.”
In her rebuttal, Choose Life president Natalie Fohl addressed general questions and apologized for allowing some of her club’s guest speakers to distribute questionable information in the form of pamphlets in the past. She conceded that this was a serious issue and explained that the pro-life group Silent No More Awareness had provided the material in question at a Choose Life event in September. Included in the pamphlets were statements that linked breast and cervical cancer to abortions, which contradicts statistics from Health Canada.
Fohl also stated that she did not feel that the club had contravened McGill’s equity policy, explaining that the club’s mandate is to promote respect for human life and human rights from conception, defined as the moment of fertilization. Fohl quoted SSMU’s constitution and went on to describe fetuses as victims of oppression.
“The goal of our group is to promote the well-being of all persons, including those discriminated against based on age,” Fohl said.
Members of Choose Life contended that they were being treated differently than other clubs, but opponents argued that no other club has pushed the same boundaries. Last month, SSMU Council censured a Choose Life event called “Echoes of the Holocaust,” which featured Jose Ruba of the Canadian Centre for Bio-Ethical Reform.
Before his talk was disrupted by protesters, Ruba attempted to parallel what he considers the dehumanization of fetuses with similar tactics used to justify genocide.
During council, Rebecca Dooley, VP (University Affairs), indicated that four complaints against Choose Life have been brought to the attention of the Student Equity Committee since it was granted club status last year. The motion to suspend incorporated a clause which would send the club for evaluation by the Equity Committee.
An amendment was added and stipulated that the club would meet with the Committee to develop a document that would allow for the expression of a pro-life viewpoint while remaining in line with the SSMU constitution and equity policy.
Dooley explained that this would be a long-term process that would start as soon as possible. “We’ve been the ones who have been on the receiving end of most of the student concerns surrounding Choose Life,” she said. “We have been dealing with it on all levels, and I think we are the ones who have the most in-depth understanding of the policies.”
Engineering Senator Daniel Keresteci questioned why the equity committee represented women, as less than half of students on campus are male.
In an email to The Daily, Jane* wrote, “We felt that a lot of councillors listened to our arguments and the facts we presented. However, a couple councillors responded to our arguments by repeating that students should be able to express opinions, even though we had made it very clear that we are against specific actions – not opinions.”
Afterward, Fohl said she was disappointed with the process and outcome. She felt her club had not been treated fairly throughout the whole process and that the club’s right to free speech was being limited.
“I really don’t feel that if people properly understood what our position was that they would be saying what they said,” Fohl said. “It sounds good to say, ‘No, we’re not limiting free speech,’ but it really is saying, ‘You say what you want but only this way.’”
In spite of the motion, Fohl stated that she wouldn’t make any decisions without consulting the rest of the club.
“We will certainly sit down with the Equity Committee and see what their suggestions are but that doesn’t mean that we are necessarily going to accept everything,” Fohl said.
At Council, a resolution to ban the sale of “Red List” fish was also passed. An update on the spread of H1N1 in McGill residences was also discussed.
 
*Names have been changed to protect the identity of the student
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
