The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
ASSÉ demonstrators form blockade at economic institute for free tuition
About 50 student protesters calling for free tuition occupied the office of the Vice-Chair of the Committee on Labour and the Economy Friday, as other demonstrators targeted what they called symbols of privatized education.
The three-hour occupation of the office of Gerry Sklavounos, also the Liberal MNA for for Laurier-Dorion, was part of a day of economic disruption organized by the radical student group Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ).
The day’s actions, which also included a demonstration at the Economic Institute of Montreal (IEDM) and a Bank of Montreal, sought to pressure institutions and companies, which ASSÉ says have an increasing financial hold over postsecondary education.
“ASSÉ considers that the only way for companies to participate in education is to pay their fair share in taxes,” ASSÉ spokesperson Hubert Gendron-Blais wrote in French in a press release.
“We are showing where the money is and putting pressure in those areas,” said one student before the march began.
After the demonstration made brief stops at the IEDM and a Bank of Montreal, the students headed to Sklavounos’s office at 7665 St. Laurent around 11:00 a.m., where they staged a sit-in.
Despite a significant police presence, the occupation lasted three hours and concluded with a meeting between Sklavounos and two representatives from ASSÉ, whom the group had elected at the beginning of their occupation. The students eventually left peacefully.
The demonstration was timed to coincide with last week’s resumption of classes for UQAM and many Montreal CEGEPs after the winter holidays. ASSÉ is also mobilizing support for an unlimited strike for free education this semester, in response to the Quebec government’s lifting of the freeze on provincial tuition freeze.
“We didn’t have an economic disturbance, but we did inform the media about the lack of finance and the effect on institutions,” said Marc-André Faucher, the information secretary for ASSÉ. “This is just a small step.”
Ordering in
Just three minutes into the sit-in, seven police officers arrived and over five police cars sat outside. By the time the occupiers left the building, nearly 15 officers lined the building’s stairs and guarded the street entrance.
Because Sklavounos’s office is considered a public space, students were allowed to remain, but the police stipulated that anyone who left the building would not be permitted to re-enter. Sklavounos invited the demonstrators to sit on the floor before moving to a private room.
Snacking on granola bars, water, and trail mix, the students perched on desks and office chairs, exploring an open room and peering into drawers. Several inscribed a message on a whiteboard to hang in the window, which overlooked a four-lane street. Others constructed a banner out of sheets of paper and taped those to the window as well.
Shortly after the students arrived, an officer requested to meet with a representative from ASSÉ for negotiations at 2:00 p.m. The students then held their first of many impromptu votes to approve the negotiation time and to elect two representatives.
The student occupiers even ordered pizza shortly after arriving. But when the pizza arrived, the police did not allow the deliverer to drop it off. Upon learning of the situation, the deliverer, who was familiar with ASSÉ, left the students a calendar as a symbol of his support.
At one point, the police offered to allow the pizza into the building in exchange for the negotiation meeting to begin 30 minutes earlier at 1:30 p.m., but the students refused. Throughout the sit-in, police continually offered different times and terms for negotiation, which prompted the students to repeatedly call meetings.
Just after 1:00 p.m. the police claimed that an eviction notice was imminent. Although several students left, the remaining protesters then held their final and longest meeting, debating whether to wait for the eviction or to leave on their own terms and sacrifice the opportunity for a meeting with Sklavounos.
“We didn’t come here to order pizza,” one student, who supported staying, said in French.
With overwhelming support to wait for eviction, the students then voted to discuss ASSÉ’s general platform with Sklavounos, rather than focus solely on free education. Sklavounos spoke with the two elected representatives, who presented him with ASSÉ’s platform.
After approximately three hours, the students left the building chanting.
“We’re actually a little disappointed with the turnout,” Faucher said. “But we’re happy today didn’t end on a street corner.”
“Our goal is to get the word out, to disturb peace.”
Earlier in the day, a small group of demonstrators blocked the entrance to the IEDM and were dispersed by police after 10 minutes. Others proceeded to a Bank of Montreal in Plaza St. Hubert, slapping stickers and spraying graffiti on the entrance.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Caferama’s days of dishing out paninis and salads in styrofoam are numbered, and students are gearing up to replace the Shatner building’s first-floor cafeteria – whose lease expires on August 31 – with a more sustainable food source.
Derina Man, SSMU’s Environment Commissioner, held a meeting Friday with SSMU executive members and other students to shape guidelines regarding prices, menu options, and sustainability that SSMU will present to parties who submit proposals for the space. The deadline is February 1 and SSMU Council will decide on a new food vendor in March.
Man said she was pleased with the students’ input from the meeting and hoped to incorporate their suggestions – including more organic and local foods – into the contract with the future vendor.
“The students suggested vegan and vegetarian options; they asked ‘why can’t you find soymilk on campus?’” Man said, adding, “There was also a lot of interest in plates and minimizing waste.”
Tenants like Tiki-Ming in Shatner’s second-floor cafeteria offer a 10-cent discount to students who bring own their own plates or use one supplied by the Plate Club.
Although waste reduction efforts haven’t yet reached the first floor due to the Plate Club’s limited resources, Man explained that SSMU is committed to coordinating efforts with the Club to make plates available there.
Like many food vendors on campus, Caferama serves food in styrofoam containers and customers add sugar from individual containers to their single-use coffee cups, generating a considerable amount of garbage.
Man hoped the negotiation process between SSMU and prospective vendors would ensure that the third floor’s increasingly environmentally friendly practices trickle down to the Caferama space.
“We want to maintain an environmental standpoint during the negotiation process,” Man said.
“In the development of a new business, we want to see sustainability stay on the forefront.”
Imad Barake, SSMU VP Finance & Operations, explained that the Society has already received one proposal from a group of students interested in giving the space an environmental facelift.
“The students who approached us about a student-run café proposed an environmentally-friendly concept using fair-trade coffee and local food,” Barake said.
Barake was enthusiastic about the employment and managerial opportunities a student-run café could offer to the student body, and urged any student groups interested in renting the space to email him.
Yet the McGill administration has admitted that the decision to shut down and then assume financial control over the Architecture Café – formerly the only student-run café on campus – was in line with the University’s plan to centralize food services on campus.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Striving for healthcare efficiency and prescription drug reform over privatization was the message last night at a community discussion hosted by the left-leaning political party Québec solidaire.
Physician and party co-spokesperson Amir Khadir spoke alongside McGill Epidemiology professor Abby Lippman in both English and French, as chairs were continually added to accommodate additions to the already full audience at Coop Maison Verte in NDG.
“We have three million people covered by public care for prescriptions and the government’s paying market prices,” Khadir said. “Think of the leveraging power.”
He was referring to governmental prescription drug coverage for approximately 40 per cent of the province’s population – all those lacking private care.
According to Khadir, other countries, including New Zealand, have successfully used the leveraging power of a single buyer to force drug companies to lower their prices, while Quebec has simply continued to pay the going rate. Québec solidaire adopted such a system – Pharma-Québec – as part of its platform in 2006.
Khadir expanded on this, criticizing the number of drugs covered under Quebec’s medicare system.
“Every day drug companies are coming out with more and more products, but what are they really for? Are they essential for health?”
Khadir recommended Quebec analyze each and every medication covered under the system, and only subsidize those that are deemed necessary for health, instead of pandering to “the private sector lobby that has taken over the industry.” New Zealand covers about 2,500 drugs – approximately half of those paid for by Quebec – saving New Zealand what Khadir says is “thousands” in health care expenditures.
“That money could be going to hire more doctors, pay for more hospital beds, lower waiting times, the list goes on.”
Khadir also questioned the sources of prescriptions, stating brand name and expensive drugs are often the first and only choice.
“Why don’t we look elsewhere? We should be shopping around,” Khadir added, referring to the wide availability of significantly cheaper generic equivalents.
The night took a change of pace when Lippman took stage and spoke of issues affecting women in the healthcare system.
“We must remember that women are the heavier users of the system,” Lippman said, all while reminding listeners of the hardships privatization would create for those impoverished, prone to non-regular work cycles, and more responsible for the caregiving of others.
“We should be thinking about real home care,” Lippman added, stating that a large proportion of women in the workforce are currently caring for senior relatives, a job the system could be aiding.
Attendees were far from silent as Lippman stepped away from the podium, with one woman voicing out against commercialization, and exclaiming “the planet can’t take it anymore!”
People continued to question the speakers, including the impact of the haphazard scheduling of hospital employees on females who must attend to their household responsibilities while balancing work.
Lippman and Khadir condemned the power of the pharmaceutical industry, citing the staggering amounts spent on marketing over research and development, especially when direct advertising of drugs to the consumer is illegal in Canada. Companies can advertise a drug, but not what it does, or can suggest that a cure for an ailment exists and that a doctor could be consulted, but not identify the drug.
Lippman also discussed the ethical tribulations of testing of drugs on “virgin patients” in Africa and Asia – people who have not been exposed to the level of medications North Americans and make prime test subjects.
The discussion ended with a plea against privatization in any means, with Lippman re-emphasizing that “Canada ought to have healthcare that is not just sold to the highest bidder.”
Khadir, later in conversation, agreed.
“We must remember not to manage the economy, but to manage the world.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill’s academic integrity policy lacks restriction on abuse of psycho-stimulants for academic purposes
When David*, a U1 Political Science student, is preparing for an exam, he will study all night and then pop an Adderall or Ritalin in the morning. He says they make him feel prepared for the test.
“It gives me a sense of calmness. It gives me self-confidence. It feels as if I had studied two weeks in advance and had gotten a full night’s sleep before the exam,” David said.
David, who does not have a prescription for Adderall and gets his pills from friends or dealers, says his success at McGill depends on the use of the drugs.
“Study drugs are indispensable to my academic career and its successes. I depend on them to achieve results that are otherwise unobtainable,” he said.
Yet he insists it is fair that he uses the drugs, since everyone at McGill in theory has access to them.
“Everyone has – or could have – access to study drugs, and they voluntarily choose not to take them, so it is not unfair for me to take them,” David said.
Academic integrity?
In fact, McGill’s rules on academic integrity do not forbid the abuse of prescription drugs for academic purposes.
Linda Jacobs Starkey, Associate Dean of Students and Chair of the Academic Integrity Subcommittee of Committee on Student Affairs, was surprised to hear that use of psycho-stimulants was popular among students.
“Using psycho-stimulants to enhance academic performance would not fit into present definitions of academic offences,” Starkey said.
But many students are disconcerted by the widespread use of psycho-stimulants, as they could affect class averages and grade standards.
“It’s fine to say that everyone is free to make their own choices, but ultimately these choices are going to affect me,” said Clementine Roberts, U1 Mathematics.
“[These students] claim that their actions affect only themselves, when they are actually instrumental in heightening the unrealistic academic standards that drove them to take the drugs in the first place.”
Starkey said that the prevalence of study drugs has been “flying under the radar” at McGill and other schools in North America. She noted that amphetamines such as Adderall have not been included in recent risk behaviour surveys.
“If data shows that [study drugs] would provide an unfair academic advantage, we would need to think about it,” Starkey said.
But David – and others at McGill who also asked to remain anonymous – insisted that frequency of abuse of prescription drugs is high at McGill, and that many use the drugs to improve academic performance.
“I do think there is a subculture of study drugs and alternative means to conventional study, and that many people have bought into it,” he said. “Among my personal group of friends I would say that just about everyone is and has used study drugs for those very purposes.”
According to students interviewed, students often purchase study drugs in McGill’s library and residences, but the pills are easy to obtain almost anywhere. At McGill, the drugs usually sell for between $3 and $10 a pill, and during exam period, they are sold in bulk.
Francis*, a McGill student who sells drugs – though not prescription drugs – to the McGill community, said the demand for prescription drugs is particularly strong among Engineering students.
He added that although he would be hesitant to sell hard drugs like cocaine or ecstasy, he would consider selling psychostimulants to students.
“I would sell Concerta or Ritalin, because I’d be doing a service to other students, who are so mentally exhausted,” he said.
The drug doctors
Dr. Norman Hoffman, Director of McGill Mental Health Services (MMHS), said that, while the abuse of psycho-stimulants was a problem, the drugs may not improve academic performance.
“Grades do not improve with the use of psycho-stimulants,” he wrote in an email to The Daily. “[Study drugs] give the illusion of greater functioning more than actually improving performance.”
Hoffman suggested that students who rely on such drugs may have difficulty coping with the demands of a job when they enter the workforce.
“Drugs can give students an unfair advantage over the short term, but users’ overall functioning and ability to learn will be impaired by dependency on these drugs,” wrote Hoffman.
Psycho-stimulants – such as Adderall, Ritalin, Dexedrine, and Concerta – are generally prescribed to people with Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), a neurobiological disorder, and less frequently to patients with narcolepsy, chronic fatigue, or depression.
According to Denise Rochon, a psychiatrist at MMHS, possible side effects of the drug include high blood pressure, insomnia, decreased appetite and weight loss, gastrointestinal upset, headaches, and – most frequently – increased anxiety.
For some, it could trigger a manic or hypomanic episode or psychosis – a lack of contact with reality, including paranoid disorders. It can also lead to sadness and irritability, especially as the effect of the drug wears off.
David says he does not experience any side effects – and added that he is careful to use the drugs in moderation. But he added that many of his friends take the drugs “in enormous and irregular dosages, and build up their tolerance so that 25 milligrams of Adderall has no effect.”
McGill psychiatrists insist that they try to curb the frequency of prescriptions.
Rochon said many doctors are uncomfortable diagnosing patients with ADHD, since the potential for abuse is high.
“Many doctors, including psychiatrists, feel uncomfortable in diagnosing ADHD and especially in treating it with stimulants, being very fearful that patients will abuse or sell their drugs,” she wrote in an email to the Daily.
But David said students frequently manipulate the system – and that he would do so, as well, if the drugs weren’t so easily obtainable from other sources.
“[Drug dealers] either increase their dosage so they can distribute to others, or decrease their dosage and take a toll on their personal mental health in order to profit,” he explained.
He gets his drugs from friends who have renewable prescriptions.
“I would get my own prescription, but [the drugs] are so easily accessible that I do not need to take those measures,” David said.
Seeking a fix
Still, it’s unclear whether the McGill community has grasped the prevalence of prescription drug abuse, or the extent to which students feel intense pressure to succeed on their GPAs.
Starkey recommended that students who feel academic pressure use MMHS or counselling services to lessen stress.
“University is the time to set work habits for the future,” Starkey said.
Rochon said that one way to curb use of the drugs was to encourage psychiatrists to prescribe slow-release capsules instead of short-acting pills whenever possible.
“Most people who abuse meds are not that patient,” she wrote. “There is no doubt that a greater use of longer-acting meds would diminish the amount of abuse.”
But until such changes are made, David and other students at McGill say they will continue to use study drugs to up their marks.
“I am personally an opportunist. I will do anything to further my position in society, and do anything possible to maximize the grade I receive on a final exam,” David said.
*Starred names have been altered.
– with files from Stacey Wilson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
More than 50 Montrealers braved the chill last night at a downtown vigil in support of the people of the Gaza Strip, who are suffering under an Israeli blockade that has severely restricted their access to food, water, fuel, and electricity.
Held on Ste. Catherine Street across from the Bay, the candlelit vigil brought in supporters from a range of organizations calling for the end of the Gaza blockade, and for Canada to put pressure on the Israeli government.
“It’s very cold here, but it’s nothing compared to what the people in Gaza are going through right now,” said Mohamed Kamel, a member of the Canadian Muslim Forum, to the small crowd.
Last Wednesday, Israel launched military incursions into Gaza and on Thursday imposed an embargo, saying it was punishment for rockets fired over the border by Palestinian militants.
John Dugard, the UN Special Rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian Territories, last week called the Israeli military operations war crimes that violated the Geneva Conventions and international humanitarian law. In September 2007, Israeli declared Gaza a “hostile entity” and has threatened a full-scale invasion.
Israel eased the blockade on Tuesday to allow some delivery of goods, but quickly strengthened it again. Yesterday, tens of thousands of Gaza residents flooded into Egypt to buy food and fuel after Palestinian militants breached the border walls.
“Gaza, it’s a prison… People cannot go out of it, they cannot fly in or out,” said Jean Gravend, a member of Palestinians and Jews United at the Montreal demonstration.
The European Union and many Arab countries have condemned the blockade, warning that it is hastening a humanitarian crisis in Gaza. The European external relations commissioner, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, said the Israeli actions constitute “collective punishment.”
At yesterday’s demonstration, Gravend and others called for Canada to also condemn Israel’s actions.
“We are an accomplice if we do not protest and try to change things,” Gravend said.
Feroz Mehdi, a member of Alternatives International, said grassroots actions such as the vigil were crucial for disseminating information, and for pushing the Canadian government to act.
“We have to impress upon the Canadian government that it’s got to get its act together, and call this a humanitarian crisis,” Mehdi said. “There are 1.4 million people in Gaza. These people are not terrorists; they’re ordinary people trying to live.”
Israeli military operations since last week have killed 40 Palestinians, at least 10 of them civilians. Palestinian militants killed an Ecuadorian kibbutz volunteer last week.
A coalition of various Palestinian groups organized the event, including the Coalition for Peace and Justice in Palestine, Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights, Palestinians and Jews United, and Alternatives.
Also at the vigil were members of the Confederation des syndicats nationaux (CSN), Quebec’s largest trade union, and CEGEP teachers.
Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights and other groups are planning a larger demonstration for tomorrow, starting at 2 p.m. at Concordia’s Hall Building.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebecers to lead in demos this weekend
Over a dozen Quebec cities are joining groups around the world this Saturday in alter-globalization demonstrations called by the World Social Forum.
Instead of a meeting of the World Social Forum this year, international groups have called for a day of action to condemn neoliberalism.
Stephan Corriveau, national program coordinator for Alternatives, a sponsor of the Montreal demonstrations and events, said the demonstrations are mobilizing around peace, environment, and social rights.
“We needed to choose issues that would mobilize as many people as possible,” Corriveau said.
The World Social Forums began in 2001 in Porto Alegre, Brazil, to counter the World Economic Forum in Switzerland. It is an alter-globalization meeting organized by various social movements, networks, non-governmental organizations, and other civil society organizations.
Since their inception, other regional forums have been held, including in Montreal in August.
The Quebec-wide actions, called La neige brûle, are planned in Montreal as well as more than a dozen other locations across Quebec. Demonstrations are also planned in Vancouver and Toronto.
“The rest of Canada has been a bit slower to get involved, but Quebec has been very active,” Corriveau said.
Around 20 Montreal-based groups are participating in the demonstrations this Saturday, which begin at 4 p.m. at Phillips Square.
Alternatives, the Quebec Women’s Centre, the Confederation des syndicats nationaux (CSN), and CKUT-Radio are organizing a party afterward, at the Society of Arts and Technology, at 8 p.m.
– Kelly Ebbels
New Safety office streamlines security
The creation of a new department of University Safety this school year has streamlined services in security, fire prevention, waste management, and environmental services – and brought an increase of security officers on campus during the daytime.
According to Louise Savard, Director of University Safety, the office has been making changes in Security Services to ensure effective use of its $3-million budget.
Changes in remote security – including the phasing in of remote locks on doors over the past five years – have freed up more security officers for daytime shifts, Savard explained.
“In the past we had many, many agents to go around at night, making sure doors were locked,” Savard said.
The change has freed up more security officers for daytime shifts, and allowed University Safety to hire an additional foot patroller this year.
But Savard insisted that overall, the University’s security coverage would remain consistent.
“Security coverage should not change,” Savard said. “The University will not be giving us more money.”
Security Services also drafted an emergency procedure plan this year, for both the downtown and Macdonald campuses. SSMU has their own version for procedures within the Shatner building.
Savard said members of the McGill community – including students – were consulted during a preliminary drafting this summer, and will be consulted again before the plan is finalized.
Security Services have also undertaken a more active training program with officers, as new officers receive more hands-on and classroom instruction, Savard said.
– Erin Hale
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
