The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students question University’s stance on contentious events
Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson laid out McGill’s policy on controversial events and fielded questions from students at a packed town hall last Thursday in the Shatner building. Referencing three events that have stirred debate over the past year – a talk by a Turkish professor on the Armenian genocide, a flag display by Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights, and a recent Choose Life event that ended in two arrests – Mendelson indicated that the University would maintain a policy of respecting freedom of speech, as long as the events in question are not hateful or slanderous.
Mendelson noted, though, that while the University respects students’ right to protest, this right is subject to certain restrictions.
“The University has been very open with respect to protest, but it also has limits. One of the limits we are absolutely adamant about is protest that disrupts the free expression of ideas on campus,” he said. “[It] crosses the line because that protest is attacking or undermining the core value of a university, that is meant to educate, transmit, and discover knowledge.”
When SSMU VP External Sebastian Ronderos-Morgan asked whether SSMU’s equity policy and constitution would be considered for contentious events, Mendelson said that the University’s stance would be determined independently.
“If there is an event that is approved for university space, then we don’t look to others outside the university – and SSMU is outside the university, though students are not. We don’t look to expressions from stakeholders to determine whether we are going to have the event,” Mendelson said, noting that he takes the same approach when concerns are raised by other interest groups, such as private donors or professors.
While Mendelson said that he evaluates controversial campus events personally and on a case-by-case basis, students like VP Clubs and Services Sarah Olle and Science Senator Mitran Mehta both commented that they found this policy arbitrary and problematic.
“The University holds responsibility not only to students but to the local community,” Mehta said. “There are some events out there that want to express a unilateral point of view. I feel there should be general guideline to work from.”
Karina Gold, U3 Political Science and Latin America studies, asked Mendelson to define more specifically when he felt a campus group was using hate speech or denying another group’s existence.
“I’m not a lawyer. We have to make a distinction between hate speech and speech we may find hateful,” Mendelson replied. “Just because someone finds something very disturbing and very problematic does not make something hate speech.”
Referencing his time at university in the sixties, Mendelson said events that make students feel uncomfortable – provided they are not hateful – are an important part of student life.
“If you spend three years at university and are not troubled by something you hear, then we aren’t doing our job. You’re supposed to be troubled by things you hear, you’re supposed to be upset by them, supposed to challenge them. You’re supposed to be engaged by them. The mere fact there is an idea out that is deeply disturbing to you is something we have to protect,” Mendelson said. “As long as the idea does not violate the law – so hate speech is out, slander is out – the public expression of ideas is fine.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Principal defends controversial changes on campus
McGill Senate convened Wednesday to discuss university affairs for the second time this academic year. Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s remarks on the arrests of two protesters at last week’s Choose Life event and the administration’s decision to drastically raise tuition for the McGill’s Master of Business Administration (MBA) program drew a strong response from some student senators. In addition, a motion was tabled addressing the emergency warnings that have appeared on course outlines.
Choose Life protest a “dark cloud” over campus
In her opening remarks, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum addressed the demonstration last Tuesday that effectively led to the cancellation of Choose Life event “Echoes of the Holocaust”. Munroe-Blum criticized the protesters for having denied the pro-life group’s guest speaker, Jose Ruba of the Canadian Centre for Bio-Ethical Reform, his right to freely express his views.
“The intimidation of protestors was so significant that students who were involved in the planning of the event were intimidated against continuing with their program. I see this really as blight in the context of a university that is known worldwide for its academic freedom and freedom of speech…. I urge them to consider reconvening the event right away,” said Munroe-Blum. She added that the protest cast a “dark cloud” over campus last week.
Arts Senator Sarah Woolf responded to Munroe-Blum, expressing dismay that the University would endorse an event to which a large number of students were opposed. SSMU VP University Affairs Rebecca Dooley then explained why SSMU Council had censured the event.
“I want to emphasize to the Senate body that while it is important in terms of freedom of speech, it is also important to consider that environments that are hostile and draw people to one side – hate-speech – marginalize a person’s ability to engage in collegial debate,” said Dooley.
University Provost Anthony Masi joined the discussion, comparing the protest to thought-policing.
“[The event] took place behind closed doors, no one was forced [to go]…. We do have rules about where the line is, but the fact of the matter is that we expect major disagreements to be the norm on our campus. Differences of points of view are important, but not intimidation, silencing, or thought police,” said Masi.
Masi cited the movement to protect freedom of expression at the University of California at Berkeley as an example of the culture he would like to see at McGill, commenting that the right to free speech should be universal, and that discourse between political rivals on campus should be conducted respectfully.
Students cold on MBA fee hike
Following last month’s announcement that tuition for the MBA program will jump to $29,500, Munroe-Blum addressed concerns that the program will be financially prohibitive for many graduate students by stating that the hike was necessary for the program to remain competitive.
“It is an exceptional move on the part of the faculty, the administration, and the Board of Governors that targets a significant increase in tuition fees tied to a graduate professional level program,” said Munroe-Blum. “[The program] has been disproportionately drawing subsidization from our large undergraduate student program because of the gap in the costs of supporting MBA students on an annual basis,” she said.
Munroe-Blum commented that the gap in funds received and the costs of operation had grown so significant that McGill’s MBA program risked falling behind other leading institutions. She added that the hike will allow undergraduate departments to retain the funds that had previously been funnelled into the MBA program.
The decision to hike fees was met with some opposition by Faculty of Law representative Faizel Gulamhussein, who disapproved of the University’s failure to consult the Senate in making the decision.
Concerns were also raised over the potential implications for other faculties. Senator Richard Janda, also of the Faculty of Law, reproached the University for making such a large alteration to one of the principal professional programs at McGill without greater discussion of spillover effects on university-wide academics. Faculty of Law students can participate in a joint Law and MBA degree program.
Swine flu hits course outlines
Senator Darin Barney of the Faculty of Arts took issue with the alerts that have appeared on course outlines this fall, which notify students that courses may be altered in the event of an emergency.
Senator Bernard Robaire, of the Faculty of Medicine, supported the alerts but expressed reservations. “We have been getting a growing list of directives about what to put  [before] the course outlines. I don’t have the space [for] my course outline anymore,” said Robaire. “Could we possibly have a recommendation that would provide a web site that students need to abide by these supplemental guidelines?… For us to have to extend the course outline [does not correspond] with what the title says – it’s a course outline.”
Deputy Provost Morton Mendelson responded, stating that the directive was meant to guarantee flexibility in the way courses are administered in the event of student or instructor absenteeism.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Provincial government plans to charge students for public education
CEGEP students across the province could witness a sea of change in access to public education, after the Liberal Party of Quebec recently proposed to introduce tuition fees in an effort to address these underfunded programs.
Quebec currently faces a $3.9 billion deficit, and introducing tuition is just one strategy intended to help get Quebec out of the red by the 2013-2014 fiscal year. Finance Minister Raymond Bachard proposed the plan on September 26 at the Liberal Party’s pre-budget briefing.
The prospective fee has elicited a strong reaction from several student groups. Public CEGEPs were introduced in 1967 and provide cost-free education to approximately 170,000 students across the province.
The provincial government currently provides 90 per cent of the funding for public CEGEPs. Quebec students who want to pursue post-secondary education must attend CEGEP in order to qualify.
Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec (FECQ) President, Xavier Lefebvre-Boucher, argued that the government is damaging their long term interests as Quebec risks losing its position as the province with the highest proportion of students enrolled in post-secondary programs.
“This tuition would hurt accessibility,” Lefebvre-Boucher said, indicating that many 16- and 17-year-old students would not be able to afford the proposed fees. “We can’t afford to decrease the number of graduates in Quebec.”
The idea of students paying for their first year of CEGEP – the equivalent of Grade 12 in other provinces – is worrying to some who feel it shows a government neglect of public education and training.
Christopher Monette, Executive Secretary of the Dawson Student Union, which represents over 7,500 anglophone CEGEP students, echoed this sentiment.
“[Quebec] is a leader in terms of accessible education, and we shouldn’t be jeopardizing this for a quick fix to the deficit,” Monette said.
Despite the flurry of opposition from CEGEPs and faculty-level associations, it is unlikely that tuition fees will be instituted anytime soon. Not even a bill yet, the proposal will have to undergo the slow process of public consultations before its introduction to the Quebec National Assembly.
There is also a concern among students that education is no longer seen as a provincial priority. A series of tuition hikes or deregulation measures in the past years point to rising barriers to accessible education in the province. However, Catherine Poulin, Press Secretary for the Quebec Ministry of Finance has denied that there is a hidden agenda behind the government’s approach to education issues. Poulin stated that public consultations on CEGEP tuition and other budget items may be held as early as November.
CEGEP student groups may soon find themselves in a battle with the provincial government to ensure that students do not have to pay for their education out of their own pockets. Recent protests by students associations against Bills 38 and 44 – which would drastically alter the governing structure of CEGEPs and universities across Quebec – are indicative of broad-based discontent with the Liberal Party’s approach to post-secondary education.
The FECQ and other organizations are currently demanding that the Liberals release a public statement on whether they will introduce their proposal as a bill. Monette and others have said that they are prepared to actively defend their interests if the Liberals do decide to move on this.
“I’m an optimist,” Monette said. “I think that the CEGEP student unions are going to [conduct] a good fight, and I do believe that sooner or later we’ll get the message through.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill hospital being built as a public-private partnership
In April 2007, the provincial government announced it would be building Montreal’s two newest “superhospitals” at McGill and the Université de Montréal as public-private partnerships – also known as PPPs. In such an arrangement, the private sector puts up the huge initial capital investment for the construction, and then designs, builds, and runs parts of the project until the Ministry of Health takes control – in this case, 30 years from now.
Two consortia are competing to build the hospital for the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC or CUSM), which will be constructed at the Glen Yards, a large empty field south of Vendôme metro station, located between the NDG, St. Henri, and Westmount neigbourhoods.
Provincial officials have grown less fond of the PPP method, but the MUHC is already deep into the bidding process, and expects to begin construction this winter.
While there are still many critics of the PPP, such as the MUHC employees’ union, the wide swath of stakeholders – ranging from doctors to those living in the neighbourhood – are attempting to negotiate this changing terrain and have their concerns addressed over the course of this enormous project.
Megaprojects like this, that immense sort of construction that brings together and hopes to solve all problems at once, are a favourite of city planners and politicians alike.
The sheer size of these projects demands that many visions synthesize and provides an opportunity to use the latest technologies, implement the best practices, and use donor funds. They also provide a constantly shifting target for critics of the ideologies and agendas that these projects represent.
In an email to The Daily, Dianne Fagan, Chef des communications, projet du redéploiement du CUSM, said that the MUHC believes the PPP offers “several important advantages.”
The advantages she refers to include the competitive process that will create two “innovative plans,” the consortium taking on some of the financial risk, and a 30-year contract that creates incentive for the consortium to build and maintain the facilities well, Fagan wrote.
The actual design and construction of the superhospital has already involved, and will continue to involve, hundreds of committees, thousands of reports, hundreds of thousands of people, and billions of dollars. These micropolitics are the real place where contentions must be hashed out.
Unions and the PPP
Olga Giancristofaro, the president of the MUHC Employees’ Union-CSN, said that PPP option will cost more and do less.
“We’re a big hospital at McGill, and McGill shouldn’t be used as a guinea pig to see if PPP works or not – we have professionals and good technology, but with the traditional method we will be getting a better quality hospital,” Giancristofaro said.
Giancristofaro, along with the Syndicat des employé(e)s du centre hospitalier de l’Université de Montréal-CSN, Médecins québécois pour le régime public, among others, have spoken out and protested against the PPP-method.
“We are not fighting not to have a new hospital. We want a new hospital – we are just fighting the method of construction – that the consortiums are in control of construction and not the public,” she said.
In her email to The Daily, Fagan insisted that “no clinical or para-clinical services will be overseen by the private consortium,” but that “support services directly related to the physical plant (building maintenance and public utility management, for example),” will be managed by the consortium.
This privatization of some former union positions is bound to set off alarm bells at the union, but with the PPP apparently moving forward, Giancristofaro implied that the union must be involved in how the hospital is run.
Union members had been invited to Great Britain to tour PPP-run hospitals.
“Some of [the hospitals] did work, but the PPP that worked best was the one where the unions and the employees are involved in the administration – that is what McGill has done, but the costs [in the long run] are [still] going to be more,” Giancristofaro said.
The surrounding neighbourhood
McGill urban planning professor Lisa Bornstein, who heads the “Making Megaprojects Work for Communities” research team – a partnership between academics from six Montreal research institutions – has worked with the neighbourhood, hospital, community health, and government stakeholders to closely monitor the superhospital process since 2007.
Bornstein outlined the multivariate and overlapping concerns that neighbourhood stakeholders, represented by the Concertation Interquartier (CIQ), a group of neighbourhood associations from St. Henri, Westmount, and NDG, have with such a large project.
These concerns included, but were not limited to, the effect that retail within the “mall-style hospital” will have on local business, concerns around massive new traffic flows, insufficient public transit infrastructure, and more.
“There are hopes that there will be employment that’s drawn from the local area, that it just won’t be people relocating into the area…which can provoke displacement of lower-income people and negative aspects of gentrification,” Bornstein said.
As this series of both small and large negotiations happens between the community and McGill, the researchers try to make interventions – providing both sides with appropriate plans and models from past development projects around the world.
With the bidding process beginning and the consortia being brought in, Bornstein points out how complicated and unclear things are quickly becoming.
“Last year the community groups asked to participate in the PPP-process. They said they wanted to have a community rep in the PPP-process, we want to meet with the consortia, we want a community benefits agreement, and I think they asked for a community auditor position to watch the PPP-process,” Bornstein said.
“The PPP exec said, ‘no way to this community-auditor position, no way to a community benefits agreement within the PPP,’” Bornstein added.
The MUHC did let one community rep sit on a design committee. This was one of the “hundreds” of committees at the hospital that the consortia have to meet while putting together their bids.
Pierre Gauthier, an urban planner from Concordia University and a member of the research project, was chosen as the community representative, bringing community concerns to the MUHC and consortia.
However, Bornstein said, during the bidding process itself, Gauthier was not allowed to communicate any details of the two projects.
Bornstein explained that the two consortia must be given identical information, and for confidentiality reasons, no one in the process can talk about what either consortium is designing to anyone outside of the process. So the community representative can at no time communicate ongoing plans with the community groups. This is a legal restriction to ensure fair competition.
“So fine, community groups agreed to this ‘black box’ because they have faith in their representative,” Bornstein said. “So if you want to think about advantages and disadvantages to the PPP, it may be that having this competition, this intensive set of meeting and co-creation between the hospital and the consortia, it does mean there’s been limited opportunities for the community groups to provide input.”
Government control
While the relationship between the superhospital and its surrounding neighbourhood is being hashed out, the stakeholders must also worry about the day-to-day operations of a PPP-run hospital and how to prepare for these operations during the planning phase.
McGill urban planning professor Raphael Fischler lays out the context of a PPP, explaining that the profit-motive is both the raison d’être and most complicated part of this method.
PPP projects, Fischler explains, are undertaken to “let the government off the hook in terms of massive one-time investments. Now the private sector does not do that out of charity, it does that at a profit. Which means that when you calculate the total amount spent by the public sector on this public facility, it comes out to more money than what the private sector spent [initially].”
Fischler explained that these PPP plans are entered into with the assumption that not only will the private sector (and requisite bidding process) bring a level of efficiency to the construction and administration of a hospital, but also that they’ll have large amounts of capital on hand.
“It’s like going to the bank to get a mortgage, you pay interest, you pay more than if you had the cash – but the government does not have the cash – the private sector has the cash,” Fischler said.
“The experience with PPPs in the U.S. has not been extremely favourable to the public sector unless you have very very strong expertise and political will to really squeeze the private sector as best as possible,” Fischler said.
The problem here, is that although PPP’s have been run well in other parts of the world, it is only with experience and abundant political will, something that Quebec will be tested on often while the hospital is running under a PPP.
“The Quebec government does not have a long track record yet with PPP; it’s not something we’ve done for many years,”wFischler added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
MBA tuition, TA wages among issues debated
Correction appended.
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) met in the ballroom of Thomson House last Wednesday for their monthly council meeting. The makeshift council chamber was near capacity. PGSS president Daniel Simeone said the turnout was unusually good.
MBA Tuition
The most extensive and emotional debate at council concerned the recent proposal to increase tuition for McGill’s Master of Business Administration (MBA) program as it adopts a self-funded model. Tuition for this well-regarded program was previously set at $3,000 a year for Quebec residents, but was raised across the board to $29,500 – an increase of 1,600 per cent for Quebec students.
Those who supported the tuition hike pointed to McGill’s recent decline in the business school rankings, citing higher tuition as a way to increase the quality of the program. PGSS VP Internal Harry Saitis also mentioned that almost every MBA student at McGill has a high-paying job waiting for them after graduation, and so the degree essentially pays for itself.
However, history student Margaret Carlyle argued that high tuition does not necessarily yield a better program. She received loud applause when she urged her fellow councillors “to send a strong public message that this [tuition hike] is unacceptable.”
Carlyle urged students to  “act now,” proposing a motion in which Simeone would draft a letter to the MBA program explaining the council’s concerns. Amendments were added saying that the letter should contain signatures from the executives of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) and the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ). The motion passed with an overwhelming majority.
AGSEM Wage Woes
AGSEM representatives discussed a subcommittee it has recently created to make recommendations on how to approach the University’s recent decision to delay a salary increase for TAs from January 2010 to June 2010. The wage raise was granted to TAs as part of an earlier agreement, but in the past year the administration has taken steps to eliminate its $17.2-million deficit. The wage hike would have amounted to $128 for TAs who worked over 180 hours in that time period.
Family Care
Issues regarding the children of graduate students came up repeatedly in the council meeting. Pamela Lirio, the Family Care Commissioner, reported on the projects she had in mind, which include determining how many graduate students are parents and creating a McGill day-care service for graduate students who require it.
PGSS VP Academic Dahlia El Shafie fielded questions later on in the meeting about her plan, reported in The Daily profile of the PGSS executive, to fund a parental leave program for graduate students at McGill. The University of Montreal currently provides their students with a five-month paid parental leave, a program on which El Shafie’s proposition is modeled. PGSS is currently looking for a donor to fund the project.
Committee Elections
Simeone nominated Tarek Hamade as elections commissioner, and an almost unanimous vote approved him. Hamade is now listed as interim commissioner on the PGSS web site. Cynthia Nei was nominated and also quickly elected as interim environment commissioner. It will be Nei’s task to monitor McGill’s implementation of its own environmental policy.
In the original version of this article, it was erroneously reported that AGSEM had set a court date to fight the University’s plan to delay a wage increase for TAs. AGSEM in fact has expressed no intention of taking the McGill to court over this matter, but has simply established a subcommittee to look at possible ways that it might approach this issue with the University.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
