The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Low voter turnout linked to recent scandals and internal party problems
Gérald Tremblay was re-elected for a third term as mayor of Montreal on Sunday, with his party, Union Montreal, winning 38 per cent of the popular vote. Candidates from the other two main parties, Louise Harel of Vision Montréal and Richard Bergeron of Projet Montréal, received 33 and 26 per cent of the votes, respectively.
Tremblay’s victory was noticeably less sweeping than his 54 per cent victory in 2005, and his party lost significant ground in the City councillor and borough elections. Projet Montreal swept the Plateau elections, taking borough mayor, three positions on City Council, and three borough councillor positions.
In the weeks preceding the elections, Union Montréal’s image was tarnished as several allegations involving corruption, collusion, and ties to organized crime were levelled at the mayor’s office. But while these events may have narrowed Tremblay’s margin of victory, they were not enough to propel either Harel or Bergeron into the mayor’s office. Some critics have pointed to problems within Vision Montréal and Projet Montréal that may have shaken voter confidence.
La Presse columnist Michèle Ouimet, for instance, suggested in an article Sunday that many Montreal anglophones were averse to Harel because of her background with the sovereigntist Parti Québécois and her limited English skills. “For most anglophones, she has three mortal sins on her conscience…the ‘forced’ mergers [of predominately francophone Montreal with nearby anglophone municipalities by the PQ in 2001], her monolingualism, and her sovereigntist convictions,” Ouimet wrote in French.
Montreal news blogger Kate McDonnell, however, suggested that Harel’s monolingualism was a “red herring” and that Vision’s failures truly stemmed from its  lack of cohesion as a party. McDonnell also attributed the party’s disappointing performance to former Vision leader Benoit Labonté’s sensational downfall following accusations of collusion. “[Labonté and Harel] was a marriage of convenience that was never going to work out,” McDonnell said. “That party didn’t smell good politically.”
In a CBC interview, Réal Ménard, a former Bloc Québécois MP and an ally of Harel, blamed Project Montréal for “splitting the opposition.”
But despite falling 12 per cent short of victory, Bergeron saw an increase in voter confidence from nine per cent in 2005 to 26 per cent in 2009. McDonnell did not agree that this increase was a reactionary electoral distaste for Union and Vision’s corruption. “They probably got a few votes by process of elimination…but I think in the places that voted for Project Montréal, it was a demonstration that people like what the party stands for,” McDonnell said. “Hopefully they can get some things done this time around to show that they can be taken seriously.”
Gazette columnist Henry Aubin agreed that Projet Montréal’s platform was effective but that future mayoral success may depend on a new leader who inspires more confidence than Bergeron. “His program has a halo around it – it’s great. But the messenger isn’t the most effective,” he said in an interview.
An acceptably pathetic voter turnout
Total voter turnout as of Wednesday evening was 39 per cent. Marcel Blanchet, Quebec’s directeur général des elections, said in a Radio-Canada interview Monday that given the atmosphere of corruption surrounding the municipal election, voter turnout was “acceptable.”
McDonnell had another word for it: pathetic.  “Frankly, I was surprised more people weren’t angry enough to vote,” she said, though she acknowledged that voters had a less-than-ideal set of candidates, and that municipal politics generally fall below the public radar. “People will say that municipal government makes no difference. So long as they clear the snow and collect the garbage, who gives a shit who they are or what they do?” she said.
McDonnell, however, emphasized that municipal politics dictate “the day-to-day fabric” of citizens’ lives, and that for her part she has not missed an election since the sage advice of a high school friend. “I wasn’t going to vote,” McDonnell said, “and my friend said, ‘If you don’t vote, you don’t have the right to complain about anything the government does for four years.’”
Fixing the corruption
Tremblay’s success in the election, however, is not a major vote of unconditional public confidence. Some say his narrow victory highlights the need to make good, at least in the short term, on his promises to clean up the municipal government.
“There’s a real crisis in confidence in City Hall. Tremblay has lost the respect and the trust of many if not most Montrealers,” Aubin explained.  That respect will be hard to win back, Aubin added, if Tremblay, “a creature of machine politics,” is not willing to break his old habits and agree to major reforms. Ideally, said Aubin, the mayor would agree to a public inquiry but this is unlikely to happen. “It could be devastating for the respect that he’s looking for because…it would find the sleaze within those contract awards,” Aubin said.
Without such an inquiry, Aubin believed that regaining voter confidence will require another high-profile, symbolic gesture on Tremblay’s part, such as creating a “coalition” executive cabinet composed of leaders from all major parties.
Bergeron pledged to create such a coalition if Projet Montréal had won, and on election night he expressed a desire to work with Tremblay.
The mayor, however, rejected the idea of building such a coalition on Wednesday.
Projet Montréal city councillor Émilie Thuillier has little confidence that such a coalition could be effectively led by Tremblay anyway. “It is the person with the power that decides,” she said.
Both Aubin and McDonnell felt the City should make changes to its elections and municipal politics, given its legacy of corporate influence and corruption. Aubin thought the place to start would be stricter regulations of campaign finance.
“You can reform the elections act so that business people will no longer be the sugar daddies of parties,” said Aubin. He also suggested altering the layout of the municipal council by either dividing the city of Montreal into smaller electoral ridings or by reducing the council size from 64 members (the largest in North America) to anywhere between six and 18.
Though McDonnell also hoped to see changes, she felt it would only be possible to “clean up” municipal politics to a certain extent. “You can root out the obvious corruption, but you can’t expect a politician…who we elect for being sociable [and] a good networker…to suddenly become this monk in a glass box,” she said, noting the classic axiom that “the people who will get into power are the people who shouldn’t.”
Four more years of Tremblay
If Tremblay’s recent discussions with the media are any indication, his administration’s reforms will be mainly minor changes that will not deviate significantly from business asusual.
Aubin cited continued city-wide expansion of the Bixi project as an example of a mostly cosmetic venture. Missing, according to Aubin, is a “strategy that really tries to tackle greenhouse gases seriously” as well as other strong measures for sustainability.
McDonnell added that while Vision and Union “stuck bits of feel-good environmentalism all over their platforms”, only Projet Montréal offered a cohesive, coherent platform for sustainability.
Thuillier, however, stated that Projet Montréal is willing to work with Tremblay “on a project-by-project basis.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Colonialism and the creation of borders
The keynote panel at Culture Shock 2009 was presented yesterday by Radha D’Souza, who discussed the rise of border conflicts in the wake of British colonialism. Hosted by SSMU and QPIRG, Culture Shock’s week-long events deconstruct the myths surrounding Canada’s immigrant communities. D’Souza, an Indian lawyer, social activist, and a current reader for law at Westminster University in London, shed light on the impact of the border conflicts that followed Indian and Pakistani independence in 1947. The Daily sat down with her to discuss the emergence of border conflicts in the post-colonial era.
McGill Daily: What role has colonialism played in the contemporary border conflicts that afflict ex-colonial states?
Radha D’Souza: The past 500 years of modernity have shown that capitalism intrinsically is linked to forms of colonialism. As capitalism has changed, so have forms of colonialism – from a mercantile form of capitalism which created colonies in South America to large-scale imperialism perpetrated by industrializing nations. By forcibly bringing different communities together, colonialism created the pretext for contemporary conflicts. Look at the Malaysian example: different ethnicities were brought into Malaysia to work in different economic sectors – the Tamils to work on rubber plantations, the Malays to till the soil, et cetera. As soon as one of these sectors experienced a downturn, the issue became one of ethnicities. So, you see how colonialism, albeit in a different form than the British imperialism, still has a continued influence.
MD: Do national or international governments have an obligation to resolve these conflicts?
RDS: The idea of legal obligations suggests an assumed notion of legal objectives, a certain normative order that obliges people to act. Instead, we need to step back from these kinds of assumptions. We tend to look at conflicts at an empirical level; we perceive them as conflicts between Hindus and Muslims killing each other. With any social phenomenon, it is never that one-dimensional. We should start looking at what lies behind the forces that make people suddenly take up violence, particularly people who, centuries before, managed to live peacefully next to one another.
MD: Do you think that the way border conflicts are portrayed in the media can be seen as a form of ongoing colonialism? What do you think of Angela Davis’ notion of a “racialization of the media”?
RDS: Eisenhower spoke of a “military industrial complex” when in fact it is a “military industrial media complex”. We should not forget that the media is intrinsically bound to and evolved with the development of technology for warfare. Huge amounts of money have been put into psychological research by the government; the results are equally used by the military and the media. Furthermore, it is important not to forget that it is the victors who write history. The notion that the UN still is a truly “international” body – although the Security Council to this day is dominated by the victors of the Second World War – demonstrates the power of  this discourse. Who is the “international community”? The UN was created without the consent of the colonies. Can it be seen as truly representative?
We have to understand that the coverage of conflicts that we see is very much projected in a specific way by this “international community” and the same goes for the democracy discourse. There are a lot of myths about democracy which show a prevalent distaste for analytical thinking. We do not ask why certain conflicts are happening. Never before has so much money been around as today. A large part of this is bound to be channelled into sustaining conflict due to the power of the media as well as states. Although we talk about the importance of putting democratic systems in place in  Afghanistan, we neglect the people on the ground. Instead, we focus on individuals such as [Hamid] Karzai and [Abdullah] Abdullah. This demonstrates the power of discourse, as we have stopped questioning such representations and do not recognize the disconnect between not acknowledging the people and wanting to see “democracy”.
MD: To what extent does colonialism still live on in countries such as India and Pakistan? Do you find that elements of it have been appropriated by the respective governments and continue to be perpetrated with a new face?
RDS: What we forget, however, is that although the modalities of colonialism may change, the substance has remained the same. Colonialism is a living thing; the governments [of India, Pakistan]may have changed. However, the bureaucracy and the rulers essentially have remained the same. The notion of “legacies” is a powerful one, especially because we like to think that former colonies now are independent. This, however, is not necessarily the case. With the transformation of the character of capitalism to finance monopolies,  the character of colonialism and therefore all the nuts and bolts which hold it together have changed as well.
—compiled by Sweta Kanna
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Senators critical of McGill’s stance on military research and anonymous funding
The proposed addition of an anonymity clause and the removal of regulations on military-funded research in McGill’s new Regulations on Conduct of Research policy sparked debate at the Senate meeting on Wednesday.
In his introduction of the policy to Senate, Denis Thérien, McGill Vice-Principal (Research and International Relations) repudiated recent concerns over the removal of two regulations on military-funded research from the draft of the new policy.
“No university in Canada has an explicit regulation referring to military funding in their policy,” Thérien said.
“I would say that the position of the [Group of 13] universities applies quite a bit here. [Their position is that] it [is a] very dangerous and slippery slope to go down this road…. We propose not to go down that road either,” he said.
The section that was removed from the new policy draft requires that “[a]pplicants for contracts or grants whose source is a government military agency shall indicate on the check list/approval form of the Office of Technology Transfer or the Research Grants Office whether this research has direct harmful consequences.”
Rebecca Dooley, SSMU VP University Affairs (UA), said that the removal of the section on military research may be a step backward for McGill.
“Why were these clauses [not included] in the new policy? It was a reporting process in the old policy,” Dooley said.
In response, Thérien reiterated the need to align McGill with the other Canadian research universities.
“We are just aligning ourselves with whatever other universities are doing,” said Thérien.
Arts Senator Sarah Woolf felt that a reason beyond alignment is needed to justify the new policy draft.
“We can all agree that McGill should and does strive to be a leader among the G13. Removing this clause, I think, is a regressive step, and it doesn’t demonstrate leadership at all. What it does suggest is that we are trying to be as appealing to research funders as the other members of G13 are – at the expense of our ethics. So I would hope that there would be another line of reasoning besides to just keep up with the G13,” Woolf said.
Besides the removal of the section regulating military-funded research, senators expressed concern about the addition of a clause that would allow sponsors to remain anonymous when directly funding research projects, if their requests for anonymity are filed “legitimately and in good faith.”
“[This anonymity clause] is particularly problematic in the context of pharmaceutical research or research directed by and money coming from corporations towad particular purposes,” said Daniel Simeone, president of the Post-Graduate Students’ Society.
“It is a fundamental part of the accountability of a researcher to report the source of funding for a project,” Simeone said.
This sentiment was echoed by at least one other senator during the session, but there appeared to be consensus at Senate that there were no good examples available for requiring this clause.
When asked whether other G13 universities have similar clauses allowing for anonymity of direct sponsors of research, Thérien responded that he was not sure and did not know what other universities have in place regarding anonymity.
Concerns over other sections in the proposed research policy besides those on military research and anonymity were also raised in the meeting, including questions on what the proper definition of “hazardous research” is, and why a proper definition was not provided in the policy.
Reactions to the Senate meeting
Many senators felt that the discussion regarding the new research policy was very fruitful, and are hopeful that when making revisions to the policy, the Research Policy Committee will consider the senators’ comments and suggestions carefully. Simeone, however, expressed skepticism that the administration understands the importance of military research regulations the way many student senators do.
“I am confident the concerns considering anonymous funding of research will be taken into consideration. It’s not clear to me at present that the issue of military research is understood by the administration to be the pressing concern that [it] is believed to be by student groups. They don’t think it’s important,” Simeone said.
Senator Richard Janda, a professor in the Faculty of Law, believes it is important to have a policy mechanism in place that would monitor the harmful applications and consequences of all research – not just research funded by military agencies.
“If we single out military, then we are implicitly saying that all other sources of funding are fine, that we don’t have to look at them. I think that the reality is that we do need triggers in place. We should ask hard questions when we see money is coming in from sources that are not the classical peer-reviewed sources of money,” Janda said.
Associate Provost (Policies & Procedures) William Foster said that the comments and discussion at Senate were appreciated, and would be considered while writing the draft to be discussed when Senate reconvenes in December.
Drastic changes
In February 2009, a draft of the new research policy was provided by Foster to Demilitarize McGill and the SSMU VP UA. The draft contained a new section on harmful research. This clause required researchers to obtain approval from the VP (Research and International Relations) to undertake research which has significant potential of direct harmful applications or adverse effects. This section was removed from the new policy.
Student activists were dismayed when they found out that the section was removed and were concerned that their suggestions had been ignored.
“That disregard of student input and complete removal of the military research policies fits in with the pattern with the administration’s position on military research policy as we’ve seen in the past,” said Cleve Higgins, community member of Demilitarize McGill and Daily contributor.
Thérien, however, argued that the extra section regulating harmful research was unnecessary, and explained that Principal Heather Munroe-Blum and the vice-principals made the decision together in August.
“It was taken out at the [principal’s meeting with the vice-principals] in August…. I fully support the decision…. I think that it’s written in the preamble that research at McGill is based on the concept of integrity, on freedom of inquiry, of the well- being of the world. These are the principles that are underlying our research. Trying to be bureaucratic never works,” Thérien said.
General dismay
The existing regulations on military-funded research, sections 10 and 11, were first created in 1988.
These amendments were passed following the release of a 250-page report, titled “How to Make a Killing,” by seven McGill students working with political science professor Samuel Noumoff. The report detailed various research projects at McGill that were funded by American and Canadian military agencies.
Noumoff said that when the amendments were first proposed in Senate, there was little opposition.
“There was some disagreement, but there was really not an overwhelming opposition, either from the scientific community or the administration. Everybody realized it was a real problem, and if we’re going to deal with it in an ethical way, then we had to be transparent,” Noumoff said.
Noumoff was shocked by the removal of the two sections on military funding, and disappointed that there are no mechanisms for monitoring harmful research in the new policy.
“I think it’s outrageous. I see no logic and no reason for it. If someone is prepared to engage in research sponsored by the military…they should be prepared to defend it,” Noumoff said.
He continued: “As with any other contract, like a corporate contract, it should be open, transparent, and defensible. The current policy does not show that people should be sensitive to the possibility of negative consequences; there must be a way to monitor that. Military work is more likely to cause these consequences, so it deserves very special consideration.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Contentious pit mine company’s permits found fraudulent
September 24 marked an historic victory against environmentally and socially damaging mining practices by Canadian companies. The Mexican Federal Tribunal of Fiscal and Administrative Justice ruled that the Canadian-owned mine occupying the valley of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, has been operating on an illegal permit. The open-pit gold and silver mine, near the community of Cerro de San Pedro, is operated by New Gold, a British Columbia-based company that has faced opposition to its operations in the area ever since beginning its project there in 1998.
Enrique Rivera – a lawyer, activist, and political refugee who sought asylum in Montreal after he faced violent attacks for his involvement in the legal conflict – spoke about the mine Tuesday in a discussion on Canadian mining practices in a panel discussion as part of McGill’s 2009 Culture Shock event. According to Rivera, at the time of New Gold’s arrival at the site, a decree had been passed by the state government declaring the area around Cerro de San Pedro and the mountain where the mine is located as an environmentally protected area. The government, he said, hoped to protect the numerous forms of wildlife that can only be found in the region.
“Part of the decree stipulates that no form of industrial development can take place in that zone,” said Rivera through a translator.
There is also concern that New Gold’s leach pad – the construct where gold is separated from other materials using chemicals such as cyanide – is inhibiting the replenishment of the aquifer within the valley, which is home to 1.3-million people. Rivera said that the membrane stopping the seepage of chemical and gold into the earth is also stopping fresh water from reaching the aquifer.
Rick Killam, Director Environment and Social Impact of New Gold, asserted that the company carefully regulates the quality of water in the area. “There was extensive investigation done on the aquifer since 1990…. There’s no change in the quality of water in any of those wells,” claimed Killam.
The decision made at the end of September not only declared the operation of the mine to be in violation of Mexican law, but also made clear the illegality of the current permit under which New Gold is operating.
In 2005, the Mexican courts declared the land-use permit originally issued to the company in 1999 to be illegal. But following management changes within the company, the mine continued operation under a new permit, which has now been deemed illegal.
Professor Daviken Studnicki-Gizbert, who has been working on this issue since 2001, said that the struggle against this mine project should have ended years ago.  “There was a final decision,” said Studnicki-Gizbert in reference to the 2005 decision, which, he said, stated that “under no conditions can a permit be admitted for this project.  There are too many violations.”
The history of this mine at San Luis Potosi dates back to its discovery by Spain in the 16th century.  After passing from Spanish to Mexican control in the early 1800s, the mines at Potosi changed hands between multiple companies, both foreign and domestic, before coming under the full control of New Gold in 1997.
The first appearance of a formal resistance movement came in 1996 with the formation of a group now known as the Frente Amplio Opositor, or the Broad Coalition against the Minera San Xavier. However, the former mayor of Cerro de San Pedro was assassinated two days after proposing opposition to the project in 1998.
New Gold declined to comment on the Tribunal ruling of September 24, citing that the information of the event came from a non-governmental organization, and the company is unaware of any recent legal decisions involving their operations at Cerro de San Pedro.
Comments of Vice President Investor Relations Melanie Hennessey echoed the sentiments of the company’s press release, addressing what she saw as recent misinformation about the company.
“All permits, licenses, concessions, or authorizations that are required to operate its Cerro San Pedro Mine are valid and in force,” said Hennessey.
A petition encouraging the Mexican government to follow through on the ruling is currently circulating. To sign it, send an email saying “ok” or “sign me up” to jcruizguadalajara@gmail.com.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
