The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
221 arrested in march against police brutality
Hundreds of Montrealers gathered at the 13th annual anti-police brutality protest on Sunday, organized by the Coalition Opposed to Police Brutality (COPB), who intended for the demonstration to oppose the use of violence, even though the event became turbulent when protesters, onlookers, and police clashed in the late afternoon.
The protest began at 2 p.m. outside the Mont-Royal Metro station, with city police in riot gear already positioned around the square and inside the station. Many demonstrators walked to the station when an emergency break was pulled on the Orange metro line in the early afternoon, and service did not return until several hours later.
Patrick Caldwell, a supporter of the COPB, said the location was chosen because of its proximity to families and tourists, which the COPB hoped would deter violence on either side of the protest. In spite of this, some individuals still launched roman candles – a type of firework – vegetables, and glass bottles at the police.
Many participants wore masks and scarves over their faces, while others carried signs referencing Freddy Villaneuva and Annas Benis – two young men killed by the Montreal police.
When asked why they were attending the protest, many participants expressed frustration with the Service de police de la ville de Montréal (SPVM).
“We’re all kind of sick and tired of police brutality, and just the police itself,” said one protester, who asked to remain anonymous.
Another protester, identified as Alex, admitted his reasons for joining the rowdy crowd.
“Half of me is here for a riot,” he said. “Look at [the crowd]. This isn’t how you stop police brutality. You don’t show up with signs and say, ‘Don’t [act brutally].’”
After a brief confrontation with a police blockade, much of the crowd dispersed into smaller groups, heading south down St. Denis toward Sherbrooke. Upon meeting a blockade at Sherbrooke, the groups splintered even smaller – and some broke hotel windows or lit fire to dumpsters as they moved westward along Sherbrooke.
Throughout the day, protesters were followed by at least two helicopters, and some were pelted with rubber bullets or tear gas. Around Ste. Catherine and Place des Arts, police swarmed and arrested a group of protesters and onlookers.
During one rush, several journalists were arrested – but while members of Radio-Canada and the Canadian Press were released, The Link, Concordia’s independent student newspaper, reported that two of their journalists and some from the Association des journalists independent du Quebec were held, processed, and ticketed.
Many of the individuals arrested were detained for hours before they received legal counsel or medical attention, according to Caldwell.
“A 16-year-old got brutalized [when he was] arrested by two undercover cops. They punched his head into a  post and…dragged him into a building. When he was detained, they refused to let him see his mother for several hours,” he said.
At the end of the day 221 were arrested – 38 of whom received criminal charges, with the rest ticketed for infractions of municipal by-laws – and $200,000 in damages were inflicted on businesses and municipal infrastructure.
According to Caldwell, the progress of the march downtown was not what the COPB intended – and the presence of riot police around the Mont-Royal metro kept participants from leaving en masse east down Mont Royal Avenue, as was originally planned.
“Nothing we did went as we planned because of the fact that the police broke us off. We had to improvise,” Caldwell said. “By 4, or 4:30 p.m. we were at Sherbrooke. I would say that our demonstration we organized kind of crashed around 4:30 or 5 p.m. Everything that happened after that was completely out of our control.”
The SPVM, however, maintain that they were forced to improvise as well because the COPB did not submit an itinerary for the protest. Both the SPVM and Gerard Tremblay, the mayor of Montreal, publicly criticized the protest as “disorganized.”
Reflecting on March 15
COPB member Patrick Caldwell discusses thirteenth annual demonstration
Patrick Caldwell is a supporter of The Coalition Opposed to Police Brutality (COPB), an organization founded in 1994 that has held a March 15 demonstration against policy brutality for the past 13 years. COPB’s other work includes hosting popular education workshops, documenting cases of police abuse in Montreal, providing support for victims of violence, and distributing pamphlets on citizens’ rights upon arrest.
McGill Daily: The protest featured violence and vandalism. How did your organization respond to these acts?
Patrick Caldwell: [Violence is] the very focus of our organization. We mainly work to denounce police brutality, and this is a phenomenon that touches very many people – but obviously some of the people who are victims of police brutality are living on the margins society, or homeless people. They get a grudge, [and] amass frustration.
I don’t want to say these guys are the people who show up and engage in destructive behaviour, [but] obviously there are a lot of people who don’t have any other means to express their frustration. There’s never any real kind of reprimand toward police officers who don’t do work properly – so they get away with literally murder in worst cases, a lot of harassment, and daily intimidation. A lot of people show up at the demonstration with a lot of frustration and anger; some people manifest their anger in different ways, some less appropriate than others.
Unfortunately for us at COPB, it’s physically impossible to control this anger. This Sunday we made a lot of appeals for calm. We basically said we don’t encourage violence, because to some extent it does affect the work we do. The media focuses only on violence and property damage. This gives them the opportunity to side-track and completely ignore what COPB does. We don’t want violence, we don’t want to give the cops the pretext they need to resort to oppression and violence.
MD: I noticed that the police encircled the square at Mont-Royal Metro; how did that affect the demonstration?
PC: From the get-go [the police] baffled us on all sides, they stopped us all in the streets around the station. Our planned route was to take Mont-Royal east with the expectation there would be many tourists and families, [because] if people show up with destructive intents…the presence of so many people and families would deter [violent] events at least for a while, and then [we could] disperse at Metro Sherbrooke.
But the police sabotaged [it]. They blocked us from going on Mont-Royal. They are a very heavy physical presence and attitude.
MD: What happened to those arrested?
PC: There were 221 arrested: 38 were arrested with criminals charges, and the rest for infractions of municipal by-law unlawful assembly. A lot of the people ticketed were just passers-by.
I went on Sunday night to the municipal court, [and] there were several minors there. One of them is 16 years old. He got brutalized [when he was] arrested by two undercover cops. They punched his head into a post and it started bleeding right away; they dragged him into a building and not a police car or safe environment. When he was detained, they refused to let his mother see him for several hours – she had to wait for the day after. They refused to let him see a lawyer, which is also illegal. The person responsible for this operation said he didn’t have the right to do so.
Obviously hundreds of irregularities [were committed] by the police, but the legal process was surreal.
MD: Do you think the police realize that you are protesting actions they commit?
PC: They never ever recognize that they ever do anything [wrong]. Yves Francoeur, the head of the Montreal Police Brotherhood [the police union] said in an interview last August [that the] police’s work is repression, and that the police are a paramilitary organization.
[The police] never admitted to doing something wrong on Sunday, or to killing an 18-year-old man in Montreal North last August, or to killing 43 people since 1987. And all these fatalities never resulted in any kind of criminal charge to begin with, or any sort of serious reprimand. Some of the police officers involved in the shootings were suspended, but all were reintegrated in the force eventually. This is called impunity, and it’s ridiculous.
– compiled by Erin Hale
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill’s Humanistic studies undergraduate degree will likely continue as a fixture of the University’s  curriculum, but Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi is planning major changes to the program.
Members of the Humanistic Studies Students’ Association (HSSA) and the program’s director learned last week from a series of meetings that Manfredi envisions a more grounded and focused Humanistic studies Program.
The problem with Humanistic studies in its current form, according to Manfredi, is that it lacks a base department or unit necessary to maintain internal cohesion. Working outside of its own proper department, unlike other interdisciplinary programs such as International Development studies or African studies, Humanistic studies has difficulty finding long-term teaching and administrative support.
The dean is planning to meet again with the HSSA executive and Humanistic Studies Association Committee, hold a reflection period to speak with students and faculty members, and establish a committee to develop the new program.
Manfredi proposed that no new students be admitted to Humanistic studies after January 1, 2010, in anticipation of the new program. The current program will continue and students will be able to finish their degree.
Humanistic studies students are only required to take two classes: Western Humanistic Tradition 1 and 2. They make up the rest of their credits with any classes in, history of fine arts, the humanities, social science, or natural science, and choose four classes in a similar field or topic to create an individual focus.
— Jennifer Markowitz
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Intercollegiate structural review process could redefine club-team funding criteria
The McGill alpine ski team managed to balance its books this year – no small feat, given that the club has been plagued with chronic under-funding strains.
The 25-member team, also registered as a SSMU club, was obliged to pay off $7,000 of debt to last year’s team captain after she personally funded the team’s skyrocketing expenses – a result of McGill’s 2006 Travel Policy for Varsity Athletes, requiring the team to hire buses to travel.
Ski team treasurer Carter Berton, estimated that weekly buses cost the team $350 to finance their bi-weekly training sessions and weekend competitions, on top of membership expenses, training equipment costs, and race entry fees.
“The frustrating part is that McGill Athletics hurt us with their policy, but they don’t recognize us with the funding we deserve,” Berton said, explaining that club teams are responsible for all their own revenue generation. “We’re a good team and we place well [in competitions], but McGill doesn’t see that and reward us.”
While the team’s fall fundraisers normally subsidize the roughly $700 membership fee, the team was required to raise the membership cost to $1,000 and apply for SSMU funding.
Despite recognition as a McGill varsity team, the alpine team only receives $400 per year from McGill Athletics, due to the tiered structure of funding. Fully-funded tier-one teams, like Redman Football, and partially-funded tier-two teams often receive the bulk of Department of Athletics resources. The alpine ski team is one of 30 tier-three club level teams that receives scant funding from the University, some of which still carry the varsity label.
According to Megan Kidston, this year’s co-captain, this reality makes McGill the only school on the Quebec race circuit not properly funded by its athletic administration.
“We’re trying so hard to be a competitive team, but we keep getting thwarted by McGill Athletics,” said Kidston, explaining that funding expenses distracted the team from working at their sport. “It’s like McGill is holding back their own athletes from competing the best they can.”
Kidston cited cost-saving examples like training with a half-course of ski gates, or commuting daily to ski races rather than staying overnight at weekend meets, because the team couldn’t afford to keep the bus and the driver with them overnight.
While many club-teams experience under-funding, Lisen Moore, Manager of Intercollegiate Athletics, saw the 1990 introduction of tier-three club-level teams as a positive improvement to athletic life at McGill.
“When the club-team option was presented, it was seen as very positive because it provided more opportunity for students at McGill to get involved with intercollegiate athletics,” Moore said, adding that McGill had to make hard choices about where to allocate their athletics funding.
But SSMU VP Clubs & Services Samantha Cook criticized the Athletics allocation structures.
“McGill Athletics priorities mean that they’re putting most of their money where it’s not conducive to giving the most people the most access,” Cook said, pointing out that club members ended up paying out of their pocket to compete. “It’s really upsetting that it’s one more thing [at McGill] facing under-funding, meaning that students who want to engage often can’t.”
SSMU’s Finance Committee has a special bylaw provision for funding tier-three Athletics teams. This year they gave funding to women’s field hockey, men’s and women’s lacrosse teams, women’s squash, McGill tennis, McGill racing, McGill Nordic ski team, McGill varsity figure skating, and the McGill cycling team.
“Some of the tier-three teams have the best records too, better than some of the big name sports,” Cook added.
But many are hopeful that the Intercollegiate Athletic Structural Review due out in April, after an 18-month advisory process featuring town halls, consultations, and opportunities for input from the Varsity Council, will improve the tiered system.
“April will give us better direction to whether people will be back in the same categories, what criteria needs tweaking, and what additional money needs to be allocated,” Moore said.
Berton was hopeful that the alpine team would eventually gain first-tier status, especially as they finished a close second in the Quebec circuit this year.
“This whole issue makes us want to move up in the tier-level, because we’re a good team, and we need more funding so these issues don’t happen again.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New bachelor degree open to native and non-native students
Students at Concordia University are anxiously awaiting the First Peoples studies major – the first of its kind to reach Quebec.
The program, expected to boost the native student population at Concordia by one-third, has received an overwhelming response from students in the area.
“There isn’t a day that passes without someone calling to inquire about the new program,” said Manon Tremblay, a coordinator at the Native Student Centre.
The Native Student Association (NSA) brushed off its cobwebs and, after a five-year hiatus, was re-established last year as a student group to represent the native student body and raise cultural consciousness.
“Since the NSA became official last October, we’ve been putting together different workshops and events to create awareness for the cultural beliefs and traditions we practice,” said NSA President Elana Beaver.
Nearly ten per cent of Canada’s First Nations live in Quebec. Although the NSA is specifically for students recognized as First Nations, Métis, or Inuit, Beaver maintains that the association “wants to reach out and share our culture.
“There are a lot of students who don’t know very much about native peoples or the association,” she said, adding that many of the current members found their way to the NSA by word-of-mouth.
The only hurdle left to cross is finding a First Peoples studies program director.
“[The search committee is] currently in the interviewing process to find a director to suit the program,” said Tremblay.
The 42-credit bachelor in First Peoples studies, which will be open to both native and non-native students, will include courses in aboriginal history – Algonquian, Inuktitut, and Iroquoian – traditional justice, health and educational practices, sacred stories, and contemporary aboriginal politics and social issues.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Colonial policies leave communities susceptible to violence
Violence against native women is linked to larger problems and racist provisions in the Canadian judicial system, speakers said at two talks on missing indigenous women this week.
According to a 2004 Amnesty International report, entitled “Stolen Sisters,” 510 native women have disappeared or been murdered in Canada since 1980.
In a panel discussion at the Atwater Library on Tuesday, relatives of missing and murdered women denounced the Canadian justice system for having failed First Nations communities. The speakers decried malpractice and negligence on the part of the police.
When Gladys Tolley was killed in a collision with a Quebec police officer in 2001, an independent investigation was not conducted until long after the incident, according to Tolley’s daughter, Bridget. Though the case fell under the jurisdiction of the Kitigan Zibi Anishinabeg police force, the Sureté du Québec took control of the case. Bridget Tolley recounted incidences of misconduct, including a coroner’s report being filed though the coroner never saw the body, and the brothers of the perpetrator being the officers in charge of the scene.
Lack of support and neglect in bringing perpetrators to justice was a common theme in the speakers’ accounts.
After the murder of Susan Martin’s daughter Terry, there was a marked lack of police support. “The only suspect is walking the streets free,” Martin said. “It’s happening every day, unfortunately. We have to wake up our justice system; we have to wake up our government.”
Police are often slow to act on the cases of missing women, labelling them as runaways and telling families to wait for them to return, according to Ellen Gabriel of the Quebec Native Women’s Association. Laurie Odjick’s daughter has been missing for six months. “I believe no thorough investigation was held because of the early assessment that Maisy was a runaway,” Odjick said, adding that Maisy left all her belongings, including her purse, behind.
Odjick pointed to racial discrimination in the handling of her daughter’s case, both on the part of the police and the media. “No one showed up…asking for our story – why? Was it because my child is native?” She recounted how painful it was to see the strong response to disappearance cases involving white victims, which often included helicopter and ground searches.
The speakers pointed out that the Montreal area is built on Mohawk land, and that much of Canada’s natural resources are drawn from contemporary First Nations territory. “We are all concerned about the economic crisis, the energy crisis…and where do you think all that energy is coming from? It’s coming from indigenous territories,” Gabriel said.
In her Monday talk, Beverly Jacobs, an aboriginal rights lawyer and the Native Women’s Association of Canada president, linked the trend of violence against native women to Canada’s colonial policies, including the creation of the Residential Schools, and certain provisions of the Indian Act – first enacted in 1876, although amended at least 18 times since.
“In my opinion, [the Indian Act] is one of the most racist pieces of legislation in the world,” said Jacobs.
Until the act was amended in 1985, women lost Indian status by marrying a non-Indian. Paternal, not maternal band membership is indicated on compulsory identification cards.
According to Jacobs, imposing a patriarchal registry system has undermined the social fabric of native communities, in which status is traditionally passed down through the female line. “Women were forced to leave their own territory and move to the man’s, were forced to be registered to his territory,” Jacobs said. “In international law that’s called forced displacement….and that’s generations – this has been since 1876.”
The formation of male-dominated Band Councils also disrupted communities in which women were previously major decision-makers. Forming these bodies to decide where government money is allotted within communities also created internal tension in communities, Jacobs said.
She described the Residential Schools as a mechanism for systematically stripping a generation of their culture, in which children were  beaten for speaking their language or had needles put through their tongues.
Gabriel called on the federal and provincial governments to institute policies that will alleviate systemic problems leading to violence, like poverty and lack of access to affordable housing, which can render communities vulnerable to violence – both from within and from outsiders.
The speakers said that there needed to be concrete missing persons policies put in place, and increased cross-cultural awareness training among police officers.
Family members and survivors of abuse should make their anger constructive by engaging in grassroots community activism and giving each other needed support, the speakers added.
Tuesday’s talk was followed by a candlelight vigil in Cabot Square to honour the missing and murdered women.
Gabriel stressed the responsibility of the Canadian government to take these cases seriously. “The government of Canada apologized, but they continue the status quo. Nothing has changed in that relationship, so that apology remains empty.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
