The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Energy-intensive process may produce greenhouse gases and pollution
Assocation québécoise de lutte contre la pollution atmosphérique (AQLPA) has called for the implementation of new and comprehensive legislation to regulate a new speculation of a shale gas formation in the Saint Lawrence Valley in Quebec.
Natural gas produced from shale, a fine-grained sedimentary rock, is known for the difficulty of its extraction. However, recent technological breakthroughs, including innovations in drilling and sediment fracture, and the energy potential of shale gas increased interest in production during 2008.
Though the Quebec government recently issued prospection permits to companies such as Questerre and Talisman Energy, the permits for prospection and extraction of this gas are not regulated by the Règlement sur l’évaluation et l’examen des impacts sur l’environnement. AQLPA president André Bélisle feared this may fail to protect the water supply of smaller municipalities and agricultural enterprises.
The prospected area in the Saint Lawrence Valley is highly populated, yet as Bélisle pointed out, “there is no law restricting extraction sites,” and the situation could come into conflict with individual property rights.
Bélisle explained that the geological formations of shale can extend to a width of a few kilometres, and that shale is generally fractured with recourse to dynamite or by vapour pressure to release the gas. The undertaking consumes a lot of energy, and pollutes the water used for extraction. In the U.S., extraction also includes the injection of chemical solvents into the ground, which risks contaminating both groundwater and the soil.
“It is important to understand that we have not been given a characterization report. We do not know the conditions of extraction in Quebec, though we know those of New York. Everything hinges on ground formation and gas composition itself,” Bélisle said, explaining that it is still uncertain how intensive the extraction process will be in the Saint Lawrence Valley.
AQLPA is also concerned with methane emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas and hydrogen sulphur, a toxic gas considered potentially fatal to both humans and animals.
However, the Ministry of Natural Resources’ Coordinator of Gas and Gasoline Exploration Activities Jean Yves Laliberté denied that there are any traces of hydrogen sulphur in the Saint Lawrence formation.
“This [shale gas] is the same gas as those contained in other sources of natural gas. In the Saint Lawrence Valley, the gas is very pure. It can almost be used without treatment. And the more we aim to substitute energy sources such as coal or gasoline, the more we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” Laliberté said.
He also noted that the implementation of a new hydrocarbon law was announced last March by Claude Béchard, the former Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife. Mining extraction regulations will have to follow.
With Quebec’s surplus production of hydroelectric energy, Bélisle was still concerned the extraction of shale might not be necessary for the province.
“We need to be able to justify the need for this exploitation,” Bélisle said. “Quebec’s interests in this endeavour are few – these are corporative interests. “
Laliberté, though, disagreed. In spite of its surplus, Quebec imports up to 200-billion cubic feet of natural gas from western Canada.
“Putting to use a local resource will be beneficial to us,” Laliberté said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Discussion includes self-funded MBA model, sustainability fund
SSMU Council convened on Thursday evening for their third meeting of the academic year, and was the first session to implement a new style of debate.  Under this parliamentary model, Council members argue clearly “for” or  “against” the motion up for debate.
Debate Drama
The longest debate arose out of a motion suggesting SSMU take a formal stance against the self-funding model of the MBA program.  Supporters of the motion held that SSMU should uphold its commitment to fighting for accessibility in education. “This could be a testing balloon of a trend that could spread to other professional programs,” VP University Affairs Rebecca Dooley said, voicing a common concern.
Councillors against the motion attempted to quell concerns over accessibility by assuring Council that students in the MBA program are unique, in that they have completed an average of eight years in the corporate world and are capable of paying higher tuition.  SSMU VP Internal Alexandra Brown noted that funds from the switch would make more funding available to the undergraduate program. After a lengthy debate the motion failed.
Support for Green Initiative
The first section of the meeting held the attention of a large section of the audience anxious to support the proposed Sustainable Projects Fund.  Jonathan Glencross, U3 Environment and Jim Nicell, Associate Vice-Principal (University Services), presented detailed plans for the fund in hopes of gaining the support of SSMU Council – in spite of the  new $0.50 per credit, non-opt-outable fee that would be applied to every student for the next three years.
This proposed annual contribution from students would then be matched dollar-for-dollar by the university administration, to be implemented toward specifically large-scale developments to create long-term environmental, social, and cultural impact. The combined fund could reach $840,000 annually.
Nicell said that McGill is the largest real estate holder in Montreal (covering 780,000 square feet), so it is time for McGill to take this dramatic initiative and start implementing projects faster.  “If we want to change the world, we have to start with our community and export it to the rest of the world,” he said.
Council and audience showed their full support for this project at every point of the presentation.  Maggie Knight, a SSMU Environment Commissioner, commented on the benefits of this program to the existing SSMU Green Fund.
“There’s been a lot of excitement from the people I’ve been talking to.  The Green Fund is a great start, but when we have to take funds away from it for larger projects, it makes it harder for regular students who just want to make their events a little greener,” Knight said.
Push for GA Participation
Council discussed the upcoming General Assembly (GA) meeting at multiple points during the night.  Councillor Yaakov Stern highlighted the importance of persuading at least 100 students to attend the meeting in order to meet quorum, as one GA failed to meet quorum last year.
“The GA is an institution that took a long fight and a lot of mobilization on behalf of students to exist in the first place,” VP External Sebastian Ronderos-Morgan said.
 Stern highlighted the more targeted promotional approach that has been implemented this year.  As part of this plan, students can expect to see SSMU councillors performing skits around campus to bring attention to particular motions.
Testing the Waters
Looking towards next week’s GA, Council passed two non-binding plebiscites to be posed to the student body in efforts to gauge popular opinion. The first, presented by Dooley, asked, “Would you prefer that course materials be moved completely online?” With the large cost and environmental impact of printing course material, the University projects an online version will be cheaper and more readily accessible.
The second plebiscite questioned a move to shorten the add/drop period in order to allow for an earlier release of the exam schedule. Exactly how much time could be taken off of exam schedule planning is not yet confirmed, Dooley noted, as the idea was in the very early stages of consultation with the University.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Speakers criticize Canadian complicity in human rights violations
Students crowded into Peterson Hall last Friday to attend a discussion by environmental activist Yuri Melini, on the plight of communities in Guatemala affected by Canadian mining companies. The talk, “Human Rights and Natural Resources Extraction in Guatemala,” is one of many to be held across Quebec and Ontario in an effort to raise awareness of the effects of Canadian mining abroad.
Melini told the audience, in Spanish, that “every economic decision has a social impact, and this generates a social protest.”
“In Latin America, people are demanding the right to their natural environment [being respected],” Melini said. He also criticized what many in the region see as corporate disregard for the environment and indigenous rights – especially in states that do not have the institutional capacity to defend themselves.
“What happens when this neighbour [a corporation] inserts itself in a country with weak laws?” Melini asked the audience. “It has the capacity to block information from the media, finance political campaigns, or most delicate of all, influence judges and prosecutors,” he said.
Melini pointed out the example of Vancouver-based Goldcorp Incorporated that operates a large open-pit gold mine in Guatemala.
“[Goldcorp] has the right to 280,000 litres of water a day, while the community has the right to only about 60,000.”
It is estimated that roughly 75 per cent of mining companies in the world are registered in Canada. These corporations control over a thousand exploration projects and active mines, and dominate the mining industry in Latin America.
The McGill research group for the Investigation of Canadian Mining in Latin America (MICLA) distributed a pamphlet at the event that identified at least 100 cases of communities currently in conflict with Canadian mining firms.
According to speaker Catherine Duhamel, from the International Research Center, there is no recognized framework for the Canadian government to punish firms for violations committed outside of Canada. Duhamel did indicate that there are international pressures to do so from various UN agencies, such as the Committee on Social and Cultural Rights and the Committee against Racial Discrimination – which recommended that Canada “take steps to prevent abuses abroad by a corporation within their jurisdiction and hold them accountable.”
Panelist Catherine Coumans, from Mining Watch Canada, explained that communities have made progress through civil society pressure, saying that the Canadian government is beginning to respond to their concerns.
Coumans pointed to Bill C-300, a Private Member’s Bill brought forward by Liberal MP John McKay, would require Canadian mining, oil, and gas companies to act in accordance with international human rights and environmental standards when operating abroad.
Bill C-300 was passed at a second reading in the House of Commons last April, succeeding by a close margin of only four votes. The bill is now under review by the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Development and must pass a third and final reading before it is implemented.
Coumans encouraged the audience to put pressure on their respective MPs to get the legislation passed, though she acknowledged that the bill is only one step in the process.
“It would really make a big difference if this bill would pass,” said Coumons. “[It is] the most amazing piece of proposed legislation we could’ve possibly imagined,” Coumans said.
Melini is known for his work in the area of human rights, environmental protection, and community development. While serving as director of the Centre for Legal, Environmental, and Social Action of Guatemala (CALAS), he received widespread exposure after winning a court case in the Constitutional Court of Guatemala in 2008 – which ruled that seven articles of the country’s mining laws were unconstitutional.
Melini suffered an attack on his life in September of that year, aftermasked men shot him sevearl times. This attempt is widely speculated to be a result of his activism on behalf of CALAS, as close to 50 other environmental activists were subject to threats or aggression in the preceding days, according to the Guatemalan press.
“I suffered a criminal attempt on my life,” Melini said. “I spent 62 days in intensive care, for my work in human rights.”
Despite the attempt on his life, Melini seemed unfazed. “I just want to share with the young people: Idealism is worth it…. We can construct a more just society, a society with more dignity.”
“It is not the theory and academia that matters, it is the practice. This is what makes sense [when working] for human rights,” Melini said.
“I am not against mining,” said Melini, “[but] every country has a right to define its development model.”
Melini is currently working with the Guatemalan Congress on a new mining law, which stipulates three non-negotiable principles: broad environmental controls, the rights of indigenous communities to consent to projects, and higher taxes and royalties from extractive companies.
“If a company wants to come to our country and comply with these laws, they’re welcome,” Melini said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Non-opt-outable fee to go to referendum in November
McGill has committed to supporting the Sustainable Projects Fund (SPF), an initiative that would support various environmentally friendly initiatives at the University.
At a meeting on October 8, former Sustainable McGill coordinator Jonathan Glencross and SSMU VP University Affairs Rebecca Dooley proposed the establishment of the SPF to Provost Anthony Masi, asking that McGill contribute to it by matching the amount of money the project raises through SSMU. The following day, Masi called Glencross and confirmed that the University was on board.
“The purpose is to create a culture of sustainability,” said Glencross. “In looking at environmental projects, it’s not just about decreasing your [carbon] footprint. If you’ve lowered your footprint but you haven’t really changed perception or behaviour, then you haven’t really changed much.”
The SPF would be administered by a committee composed of four faculty members and four student representatives: two from SSMU, one from the Post-Graduate Students’ Society, and one from the Macdonald Campus Students’ Society. The estimated $840,000 annual fund would provide funding for campus initiatives that promote environmental sustainability.
“[The University] has never shared this much responsibility with students, and they’ve never committed up front to something with a matching component. This is all a new precedent,” Glencross said.
At Thursday’s SSMU Council meeting, Glencross and Associate Vice-President (University Services) Jim Nicell both laid out the project and its objectives. Councillors agreed to hold a referendum on the SPF’s proposed non-opt-outable $0.50-per credit fee in November.
“The fund is meant to be a point of collaboration between the Univeristy and students,” said Dooley. “There are about 27 environmentally-oriented groups on campus, and they have a lot of drive and ideas [for sustainable projects], but don’t have the capital.”
If approved by students in the referendum, the SPF is likely to work closely with the Office of Sustainability, a relationship Dooley said would improve the Office’s efficacy as a student resource.
A sustainability coordinator and three students in the work-study program will oversee the sponsored projects and occasionally write reports for the committee.
Before writing their proposal, Dooley and Glencross studied the sustainability funds administered by the University of Guelph and the Concordia Students’ Union, but decided that both models were not adequately consultative and that the SPF should be jointly administered with the University.
“Interest in sustainability should not just be supported by students,” said Dooley. “Without the University’s buy-in, there isn’t as much institutional memory. Having parity [on the committee] gives the fund more power in terms of changes that we can make.”
Glencross said that the SPF would also offer students an opportunity to apply their research to local projects, and that he hopes the program will facilitate closer relationships between students and the administration.
“McGill is a research-driven institution, and part of this fund should be connecting the academic components of sustainability to what we’re doing locally on campus. And I think that will be the catalyst for some serious transformative change,” Glencross said.
He added that given the amount of interest in sustainable initiatives, he believes that the funding will be put to good use. “People want action right now. People are desperate for people who are being successful at implementing this stuff, if it’s not coming from the government.”
Both Dooley and Glencross said they were relieved that the University had decided to endorse the program, given its recent decision to decrease its operating budget for the 2009-10 academic year by $5 million.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
