The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Vague answers disappoint those in attendance
Principal and Vice-Chancellor Heather Munroe-Blum hosted a town hall Tuesday in order to openly discuss issues of concern within the McGill community.
One of the main issues addressed was McGill’s budgetary restraints,and the low level of support for competitive grants to scholars and researchers.
“McGill is currently facing a tight budget,” explained Munroe-Blum. “We are working hard, however, to protect jobs and have done considerably well compared to other research-intensive universities in Canada and the United States.”
The principal added that while budgetary restraints have required the University to make cuts, the protection of jobs would remain a priority.
Others expressed concern with the University’s policy on faculty absence, which requires professors who fall sick with the H1N1 flu virus to find and pay their own replacement, and worried that the policy creates disincentives that would discourage faculty from staying home when ill.
The principal was also asked to comment on the administration’s support for a controversial event organized by Choose Life McGill earlier this fall. SSMU VP External Affairs Sebastian Ronderos-Morgan wanted to know whether there is a standard that the University uses to decide if any event is deemed appropriate.
Munroe-Blum responded that she chose to respect the club’s freedom of speech because she felt that no laws had been broken. Ronderos-Morgan felt that the principal’s response did not address his concern that the University has not provided a standard on issues involving freedom of expression.
“She didn’t address the question. She talked about the Choose Life event, and how she was disappointed that the event had been protested, and therefore not gone ahead as planned,” said Ronderos-Morgan.
He added, however, that “it was definitely clear that [Munroe-Blum] was informed of certain things over the course of the town hall, through the questions asked of her, and that, I think, is valuable.”
Joël Pedneault, the Arts Representative to SSMU, felt that Munroe-Blum’s response to a question on the high cost of international tuition was also inadequate.
“Principal Munroe-Blum claimed that tuition fees are based on public policy decisions and did not take responsibility for the high international fees,” said Pedneault.
“However, she is a member of the Conference of Rectors and Principals of Quebec Universities and therefore does have a certain amount of say in this matter.”
Despite the principal’s limited responses, Pedneault still encouraged students to attend town hall meetings.
“There were several moments when no one had a question to ask. Also, many of the questions did not apply directly to students,” Pedneault explained. “If more students showed up, more issues regarding students would be addressed.”
Munroe-Blum was also asked to comment on the extensive construction taking place on campus, and how the construction has been funded.
According to Munroe-Blum, a great deal of the construction has been maintenance-related, such as tunnel work and renovations to the parts of buildings that pose safety hazards. The construction has been paid in large part by funds provided by the federal and provincial governments.
“McGill received $300-million  from the province of Quebec and the federal government to improve its infrastructure, thus creating economic opportunities,” Munroe-Blum explained.
“The University is currently undergoing more construction than it has ever before,” she added. “There has been a long-standing need for renovations on campus.”
The federal stimulus money is also being used for academic purposes, such as infrastructure development for the chemistry department and research funding for the faculties of medicine, science, and engineering.
Munroe-Blum expressed her gratitude to those who attended the meeting and raised questions.
“There are no unacceptable views,” Munroe-Blum concluded. “We need a candid exchange of views in order to work together more effectively and make McGill an even better place.”
“My main frustration is not having enough time to meet with students, faculty members, and other members of this community  [with] whom I do not interact with regularly,” Munroe-Blum said. “I feel it is important to hear a wide range of voices on matters of concern.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Hacked accounts can send thousands of spam emails at a time
WINNIPEG (CUP) – Universities across the world are facing a slew of phishing scams. Both students and staff have fallen victim to spammers who trick them into divulging personal information, including university web mail user names and passwords.
Steve Hillman, an information technology (IT) architect at Simon Fraser University (SFU), described phishing as an attempt to get persons’ online ID and passwords to access their systems that can take on different forms. He said that universities are often the targets of phishing operations because they usually have vast email systems, large data pipes, and little restrictions on outbound mail, and thus can send out thousands of messages very quickly.
“Banking [phishing scams] go after baking accounts and passwords…same with credit cards. With universities in general, they’re just after your email account so that they can then use your email account to send out spam. They can tailor the message to be relatively generic but to the average student and even staff, it looks official enough that they will be duped into responding to it,” Hillman said. “On a particular phishing blast, they might get half a dozen or a dozen replies that are legitimate and then they’ll sit on them for a while, up to many months, and then they’ll send out a blast of spam and then they’ll never use the account again.”
Ken De Cruyenaere, University of Manitoba (U of M) computer security co-ordinator, said phishing attempts are a daily occurrence at the U of M and that, within the past month or so, there have been a few cases where both staff and students have replied to phishing emails with their personal information.
De Cruyenaere said that sometimes within minutes the compromised account is logged into and used to send spam to thousands of web mail users.
In order to prevent mass amounts of university accounts being spammed, university IT departments have a number of measures put in place, including spam filters and limits on the number of emails an account can send out in a certain time period.
“We have spam bulk mail filtering and if something looks like bulk mail, we let the first 99 get delivered and then we start blocking it after that,” De Cruyenaere said. “If it’s coming from a University of Manitoba account then there is no blocking. That’s why it gets painful if a university account starts spamming the university. It gets sent to potentially thousands of U of M IDs instead of just 100.”
De Cruyenaere said that web mail accounts cannot send more than a certain number of emails – a number he did not want to specify – in an hour or it is temporarily blocked, at which point steps are taken to determine whether the emails are legitimate or not.
“Most of the time it turns out to be some broken account that’s logged in from Nigeria, usually,” he said, adding that an account is shut down once it is confirmed that it is spamming.
Hillman says that when SFU introduced a new emailing system, there was no mechanism in place to restrict the number of emails sent per day.
During this time, a number of email accounts were compromised and without restrictions in place, sent enough spam to lead the university to being blacklisted.
According to Hillman, there are a number of sites on the Internet that monitor for spam being sent out. If these sites detect too much spam from a particular source, it is put on a list as an undependable source of mail. Other email hosts can choose to follow this “blacklist” and if they receive mail from any of the listed sites, they can choose to reject it.
“In one case, we were blacklisted from Hotmail, which actually set up lots of nasty email loops…. It took us several days to clean that mess up and for a while there were a lot of people not receiving their mail,” said Hillman, but since limits on emails sent were put in place, the university has not been blacklisted.
Hillman noted that this week, a phishing message was sent to SFU that instead of asking people to respond by email, directed them to a web site to log in.
“Luckily the web site didn’t look like our own centralized authentication site so it was relatively easy to tell it was a phishing attempt,” he said.
Hillman said that other universities have reported phishing messages that have directed users to more convincing university login pages, making it even more difficult for an unsuspecting user.
De Cruyenaere  said that no legitimate organization would ask for your username and password.
According to Hillman, phishing schemes are so widespread that “pretty much every university has had to deal with it in one way or another.”
“It’s a booming market, it’s well organized, and in many cases it’s several steps ahead of the security experts who are trying to crack down on it,” Hillman said. “It’s one of those things like spam itself. It’s just a part of doing business on the Internet.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A discussion of Abdelrazik’s six-year exile in Sudan, and Canada’s  complicity in his imprisonment and interrogation
Abousfian Abdelrazik is a Sudanese-born Canadian citizen who recently returned to Canada after being stranded in Sudan from 2003 to 2009.
Detained, interrogated, and tortured by Sudanese authorities in Khartoum after being profiled by the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), Abdelrazik was denied the right to return to Canada by successive governments – a clear violation of Canada’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which outlines that “every citizen of Canada has the right to enter, remain in and leave Canada.”
Barred from returning to Canada, Abdelrazik’s six years in exile point to a wider context in which multiple Canadian citizens, including Maher Arar in Syria, faced torture and imprisonment abroad resulting from racial profiling by Canadian and U.S. security and intelligence agencies. In Sudan, Canadian CSIS agents interrogated Abdelrazik in the very same Sudanese prison where Sudanese military officials carried out violent torture against him.
In 2008, he took refuge in the Canadian embassy in Khartoum in coordination with an Ottawa-based legal support team, while a grassroots campaign for Abdelrazik’s return quickly spread to communities across Canada lead by the Montreal-based Project Fly Home.
A solidarity campaign with Abdelrazik quickly developed across Canada to apply pressure on the Conservative government to immediately return Abdelrazik to Canada, culminating in April 2009, when activists purchased a return ticket for Abdelrazik, a condition fixed by the Conservative government in order for emergency travel documents to be issued for Abdelrazik to travel home to Canada. Conservative foreign affairs minister Lawrence Cannon went back on the previously expressed conditions for Abdelrazik’s return – refusing to issue an emergency passport – a move that led a Federal Court judge to order the government to return Abdelrazik to Canada in a landmark decision in June 2009.
In the Federal Court decision that forced the Conservatives to issue emergency travel documents to Abdelrazik, Judge Russel Zinn described him as a “prisoner in a foreign land” and “as much a victim of international terrorism as the innocent persons whose lives have been taken by recent barbaric acts of terrorists.” Zinn also highlighted the direct involvement of CSIS in Abdelrazik’s arrest, detention, and torture in Sudan.
Today, Abdelrazik continues to struggle for justice, and is calling for his name to be removed from the 1267 UN terror watch list, a list basued not on law but on association and profiling administered by the UN Security Council, to which Abdelrazik was added at the request of the Bush administration without evidence or trial in 2006. Although Abdelrazik has returned to Canada, regular citizenship rights, including social services, education, and health care are not accessible to him due to Canada’s enforcement of the UN 1267 list.
Stefan Christoff:  It was a long struggle to force the Canadian government to respect your right to return to Canada and today your struggle is not over. Can you explain?
Abousfian Abdelrazik: Absolutely. It is not over because still I am on the UN 1267 list. Now it is a huge struggle to fight to be removed from that list as it prevents me from living as a normal person, a normal citizen.
SC: Being on the UN 1267 list means you face a complete asset freeze, barring you from receiving a salary for your work, accessing social assistance or medical care, things that many take for granted in Montreal. Can you explain how the UN 1267 list is impacting your life in Canada despite returning to Canada after exile in Sudan?
AA: Canada’s government should help me to be removed from this list. Actually it is the responsibility for the government in Ottawa to appeal for me to be removed from this list after everything that happened in Sudan.
Although I am back in Montreal, I am not free.  I can walk on the streets in Montreal but it is not possible for me to live a normal life. The 1267 list puts me in another prison. I can’t work and I can’t access health care. Today I continue to face injustice. Canada needs to appeal for me to be de-listed immediately from the UN 1267 list. I want my full human rights.
SC: For many, the fact that CSIS has a direct responsibility to your imprisonment and torture in Sudan is surprising. Throughout your recent speaking tour across Canada, you have spoken very openly on the direct role the CSIS and the government of Canada played in your imprisonment and torture in Sudan. Can you explain?
AA: After my lawyers received government documents on my case, it became totally clear that the Canadian government in Ottawa and CSIS were directly involved in my detention without trial or charge in Sudan. I was jailed in Sudan because of CSIS; my torture is directly tied to the Canadian government.
SC: Canadian officials visited you during the very same period that you were in prison and facing torture in Sudan. What did these Canadian officials do to assist you?
AA: I was actually interrogated by two CSIS agents in prison in Sudan, in the same prison where I was being tortured, hung from the door frame, beaten with a rubber hose, slapped, and punched. CSIS interrogated me, asking the very same questions as the Sudanese secret police. The CSIS officials knew about my torture and were directly linked to it.
SC: Do you feel that the Canadian government officials involved in your case need to be held accountable?
AA: All those people who played a role in this matter, in my exile in Sudan, in my torture and imprisonment, must face justice.
SC: It must be difficult for you to put into words what you experienced in Sudan. I remember right after you returned from Sudan, you explained that you wanted to make sure no one else experiences what you experienced, that your experience shouldn’t happen to anyone else ever again. Is this why you continue to campaign today?
AA: Really I want to end torture and prisons; I want to be the last victim that experienced such horrible things. I must struggle for this to be reality.
SC: Some who experience torture take years to gather the courage to speak out and campaign publicly, but you chose to speak out on the very same night that you returned to Canada and continue to campaign for justice; explain why.
AA: The experiences that I went though in Sudan were really awful. It is so hard to describe; I want to make sure that no one experiences the same thing ever again. I will continue with my tour across Canada this winter; I will continue to tell people across Canada my story.  I want torture to stop completely, for it to never happen to anyone else anywhere in the world.
SC: Canada is a signatory to the United Nations Convention against Torture, a very important piece of international legislation, but instead of defending your rights in the Sudanese prison where you were tortured, CSIS agents interrogated you in the very same prison in which you were being tortured. At one point in Khartoum, a Conservative MP, Deepak Obhrai, also interrogated you. What do you have to stay to the Conservative government in Ottawa after your experiences?
AA: Representatives from the Conservative government came to Sudan and interrogated me in the Canadian embassy – which is horrible. MP Deepak Obhrai interrogated me rather than helping a fellow Canadian citizen. This is horrible behaviour from the government and must be stopped.
SC: How did this experience make you feel while being stranded in Sudan?
AA: Actually I expected the government to come to help me after being released from prison in Sudan and living at the Canadian embassy struggling to go back to Canada. I expected the MPs who visited to help me, not to interrogate me.
I felt that all hope was gone at that time, because the people who were supposed to help me, the Canadian government, instead interrogated me, which actually made me lose all hope. Obhrai asked me my opinion on Palestine, on Israel, on bin Laden – not talking to me about my own situation as a Canadian stranded in Sudan.
SC: You lived many months in the Canadian embassy in Khartoum. Can you explain this period?
AA: It was very difficult to stay in the Canadian embassy – very, very difficult. Cameras watching you all day and all night, monitoring every movement. Having your life monitored at the embassy and not being able to go anywhere was so difficult, just staying night after night at the embassy compound without any support from the Canadian government to return. For me, staying at the embassy was like another prison because I had to stay 24 hours a day within the embassy compound.
Staying at the embassy was mental torture; embassy staff were always pressuring me to leave. Actually the embassy staff who tried to help me were fired, especially the local staff from Sudan. [They were] fired for just bringing some food for me to eat.
SC: When you made that choice to enter the Canadian embassy in Sudan, you were looking for protection?
AA: Yes, absolutely. After I entered the embassy in Khartoum, from the moment that I told the embassy staff that I was staying and gave them a letter from my lawyer in Canada, they treated me very badly, especially the consular official Eric O’Connor.
SC: In April 2009 many people across the country came together, buying you a plane ticket back to Canada, a condition issued by the government for you to return to Canada, for you to secure your own ticket. Although the ticket was secured by activists in Canada, your hopes were dashed – as the government didn’t issue you travel documents. Can you talk about how you felt following the pressure from the grassroots in Canada calling on the government to return you to Canada?
AA: [I spoke] with my lawyers and supporters quite often over the phone. I heard about the protests in Montreal and other cities in Canada. Actually it is hard for me to describe how much this meant to me.
SC: Back in Canada, you have had an opportunity to connect with the grassroots activists who worked to educate people about your forced exile in Sudan and held street protests while you were in Khartoum. How has it been for you to connect with the people in Canada who fought for your return?
AA: Actually I am very glad to meet the people who supported me across Canada. While living at the Canadian embassy in Khartoum, activists from Montreal called me, expressing their support. This gave me strength to continue to remain at the embassy and fight to return.
Officials at the Canadian embassy really pressured me to leave and treated me badly, but knowing that the people of Canada were supporting me gave me spirit to continue. I slept in the bathroom at the embassy for many months. This was so difficult and humiliating. The bathroom at the embassy was my room after years in prison and torture in Sudan.
After coming back to Montreal I have connected with the activists that supported me. I am so glad to see them and to know them today.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill Global AIDS Coalition hosts panel of researchers and activists for World Aids Week.
On Tuesday evening, the McGill Global AIDS Coalition hosted a panel discussion regarding HIV in the Montreal community as part of a series of events the group held last week for World AIDS Week.
Bluma Brenner, a researcher for the Jewish General Hospital’s McGill AIDS Centre, opened the discussion by emphasizing the importance of developing an HIV test that could detect the virus within the first three weeks of infection.
Brenner explained the importance of maximizing awareness of HIV infection, and stated that there are 15,000 HIV-positive people in Montreal, one-fifth of whom are not aware that they are infected. She added that studies have proven that unprotected sex and needle-sharing decreases once individuals know they are infected.
Brenner is currently working to develop a test for the antigens, rather than the antibodies, so that the early stages of the virus can be detected. She stated that in 1984, there was a peak in the HIV/AIDS infection rate, followed by a dramatic decline, which she attributed to a growing fear surrounding the virus.
There are many sites throughout the city where individuals can anonymously get tested for HIV, which is slowly increasing the rate of diagnoses, but Brenner expressed her frustration that a means of testing for the virus within the first three weeks of infection remains unavailable to these clinics.
Since the epidemic became a chronic illness in 1996, and improvements in antiretroviral treatment enabled victims to live up to 30 years once infected, there has been a decrease in immediate action implemented by both the citizens and government of Canada.
Brenner stated, “I get very excited because, as a scientist, my experiences with AIDS research have changed from merely doing an essay to working with actual people. I have begun to feel like I am actually making a difference.”
Michael Foster, of AIDS Community Care Montreal, and Jean-Francois Mary, an active member of the non-profit organization Cactus Montreal, later discussed the politics behind the lack of funding for HIV prevention programs, and current methods for eradicating new strains of HIV/AIDS in Montreal.
Foster and Mary both discussed their attempts to reinvent the public perception of HIV by discussing the virus at high schools, and through a variety of outreach programs.
Mary said that from the mid-eighties to the present, perception of those infected with HIV has evolved from regarding them as “non-human diseases of society,” to a more recent apathetic perception that HIV only afflicts homosexuals or intravenous drug users.
Mary went on to discuss his organization’s approach to HIV/AIDS among the drug-using community in Montreal. Cactus Montreal attempts to curb the rate of HIV infection within Montreal by creating a needle exchange and a program called Street Walks, which entails regular visits to bars, sex clubs, and drug sites where they provide sterile needles and refer people to clinics for anonymous HIV testing.
Mary and his coworkers at Cactus have also established a program to professionally train Montreal’s underprivileged youth on HIV prevention. Preventive strategies such as these, Mary said, “can thwart and eradicate new infections by preventing the spread of HIV strains.”
When the floor was opened to questions, one student asked why local and federal governments are so hesitant to fund HIV organizations Cactus. All three speakers agreed that politicians tend to view HIV/AIDS with apathy.
“HIV/AIDS isn’t an issue that’s in fashion for politicians, who respond purely to public pressure,” Foster said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
