The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Thought they were going to Europe, but plan on staying in Canada
When nine people emerged from a shipping container on board the M.S. Lugano, which docked at Montreal’s port last Thursday, their biggest surprise was that they had arrived in Canada. The stowaways had secretly boarded the ship in Casablanca, Morocco earlier that week, thinking they were bound for Europe.
The Canadian Border Service Agency (CBSA) took the individuals into custody, after which they were taken to an immigration detention centre in Laval, where they are currently being held until the Immigration Review and Board (IRB) can verify their identities.
“The officers were on board the boat at 1:56 a.m.,” said Jacqueline Roby, a CBSA spokesperson. The officers were able to determine that all nine “were in good health…and appeared well fed.”
Last Friday, seven of the nine detainees told their stories to the IRB. The stowaways claimed that they had hid in a shipping container on the ship’s with the expectation of landing either in Italy or Portugal, the Lugano’s two stops before heading to Canada.
The nine were discovered on-board the ship October 4, while the Lugano was en route to Montreal. At that point they claimed to be Iraqi refugees. A later fax sent by the Canadian Maritime Agency determined that they were in fact Moroccan. When the Lugano docked at the port of Montreal on October 7 the stowaways were taken into custody.
The Montreal Gazette reported that they used asthma inhalers to combat bad air quality and that one of the stowaways reported not having slept for seven days. Roby withheld further details regarding conditions aboard the ship.
According to Robert Gervais, an IRB spokesperson, the refugees had “no identification whatsoever…and must be detained until their identities are established.”
Gervais said that the detention review conducted for seven detainees last Friday was filmed, which usually only happens in the case of a refugee claim or if the detainee is a minor. He could not specify whether the seven detainees were claiming refugee status.
According to the CBC, seven of the nine refugees are applying for refugee status. The other two have not, but also want to stay in Canada.
The 1967 Protocol from the U.N. Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees defines a refugee as “a person who, owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted…is unwilling to return to [their home country].” However, the detainees did not express any fear of returning to Morocco.
Seven of the stowaways will appear again before the review board this Friday, and the other two will appear on Monday. Once their identities are established they will be released from custody unless they are considered a flight risk.
Ever since the arrival of the M.V. Sun Sea and close to 500 Tamil refugees in the port of Victoria this past August, the federal government has been pushing for tighter legislation regarding illegal immigration, especially human trafficking.
The Gazette reported that one of the detainees told investigators that they had planned the entire exploit by themselves without any outside aid. However, it is still being determined whether this case did in fact involve human trafficking.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Erin Hudson on the university’s expansion into Park Ex
On the afternoon of October 2 in Parc Athéna, the Comité d’Action de Parc Extension (CAPE) served 660 ears of corn to hundreds of Parc Ex residents, and informed neighbours about an upcoming development project that will alter the face of their community.
Years in the making and set to break ground next year, the expansion of the Université de Montréal campus into the Outremont rail yards will feature enough new buildings to hold 2,000 students and professors as well as 1,300 new housing units – some of them private – to be built over the next ten years.
UdeM’s new campus is being publicly funded to the tune of $120 million, to be split between the city and provincial governments, and will occupy the abandoned rail yard that separates Parc-Extension from Outremont to the south.
The development is projected to draw 11,000 new students into the area according to CAPE community organizer André Trepanier. Critics say the new students could drive rents up, and current residents out.
The densely-packed neighbourhood is home to over 35,000 residents, and is the centre of Montreal’s Greek and South Asian communities.
Neighbourhood organizers like Trepanier are hoping to use the visibility of the new development to get more attention for other issues facing the neighbourhood, like affordable social housing.
“Less than five per cent of apartment here that are social housing,” Trepanier continued. “So that means that more than 95 per cent of the apartments here are private apartments.”
“On the one hand we need [more kinds of social housing] and on the other hand we need an action plan to solve the problem of the sanitation of the apartments,” he said.
“We’re not against the campus. We won’t stop the new campus, but we want to stop the gentrification which can occur from [it].”
Raphaël Fischler, a professor in the McGill School of Urban Planning, explained, “There are really two consitutencies here. The first is Outremont, and the second is Parc Ex. The people in Outremont have accepted this campus development,” Fischler said. “Gentrification is not an issue for Outremont. Not really. But it is for Parc Ex.”
Fischler notes that the process of gentrification in Parc Ex, though not very strong yet, has already begun.
“Look at all these older neighbourhoods that are not far from downtown, that have good access to the metro and…a public market and things like that – they are gentrifying,” he said. “They have an influx of students and professionals. They have growth of condominium buildings and so on. It’s much less in Parc Ex than in other places but it’s starting.”
Fischler argued, however, that gentrification might have some positive effects. “There can be aesthetic, functional, and economic improvements in the neighbourhood,” he said.
“It depends sometimes [on] the good will and the enlightenment of the developers in the hospital or in the university,” he added. “The outcomes are far from clear but you can try and push in the right direction.”
UdeM, for its part, sees itself as a saviour for the neighbourhood. “The campus itself is a starting point for redeveloping this no man’s land,” said Sophie Langlois, director of media relations at UdeM. “[It] is an opportunity for the City to revitalize the entire area.”
Trepanier sees the university’s role differently. “[The new campus] would be a signal for investors to build condos or for landlords to kick out their tenants and to do some renovation and [charge] higher rent to newcomers richer than the people of Parc Ex,” he said.
“What is affordable for one is not necessarily affordable for another,” Fischler pointed out. “Affordable units in a condominium building are still totally out of reach for the tenants who are there [currently],” he said.
Langlois dismissed these concerns, saying they were not in UdeM’s purview. “These issues are really the City’s responsibility in their planning around the campus,” she argued, pointing out that the city mandates 15 per cent of new residential development be devoted to “affordable” housing, and a further 15 per cent to “social” housing.
According to the last census taken by the City of Montreal, 2,000 families were spending over fifty per cent of their income on rent  and 1,000 families were waiting for social housing in the neighbourhood.
For all his ambivalence about the project, Trepanier said that he hoped the “pressure” of the new campus would spur investment in the neighbourhood and provide employment for Parc Ex residents.
Langlois explained UdeM’s priorities in this regard: “The university itself has unions, so we have to see about that when we hire people to follow the rules.”
Langlois maintains that while UdeM is the space’s new landlord, residents will still have to address their concerns to the City.
“It’s the City of Montreal that will develop roads and infrastructures, sewers…lighting and all of that. And the residential part of it will be the responsibility of the City,” she said.
The latest design for UdeM’s development is excellent,  Fischler said, and received an award in 2005 from L’institut canadien des urbanistes.
“It was done by thoughtful people who do their best obviously to meet various interests and requirements that always come into a complex urban design,” he said.
Fischler explained that there is a trend among communities facing similar pressures toward creating  “community benefits agreements” between the potential developer and the community.
McGill’s purchase of Solin Hall in St. Henri saw the creation of this kind of agreement.
“There was…very strong protest on the part of the local population. What McGill did was actually sign a ‘community benefits agreement’ with the local community,” Fischler said.
“Our students [from the McGill School of Urban Planning]…were involved in doing the right thing in St. Henri,” he said.
In urban planning, the expansions of university campuses into surrounding poorer areas has traditionally followed one of two paths, according to Fischler.
“In some cases [there are] very interesting community benefits agreements and joint partnerships. But in other cases [the result is] the removal of poor people to make way for rich kids and their professors,” he said.
The difference, Fischler says, lies in the amount of pressure within the institution to do the “right thing.”
“I think that is where students can play a role and tell their administration… ‘We want a sustainable camp
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
