The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students upset over lack of consultation
The McGill administration has decided that the Architecture Café will not be reopening this fall.
   The development came as a surprise to the Architecture Students Association (ASA), who managed the café independently since its opening in 1993 until 2007, when it was brought under the oversight of Food and Dining Services.
“A lot of people in the school don’t really know what has happened and we’ve only been told that it’s closed because of financial unsustainability, but we have no hard facts to really prove that,” said Carly Roualt, the Senior Manager of the Architecture Café. “We were told that it would be closed, but to wait for further confirmation of it, which we never got.”
In response to widespread student protest, the administration and the ASA came to an agreement in October 2007 that the Architecture Café would remain open with mixed management. Under the arrangement, McGill Food and Dining Services would administer the purchase of food in collaboration with the ASA. The ASA has continued to run the café since, but under the oversight of McGill Ancillary Services.
According to this agreement between the students and the administration, as long as the café broke even, it would remain open.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson has said that the Architecture Café was not “sustainable financially,” which he cited as the primary reason for the closure.
“We had discussions with Mathieu Laperle, Director of Food Services, about various models that might work, and we just couldn’t come up with one that was suitable to McGill… I had to make the decision that the cafe was shut down – or wouldn’t be reopened in September,” said Mendelson.
According to Roualt, in May 2010, the students were under the impression that the café was financially secure. Its financial situation apparently changed at the start of this year, as Aramark Canada took over McGill’s primary food contract from Chartwells.
“We seemed to be breaking even, and in May we had meetings with our supervisors and they said we were doing fine.… This summer they said, ‘with Aramark now, you’re not doing fine,’” she said.
In an email to The Daily, Mendelson stressed that Aramark had no part in the closure.
In 2007, Mendelson told The Daily that “there were a number of food services operations run by student groups and they have all been phased out, and that’s a strategic decision that the University has taken on the issue.”
 Roault explains that the ASA has not had a hand in the oversight of accounting prior to the decision to close this summer.
“We’ve had no access to our books or to any of the numbers. So we were just told we had a verbal agreement that as long as we broke even, we could stay open,” Roualt said.
But Mendelson repeatedly asserted that there were problems of “managerial sustainability.”
“I assume it was being run in good faith by students who were really dedicated to the enterprise… but the café was essentially run like a lemonade stand,” he said, declining to go into financial details.
Mendelson acknowledged that other student-run food providers on campus – namely AUS SNAX and Frostbite, the Engineering ice cream parlour – continued operations. Mendelson described them as “historical” establishments.
SSMU president Zach Newburgh and EUS president Daniel Keresteci joined Roualt and ASA president Kyle Burrows in signing and presenting an alternative business plan in a memorandum sent to the administration Tuesday. The memorandum proposed a joint EUS-ASA managed café. At press time, neither of the parties had received a response from the administration.
“We’ve seen the balance sheets – this is not the reality, it was actually making money,” said Newburgh. “Any kind of question about the financial sustainability of this operation is mitigated by the fact that the ASA will soon become a departmental association of the Engineering Undergraduate Society. The EUS has an extensive history of running successful business operations, so there’s no reason to believe that the Architecture Café under the new supervision jointly between ASA and the EUS wouldn’t be just as successful.”
McGill is planning on converting the Architecture Café into study space for Architecture and Engineering students.
Roualt would like to see the café stay.
“Spread the word. Put more pressure on the administration to be more accountable for their actions…to show hard facts before making changes, and consulting students before these changes are made,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Part two of a four-part series: student aid still inaccessible
Click here to download the 2010-2011 University Budget
In order to achieve a break-even budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2010-2011, McGill has attempted to diversify its revenues beyond government grants this year.
The main source of additional revenue for the University is tuition and other related fees, which are forecast to generate close to $173 million in FY2011, or 27 per cent of McGill’s total revenue. All tuition revenue goes to the unrestricted Operating Fund, and can be put to use anywhere in the University.
Provost Anthony Masi stated in an email to The Daily that while the dollar amount from the Ministère de l’Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS) grant is increasing, the percentage amount is decreasing. To compensate for the dip in provincial funding, McGill is taking measures to increase its revenue through tuition hikes as well as raising enrolment in programs from the undergraduate to the PhD level.
Bad news for your pocketbook…
These tuition increases will equal $100 for students taking 30 credits – which only amounts to a $75 increases because $25 is “clawed-back” by MELS to support financial aid. Any additional changes will be made when the provincial freeze expires in 2012, at which point the province is expected to raise base-level tuition.
“We anticipate that the [provincial] government will move to further re-regulation [of tuition] after 2012 that will see some increases in tuition. The CREPUQ [Conférence de recteurs et des principaux des universities du Québec] has also issued a ‘common’ position on getting tuition in Quebec to the national average,” said Masi.
Tuition for in-province students at McGill stands at $2,068. The average in-province tuition at Canada’s other universities is now approximately $5,500. The administration has stated their desire to increase McGill tuition to the national average.
Tuition for “deregulated” international students will increase by ten per cent, eight per cent for those who started in the 2009-2010 school year.
In her November 2009 Economic Letter, principal Heather Munroe-Blum described Quebec’s tuition as “a significant problem.”
 …and your class-sizes 
The University has also been boosting its revenue through increased enrollment. This year and next year, undergraduate, graduate, and PhD enrollment are slated to increase by one per cent, 1.5 per cent, and almost four per cent respectively.
Increases in post-graduate enrolment serve a dual purpose for the University by bringing more money into graduate research programs, and increasing the revenue gained from research grants. Bolstering graduate programs also serves the administration’s objective of maintaining McGill’s reputation as a top research-oriented university.
“Most financial means come in the form of research grants, so it’s in the administrations interest to solve underfunding through the expansion of graduate programs,” said SSMU president Zach Newburgh. Research grants constitute 23.8 per cent of total annual revenue.
Problems arise with increases in tuition and student enrollment, however. The latter leads to larger class sizes and less student access to faculty. The administration hopes to avoid this scenario by increasing enrolment only in “programs with the capacity to receive” more students. Masi identified information technology, and agricultural and environmental sciences as programs with such capacity.
“We want to keep a relatively low undergraduate to tenure-track faculty ratio [and] try to reduce average class sizes,” said Masi. “We are also working to alleviate some capacity bottlenecks. For example, constraints on lab space in U0 science courses affect our ability to increase student capacity in engineering and allied health fields.”
Student aid: tough to get, tough to keep
Tuition increases have an adverse effect on accessibility, but Masi said McGill is hoping to counteract this effect by partnering tuition increases with increases in financial aid.
Masi has stated that he and principal Heather Munroe-Blum are “committed… to ensuring that 30 cents of every net new dollar in tuition revenues will go to student aid.”
In the 2010-2011 budget, the 30 per cent of net new tuition revenue dedicated to student financial aid amounts to $2.9 million, or about 1.5 per cent of total tuition revenue. The budget also states that 75 per cent of total student aid from the operating fund will go to graduate students, with 25 per cent going to undergraduates. Those figures exclude restricted and endowment funds that can be put specifically toward student aid.
But the numbers indicate that undergraduates are not receiving much in return for their increased tuition dollars, at least not in terms of student aid.
“There are unrealistic guidelines [to maintain scholarships],” said Newburgh. “There are more and more barriers.”
Aquil Virani, a U2 Arts student and Daily staffer, received an entrance scholarship of $2,500 per semester upon starting at McGill in 2008. To qualify for the scholarship he needed to have a 95 average in grades ten, 11, and 12 in high school, and then needed to maintain a 3.7 GPA in order to renew his scholarship each year.
“You can either go for it and get the 3.7, but not do much else, or actually have fun at university,” said Virani. “Holding someone to a 3.7 at McGill is restricting them.”
Virani noted a lack of transparency and flexibility in scholarship requirements. The renewal process for Virani’s schoarship neglected the effects of extracurricular activities on a student’s GPA. Virani said he tried to consult the Student Aid Office about re-working his scholarship requirements in order to accommodate extracurriculars, but met little success.
“It never went anywhere. I didn’t have any input [on my scholarship]. It was frustrating,” he said.
Virani further explained that his entrance scholarship rewarded extracurricular activities, but renewal of the scholarship was only based on GPA. “To have a 3.4 and do activities should be good enough for renewal,” he said.
Students paying for improvements to student life
The budget also states a commitment to “provide [the] highest quality support services to students and faculty.” How this will be achieved remains unspecified.
According to Executive Director of Student Services Jana Luker, 70 per cent of the student services budget is paid by the students themselves as part of their ancillary fees, with full time undergraduate students paying $133 per term and full time graduate students paying $125.50 per term. Roughly 15 per cent of the student services budget comes from the University’s operating fund.
“Students have to pay out of their own pocket for student services. The University is finding more and more ways to avoid footing the bill,” said Newburgh.
Other installments in this series:
Part 1 – Administration releases landmark budget; deficit to be eliminated by end of fiscal year
Part 3 – McGill stuck on deferred maintenance treadmill; admin using outside investments to pay for new property
Part 4 – McGill cycling out tenured professors to cut costs; Admin staff, salaries, on the rise
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Principal clashes with National Assembly over University operations
QUEBEC – McGill administrators faced a barrage of questions from members of a parliamentary commission in Quebec City Tuesday. University officials presented Members of the National Assembly (MNAs) with a barrel of apples from MacDonald campus along with their case for raising student tuition.
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum led the four-person McGill contingent that appeared before the National Assembly’s 12-member Commission de la culture et de l’education, which hosts Quebec university officials every three years.
Parti Québécois MNA Marie Malavoy mounted the most intense line of questioning, challenging some of the basic premises of Munroe-Blum’s argument for increased tuition. “I think it’s hard to say that if students paid more for education they would succeed as well,” Malavoy said in French.
In her opening remarks, Malavoy said that there was a “breach” in the administration’s logic on tuition, and that she felt “anxiety” at the direction McGill was taking with regard to tuition. She worried, she said, “that you [McGill] are moving toward a North American model, not a Québécois model, where the richest schools can attract the best students…and where the poorest remain in the periphery.”
Munroe-Blum immediately deflected the criticism, saying “we don’t want a North American model, not at all.”
Throughout the nearly three hours of hearings, the principal repeatedly outlined specific plans to increase tuition for certain McGill students. Undergraduates are likely to be among those targeted by tuition hikes, Munroe-Blum made clear.
“The evidence from other regions is that if you’re going to raise tuition, do it on undergrads, not on grads,” she said, calling higher tuition for graduate students “counterproductive and certainly not competitive.”
Munroe-Blum also countered Malavoy’s concerns, saying that she favours an incremental tuition model. The principal scorned Quebec’s current tuition model, saying a system in which tuition is the same for all students regardless of family income “makes no sense.”
“Poor families are supporting families of greater means,” she said.
SSMU VP External Myriam Zaidi later questioned Munroe-Blum’s plans, saying that middle-class students will find themselves stuck in limbo, “too rich to benefit from financial aid, but too poor to pay the tuition.”
Student politicians across Quebec have spoken against Munroe-Blum’s views on tuition.
François Carbonneau, a board member of the Table de concentration etudiant du Québec (TaCEQ), of which SSMU is a founding member, said he did not know how high tuition might rise if it was deregulated by the government when the long-standing tuition freeze ends in 2012. In the University’s submission to the Commission, Munroe-Blum supports Finance Minister Raymond Bachand’s plan to deregulate tuition in 2012.
In an interview with the Daily, Carbonneau, a Laval student and one of a handful of student politicians to attend the Commission, said in French “I really fear for the wallets of Quebec students…. If there are no rules, we might end up like the American universities, which I don’t think is what we want to see.”
Michal Rozworski, VP External of the McGill graduate student-employee union AGSEM, who also attended the Commission, said that he opposed tuition hikes, even if to support graduate students.
“We see this as part of just a general issue of access…. We’re not going to let ourselves be divided off and conquered,” he continued. “We see solidarity as an important value across campus.”
MBA tuition jeapordizes NGOs
Professional schools like the law and medical schools are the “groups” that McGill intends to focus on most in the next five years, according to the University’s submission to the Commission, which previews the administration’s upcoming five-year strategic plan, to be released in the winter of 2011.
This explicit shift in priorities was not mentioned by either the administration or members of the Commission on Tuesday, but one professional program, the Management faculty’s Masters of Business (MBA), was discussed at length.
Speaking to the Daily immediately following the hearings, Munroe-Blum defended the deregulation of MBA tuition that began this semester, which saw in-province tuition skyrocket from $1,700 to $32,500.
“An MBA is not a God given right,” Munroe-Blum said. She argued before the Commission that average students were paying for a large portion of what is often a very lucrative degree, repeating administration talking points from last year.
“We are completely paying for this program…on the backs of our undergraduate students,” Munroe-Blum told the Commission. “It just wasn’t fair…it wasn’t equitable.”
Munroe-Blum also pointed out to the Commission that the average MBA program graduate makes just over $100,000 a year in their first three years in the workforce.
Zaidi denies that this is reason to increase tuition for the program. “First, I think the University should always fight to have more funding from the government to pay for these programs,” she said in an interview before the Commission hearings. Zaidi also cited concern about the increase’s effect on the non-profit sector.
“People coming out of the MBA with $60,000 in debt who want to work for an NGO are pretty much forced to go into those high-paying jobs,” she said.
Speaking with the Daily after the hearing, Provost Anthony Masi, who sat next to Munroe-Blum in the committee room, said the Management faculty was considering a program of retroactive student aid, which would give financial support to MBA graduates who do not enter the for-profit sector. No such program is yet in place.  Thirty per cent of the increase in MBA tuition revenue is being put towards traditional student aid this year.
Quebec, McGill not pulling weight
Administration representative Pierre Moreau, Executive Director of Planning and Institutional Analysis at McGill, told the Commission at length in French that McGill is grievously underfunded by the provincial government.
Moreau tied the administration’s desire to raise tuition to the slide in government funding. “It used to be that the lack of tuition revenue was made up by a higher government subsidy per student: that’s no longer the case.”
Moreau went on to criticize the government for a lack of commitment to graduate research, a top administration priority. He noted that from 2003 to 2008, the government of Quebec reduced its investment in research by 32 per cent, while McGill has increased its investment in research by 22 per cent between 2005 and 2008.
Zaidi pointed to questions of priorities, rather than just provincial help. “Yes, they should get more funding, but the question is what will they do with this funding,” she said. “I don’t think the priority would be student life, but rather [graduate] research, which doesn’t affect undergrads.”
Michel Pigeon, a Liberal MNA and member of the Commission, had similar concerns about McGill’s funding priorities Tuesday. “If the University was better financed, what would be your first priority, the most clear and urgent?” Pigeon asked in French.
Alternating between French and English, Munroe-Blum answered that the administration’s funding priorities were centered on more support for graduate students and help in settling non-Quebec students in the province.
Munroe-Blum told the Com-mission that increases in tuition would primarily affect undergraduates, and that such increases were needed to support graduate research.
Graduate research funded at expense of graduate students
McGill’s Commission submission shows their plan to invest in the construction of two new graduate research centres in coming years.
A research centre for neuroscience, pain, and immunology is intended to open in the Lyman Duff building at a cost of $26.8 million, of which McGill has agreed to pay $10.5 million.
Further, under the heading “Maintaining Academic Priorities,” the submission reveals plans for a biomedical research centre, to develop pharmaceutical and medical technologies, which will cost $120 million.
McGill has $650 million in outstanding deferred maintenance, but Masi wrote in an email that new construction still takes priority because it’s cheaper.
“The costs of new construction [are] most often less than attempting to retrofit older structures,” he said.
Despite this support of graduate research, Rozworski complains that the University does not provide basic support services for graduate students. “There are fewer and fewer teacher assistantships, so students are not getting the support they need to become educators,” he said shortly after the Commission hearings. “Graduate students themselves, members [of AGSEM] are coming to us and complaining that they are not getting trained…. We find that many departments do not have TA orientation sessions.”
“There is more graduate funding but it’s going into very specific [areas],” he continued. “There is more funding going into profit making areas.”
In 2008 McGill received $30.3 million in research funding from industries, an increase of nearly 73 per cent since 2003.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Seven weeks after banning the construction of new billboards in the borough of Plateau-Mont-Royal, the neighbourhood’s council voted to pull down all 45 remaining billboards. The costs of removal will fall on their owners. 
Projet Montréal authored the ban on the grounds that they only benefit corporate advertisers and detract from the beauty of the city.  Project Montréal – inaugurated as a municipal party in 2004 on a platform of urban sustainability – swept the elections for borough council in Plateau-Mont-Royal last year.
Alex Norris, Projet Montréal’s councillor, summarized the party’s position in a September 7 press release.
“The main beneficiaries of this advertising are a handful of powerful companies,” he said. “The losers are the citizens exposed to their ugliness day after day after day. It’s a very bad deal for Montrealers.” Projet Montréal contends that lost tax revenue from the billboards will be marginal.       
Projet Montréal calls for a “return to the public conception of the city.” The party’s other plans include closing off numerous streets to vehicle traffic. The sentiment of favouring the positive experience of public space over economic expediency might well lead to more projects with a broader impact than the billboard resolution.
Alex McGill, a Plateau resident and U2 McGill student, sees beauty as a draw for the popular neighbourhood: “it feels like one of the nicest neighbourhoods in Montreal. Also, being so close to Mount Royal and the park, it’s a great place to walk around.”
Projet Montréal’s plan may face formidable opposition: the Canadian constitution.  Julius Grey, a constitutional rights lawyer in Montreal, told the Gazette yesterday that the ban was “obviously illegal” by freedom of speech laws.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Refashioned program in works in consultation with students
McGill’s Humanistic Studies program, offered through the Faculty of Arts, has been cancelled. The major and minor concentrations are now closed to new students, though those already enrolled will be able to finish their degrees. There are currently 82 students registered in the major, and 18 in the minor. The core courses of the program, HMST 296 and 297, are no longer being offered.
Created in the 1970’s, Humanistic Studies allowed students to build their own liberal arts program out of humanities and social sciences offerings. Students could focus on a theme of their choosing. Through an interdisciplinary lens, the two core courses address the question of what it means to be human. Each student, aside from general area requirements, formed their own “collateral concentration” of three classes in their desired programs at the 300 level or above, in consultation with an adviser.
Philosophy professor James McGilvray, who administers the program, said “the program’s advantages have been the degree of flexibility it offers and the opportunity to explore. The cost was sometimes a lack of focus and depth.”
The program had been reviewed frequently by the administration the past few years, and it finally decided to pull the plug at the end of the 2009 fall semester. Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi stated that, “the Humanistic Studies program was retired because it was no longer serving the purposes for which it had been established in the early 70s. The decision to retire it was made after extensive consultation with faculty and students connected with the program, and after following all of the formal procedures within the Faculty and University.”
Student representatives selected from the Humanistic Studies Students Association were involved not only in the process of reviewing the old program, but in making recommendations for a new liberal arts program that will replace it.
“A department is being cancelled, so to have any student voice or involvement is pretty spectacular. I felt that, as a student ambassador on the committee, my opinions weren’t just tolerated, but actually taken into consideration,” said Liz English, one of the students who took part in this process.
Manfredi confirmed that a new interdisciplinary program is being crafted by a committee led by political science professor Jacob Levy, and is tentatively slated to open next fall if approved by the faculty and administration. According to English, the program in the works may offer honours and joint honours concentrations in addition to the major and minor. The program will also feature a language requirement.
“Undoubtedly, the new program is a step up from Humanistic Studies, if only just because there is more structure and legitimacy to the program as a whole,” said English.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Sustainability project funds put to use
The PGSS Environmental Committee kicked off its year on Tuesday with “Green Night,” an event showcasing recent environmental initiatives at McGill, including the work of the recently created, student-run Macdonald Ecological Garden at Macdonald campus, one of 13 new initiatives funded by the Sustainability Projects Fund (SPF).
The result of a movement spearheaded by McGill students, the SPF is a parity committee created to support environmental initiatives by McGill students and faculty members. The SPF has a budget of about $2 million over three years.
“It is a wildly genuine partnership of students and administration, not just because of the way the funds are set up but also because the committee itself is made up of four students and four members of the university administration,” said SPF coordinator Lilith Wyatt.
Emily McGill, a staff member of the Macdonald Ecological Garden, described how some of the money is being spent. She said the garden improves the local community’s access to locally grown food, and increases academic agricultural knowledge throughout the community by emphasizing research projects and holding various workshops, lectures, and tours of the garden.
In addition to the SPF, the administration recently embarked on a number of other initiatives aimed at making campus more environmentally sustainable, including making McTavish a pedestrian-only zone.
Chris Wrobel, a coordinator with the McGill Post Graduate Environment Committee, said that some practical elements in the University’s approach to sustainability are missing, however.
“I think it is a bit of a show. They have some showcase projects like the closing McTavish, but there are a lot more basic things they still have to tackle, like improving recycling efficiency,” he said.
According to Wrobel, McGill needs to become a lot more aggressive in incorporating more sustainable forms of energy and educating students and staff on how to reduce their energy use.
“Students need to be consulted a lot more on projects going on at both campuses. We don’t know…what they are doing and we certainly would like to have more input.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
