The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Controversial Afghanistan clause removed
In honor of Remembrance Day, Council passed a resolution last Thursday that calls for SSMU to remember and appreciate the sacrifice of Canadian soldiers. The motion, which was amended several times, spurred significant debate amongst councillors because of its initial inclusion of the clause, “Whereas, 152 Canadians have died in the war in Afghanistan, and continue to fight in defense of Canada, liberty, democracy, and human rights.”
Many Council members pointed out that the mention of the war in Afghanistan was divisive and took issue with the resolution’s implicit support for the war. Maggie Knight, a Clubs and Services Representative, explained her reasoning for supporting an amendment that would strike the second half of the controversial clause.
“I’m in general support of remembering the sacrifice made by soldiers. However, whether or not the war in Afghanistan is in defense of Canada is highly up for debate,” she said.
Radney Jean-Claude, the Social Work representative, echoed Knight’s sentiments, saying, “What’s important is to remember the sacrifice we made in the war, but including the words ‘and continue to fight in defense of Canada’ implies that SSMU supports the war in Afghanistan, and puts it in an ideological position.”
Spencer Burger, an Arts representative and author of the motion, addressed concerns that his resolution was too divisive to be debated at Council, and explained his motivation for writing the resolution. “This isn’t meant to be a divisive issue,” he said. “I meant it purely as recognition of the sacrifices of Canadian men and women in uniform. It’s an important issue on campus and for students.”
Anushay Khan, SSMU’s VP Clubs and Services, voiced her opposition to the resolution during Council, stating that as an entity that represents the McGill student body as a whole, SSMU does not have a right to take a stance on a political issue.
“I don’t think that this body [Legislative Council] has the authority to represent one side’s point of view or the other, and that’s why our clubs exist. As long as [the resolution] continues to say that Canadians die fighting for defense of liberty, democracy, and human rights, there’s a problem, because it’s something a lot of people may not agree with,” she said.
Eli Freedman, a Management representative, spoke in support of the un-amended motion, justifying his views in an emotional plea to council.
“I’m deeply disturbed that we would slight our veterans. I would be embarrassed if I told people that our student body did not just quickly approve this motion as I think any respectful Canadian would do. … I find it extremely insulting not to honour veterans.”
In response to the amendment’s passage, Freedman suggested that “those who voted to strike [the clause mentioning the Afghanistan War] down should publicly record their vote so they can be held accountable,” in the view that supporting such an amendment was humiliating for SSMU. Cathal Rooney-Cespedes, the Speaker of Council, struck down this motion, deeming it out of order.
The resolution passed by a large majority with an amendment that struck out the words, “and continue to fight in defense of Canada, liberty, democracy, and human rights.”
Knight defended the removal of the clause in an interview with The Daily.
“What we tried to do by arguing on behalf of an amendment to replace the controversial clause was to allow us to support the sacrifice of veterans without having a political aspect,” she said. “I think that many people would not unilaterally support the actions of the Canadian military, and I think that to truly value the sacrifices of our veterans, we need to disconnect their sacrifice from the politics of the particular conflict they’re involved in.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists voice opposition to austerity measures in Quebec and worldwide
Hundreds gathered at the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Atwater Friday to protest the Group of 20 (G20) meetings taking place this week in Seoul, South Korea. Brandishing signs in French declaring “NO to the G20” and “the real terrorism is capitalism,” protesters marched east through downtown to denounce the summit of finance ministers and heads of government.
The protest was organized by Anti-Capitalist Convergence (CLAC, its French acronym), a coalition of self-declared anti-capitalist and anarchist organizations in Montreal. CLAC has operated continuously since 2000, when it was formed to mobilize protesters for the third Summit of the Americas in Quebec City. Its member groups include the Indigenous Solidarity Committee, the Regroupment Anti-G20 Étudiant (RAGE), No One is Illegal, and the Communist Libertarian Union.
Sarita Ahooja, spokesperson for CLAC and a member of No One Is Illegal, spoke to the crowd before the march describing the event as one of hundreds of “protests around the world to denounce capitalism, misery, and poverty,” as well as “the imposition of measures that contribute to impoverishment [and] only serve to fuel generalized social discontent.”
Others at the march echoed her sentiments. Aaron, a local protester, voiced concern over recent “austerity measures which have real and terrible consequences in people’s lives,” and that he was happy with what he described as “a loud display of resistance [to such measures] here in Montreal.”
Aaron explained why he thought G20 members – including the governments of France, Germany, and Britain – were implementing austerity measures, saying, “Because [the G20] represents the interests of wealth. We live in a neoliberal age where there’s a huge transfer of wealth from public coffers into private hands, even in Quebec.”
Jean, another protestor, put it more bluntly: “It’s all about the money.”
The summit this year focused on the looming specter of a currency war between the largest economies in the world. Relations between the U.S. and China have been especially tense during the lead-up, in particular on the eve of a $600-billion injection into the U.S. economy by the Federal Reserve, which other nations have criticized due to the possibility of stimulating high inflation in the future by keeping the U.S. dollar artificially low.
According to its website, the G20 nations account for  ninety per cent of global gross national product, eighty per cent of international trade, and two thirds of the world’s population.
The G20, and its predecessor the G8, have long drawn controversy due to the high-level security measures imposed on host cities. “This demonstration categorically denounces the repression experienced last June in Toronto,” said Ahooja in reference to the over one thousand arrests made during protests at this summer’s G20 summit in that city. 
In a phone interview after the event, she added that at least two attendees were arrested over the course of the evening’s protest. “They are bent on criminalizing people who are there to contest the order of things,” she said.
Ahooja concluded with a major theme of the protest: “We think society should be organized in a horizontal way, so that people can have a decent living, with dignity, so that there’s justice for everyone, and not just for the few.” 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Voter turnout barely reaches quorum
The McGill student body voted to pass all three fall referendum questions, approving the renewal of the fee for SACOMSS (Sexual Assault Centre of McGill Student Society), the creation of a SSMU Charity Committee, and voting yes to the plebiscite question regarding a SSMU councillor for the Arts and Science faculty. The number of voters barely passed the 15 per cent quorum, with 15.2 per cent of students voting.
The SACOMSS fee renewal, which takes place every three years, had the highest percentage of student support, with 79.5 per cent of voters choosing to renew the $0.75 fee.
The creation of a SSMU Charity Committee, which passed with 75.8 per cent of the vote, was initially proposed by Max Luke, a student who sits on a Senate subcommittee on the environment.
“It was an idea of mine in late August,” said Luke. “Initially I had the idea to create a charity week or festival on campus that includes all faculties and departments and that’s the core thing: it’s about community building. … It started as an idea to raise money strictly for international aid, but as I spoke to more and more departments and faculties in September and October, I realized that it’s best to open it up, because there are so many views on campus.”
The concept has expanded to include both international and local aid, which will be supported by two different initiatives: the Charity Fund and Charity Week. The Fund will be directed mostly at international aid, and the Week aimed at work in Montreal.
“For the the Charity Festival, I’ve also formed a partnership with a Masters’ student in the school of Social Work, who is doing his thesis on credible financial flows within the United Way Montreal. So they’re affiliated with 300-some local organizations. That’s going to be a big part of the charity festival,” explained Luke.
The fee for the Charity Committee is $0.50 per semester and is opt-outable, although Luke said that in the original concept it was not: “It started out as a non-opt-outable fee, and then through consultation with various people it devolved into an opt-outable fee.”
Although the plebiscite question is not binding, the results showed support for a separate SSMU councillor for Arts and Science students, a faculty whose numbers are currently under the 2,000-minimum for a faculty to be represented at SSMU Council.
Clubs and Services Representative Maggie Knight, one of the councillors who submitted the question to Council, said that the process of consultation taking place will now lead to another referendum question.
Knight told The Daily, “We’re in the process of consulting with all the stakeholders very thoroughly…to make sure that if we take this to a referendum in the winter – which would be what we would have to do in order to amend the constitution to include a seat for Arts and Science students – that we would have a very strong plan, that everyone would have a good degree of certainty about what it would look like.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
State of emergency declared October 21 in isolated Ontario community
Chief Lewis Nate of the Eabametoong First Nation (pronounced Yab-mAh-tung) was tired during his interview with The Daily, because there had been another fire in his community the night before. On October 21, he declared the Eabametoong – which has a population of 1,200 and is one of 28 remote fly-in communities in northern Ontario – to be in a state of emergency.
“It kind of escalated, the last two homicides that we had…also the amount of drugs that [are] coming into our community,” Nate said in describing the situation before October 21. “It’s compounding into one big problem. It’s not something that happened overnight…but it was just too much to handle – we’re a small community.”
“Right now it’s pretty hard to work when you’re numb from all this stuff and it’s hard to get motivated,” Nate continued.
“We didn’t only have these two homicides, we’ve had 13 deaths in the last eleven months. If you have one death…that’s hard, but when you’re having a lot of deaths, you know, that’s really, really hard…You’ll get numb.”
According to Sergeant Jackie George of the Nishnawabe-Aski Police Services (NAPS), the problem of prescription drug abuse in Eabametoong has been noticeably increasing for the last five years. But in the view of Denise Fontaine, principal of John C. Yesno Education Centre – which teaches 336 Junior Kindergaten to Grade nine students and was the site of an arson in late September – the events prompting the declaration of emergency occurred suddenly.
“In a very short time…[people] just started acting out, and I really do believe it was displaced anger [and] frustration – [there is] no safe outlet for expressing frustration and anger…[so] that expression of anger trickles down to others you didn’t intend,” said Fontaine.
State of emergency
The arson of John C. Yesno resulted in the school’s closure for three and a half weeks along with $200,000 worth of smoke and water damage. The arson was bookended by two murders of local youth. Other recent incidents include the fire-bombing of a church minister’s house while five people were inside.
 “It seems to be the perfect storm…all of the conditions that already existed that are compelling, complex and dire are boiling over in this community,” said Nanda Casucci-Byrne, Chief of Staff in the Ontario Lieutenant Governor’s Office.
Casucci-Byrne added that in her eight years at the Lieutenant Governor’s office she had never before heard of a community declaring a state of emergency.
Nate explained the process behind his declaration: “We were having conference calls before that…to see how we could get help, but that wasn’t going anywhere, so that’s we decided…we had enough of talk we wanted to bring it to light- admit that we have a problem.”
In response to the declaration of emergency, Eabametoong received two Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) officers to help the five currently policing the community. One OPP officer stayed for two days; the second officer is estimated to remain in the community for up to five weeks.
“It’s short-term assistance for our police service,” said George. “The Nishnawabe-Aski Police Service, we have jurisdiction there. We have five members there but we need [to] double that. And we can’t double it because the federal and provincial bodies are not coming to the [negotiating] table.”
“[The OPP officers] accompany local officers during their shifts, they just ride together and learn from each other,” said Band Administrator Andrew Yesno.
Yesno also noted that the OPP officers help maintain 24-hour policing, “whereas before we had officers work from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and then 6 p.m. to 4 a.m. And then there was always a gap between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m. where there was no police.”
Response to the crisis
After Eabametoong’s declaration prominent vistors flooded the community. Chris Bentley, Minister of Aboriginal Affairs, was among them. So was Ruth Ann Onley, wife of Ontario’s Lieutenant Governor David Onley, who came with Sharon Johnston, Governor General David Johnston’s wife.
Indian and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC) and Health Canada officials visited the community on November 5, and Greg Rickford, MP for Kenora, the local riding, visited last week.
Rickford acknowledged that structural issues were behind the recent violence. “It’s the underlying issues that give rise to [these acts] that we are ultimately interested in,” he said.
“There’s been a lot of response from people in Canada to help,” Yesno said.
“We want to be there on a personal basis…it means a great deal to express our support on a tangible basis,” Casucci-Byrne said. “[The visit was] trying to let them know that people care, that they’re not forgotten, that others are listening.”
However, some are still pessimistic about Eabametoong’s position. Nate recalled seeing a headline in the Toronto Sun that read “Fort Hopeless” (Fort Hope is another name for Eabametoong First Nation).
“Now what kind of message is that to the people? We’re not hopeless,” Nate said, “I’d rather be here than any place else in the world.”
He is not taking the derision to heart, though. “You’ll always get that negativity no matter what,” he noted. “Anytime you want to make a change people will act negatively.”
In an email to The Daily, INAC Communications Officer Peter Sero said the ministry was committed to investing $400,000 in Eabametoong.
“[Funds will] help because we don’t budget for crises like homicides,” Yesno explained. “We get a limited amount of funds every year and what we do is we create a budget and make sure that we still get …[all the] basic things to make a town run, but we don’t really budget for emergencies or for having to charter for counselors to come in or trauma units.”
Going forward
Yesno said that money originally allocated for services such as water, sewage, and road clearing has been spent on combating various crises the community has faced. Nate said that up $174,000 of the band’s funds have been spent in order to deal with the recent string of emergencies.
Some in the community are skeptical that the INAC funding will make a dent in Eabametoong’s problems.
“Nobody believes in long-term plans – they say they do but they don’t supply funding for long-term projects,” Fontaine said. “There’s a fictional belief that Aboriginal communities get whatever they ask for.”
“We’re not looking for the quick fix, we’re looking for sustainability… Our kids need opportunities that they don’t get, that are easily available outside of a fly-in community,” Fontaine continued, referring to benefits students could have from external professionals leading workshops.
“We’re not just asking for money, we’re also asking for the resources … I think that’s one of the big misconceptions out there that we’re just asking for money but that’s not the reality,” added Yesno. “We want the professional help to come and help us, and to help us turn this around.”
 Nate sees a bigger dilemma facing his community. “I think the number one [is] going back to the land. [There are] two things that we [have] lost: one is the connection to the Creator, and the second was the connection to our homeland, to the traditional area,” he said.
Nate outlined a seven-point community development plan that has been forged through ongoing discussions between members of the council and community members.
“We’re meeting with the people, especially our elders and youth because they’re the forgotten lot,” Nate said. “We haven’t really had contact with them over the years…we’re kind of losing touch with them. The engagement with the seven-point plan [and] the ownership will come from them. If it’s going to work, its going to have to come from them, not the chief and council.”
Nate and Fontaine emphasized that internalized tension and emotions are a factor in the outbursts they have seen this year.
“Things have been happening over the years and a lot of internal stuff too that needs to be dealt with,” Nate said. “There are some things maybe that are uncomfortable, things that will come out. So I’ve got to walk that fine line too, I’m offending some community members because of this…because you know the truth hurts: that is the bottom line.”
“We have to start talking life into our community,” Nate continued.
“All we’ve been talking about is this person’s dead or this prescription drug issue and so forth, we’ve got to start talking about other things – about the future that lies ahead.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
