The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill slashes employee benefits
A  plan to scale down McGill’s employee benefit plan went into effect last month, following a Board of Governors decision made in November. The revised plan affects all McGill employees.
The McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) first learned about the University’s intent to implement such a policy at a June 4 meeting.
According to the union, the University’s administration began urging the Staff Benefits Advisory Committee (SBAC) to cut employee benefits costs by $1 million per year. University officials publicly indicated this position during the fall.
Following a November 23 vote by the University’s Board of Governors approving such a measure, MUNACA released a letter stating that employees already financed half the cost of their own benefit package, and noting that the University’s cuts represented a saving of approximately $1.3 million, a greater amount than their original target.
Upon further discussion in December between the administration and several organizations,  McGill agreed to cut employee benefits by precisely $1 million.
Groups involved in the discussion included MUNACA and the McGill Association of University Teachers (MAUT), a non-union organization to which approximately 60 per cent of University faculty belong.
In addition, dental coverage for retirees, which had been removed from employee benefits in November, was once again incorporated into the benefit plan.
“They agreed to make any adjustments due to the bad PR they received,” MUNACA president Robert Whittaker said. “I don’t think that they are ashamed or regretful. I think they are just upset for the bad PR they received for it.”
The cuts still stipulate that “out-of-pocket” maximums – the highest possible fee paid by employees for their benefits – have tripled, increasing from $150 to $400 for individuals and from $300 to $800 for families.
However, Faculty of Law professor Richard Janda, president of the MAUT, was pleased with the discussion process, despite the University’s unilateral decision to modify the employee benefits package.
“We did indeed reopen the issue and come back with an agreed-upon solution,” Janda said.  “For me the take home lesson is that a faculty association is still operating within a collegial environment.”
Janda also believes that the University’s administration faces a valid challenge from the Quebec government for fear of losing grant money.
“The University has explained for the past two years that in its arrangement with the Quebec government, it must arrive with a balanced budget,” he said.  “Unless the University proceeds to balance this budget, it will have less operating budget,” Janda said.
Whittaker asserted that the SBAC must be restructured so as to better defend employee interests. The SBAC is comprised of representatives from MUAT, MUNACA, the McGill Union of Non-Academic Staff Association, and other organizations.
“The structure of the SBAC will have to be looked at and changed,” Whittaker argued. “We sit on a board that is incapable of making a decision. Even if it does, they don’t support the cuts.”
While groups like MAUT can promote faculty interests, professors have not negotiated a collective agreement with the University.  In contrast with many Canadian schools, McGill does not have a faculty union. Yet Janda does not believe this necessarily weakens the community.
“Most universities in Canada have become unionized because faculties have concluded that they are, at least for some purposes, in an adversarial position with the administration,” said Janda. “If you believe that the University is this self-governing community – students are participants, faculty members are participants – then you say this operates more like a polity than an adversarial structure.”
Associate Vice-Principal (Human Resources) Lynn Gervais and Secretary General Stephen Strople were unavailable for comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Author analyzes how fears and  regulations remap inequalities online
2  girls1cup might be the defining cultural artifact of our generation. Viral, disgusting, and utterly compelling, the video’s popularity speaks volumes about the visceral thrills of our digital age. For those who haven’t had the pleasure of having a friend surprise you with the video, I’ll fill you in on the details.
The Internet meme features two girls shitting into a cup, feeding it to each other, and then puking in each other’s mouths. The video is often posted as a flame on Internet boards, where a clueless surfer may click the link without knowing what’s in store. For most viewers, 2girls1cup compels us because of our fascination at our own disgust. The girls in the video are transgressing bodily boundaries and consuming one another’s feces, things ejected not only from their bodies but also from our society. However, 2girls1cup is actually a trailer for a scat-fetish film called Hungry Bitches. One woman’s Internet junk is always another woman’s treasure.
 That cyberspace is full of weird shit isn’t a surprise to anyone who’s grown up in our information age. In fact, trolling the web for strange, glorious, and disgusting things is a common hobby among the young and the stoned. In terms of content, the Internet is mostly an unregulated space, and surfing it can be the equivalent of visiting your city’s seediest bar – without the physical risks. Online, you don’t have to leave your couch to be a voyeur or an exhibitionist. Our society’s fascination with the marginal is given free reign by the Internet’s vast archives of niche sexualities. As much as we revel in our own disgust at 2girls1cup, we must wonder at those who get pleasure from it.
The video also inspired a series of reaction videos. The manner in which the video has been passed around suggests that the people circulating the video take pleasure in other people’s reactions. Trust me, people’s reactions of disgust, shock, and horror are often the most titillating aspect for the fetishizer; the flasher or the exhibitionist get their rocks off on shock and surprise. Surfers passing around 2girls1cup for hilarious reactions are not as removed from the video’s target fetish audience as they may like to think.
Marshall McLuhan argues that all media is a narcissistic circuit. Narcissus, staring into his pool of water, didn’t fall in love with himself. The pool mediated Narcissus’s view and obscured his ability to recognize himself. Our modern media work the same way. Our technologies trick us into thinking that we’re interacting with one another, when in reality, they are reflecting ourselves.
The ironic stance taken to video memes like 2girls1cup masks our own fascination and compulsion toward sexual and bodily transgression. Mediating this fascination through a computer screen allows us to maintain an illusion of distance to these grotesque and sexual spectacles. An ironic stance is often coupled with a repetition and affirmation of how “funny” or “sick” something is. Trolling the Internet, we get to experiment with strange and socially unacceptable aspects of ourselves.
Often this anonymous experimentation gets wrapped up in the rhetoric of liberation. Bodies can travel unmarked in virtual space, and thus can arguably free themselves from the burden of racism or sexism, which limit their mobility in corporeal space. Many web utopists view the Internet as a safe space, emancipated from the structural subjugations that inhibit material life. This is one argument for why so many young queers experience their first coming-out online.
A seemingly infinite and unregulated space, the Internet is an ideal home for alternative sexualities. A quick Google search for polyamory, queer, BDSM, or dog dates (where people try to find dates for their dogs!) results in numerous networking sites that reveal large online communities for each sexual niche. We think of cyberspace as a place of increased democratization and equal representation. The wide array of marginalized sexualities on the net is evidence that this open forum is most obviously used to explore sex and sexual identity. The Internet and sex remain close bedfellows: porn kickstarted the World Wide Web and “sex” is still the most commonly searched word.
However, new media often just reuses the content of old media. Though the Internet may help build communities and raise the profile of marginal sexualities, the web does not cause these identities. Even child pornography, which the Internet is sometimes demonized for proliferating, predates the web.  By putting child pornography online, people are simply updating the sex they would’ve been fantasizing about anyway.
Cyberfeminists Sadie Plant and Akkucquere Stone argue that while the Internet allows marginalized people to move freely and safely on the Internet, it also grants bigotry the same anonymity. A racist on the Internet has no fear of recourse. Hegemonic structures of power are often simply remapped onto virtual space.
The groups that have the most to gain from disembodied sexual exploration – women, queer people, sex workers, and teens – are frequently the purported victims of the unregulated Internet. “The kind of harassment that often plagues women in face to face communication has, not surprisingly, become perhaps too frequently a fact of life in computer mediated communication,” writes Laurie Finke in “Women: Lost in Cyberspace?” Virtual harassment is real. Female bloggers can receive comments that threaten gendered violence; sexual predators meet children online; avatars on Second Life are victims of online rape; a girl on chatroulette.com (a site that connects users’ webcams at random) is confronted by demands to see her tits or shown a masturbating dick.
Because of these threats, women and children are told not to give out personal information online. However, advice cautioning on how to behave online can have the same drawbacks as the advice given to protect women from sexual violence in the real world: “Stay at home; avoid dark alleys, getting drunk, and wearing skirts.” While well-meaning, these warnings are misinformed and do little to protect women from sexual abuse. Sixty-nine per cent of rape survivors are assaulted by someone they know and sixty per cent of assaults occur in a private home, according to the Ontario Women’s Directorate. Fear-mongering about both virtual and realworld threats often does little to keep women safe, and only restricts their mobility on and off the web.
Zillah Eisenstein, a women’s studies professor at Ithaca College, writes of a woman student who entered a chatroom, gave a fake name to protect her identity, yet still felt uncomfortable – she was too worried about the possibility of sexual abuse.
The terror of virtual violence against women is a response to a variety of cultural fears surrounding the anonymity (and freedom) that the Internet gives to marginalized bodies. Our culture marks some strangers as more dangerous than others. One of the perceived dangers of the Internet is that we cannot classify and stereotype the “dangerous” and marked bodies of those who are raced, classed, or gendered as deviant or criminal.
Calls for increased regulation and stricter guidelines on Internet content can be to the detriment of the marginalized individuals they are intended to protect. For instance, the crimes of Phillip Markoff, dubbed the “Craigslist killer,” incited legislation in the U.S. that requires content on Craiglist’s erotic classified ads to be regulated.
Markoff has been charged with the murder of Julissa Brisman. Markoff met Brisman through her erotic services ads on Craigslist. According to an Associated Press article by Don Babwin, police believe Markoff may have been involved in other crimes against women who posted ads on Craigslist.
“This tragic incident will become yet another rallying cry for those who’d like to curtail freedom and openness on the Internet,” writes Leslie Harris, president and CEO of the Center for Democracy and Technology.
“A month after the killing of a masseuse who advertised on Craigslist, the classified ad site announced plans Wednesday to eliminate its ‘erotic services’ category and screen all submissions to a new ‘adult services’ section before they are posted,” writes Babwin, adding that under the new system, posting adult ads will also carry a fee. This legislation was passed in January 2010, but a quick browse over the Craigslist adult services section reveals that sex work and escort services are still regular content on the site.
If this legislation is enforced, it will put sex workers in danger. Craiglist provides a virtual space for solicitation that prostitution laws deny workers in the real world, and even a small fee makes the classifieds less accessible to those that need their protection the most. In Canada, while sex work is legal, public communication for soliciting sex is illegal. There is a correlation between the instigation of this law and reports of increased violence against sex workers. In both Canada and the U.S., online classifieds allow sex workers to make safe arrangements and decrease their chances of being put at risk. They can hash out who, what, when, where, and how much from the safety of their computer, and don’t have to worry about being apprehended for public solicitation. Sex workers can also request background checks and ask for references from their clients.
Increased regulation on erotic classified ads would force the sex workers currently online back onto the street, and would increase their risk of violence. “The Internet took a lot of sex workers off the street and created the entrepreneurial age of sex work. Now, it’ll drive them right back to where they came from,” explains Robyn Few, co-director of San Francisco’s Sex Worker Outreach Project.
The Internet, like real life, can be a site of both liberation and potential oppression. Increased regulation of the net will most likely harm those it’s supposed to protect. What’s really needed is equal access. Those who produce the software and hardware we use are a minority who make rules that govern the majority. A technocrati is currently being constructed as an elite club. Like most clubs of our society, it’s a boys club. Women are less familiar with computer technology – possibly in part due to the male-oriented computer game industry. In 2004-2005, less than 17 per cent of students enrolled in computer engineering, computer science, and software engineering were women, according to a report by the Software Human Resource Council. In order for the Internet to be a liberatory space for the marginalized, they must be instrumental in its construction.
Adrian Ringland, a 36-year-old man from the U.K., used his technical skills to force young girls to send him naked photos. He hacked onto their computers and threatened to crash their systems unless they obeyed his commands. The young women’s lack of computer programming knowledge increased their vulnerability.
Our media is a screen on which we can project both our fears and fantasies. Right now, we get to decide what we want the Internet to say about us – censorship and regulation or community building through the democratization of technical skills and sexual freedom? Let me put it another way: Do we want 2girls1cup to be erased from the Internet 4eva, or do we want 2girls1cup to be hacked on to a web broadcast of the Today Show?
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
War doctor Mads Gilbert discusses the politics of health in the Occupied Territories
Mads Gilbert and Erik Fosse became the eyes of the world in Gaza during Operation Cast Lead, the Israeli invasion of December 2008. As the only two foreign doctors in Gaza when the fighting broke out, Gilbert and Fosse reported to CNN, Al-Jazeera, ABC, BBC, and CBS from outside al-Shifa hospital where they worked, allowing the world to see the conflict through the eyes of those affected.
Gilbert spoke to students Friday night at an event hosted by the McGill chapter of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights. Gilbert described the interwoven nature of  politics and medicine, and his belief that health is the most important foreign policy issue of our time. Gilbert’s political opinions stand out in a profession where neutrality is often the expected norm. But in his view, to be neutral would be tantamount to complicity – putting his patients in further danger. He has argued that the wall separating Gaza from Israel is a dividing line between those who have the right to health care and those who do not, and that pushing for an end to violence and the blockade of Gaza is just “good preventative medicine.”
McGill Daily: Can you describe the scene at al-Shifa hospital once the first casualties started to arrive when the bombing began last year?
Mads Gilbert: We were coming at New Years Eve, and at that time the damage from the bombing had been going on for days already, and we knew the first day,  December 27, had been a complete nightmare with many injured going to the hospital…. The bombing of the al-Shifa mosque nearby had shattered all the windows in the surgical block. They were lacking everything and the patients kept pouring in, in waves, up to three, four, five hundred per day.
It was a huge trauma, very painful trauma for us. I really can’t fully understand what kind of trauma it was for our colleagues. They had all their own people coming in, so devastated, so torn apart. But they had their own family members too, friends, neighbours, working colleagues killed, paramedics. I had the deepest respect for their courage and persistence….I don’t think many Western hospitals – my hospital – would have prevailed [through] three weeks of this enormous flow of victims coming in, and lacking so much equipment and capacity.
MD: How were people getting to the hospital? Were ambulances and emergency vehicles able to move freely?
MG: No, ambulances were being shot at. They were not able to move freely. People were carrying children in arms, in private cars, any transport that was available. Often the injured could not [be brought in] because Israel was attacking the ambulances. It was complete chaos. It was mayhem, I would say, outside the entrance to al-Shifa. There were stretches of quiet…but we never knew if they would bomb or attack the hospital. They did bomb hospitals, the al-Quds hospital.
MD: Did you treat individuals who were victims of the use of unconventional weapons? What are their noticeable effects?
MG: We were treating people who we think were victims of new weapons. The first time they were used was in Lebanon in 2006 – DIME weapons – dense inert metal explosives. They are a new generation of bombs that are highly explosive, very short range of action. But if you are in the range of action you are torn apart. A fair amount of children sustained these injuries, and it completely ripped off their arms and legs. Some of the adults could survive it with amputations.
MD: There have been claims about Israel using white phosphorous gas, which results in severe chemical burns. Did you deal with any of these casualties?
MG: I didn’t see any myself, but there were casualties. But phosphorous grenades are not illegal and can be used as smokescreens under international law, although they should not be used against civilian targets. I think all the focus on phosphorous bombs is a little bit ill-informed, and not the main issue.
The most important weapon that Israel is using, and has used against the Palestinians, is the siege of Gaza – that is illegal, against international law, and needs to be lifted immediately. As we are speaking, Israelis are still sieging Gaza, and it is a huge blockade. No building material is coming in, no food, cement, schoolbooks, pencils – security for the people.
MD: What effect has the siege had on the medical infrastructure in Gaza, before and after the war?
MG: First of all, it has caused a very severe and worrisome decline in the health condition of Gaza, stunting amongst children, malnutrition, anemia, and a general exhaustion. People are exhausted, the lack of freedom to move around…. The fundamental condition of health has been weakened by the years of siege…. The hospital health care is deficient of important supplies, maintenance, spare parts, which makes it difficult to work as a doctor and nurse.
MD:  Do you believe that medicine and politics can be separated?
MG: As a medical doctor it is my duty to see the world from the angle of my patients and to try to safeguard their fundamental needs for health…. If the first provisions are not in place, then as a doctor I have to talk about their living conditions so that they can change. It goes without saying that if you have unsafe water in Montreal, the general surgeon has to talk to the government, and that is a political process.
All the patients who came in came in because of Israeli bombings. That was the main medical problem. It was not lack of materials, a lack of doctors. It was the ongoing destruction of human life, at the hands of the Israeli government and army…. Bear in mind that 13 Israelis were killed, whereas 1,400 Palestinians were killed. That is 13, and 1,400 too many.
[The] power distribution in society, the distribution of access to health care, human security, all these aspects of life are political aspects. I think the medical community has a responsibility to take part in the decisions that affect the power distribution, and the distribution of wealth, access to fundamental provisions needed for a good life.
So I think politics and medicine are interwoven and that health is currently the most important foreign policy issue of our time.
MD: Why did you feel it was important to report what you were witnessing as a medical professional?
MG: We had to tell the world what was going on in order to stop that, so as to safeguard the safety and living conditions of our patients, and we did what any doctor has the obligation to do: to be a spokesperson for the voiceless, to be a defender of the patients’ interests, and that is an outstanding tradition, and we did our best to inform the leaders of the world, so that they could see what was going on. Unfortunately they didn’t act, but we are convinced to this day that it was right of us to talk about this.
MD: You have been criticized by the Israeli government, among others, for providing one-sided criticism while concealing your political stance. Should people see you as an objective, third party observer?
MG: Yes, we are being criticized by the Israeli government and by the Zionist lobby for being liars and what not, and that is an interesting illustration that medicine is indeed political.
The doctor and the medical community should be concerned with prevention, with changing fundamentally the conditions for health that will only treat the patient. If we were to only stand there and patch up people and stop the bleeding, and not say anything about the causative factors, we would betray our patients. So it was our duty to speak, our duty to tell the world, why all these patients, why all these children were coming in and were dying, were so injured. It was not an earthquake, not a natural disaster; it was a deliberate man-made disaster, planned meticulously, and executed by the state of Israel.
Nobody is neutral, really. While we have chosen sides with the Palestinian people, that does not mean that we won’t treat an Israeli soldier coming to al-Shifa. At the individual level we will always be neutral. But at the system level we went to Gaza…because we think the Palestinian people have a just cause, that they are being occupied and that that is unjust, simple as that.
What is the difference between me and Erik, and the Israeli doctors working in the army? They have chosen sides in their government, and for the oppressor, and for the occupant, and well, that is their decision. But it is a political decision too. Why should only we be criticized of being one-sided? Where are the discussions about the duties and the responsibility of the Israeli medical associations, Israeli medical community, of all the Israeli doctors who joined the army? Where is that discussion; where is the discussion about their medical ethics?
All that happened in Gaza could have been prevented if the world had not kept silent, if the American administration did not keep silence, if the world had not keep silent, but told Israel to stop it, stop it, stop it. You have to come to the negotiation table, we have to find a solution, you can not kill all these civilians – period.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
PGSS suit asks student federation to set referendum date
CUP – Canada’s largest student lobby group will be in Quebec courtrooms twice next week.
The Canadian Federation of Students (CFS) is pursuing legal action against the Canadian Federation of Students-Quebec Inc. (CFS-Quebec), alleging that the group is using their name illegally.
At the same time, the Post Graduate Students’ Society of McGill University (PGSS) is seeking legal action against CFS, asking the court to fix a date for a referendum on the society’s continued membership in the national federation. The PGSS was one of more than a dozen schools across Canada to launch a petition last fall to examine the possibility of exiting CFS.
While CFS-Quebec was recognized by the national organization as their Quebec branch until as recently as last summer, a CFS lawyer sent a letter to the executive of CFS-Quebec on September 30, disassociating the organization from recognition as CFS-Quebec and demanding that the group stop using the CFS name.
CFS’s legal action against the Quebec component comes on the heels of a lawsuit filed last month by CFS-Quebec against CFS, seeking over $400,000 in membership fees that the Quebec group says should have been earmarked for Quebec initiatives by the national federation over the last three years.
The September 30 letter accused CFS-Quebec of engaging “in activities which have caused and continue to cause damages to the CFS and are contrary to the goals and objectives of the CFS.”
The letter also stated that since CFS-Quebec is no longer recognized by the national federation, it is no longer entitled to any portion of CFS membership fees. It went on to demand that CFS-Quebec “cease any and all attempts to collect, claim and/or deposit said membership fees from members of the CFS/CFS-Services and any affiliated provincial component.”
But CFS-Quebec executives say that because the group is recognized by the CFS members in the province, they should be recognized.
“At the annual general meeting of the CFS, there was a decision taken, without opposition, by the members from Quebec explicitly to the effect that the CFS-Quebec Inc. is the only legitimate arm of the CFS within Quebec,” said CFS-Quebec secretary-treasurer Andrew Haig.
CFS bylaws require the national federation to transfer one-sixth of its membership fees from each province to the provincial component or to spend that money directly in the province.
According to claims in the lawsuit filed by CFS-Quebec, CFS has done neither for three years.
“It’s unfortunate that we were forced to take those steps,” said Haig. “But six months in, we have no records for what happened to the money that was provided to our organization.”
The four CFS members in Quebec – PGSS, the Dawson Student Union, the Concordia Student Union, and Graduate Students’ Association – allegedly pay over $400,000 combined to the lobby group each year, though that figure is unclear.
The newer case filed by CFS against the Quebec federation attempts to prove that CFS-Quebec has continued to work against the federation, in addition to not complying with the September cease-and-desist letter.
The case’s evidence includes a report from Ladan Mahabadi, the PGSS VP External and a CFS-Quebec board member, submitted to PGSS council. The report states that the PGSS has had a poor relationship with CFS and CFS-Quebec.
It also includes a blog post from CFS-Quebec president Gregory Johansson, written in defence of an unsuccessful motion package to reform the national organization that was presented at the CFS semi-annual meeting in late November.
In early January, Johansson was denied entry to a meeting of the national executive of CFS, despite being ratified as a national executive member at November’s annual general meeting.
In addition to seeking a referendum date, the PGSS action is also asking the court to impose different rules on the referendum than those set out in the CFS bylaws.
“PGSS has a mandate from council to preserve the integrity of the process,” said Daniel Simeone, president of PGSS. He said they want to “ensure there is a fair set of rules that would allow adequate time for voting.”
“Regrettably the situation is before the court at the moment,” said CFS national treasurer Dave Molenhuis. “We hope that these matters are resolved quickly.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Complaint sparks debate on social networking site’s intentions and responsibilities
The Canadian Privacy Commission (CPC) launched a new investigation into Facebook privacy policies and practices last week. The CPC acted in response to a complaint claiming that new default privacy settings introduced by the site in mid-December 2009 made the complainant’s personal information more available than his previous settings.
“The individual’s complaint mirrors some of the concerns that our office has heard and expressed to Facebook in recent months,” said Elizabeth Denham, the assistant privacy commissioner, in a press release.
Denham spearheaded a similar investigation last summer, which released findings criticizing how Facebook handles the personal information in its care, suggesting that the site also provide users with more control over their privacy settings.
After intensive discussions in August 2009, Facebook agreed to modify the site in order to address the commissioner’s concerns. However, these changes have only evoked fresh concerns.
“Some Facebook users are disappointed by certain changes being made to the site – changes that were supposed to strengthen their privacy and the protection of their personal information,” said Denham, in the press release.
The complaints raise questions over whose interest may be served in the operation of Facebook, a site with over 350 million users worldwide, 12 million of which are Canadian– a third of the country’s population.
Michael Hoechsmann, a professor of media and technology in the McGill Faculty of Education, commented on Facebook’s intentions toward protecting the privacy of its users.
“I think the investigation is warranted, but I have some misgivings about how the investigation will be conducted and what the implications will be for the Internet as we know it,” he said.
“Facebook seems a bit brash. They have so much momentum and such a large user base they seem willing to make unpopular decisions if it’s in their corporate interests,” Hoechsmann added.
Facebook generates revenue by selling advertising space they can target at specific users. The site is able to target users based on their personal information, to which the site has broad access.
“At the end of the day, Facebook is a corporation trying to make money,” said Nick Kandel, U1 Arts.
Hoechsmann described Facebook as a new medium of market research. In the past, Hoechsmann said, markets would sample youth to find out their preferences.
“Everyone gives [such information] up now [through sites like Facebook],” said Hoechsmann.
Within the context of the privacy debate, some believe that responsibility for privacy settings should begin and end with the user.
“Privacy settings are your responsibility,” said Kay Penney, U1 Science.
Hoechsmann said he was hopeful that users would be careful when it came to their privacy.
“Youth do make good decisions around setting private information,” he said.
Hoechsmann, however, distinguished between the type of information displayed on sites like Facebook, and more sensitive and potentially damaging information, like credit card numbers and bank accounts.
“[Information on Facebook] is more of a personal nature,” said Hoechsmann. “People aren’t worried about credit fraud. Here the issue is how we are represented to others.”
Nevertheless, the CPC investigation has raised questions over how emerging media like the Internet should be regulated, if at all.
“We need to have some regulatory oversight [over the Internet], as we have had with old media,” said Hoechsmann.
Taylor Stocks, U2 Arts, agreed with him. “There’s no dialog over what’s acceptable [on the Internet],” Stocks said.
However, others feel that oversight or regulation could stunt the potential of the internet as a global, information-sharing medium.
“There’s something exciting about an unregulated Internet that’s part of its potentiality…[and] its capacity to share and build new cultural forms through mass collaboration,” said Hoechsmann.
Hoechsmann cited the examples of remix and mashup music circulating on the Internet as progenies of the medium that could be threatened by stricter oversight and regulation, whether by the hand of the government or the corporations with economic interests in the Internet.
“Things like remix and mashup could be regulated right out of existence,” said Hoechsmann. “We could over-regulate the Internet to the point where we can’t use it like we do now. It could become a more restricted, corporate-controlled Internet.”
The CPC could not comment directly because the investigation is ongoing.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Eight to 10 Quebec doctors working in Haiti are unaffiliated with any organization
On February 2, the Quebec Ministry of Health denied a request made by volunteer orthopedic surgeons in Haiti to receive remuneration of $700-$800 a day for their time and services.
“Despite their worthy gesture, we cannot pay volunteers who went to Haiti on a voluntary basis, without coordination with the institutions responsible for this and without an official mission order,” said Karine Rivard, the press attache for Yves Bolduc, Quebec’s Health Minister.
Rivard explained that Quebec’s current involvement in Haiti ultimately swayed the decision of the ministry.
“Since the tragic events in Haiti, the Quebec health and social services department has been contributing to the international aid efforts by responding to the needs expressed by the federal government and international organizations,” she said, noting that Quebec has worked closely with the Red Cross.
The surgeons traveled with a group of eight to 10 other volunteer physicians from Quebec, including orthopedic surgeons, anesthesiologists, and general surgeons, on their own accord without attachments to any particular organization.
Bolduc has said the requests were made by the physicians with the belief that through compensation, the Quebec government could show their support for the relief effort in Haiti.  Bolduc said the physicians have also argued that remuneration could help keep their offices open, allow them to stay for longer, and encourage other physicians to join in the effort
“There are many consequences to the decision,” Bolduc told the National Post on January 27. “Because there are many people who work in the aid scene and they are volunteers and they are not paid.”
However, doctors who sign on with organizations like Médecins sans frontières (MSF) receive a small stipend for their time.
“The doctors who are recruited by MSF receive compensation but not a real salary. On their first mission, physicians receive $1484 a month,” said an MSF spokesperson.
Comparing MSF doctors to the group of Quebec physicians, the MSF spokesperson suggested that doctors must understand the full implications of deciding to be a volunteer.
“We are a professional organization. [The Quebec doctors are] something completely different. I don’t know who is sending them or which organization they are working for. If they decide to work for MSF, they have to accept the really low salary we offer,” they added.
The Association des orthopédistes du Québec declined to comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
