The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
International conflicts spill into Canada via illicit trade
Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) officials confiscated 1,700 kilograms of hashish from a container aboard a South African ship entering the port of Montreal on February 18.
The seizure came shortly after 97 kilograms of opium were confiscated from a shipping container from Iran in late January, making it the second of two major drug busts at the port in the span of two months.
Dominique McNeely, a spokesperson for the CBSA, said that tracking drug shipments into Montreal can often be difficult for officials working at the port.
“It’s a challenge for all customs agencies all across the world, because the vast majority of goods which come into the country are legitimate and necessary,” said McNeely. “There is a small percentage of illegal materials. Our mission is to find that percentage.” She added that roughly one million ships come in and out of the Port of Montreal every year, and the goods that arrive are mainly from abroad.
Prevention of drug trafficking often requires the efforts of security personnel in their country of origin, the go-between regions, and the nation that receives the narcotics.
According to the 2009 UN World Drug Report, “large scale illicit crop cultivation seems to require political instability.” The report also states that “traffickers may prefer authoritarian regimes.”
Unstable regions are also easy conduits for drugs produced elsewhere, on their way to Europe or North America.
“Failed states can become huge sources for drugs, and certainly for money and human trafficking,” said McGill political science professor Mark Brawley, citing the example of Bosnia in the late 90s.
The U.S. has pushed Mexico to confront drug trafficking as a security issue. “All that [has] done is ramped up all the violence,” says Brawley.  On the other hand, Brawley claims, the same effort in Columbia would render better results. “What you were dealing with there were bigger organized proto-state revolutionaries.  To take them on in a militarized fashion might have worked.”
McNeely, however, stated, “What you have to do is actually find people some way of making a living that’s as good as raising illegal crops.”
She added that the issue of imported illegal materials goes beyond drugs. “Our agency is responsible for enforcing over 90 laws and regulations.  That can include stolen cars, drugs, food, plant, and animal products that don’t meet our requirements,” said McNeely.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists say police disproportionately target poor youth of colour
Montreal’s 14th annual March Against Police Brutality will take place today. The event has gained special attention after the shooting of teenager Fredy Villanueva in 2007, an affair that shed light on both police brutality and the Montreal North neighbourhood.   
Montreal North is one of the City’s most diverse boroughs; a third of its 82,000 citizens belong to a visible minority.  It is also one of the poorest parts of Montreal: the neighbourhood’s average income is around $17,000 and 12.5 per cent of residents are unemployed – compared to 8.8 per cent in the rest of the city.
One of the central law enforcement issues in the borough is the national drug policy, which some claim affects poor and minority youth disproportionately.
Jaggi Singh, an activist with the Montreal immigrant advocacy organization No One Is Illegal, discussed both drug offenders and illegal gamblers, saying that the groups are disproportionately convicted in poor neighbourhoods – despite also existing in wealthier ones.  He added that a police crackdown on a dice game in a park was the first incident leading to the shooting of Fredy Villanueva.
“There’s a whole double standard whereby youth of colour and other marginalized youth are targeted for minor drug offences while police turn a blind eye to middle class drug use, which is just as open and acknowledged,” Singh noted. 
“What the criminalization of drugs does is provide a pretext for the police to practice both racial profiling and social profiling.  There’s a clear phenomenon where prisons are full of youth of colour for minor drug offences, and it’s a cycle which the police help perpetuate,” he added.
According to Eugene Oscapella, a criminology professor at the University of Ottawa, policing and convicted drug offences are closely related, as law enforcement officials often exercise their own judgment in choosing whether to enforce drug laws.
“Police have enormous discretion in enforcing laws,” Oscapella said.  “That’s part of the way the police operate in this country, and most Western countries. They’re subject to direction from above in the police force, but police as a body have enormous discretion. You could be smoking a joint in front of a police officer.  Even if he busts you he may not charge you; he may just take your stuff away.  So much of it depends on the local community,”  he added.
He added that drug offenders are unfairly targeted in poor neighbourhoods as opposed to wealthy ones, because deals in neighbourhoods like Westmount are more likely to take place behind closed doors.
In recent years grassroots organizations such as Montreal Nord Republik have formed in response to increasing tensions between police and the neighbourhood.
Singh hoped that citizen pressure would eventually move the City’s police to change their behaviour. 
“The Villaneuva case is the tip of the iceberg.  It’s a microcosm of what happens on a daily basis.  At least what we have in this situation is a coroner’s inquest.  We’re seeing all the contradictions expose themselves,” said Singh.
 “The Montreal police are notorious for their arrogance and their impunity and their ability to squirm out of any kind of accountability.  But I feel that it’s through the strength of social movements that we can turn the tide,” Singh added.
The Service de police de la ville de Montréal  were unavailable for comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A Montrealer discusses weed distribution by bike
The Daily sat down with Jean, who delivers weed on his bike in Montreal to supplement his income and other projects. He discusses the various aspects of distribution and how it affects his life.
The McGill Daily: What is your job exactly? I know you deliver on your bike.
Jean: It’s not necessarily a job, it’s more extra income.
MD:  Okay what do you do for your extra income?
J:  Well I mean, you know. Like deliver things to people.
MD:  What kind of things?
J: It’s only one thing of course, like pot. Or hash. Only things THC-based.
MD: You’ve never sold coke or hard drugs?
J: No, no way. Of course not
MD: Why “of course not?”
J: Have you ever seen a cokehead or a crackhead?… Would you ever want to deal with them? And then you have to worry about your soul as well. So I’m a little bit worried about my soul, and things like that.
MD: Why do you have to worry about your soul?
J: ’Cause it’s not a good thing really. Very addictive. People freak out and they can’t handle it. It’s not a good thing. Definitely two different things between pot and cocaine. There’s a huge difference in that.
MD: Do you buy wholesale or do you deliver for someone else?
J: I work with some people.
MD: Is it like a co-op?
J: No, not really. It’s not a co-op but it is sort of run collectively. But there is this one person [in charge].
MD: How did you get the job?
J: It goes way back. Someone offered me to buy their pager years ago. I didn’t want to deal with it at the time so I mentioned to another friend of mine who needed a job…. [I told him] if you get this just keep me in mind for a day of riding, or a shift or two….
At this time there was only one person working a day. There wasn’t that many clients. I mean, there was only one person a day and there was no dispatcher so you would just have the pager in your pocket and call people back. Now it’s growing; it’s really big. We have lots of clients so now instead of having one person working a day, there’s three people.
MD: Do you have a central dispatcher?
J: Yeah, so there’s a dispatcher and there’s two riders.
MD: How does one get a job?
J: [Laughs] You have to know people. The person who controls it has to know you. I mean it’s obvious, you’re not just going to hire people off the street.
MD: Do you know where these people get their weed from?
J: It’s mostly local, actually. A good part of it is just here in Montreal from what I understand. Occasionally it comes in from other places. The more exotic brands get brought in from Vancouver or the U.S.
MD: Do you ever have run-ins with the Hell’s Angels?
J: Not for this. There’s a certain little territory that they have that they don’t really want you in but like for something like pot – they are more interested in the things that make more money like heroin and coke and everything else. All the bad stuff people do.
MD: Do you ever have any run-ins with other organized crime?
J: There’s been a couple times but it’s all good. The thing that’s funny is we know all the other people and everybody works together…. Generally you’re dealing with people who just have pot. No one’s crazy about it. No one’s going to fucking jump you or whatever.
MD: Have you ever made any deliveries to office buildings?
J: Once a week [or so]. I haven’t delivered in a while but we had a client at 600 Maisonneuve and even lawyer’s offices, so we’d go up and meet in the bathroom and weird shit like that…. [Then there’s] the IBM building. There are people there, lawyers and what not. In fact one of our oldest clients is a lawyer, a lawyer for musicians. It kind of makes sense.
MD: I guess we can talk about the fact that you don’t really have any ethical issues with weed.
J: The things that are legal, the vices people have that are legal are far worse for you than shit that isn’t legal. I mean I think everybody knows that, come on, the general people of society understand. I mean it’s probably like more people should be smoking pot every morning, you know? I don’t think that anyone should be a pot head – not at all. But alcohol is far worse for you and far worse for society in fact.
MD: What’s the profit margin?
J: It’s not very much. When the rider delivers it’s like $30 for 3.5 grams. And so the rider gets $9 of that and the dispatcher gets a $1 of that. And with that I think you’re only making a few dollars for a bag. Most of the money is going to the rider…. They’re the ones doing the work.
MD: And the $20 covers the cost of buying wholesale?
It covers the cost of buying it and with a little bit extra, not very much. Like $1 or $2.
MD: You really have to sell a lot to make a profit.
J: Everybody says that, yeah. That’s the thing – you get people who buy an ounce and they’re like “I’m going to sell it.” But they’ll never make any money. For an ounce you might make like $20. The only time you make any money with pot is when you’re doing a lot of it. Or if you’re the type of person who grows it and sells it.
MD: Have you ever had any run-ins with the cops?
J: Not for this specifically…. Well, I mean we’re talking in this context, so I’ll say no.
*Name has been changed
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A recovering heroin addict talks about Narcotics Anonymous and life in recovery
Amy G. has lived the everyday process of addiction recovery in Montreal, and as a recovering addict has necessarily lived the web of infrastructure and people that this process involves.
The McGill Daily: What sort of recovery organizations and relationships are you involved with?
Amy G: I belong to twelve-step fellowship, which are all based on AA – Alcoholics Anonymous. I go to NA which is Narcotics Anonymous, I’ve been to CA [Cocaine Anonymous] as well. I still go to AA too, even though I’ve never had a problem with alcohol…but at this point in time, most meetings are open to the fact that most people are cross-addicted.
I worked as a counsellor for a while, for three years. Because we’re a self-sustaining organization in the sense that it’s basically addicts helping addicts – I’m overtly that way, because part of my problem is I want to fix other people’s problems rather than my own. I’m very proactively involved in everyone else’s shit. There has to be a certain urgency and outgoing-ness toward others for this program to work. In that way it is sort of unique.
When I was in detox or whatever, predominately everyone there is a recovering addict and there’s a reason why. And the reason why is if you’re not, you don’t fucking know. That’s all. I don’t care how empathetic you are or how many books you’ve read…. If you haven’t sold your shit for crack, you don’t know what it’s like to sell your shit for crack. You’ll never understand that kind of sick contradiction within.
MD: What do you think of the support infrastructure in Montreal?
AG: I think a support, a therapy, a detox, or a drug recovery counsellor, anything related to that is going to be beneficial – fuck – therapy is going to be beneficial. You have to wanna get clean, and if you really want to get clean, you’re going to, within a certain amount of support and structure.
Obviously I can’t see how any [outside therapy or support] could be wrong, but as far as I’m concerned, 12-step programs are the way you interactively remain abstinent, and more importantly, work toward some kind of real sobriety.
Abstinence and sobriety are not the same at all. Abstinence just means I’m not using – I’m still a fucking asshole, I haven’t done shit to improve who I am, I’m terrified of the world, and I’m lying all the time – but hey, I didn’t pick up. Sobriety is when you actually have some kind of quality of life that you’re engaged in.
Most of the time I don’t feel I’m very sober – I’m abstinent. Sometimes I actually feel like I’m beginning to understand how to accept enough to allow some kind of sobriety in my life. You know I could qualify that by saying I look at most lay people – non-addicts – and I don’t think they have much fucking sobriety in their life. But who cares?
I understand the [fellowship] rooms are full of schmucks, just like outside the rooms. It’s like, so what? You can go in, and you can spend an hour and a half not using, where you will probably hear some shit that’s gonna help you, where you’re going to be with people who actually understand how it’s possible to sell everything you own for rock.
One of the key things about addicts is if they don’t move forward – they go back. You have to be proactive.
MD: How do you feel about media representations of addiction?
AG: I have a particular story. I started very late, I have a family – I think that’s part of the misconception and part of the way it’s being mis-shown in the news or in film. It’s because they want to break it down and say it’s swallow-able – and it’s not. Life is messy and that’s just how it is.
Often you’ll hear addicts in the room say how grateful they are that they’re addicts. And it is kind of mind blowing to hear someone who’s saying “I spent this much time in jail, and so on – and I am so grateful.” Not just for the program and the rooms, but just to have been allowed the chance to see, I guess. Because there’s nothing like crisis to eradicate the unnecessary.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Valuable crop would be used to produce medicinal drugs
If pharmaceutical research company API Labs’ non-narcotic strain of poppies is approved by the federal government, they may be grown in Lethbridge, Alberta as early as 2013. This would be Canada’s first commercial cultivation of poppies.
“We need to focus on innovation,” said Glen Metzler, president and directing manager of API Labs, arguing that agricultural research is central to the development of Canada’s economy.
The company hopes to kick-start the production of thebaine poppies, a unique species that does not produce opium. Instead, it provides a high yield of thebaine, a chemical used by pharmaceutical companies to produce medicinal drugs like OxyContin and codeine.
Metzler believes this crop could increase the independence of Canada’s economy, create 300 new jobs, and provide farmers with a viable cash crop.
Thebaine poppies are valued at $3,000-$6,000 per hectare as opposed to the $500-$700 per hectare value of typical crops such as wheat and barley.
“To me it comes down to [the] market and having a buyer in place for your commodity,” said Robert Spencer, commercial horticulture specialist for Alberta’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
Farms and other businesses in the area have provided financial backing for the project, while the Lethbridge Chamber of Commerce has begun lobbying the provincial and federal governments for financial support.
“We’re very much in support of this and we are going to take resolutions of support forward to be passed by the provincial Chamber of Commerce” said Paul Pharo, president of the Lethbridge Chamber of Commerce.
There are concerns, however, that the increased availability of thebaine poppies could lead to its illegal diversion into the making of controlled substances, such as hydrocodone, with relative ease in a small-scale operation.
But according to Metzler, large-scale processing would require a $40-million facility and 70 per cent of the employees to be educated to a Master’s or PhD level, making it economically unfeasible for the poppies to be used in any significant trafficking operation.
Furthermore, reports from the Poppy Advisory Control Board of Tasmania, Australia, where thebaine poppies have been grown for 40 years, recount only 30 minor cases involving the illicit use of poppies, and only three cases resulting in prosecution.
Metzler hopes to initiate crop testing by spring, and begin widespread cultivation within the next three to five years. First, the proposal must undergo assessment by Health Canada, to ensure “the issuance of the license would not create a risk to public health, safety, or security; and, the activities to be carried out under the license do not infringe any of Canada’s international obligations.”
Southern Alberta was chosen as the ideal location for poppy cultivation due to its dry environment, which deters mould and fungi that would prey on the crop. Moreover, the high variation in temperature from day to night would produce higher thebaine yields from each poppy.
Currently, Canada is the only one of the G-8 countries that is not involved in poppy production, which has led to imports of up to $1.2 billion per year in poppy products.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
