The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel criticized provincial response to the fiscal crisis and university underfunding
Julius Grey, Françoise David, and Gaétan Barette criticized Quebec’s most recent response to the fiscal crisis, and addressed university underfunding in a panel discussion on Wednesday afternoon at McGill.
The panel was organized by SSMU and the Table de concertation étudiante du Québec (TaCEQ).
Many of speakers’ statements were motivated by the 2010-2011 Quebec budget, tabled Tuesday by finance minister Raymond Bachand.
The budget calls for the government share of university funding to align with the average of the other Canadian provinces.
In 2007-2008, Quebec’s share was 67.9 per cent. Led by Jean Charest, Quebec Liberals want to bring the province’s share down to below 60 per cent.
The Liberal government is especially adamant that students, who currently shoulder 12.5 per cent of costs, increase their share to reach the average tuition fees of other provinces.
David, co-spokesperson of the Québec solidaire party, criticized the budget.
“Yesterday’s budget plan is not the Quebec we want. What’s happening here is a historical moment, but it’s history in a bad sense,” David said in French.
Increases in tuition fees of $50 per semester for all students are planned for the next two school years. This move is part of a 2007 decision to lift a 13-year tuition freeze instituted by the Parti Québécois. The freeze ends in 2012, and increases are capped at $100 per year.
Without specifying the amount, Quebec has also already announced that a new higher tuition will apply after the fall of 2012. The “Meeting of Partners in Education” next fall should lead to clearer guidelines.
SSMU’s web site claims that tuition hikes will not significantly alleviate underfunding. Currently, Quebec universities need at least an additional $400 million a year – but with the proposed hikes, students will only account for about $20 million more in investment.
The new budget also includes a graduated health tax, other public service user fees, and a higher provincial sales tax.
David spoke against the recent trend she saw in economic policy following the recession.
“I am indignant and revolted because this financial crisis is not due to everyone, but only financial speculators. Why was Quebec protected more than other governments? Because of our modèle Québécois. We all pay together collectively, and this is social solidarity,” David said.
Julius Grey, a prominent Canadian human rights lawyer and former SSMU president, spoke on the dichotomy between the utilisateur-payeur model, in which only the user pays for services, and social solidarity, in which everyone pays for everybody.
“The government’s stance is that the user of the service is the only one responsible for paying for it, but making a sick person pay for his cure fundamentally goes against the principle of equality and social justice,” Grey said.
On February 23, former Quebec premier Lucien Bouchard and 15 other Quebec politicians, among them prominent former student leaders, signed a declaration, the “Pact for the Competitive Funding of Universities,” supporting an increase in post-secondary tuition.
According to Bouchard, universities face $500 million in combined debt, and taxpayers foot 80 per cent of the bill. His plan also proposed a differentiated tuition model, varying fees according to program and job prospects.
Grey and David both advocated and encouraged student presence at today’s protest against increased tuition, organized by several Montreal student unions and lobby groups.
“Everyone should protest the management program [which costs] $25,000 a year. This kind of model directly feeds the creation of “a new class system,” Grey said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill researchers work with Native Friendship Centre to conduct study
Native communities in Montreal are disproportionately afflicted by a latent form of tuberculosis (TB), a McGill study has found.
After taking skin tests from 141 subjects, researchers found that 17.7 per cent of the aboriginal participants were carrying a latent TB infection, whereas only 4.3 per cent of the general population is afflicted by the illness.
“It’s probably been like this for quite a while, and it becomes a problem when it turns into active TB,” said Mary Ellen Macdonald, a professor of oral health and society in the McGill Faculty of Dentistry, and one of the lead researchers.
“There are communities of new migrants who are bringing their health problems when they come to Canada. If they are living in poverty, then those also living in poverty are more likely to catch the active disease,” Macdonald added.
While the inactive form of TB can be carried without any indication of adverse health effects, a weak immune system may allow the bacteria to mutate into the active form, at which point symptoms may become more evident and the disease can be transmitted to others.
The McGill study began following an alarming increase in active TB infections within aboriginal communities in 2002. The researchers worked to uncover the causes of the outbreaks in partnership with the Native Friendship Centre – a non-profit organization run by members of the aboriginal community that focuses on urban aboriginals, some of whom are deemed “at-risk” of homelessness and social marginalization.
Macdonald noted that part of the aboriginal subset studied by researchers included youth and individuals who have lost their jobs and homes through drug and alcohol addiction.
Though researchers notified infected subjects if they were carrying TB, many could not access adequate treatment because they did not have a medicare card, required by most hospitals.
However, Médicins du monde, CLSC Sanguinet and Hôpital St-Luc provided medical care to individuals without the cards, according to Brett Pineau, the executive director of the Native Friendship Centre.
Health professionals have the prerogative to contain those infected with TB, as it is highly infectious. Some subjects were hesitant or simply refused care, however, as they were afraid of being contained and forced into treatment.
Macdonald attributed the fear of treatment to the historical marginalization of the aboriginal community, and adding that ideas of containment run parallel to the community’s experiences in residential schools and sanatoriums.
“They have been isolated – culturally, socially, linguistically so. It has not been pleasant and all those memories are conjured up whenever TB is brought up,” Macdonald said.
Pineau, however, said the Native Friendship Centre is hopeful that the study will have some positive outcomes. He hoped that a healing centre could be established that properly addresses the cultural needs of the aboriginal community through cooperation with McGill and other groups.
“The TB study was the first step in positioning ourselves into identifying priorities for our community, specifically in regards to health,” Pineau said.
But a lack of resources, thus far has proven to be a major setback.
“Expanded funding toward health priorities – whether that be increased research, construction of a new centre, or increased resources devoted to a purpose – would certainly go a long way,” Pineau said.
Macdonald echoed similar thoughts. “Ultimately there should be a health clinic run for and by aboriginals – there are many interesting examples across the country but I don’t think it’s in the political will,” she said.
Macdonald advised that health authorities listen to the clientele of the Native Friendship Centre and sh also said authorities should strategize in a culturally sensitive way. Seek innovative solutions rather than strictly adhere to the conventions of the public health system.
“It’s coming up with creative strategies, knowing the clientele, and knowing how they can help themselves,” Macdonald said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Speakers decry environmental toll and human rights abuses stemming from companies’ operations
Anti-mining activists Bernardo Belloso and Juan Carlos Ruiz Guadalajara spoke at McGill Tuesday on the adverse impacts of Canadian mining in their respective countries of El Salvador and Mexico.
Their speeches detailed the environmental, social, political, and cultural damages caused by the pending projects and current operations of Canadian mining companies in their countries.
El Salvadorians are resisting efforts of Pacific Rim, a Canadian company vying for operating permits to create an open-pit gold mine in the northern region of the country.
Bellosos stated that it is widely recognized throughout El Salvador that such a project is undesirable from an ecological perspective, though Pacific Rim insists on pressing ahead with its operations.
Through a translator, Belloso, who works for the Association for the Development of El Salvador explained, “Since there’s a big interest behind the amount of minerals that are found within the fields that Pacific Rim have been exploring, it has been basically the only company that has remained insisting to get the permit to keep exploring.”
The company’s behaviour, Belloso said, overlooks the likely ramifications of the open-pit mine. He added that the company’s testing phase alone has already resulted in the contamination of water sources and death of livestock.
Since the granting of 16 exploration permits to Canadian, American, and Australian companies, the political context of El Salvador has greatly shifted. Last year’s national election brought Mauricio Funes to power under a mandate of ending mineral extraction on El Salvadorian soil.
“Before 2010, in El Salvador the government was always responding to the neo-liberal policies in the interests of these big companies,” said Belloso.
Belloso added that the companies take “a stand toward big multi-national exploitation in El Salvador with no respect whatsoever for the needs of the country.”
Due to the issuance of exploration permits under the previous government, Pacific Rim and another Canadian company, Commerce Group, are demanding a total of $200 million from the El Salvadorian government through the Central American Free Trade Agreement.
“We are asking why is this happening,” Belloso said. “This is a Canadian company and El Salvador doesn’t have a free trade agreement with Canada.”
Although El Salvador wants to become the first country to ban all forms of mineral extraction, it sits in a precarious situation while it deals with the charges the companies have brought to the World Bank. Banning mineral extraction now may support the companies’ claims that El Salvador “illegally expropriated their investment.”
According to a Pacific Rim press release from earlier this month, the company “believes that El Salvador’s objections are not only completely without merit, but are also frivolous, and that [the government of El Salvador] filed them purely as an attempt to stall the arbitration proceedings. [Pacific Rim] fully expects that the Tribunal will reject the objections and proceed with the arbitration claim.”
The 29 sites originally considered for mining operations are located in the northern part of El Salvador, near the headwaters of all the major rivers that flow through the rest of the country.
Belloso stated that these rivers face contamination by heavy metals and cyanide if the open-pit operations begin.
This area is also home to the majority of all agricultural production in El Salvador, so a project such as this, said Belloso, threatens to destroy the entire country’s means of production and ability to feed its population of seven million.
Moreover, 250,000 families would be directly affected through forced displacement – a necessity given the mining sites proximity to the city of Cabañas.
These environmental concerns are only a part of the issue, as human rights abuses mount.  There have been six killings with suspected links to the company in the region where Pacific Rim plans to dig.  Religious leaders and radio journalists have received death threats after publicly opposing mining operations in El Salvador.
Belloso explained that there’s a need  “to tell the Canadian people that Canadian companies are involved in very dirty ways of doing business.”
He also sees strong parallels between Canada and El Salvador, given the many struggles against the extraction of minerals on indigenous land.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Liberal leader talks to The Daily about prorogation, carbon taxes, and the niqab ban
Michael Ignatieff descended on Montreal for a three-day conference aimed at reimagining the character of the Liberal Party last weekend. The conference, called Canada at 150: Rising to the Challenge, was publicized as a non-partisan event, but from the beginning functioned as a forum for Liberals to establish a working platform for the next federal election. Former prime ministers, newspaper columnists, university professors, and bankers joined Ignatieff at the Hyatt Regency Hotel to discuss public policy ideas, both old and new. The entrance fee for the conference stood at $695 a head, although banks of computers were also set up to receive Skype comments and instant blogging from across the country. Ignatieff talked to The Daily hours before delivering his final speech on Sunday evening, discussing prorogation and environmental policy, Israeli Apartheid Week, the niqab ban, and his plans for a future Liberal government.
The McGill Daily: You’ve said that new Liberal governance will mean “getting a network of deciders together to face common problems.” That seems like the function of any government. In what way is your view of Liberal governance unique?
Michael Ignatieff: I think it is different from command-and-control, and top-down, and exclusive and obsessional focus on jurisdiction and the constitution. Don’t misunderstand what I’m saying: no federal government in its right mind wants to interfere in provincial jurisdictions, especially not Quebec. And it’s not fancy – but we can’t go to Copenhagen with provincial governments in open dispute. Getting networks of responsibility is no more complicated or fancy than calling the key stakeholders nine months out and saying, “We’ve got a conference here: why don’t we make sure Canada speaks not with one voice, but with a coherent voice.” I’m not so naive to believe – or I’m not so naive to forget – that provincial governments often take very different policies on key environmental and energy questions. But at least we can keep [ourselves] from exporting our quarrels, and get a few common positions that we can agree on. The point here is, then you can leverage each others’ influence instead of diminishing each others’ influence.
MD: Given the chance to form a government, would you impose a carbon tax – a position for which most policymakers have advocated?
MI: The straight answer is no. I’ve made another fiscal proposal, which is to push the pause button on corporate tax reductions, which we think will give us the fiscal room to incentivize green technology and clean technology and energy efficiency. We think that’s a better approach.
MD: You’ve made it a top priority to extend political participation to young Canadians at this conference. What have you done in this regard that distinguishes you from the Harper government?
MI: Well, no other political party has ever had such intense and widespread interest in political involvement as an issue in Canadian politics – I think that’s just a fact. We had participation from 25 countries outside of Canada and from 70 communities in Canada, from Whitehorse in the west of the country to Fredericton in the east of the country. So these are very active, lively discussions that went on for often days at a time, in often remote parts of the country. When you look at the Skype feed, it was clear that this was being driven by mostly young Canadians. And I think we’ve made more successful use of the new technologies than any other party. I’d like to claim credit for that, but it’s basically the young people within the party itself who are driving this, and they’re doing a wonderful job. They’re changing the way citizens can connect in Canadian politics, and it’s good.
MD: If you were given the chance to form a government, would you introduce legislation making it more difficult to prorogue Parliament and what measures would be in the legislation to make it effective?
MI: Yes, we would introduce legislation to limit the power to prorogue. And we’ve put forward some specific suggestions a couple of months ago to limit prorogation power. Because I think that this is about maintaining the right balance between prime ministerial power and parliamentary power. And we think that the prime minister’s almost unlimited prerogative should be limited, in the sense that you can’t prorogue twice in a year, the way we’ve seen; you can’t prorogue to avoid a vote of non-confidence; you can’t interrupt the sitting of parliamentary committees. Those are three areas where we felt limitations could be reasonably imposed.
MD: You’ve said that the Charest government’s introduction of a law banning the niqab for women using public services constitutes a ‘good Canadian balance.’ It’s been suggested that this law would violate the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is as Canadian as it gets. Do you think the law would violate the Charter?
MI: If there is a Charter challenge, you know, the courts will have to rule. My sense is that these things involve a balance. Accomodement raisonable means reasonableness on both sides. That means the receiving society should reach out to people of different faiths and different customs. And on the other side, people of different faiths should recognize the equality of women, and the right of the state to say if you want access to certain services there are certain rules of the road you should follow. There’s a balance Quebec is trying to establish here that I think is appropriate. But I want to say what I’ve also said on this from the beginning, which is that Islam has many faces in Canada, and Islam has been part of this country for a very long time…at least a hundred years. And these are neighbours, our friends, and our fellow citizens.
MD: You’ve criticized the Harper government and stood behind aboriginal groups that have had their funding axed recently, such as the Aboriginal Healing Foundation and the First Nations University of Canada. Would you reinstate funding to these groups? What is your overall vision for your government’s relationship with First Nations?
MI: Well, we have to close the gap in funding for aboriginal education, and specifically we have to lift the cap on growth in funding for aboriginal post-secondary [education]. Those are specific commitments that we’ve made, that we make. And I believe the federal government should restore funding to First Nations University, and we feel the Aboriginal Healing Foundation is a good works institution that should continue to receive support. You know, I’m optimistic about the future of aboriginal people in this country, but so much of my optimism turns on getting them some of the best darn education in the world.
MD: In 2002 you wrote in the Guardian that Israeli settlement policy was creating Bantustans, and resembled South Africa during apartheid, as well as the Crusades and French colonization in Algeria. Lately you’ve condemned Israeli Apartheid Week in no uncertain terms. What made you change your mind?
MI: With the greatest respect, a close reading of that Guardian piece would make it clear that I never compared, nor would I ever compare, Israel to South Africa. Israel has its problems, but it’s important as a matter of public record that I’ve never compared Israel to South Africa during apartheid. And I’ve always said that Israeli Apartheid Week is an inappropriate way, to say the least, to discuss the Middle East on campuses. What I said in the Guardian piece is that I believe Israel’s security depends, ultimately, on there being a viable Palestinian state on the West Bank and Gaza. The issue is viability. I’m a strong believer in a two-state solution, not only because I believe that Palestinians have rights that must be recognized, but I also believe that a viable Palestinian state is the best ultimate and long-term [solution for] the security of the state of Israel.
MD: Your party defeated its own motion regarding abortion in the Harper government’s maternal health initiative for the G8. Will you be able to create a united party line on the importance of abortion as a form of contraception, especially as it pertains to aid in the developing world?
MI: I think the Liberal Party is united on the absolute importance of providing a full range of reproductive health services to women, which means contraception, family planning, birth spacing. And there are members of our caucus who do not want that comprehensive approach to reproductive health services to include termination of pregnancy. And I respect their view, but the position of the party, and it would be the position of the party in government, is that Canada should provide the same, full range of reproductive health services to women. And let me be very clear: the party believes, and I believe, that abortion should be rare as [a form of] contraception, [a result of] good family planning. It should be available to women when it is medically necessary. These are controversial subjects and arouse very strong feelings, and I respect the moral feelings that are at play on this issue. But I think I have made the party’s position – which has been the Canadian position for 25 years – clear. And it seems to me that the Harper government is walking away from a position that has been our country’s position for a very long time.
—compiled by Eric Andrew-Gee
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Heavily redacted reports dumped on Parliament to chagrin of opposition
The Harper government angered parliamentary critics and legal experts during the mounting Afghan detainee scandal last Wednesday, releasing 2,500 pages of heavily censored documents. According to the Globe and Mail, many of the documents were blacked out “beyond comprehension.”
The files were brought to the Commons floor in two cardboard boxes after opposition parties invoked their parliamentary privilege to demand the government produce information of interest in light of revelations that Canadian officials may have been complicit in the torture of detainees turned over to the Afghan National Army (ANA) or the Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS).
House speaker Peter Miliken is now deciding whether to find the Conservatives in contempt of Parliament after claims made by the Liberals, the NDP, and the Bloc Québécois that the government violated their parliamentary privilege.
NDP leader Jack Layton called the extent of the documents’ censorship insulting. “It’s slapping Parliament in the face,” he said to the House of Commons.
Many of the files were completely blacked out.
Some parts of the documents left untouched have also raised concerns. One survey of military personnel in Afghanistan reveals cases of Canadian soldiers allegedly beating Afghan captives.
Another document shows evidence that Canadian military police have been intimidated into silence. Reports describe a female military police officer being confronted by “unknown persons” on her way out of the shower and told, “[Military police], mind your own business.” The location of the incident was censored.
The principal claim being made by government critics, however, is that the documents might contain censored information about the transfer of detainees into the custody of the ANA.
Conservatives maintain that it is necessary to redact sensitive military documents for reasons of national security. Justice minister Rob Nicholson said that parliamentary privileges “are not indefinite and not unlimited” during House debate yesterday.
McGill political science professor Catherine Lu agrees that there are security grounds for limiting access to the documents, pointing to the danger uncensored documents could cause for troops on the ground in Afghanistan.
“There is some agreement among political parties that national security is a legitimate ground for denying public access to documents related to Canadian foreign policy,” Lu wrote in an email to The Daily.
“No one wants information to be made public that could make Canadian forces in Afghanistan more vulnerable to harm,” Lu added.
However, she emphasized that she was concerned the government’s decision to censor signals a shift toward greater centralization of power in the Canadian system.
Michel Drapeau, a former colonel in the Canadian army and current law professor at the University of Ottawa, rejected the national security justification out of hand. He invoked the sovereignty of Parliament, saying that parliamentarians “have a right” to see uncensored documents pertaining to the treatment of Afghan detainees.
Drapeau also denied that releasing sensitive documents to Parliament would pose national security risks.
He pointed out that MPs “have already made an oath of allegiance to Queen and country,” and that “there are methods we can use to make sure they have security clearance.” Some MPs already have security clearance as it is, he added.
The detainee scandal dates back to 2005, when the Liberals were still in power. According to the CBC, former Canadian diplomat Eileen Olexiuk “raised the possibility detainees transferred from Canadian to Afghan custody were at risk of torture.” Olexiuk told the CBC she was ignored by the government.
An anonymous government official told the CBC that at that time, the government feared “another Abu Ghraib.”
Two years later, senior military officials warned that the detainees they were putting into Afghan custody were reporting torture, including electrocution, cutting, and being hung for days on end.
Beginning in May 2007, the Harper government mandated Canadian visits to the Afghan detainment centres to ensure that prisoners were not being tortured.
As late as November 2007 Colonel Christian Juneau, deputy commander of Joint Task Force Afghanistan, wrote defence minister Peter McKay and then-chief of the defence staff Rick Hillier to express concerns about the lack of information being relayed to him by those monitoring detainees in Afghan custody, according to the Globe and Mail.
On November 5, 2007, it came to light that a prisoner transferred to the Afghan authorities by Canadians had been severely abused while in Afghan custody. His body bore welts from being beaten with rubber hose and electrical cables.
Juneau cancelled prisoner transfers soon after, and they did not resume until February 2008.
Stephen M. Saideman, a political science professor at McGill who was on a tour of Afghanistan in December 2007, noted the difficult choices facing the Canadian military when dealing with prisoners.
“The choices are few: either turn the captured folks over to the Americans since they have a prison [in Afghanistan]…or turn them over to the Afghans,” he said in an email. “The former is no longer legitimate due to Abu Ghraib, et cetera. The latter is what is supposed to happen, as Canada and NATO are there to support the existing government – the Afghan government.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill study finds that disparities facing community remain
McGill’s James Torczyner, a professor at the School of Social Work, released an alarming report this month on the persistence of inequality between black and non-black communities in Montreal. The study found that the unemployment rate among university-educated black Montrealers was higher than that of non-black high school dropouts. Moreover, the average income for black people was also one-third lower than others in the city, and only one in three black people owned their own home.  Torczyner sat down to talk with The Daily about the results of the study, the potential roots of the problem, and the importance of community-based action to reduce the disparities.
The McGill Daily: Could you tell us more about the study? And what were the results?
James Torczyner: The study was a follow-up study to one we did based on the 1996 census. That study showed a great deal of inequality experienced by members of the black community when compared to the non-black community. We decided to replicate that study and go a bit further…and to [see] how what we found out demographically is experienced by members of the black community specifically.
The results indicate that, while economic circumstances improved for everyone in the last 10 years, and they did so for blacks as well as non-blacks, the gap between blacks and non-blacks persists no matter how we looked at it: levels of educational attainment, higher unemployment rates, higher poverty rates, higher single-parent family rates, and less access to higher paid occupations. So for example, if we control for education or age or gender or linguistic ability or the occupation that they’re in, the disparities persisted.
MD: Are these findings what you expected when starting the study? What factors contribute to these disparities?
JT: Well, we wanted to see whether or not there had been particular changes in impact. Ten years is not a very long time period in terms of demographic trends. It’s also accompanied by the fact that the black community continues to grow at a remarkable pace; it grew by 38 per cent in 10 years and immigrants, newer arrivals, tend to have a more difficult time economically when they first get here. So, there are a lot of things that are in flux. What’s clear is that whatever the factors are that account for [the results], there is a very alarming, very widespread, very pervasive problem that needs to be addressed.
MD: There has been a lot of media coverage since the study’s release on March 18. In your experience could this attention change public policy to help reduce inequality? Is that the goal?
JT: My hope [as to] what will come out of this, and the reason why I’ve tried not to be in the forefront of these interviews, is that hopefully this can be a catalyst for the various black communities in the city. Often unilingual blacks can’t speak with other unilingual blacks. That affects about half of the community and they live in different parts of the city because of linguistic ability. All of these communities are distinct [but] the data shows there are some common issues and that is around quality. I think what is needed more than anything else is that those communities get together and harp out an agenda [so that they are] able to speak with one voice and have much more clout than they currently do. Because I think politicians listen when communities are well organized.
MD: So it comes down to community action?
JT: I think that without community action, whatever response there is to the study will probably be short lived. When you have problems that are this persistent in society, it really requires members of that community to advocate and to be important watchdogs to make sure the same rights of full citizenship are as accessible to blacks as they are to non-blacks.
MD: What would you expect to happen if this study was replicated again, say, 10 years from now? Would you expect anything to have changed?
JT: I’m a community organizer and a demographer, not a prophet. You ask me what will happen in the future. What will happen in the future will depend on what people do today.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
