The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activist says his Charter rights are being violated by Ontario court’s ruling
A three-day hearing to review the restrictive bail conditions placed on Jaggi Singh, a prominent Montreal activist arrested at the G20 protest in Toronto this June, has been pushed back to November 30.
Singh launched a constitutional challenge of his bail conditions earlier this month, but the Crown prosecution – the Ontario government’s law team – has asked for more time to prepare their case now that PEN Canada will intervene on behalf of a restriction placed on Singh’s freedom of expression.
Peter Rosenthal, Singh’s lawyer and a University of Toronto professor, explained that many of the bail conditions violate the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
“We say it’s violating the freedom of expression, the right to peaceful assembly, freedom of association. Also section 11(e) of the Charter is that everyone has the right to reasonable bail; we’re saying the conditions he’s under are not, under the circumstances, reasonable bail,” he said.
As Singh awaits a possible trial in 2012 on charges of criminal conspiracy, mischief, conspiracy to both assault and obstruct police, and obstruction of justice, he cannot hold a passport, use a wireless device, participate in a public demonstration, or associate with his co-accused.
Singh, currently under house arrest, is required to obtain a note to be in the presence of other adults for specific purposes if outside his workplace or residence.  If he violates any of these conditions, he risks losing his $85,000 bail.
“The bail conditions are quite repressive, include house arrest, and that he cannot organize in any demonstrations, which is something he does quite a lot,” Rosenthal said.
 Speaking from Toronto, where he is required to stay in the home of one of his three sureties – a legal term signifying those responsible for a person during their bail term – Singh described these conditions as punitive.
“If it goes to trial, it’s not inconceivable at all that the charges get dropped halfway through, that they don’t stick, or that I win at trial. What the bail conditions do is they serve to be a form of punishment, when I haven’t been tried or convicted,” Singh said.
“Bail is supposed to be about making sure someone comes to court, that people don’t recommit criminal offenses, and that society is protected. … If [the Crown does] think that, they’re not going to prevent any of that by preventing me from demonstrating, [or] using a cell phone,” he added. Singh and Rosenthal are also not allowed to publicly discuss any of the evidence brought against him at the hearings.
Singh’s case has moved back into the limelight as a variety of groups have lined up to denounce his bail conditions, from No One is Illegal to Quebec’s Ligue des droits et libertés. PEN Canada,  a non-profit group that defends writers’ free speech, made media waves when they announced on November 10 they had brought legal counsel on board to intervene at the hearing.
Program coordinator Brendan de Caires explained that PEN Canada was specifically concerned with the ban on Singh’s right to participate in demonstrations.
“Section 2(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms says that you have the freedom of thought, belief, opinion, and expression. We think it’s not consistent with that to tell somebody he can’t, as a condition of his bail, communicate with people. We think it’s an abridgement of that right,” de Caires said. “How does that make a Canadian unsafe? … Can you tell someone, ‘You no longer have the right to give opinion publicly’?”
Though over 1,000 protesters were arrested at the G20 in June, Ontario’s Crown Attorney singled out Singh with 18 other individuals for allegedly committing “conspiracy.” They all face similar charges and bail conditions, with some facing a curfew, but Singh is the only one of the group who has chosen to protest the restrictions in court.
Community organizer Alex Hundert, who has also been charged with conspiracy, made news after he was arrested in September for discussing the G20 at a Ryerson University panel – allegedly breaking the “no demonstration” ban. Hundert was only released after accepting more bail restrictions.   
Singh said that the harsh bail conditions faced by him and others were a reflection of the level of repression at the G20.
 “[The conditions] are not surprising, because the G20 is about excessive use of force on the streets, abuse of authority by the police, and the complicity of the Crown in the repression and in that abuse, by continuing with charges, by allowing them to linger, and by not being forthcoming with disclosure that would reveal all of this,” said Singh.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Thousands expected to flood streets of Quebec City
On December 6, exactly two weeks from today, college and university classrooms in Montreal will be empty and the streets and squares of Quebec City will be full. Student governments representing 33,000 students, mostly from UQAM and Montreal CEGEPs, have voted in recent weeks to strike on the day the provincial government is expected to unveil its plans for tuition hikes. Thousands more are expected to march in the provincial capital under the banners of the three major student lobbying groups, the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ), the Quebec Student Roundtable (QSR), and Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ).
There have been fissures between the groups all year, notably over whether Quebec universities are underfinanced or if their funding is simply misappropriated. But on December 6, at the yearly Rencontre des partenaires de l’éducation, they say all differences will be set aside.
Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, ASSÉ’s director of communications, said in French that he hoped the protests in Quebec City would be “as big as possible,” and that “people will come, no matter what their organization.”
FEUQ president Louis-Philipe Savoie echoed the thought: “The more the merrier,” he said, speaking of the protest.
“I’m not going to go out and say that, after December 6, suddenly all the national associations will suddenly agree on every single political point,” said Joël Pedneault, a U3 Arts student at McGill and vice-secretary general of QSR, of which SSMU is a founding member. “However, what I do think might come out of December 6…is that there might be a little more coordination between the national unions.”
The protests of the three groups are already coordinated to some extent. Pedneault described how the protests would unfold in an interview with The Daily.
FEUQ and FECQ – its CEGEP counterpart – will stage a rally in front of Quebec City’s Hilton Hotel, where the meetings are taking place. Around the same time, ASSÉ will lead a march, beginning in front of the National Assembly and heading towards the Hilton, where ASSÉ and FEUQ will converge. The QSR contingent will also join the fray at this point.
Nadeau-Dubois said he thought between 1,000 and 2,000 protestors would take part in ASSÉ’s portion of the protest. A number of the group’s member associations will be on strike that day, making a big turnout more likely.
QSR’s numbers will likely be smaller. “Since there probably won’t be any strike vote in any of [QSR’s] member association’s, you could probably expect a little bit [fewer] people to show up,” Pedneault said.
SSMU has plans to make a splash at the protest, however. Before sitting down with The Daily, SSMU VP External Myriam Zaidi had to finish a phone call with a T-shirt designer: “Take off the bracket – ‘not a privilege’ – and leave ‘Education is a right,’” she said. She was putting in an order for a hundred T-shirts to be worn by McGill undergrads at the Rencontre, and debating what message they should bear. They will be dark blue, with yellow text.
The number of T-shirts Zaidi is ordering synchs up with the number of students she hopes to squeeze into two fifty-person-capacity buses bound for Quebec City on December 6.
ASSÉ is the only invitee boycotting the meeting, calling the Rencontre “illegitimate.” None of the major student groups have much hope for the day-long event, it seems.
Pedneault said that government officials would be “making arbitrary decisions about what direction Quebec’s universities should be going in one day…[giving] a month’s notice to all the people who are going to show up to the meeting.” The date of the Rencontre was announced in a press release on November 4.
Savoie added that FEUQ has tried to voice their positions to the Ministry of Education, notably in an early October meeting with education minister Line Beauchamp. Savoie said the meeting was unproductive and that Beauchamp “really wasn’t in control of her issues.”
Throughout the year, the minister’s office has told The Daily that Beauchamp was not yet familiar enough with her portfolio to give an interview.
Despite their skepticism about the meeting, some representatives from FEUQ and QSR will be inside – meeting with Minister of Finance Raymond Bachand and Beauchamp, among others – while their colleagues protest outside.
Savoie said he was not concerned this tactical mix would undermine FEUQ at the meeting.
Pedneault said he and the two other QSR representatives who will be in the Hilton might walk out of the meeting if the government announces that they will raise tuition, which they are expected to do. “Our response will be proportionate to how scandalous their revelations are,” he said.
Student leaders acknowledge, however, that they are facing daunting obstacles in organizing a mass protest on such short notice, and in the thick of exams.
Savoie said the awkward timing means students will have to work harder to mobilize. “It just means we have to wake up earlier and go to sleep later,” he said.
The protests are unlikely to match the scale of student demonstrations in London and Dublin in recent weeks. Pedneault offered that the absence of concrete, imminent plans for tuition hikes might be holding the size of the planned protest in check. “People don’t feel that urgency of mobilizing, even though they feel the necessity of mobilizing,” he said. “You can mobilize a lot more people when it’s urgent, when it’s happening right now.”
Pedneault and Savoie are also doubtful that student protestors will clash with police on December 6, as students did in London earlier in the month.
Savoie said he hoped to lead “protests that are in order, that are safe for protestors.”
“We’re not here to breaks things…or to riot. We’re not here to scare the population,” he added.
Pedneault agreed, but with a caveat. “I think I speak for all the national associations when I say we’ll distance ourselves from [illegal] tactics. But we would understand why they’re using them, you know. They’re denouncing tuition hikes [and] the illegitimacy of that meeting,” he said.
ASSÉ’s Nadeau-Dubois said he expects police to crack down on the protests. “We know that more and more police use force to break political dissent,” he said, referring in part to this summer’s G20 in Toronto. ASSÉ provided financial and logistical support to protestors at the summit, where over 1,000 people were arrested.
“We know [the police] will try to intimidate us,” Nadeau-Dubois went on, adding, “We won’t fold in the face of police repression.”
“We hope everything will go on with order and calm. But we won’t judge how people express their anger.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill begins construction without a building permit
Construction on the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) super hospital has hit a snag after construction began on a temporary parking lot in the city of Westmount without a building permit.
“Last week they just started,” said Peter Trent, mayor of Westmount. “[Having a permit] is the first principle of construction in any city around the world.”
The 500-single-patient-room medical facility, costing $1.34 billion, is slated to open in 2014. While most of the construction is taking place in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, the construction firms building the hospital – Montreal-based SNC-Lavalin and British company Innisfree Ltd. – are building a temporary parking lot for construction workers at the site of the former Glen rail yards in Westmount, near the Vendôme metro station.
Westmount is an independent city surrounded Montreal and enforces its own standards and regulations on construction projects in its municipality. Westmount, the MUHC, and their partners have been negotiating for a month, but negotiations stalled over disagreements relating to level of anti-noise measures.
“They want to build a parking lot…in Westmount territory,” said Trent. “We want to make sure [construction] doesn’t negatively affect our residents.”
Construction at the Glen yards site was stopped when the companies were issued a “stop-work order” on Tuesday, according to Trent. Julie Paquette, Head of Communications for MUHC, said that the full sound barrier Westmount had wanted was both unfeasible and unnecessary.
“It was unnecessary because a study our partners produced showed that the noise generated by parking was lower than the ambient noise,” said Paquette. “There’s no point building a sound barrier if there’s no sound to be blocked.”
Residents around the Glen yards site initially raised noise complaints in early November, when construction workers began driving steel poles, made to support the new buildings, into the bedrock. The pile driving, which starts at seven in the morning and continues all day, is expected to last until February. The hospital set up a noise complaint hotline two weeks ago to address the complaints.
According to Paquette, the consequences of not having a temporary parking lot would be more disruptive to the community than the noise pollution.
“[A full] sound barrier would have been very expensive,” said Paquette. “It would have blocked some parking spaces. Workers would have had to park in residential spaces.”
Paquette voiced concerns that, if a temporary parking lot was not constructed, workers would be forced to park throughout the neighbouring residential areas. Trent estimated that the parking lot would hold between 800 and 900 vehicles.
“This is why we needed this to go forward,” said Paquette. “Parking needs to be there and installed. We don’t want to have construction workers going into residential areas and parking in people’s places.”
Paquette said that Westmount and the construction partnership had agreed to a temporary anti-noise measure, with panels of plywood being mounted around the Glen yards site. The agreement is currently under its technical review, and she expects Westmount to approve the measure and issue a permit this week. Paquette said that the conflict has not delayed construction or put the project behind schedule. Construction has continued in NDG throughout the negotiations with Westmount.
“By next week we’ll give them a permit and they can start work,” said Trent. “It’s the normal practice in any city.”
Trent has been attributing the MUHC’s legal negligence to a possible superiority complex on the part of the MUHC and their international partners, telling the CBC that the partnership feel they “don’t have to kowtow to anything as trivial…as a building permit.”
“The same rule applies. No one’s above the law, not even the MUHC,” said Trent. “They just thought we’d turn a blind eye. That’s not the way we operate.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
