The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Gerts in the black; SSMU to put extra revenue towards new events
The annual report on SSMU’s audited financial statements was released at Council last Wednesday, revealing the Student Society’s financial figures for fiscal year (FY) 2009-2010.
SSMU President Zach Newburgh explained that “the audit is done annually, and it is required as per our Memorandum of Agreement with the University in order to ensure that our finances are responsible.”
The audit found SSMU in the black by $598,485 for the year, up from $163,169 in FY2008-09. Along with over $4.5 million in excesses from previous years, SSMU has been left with a significant amount of additional revenue for FY2010-11.
The report was presented by Luciena Ierfino, a chartered accountant from accounting firm RSM Richter Chamberland LLP, and revealed that the society ended FY2009-10 with accumulated fund balance of $5.38 million.
SSMU’s total revenues for that fiscal year amounted to almost seven million dollars – increasing by over $110,000 from FY2008-09 – and their total expenses amounted to almost $6.5 million, a decrease of over $300,000.
“It was a clean audit report,” said Ierfino during Council. “We didn’t find any material errors.”
She said that the RSM team performed tests on a sample of transactions, from which she and her team were able to draw “reasonable and fair” conclusions.
One significant feature of SSMU’s fiscal turnaround had been Gerts. The student-run bar moved from a deficit of $13,137 in FY2008-09, to a surplus of $15,201 in FY2009-10.
“Gerts has contributed lots of revenue,” said Ierfino, and SSMU VP Finance and Operations Nick Drew added that the bar’s sales are up even more this year.
The report revealed that SSMU saves money through various breaks in utility payments for the Shatner building.
According to the report, SSMU “obtains [Shatner] building electricity and heat free of charge from a contributor.” The utility expense was estimated at $477,333 for FY2009-10.
“The [SSMU] is not responsible for utilities,” said Newburgh. “That is covered by the University.”
Drew corroborated this statement, writing in an email to The Daily that, “Our current lease does not require us to pay utilities. [However] this will surely change when the lease gets signed this year.”
Newburgh also said that “the University has been attempting to get the [SSMU] to cover that particular cost.”
SSMU’s lease for Shatner from the University – set to expire May 31 – was a significant expense for the Society last year. The five-year deal aggregates out to approximately $540,000, with the minimal annual payment hovering around $108,000.
“The Students’ Society essentially…covers everything else [besides utilities] having to do with the [Shatner] building. So janitorial staff, cleaning – that in particular is in tandem with rent that we pay to the University of about $110,000. Those are the costs associated with the building currently, and the terms outlined in our lease agreement,” said Newburgh.
The financial report referenced multiple SSMU “lease agreements,” and Newburgh noted that there are “other lease agreement[s] that we have, not just with the University. We have one with the owner of the space which once housed Haven Books. … That’s going to be over.”
SSMU closed Haven Books due to massive financial losses last spring, but, according to Drew, received a healthy pay-out in return.
“SSMU was bought out of their share of the bookstore profits and was awarded a hefty sum of $1.875 million. Instead of having it sit in a low-interest-bearing account, Council approved a low-risk (we joke around and call it a Grandmother fund) investment portfolio,” wrote Drew.
Indeed, investments were also seen to be a significant expense in the financial report for FY2009-10.
“The SSMU did purchase about $50,000 worth more [in investments] this year,” said Drew.
“The market is bouncing back from the recession. So that would be one of the reasons why our investment portfolio is stronger,” added Newburgh.
Along with these increased revenues, free utilities, and conservative expenses, SSMU has received aid from higher than anticipated student enrolment. The financial report discloses that, in FY2009-10, SSMU had budgeted for this year’s student fee revenue totalling $1,435,053. By the end of the year, however, SSMU had received almost $23,000 more than expected.
“The VP Finance and Operations estimates the amount of students that there will be [when drafting the budget]. … Generally the trend has been that there are more, and since there are therefore more students who are paying the fee of the [SSMU], you will see it reflected in the actual budget, in the actual [revenue],” said Newburgh.
Newburgh said that the fiscal breathing room now afforded to SSMU will have a significant impact on their financial goals for the rest of they year, and could see them shell out more for student events and activities like this fall’s Homecoming. Newburgh also mentioned a possible St. Patrick’s Day event; a three-day SSMUfest music festival, proposed by VP Internal Tom Fabian; and events to raise awareness about potential tuition increases, proposed by VP External Myriam Zaidi.
“Events are normally the easiest way, or the most captivating way for students to get involved, ranging from social, to political, to leadership development-oriented. It’s really everything,” said Newburgh.
“Ultimately, we’re a not-for-profit organization, so there are certain regulations attached to that,” said Newburgh. “We’re not supposed to run a surplus. So we’re supposed to spend as much as we can.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Michael Ignatieff and other Liberals absent for vote
Bill C-300, a private member’s bill aiming to hold Canadian mining companies accountable for infractions against the environment and human rights, was defeated in Parliament Wednesday by a vote of 140 to 134.
Liberal MP John McKay for Scarborough-Guildwood first presented the bill to the House of Commons in 2009, aided by professors from McGill, the University of Ottawa, and the University of Toronto. It has since met with opposition from Canadian mining companies as well as from the Conservative Party who have argued that such a bill would hurt the Canadian economy and the federal Canada Pension Plan, which is heavily invested in the mining industry.
Although it is rare for the Prime Minister to take part in votes on private member’s bills, Stephen Harper was not only present for the vote, but also whipped his caucus into voting against the bill. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, along with other members of his party, were absent for the vote.
“The mining companies have the ear of every political leader,” McKay told The Daily. “They spent massive amounts of money telling MPs that the bill was the end of Western civilization as we know it.”
McKay called the failure of the bill a “tragedy.”
“There are a lot of people who are very disadvantaged…very impoverished…very vulnerable…who just got the pointy end of a legislative stick,” he said.
Supporters of Bill C-300 are not the first to have questioned the integrity of Canadian mining companies. In 2008, the Norwegian national pension plan withdrew its investments from Canadian company Barrick Gold, because of a negative review of the company’s environmental performance in Papua New Guinea, where arsenic was being dumped in a river beside one of the mines.
Roughly three-quarters of the world’s mining companies are based in Canada. Thirty-three per cent of the companies that have, since 1999, allegedly violated Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) – the current international method of self-regulation for the mining industry – are Canadian-owned.
According to McGill Law professor Richard Janda, who helped craft the bill, Canadian mining companies have been known to employ “paramilitary security forces [which] have been involved in murders and rapes in and around mine sites, and there have been a number of documented human rights violations.”
McKay said he thought failure to act on mining regulation now would deal a blow to the country’s global image. “Canada suffers a huge loss of prestige and leadership around the world. We are the number one industry in the world in mining and we showed absolutely no leadership at all,” he said. “Other countries who also mine are going to say, ‘if Canada’s not doing anything, why should we?’”
Asked what the next step in the struggle to increase regulation of the mining industry would be, Janda said regulation advocates should hold mining companies to the claims they have made in recent weeks. “We should hold these companies accountable for what they were claiming over the course of this debate – namely that we have adequate regulations for evaluating [ecological and human rights] performance,” Janda said. “If we do then let’s have a report card now.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New study calls for Canada-wide policy on research misconduct
Corrections appended – Sunday, Sep 18, 2011
Canada needs a better way to monitor and respond to research misconduct, according to a report published by the not-for-profit Canadian Council of Academies (CCA) on October 21. The report, titled “Honesty, Accountability and Trust: Fostering Research Integrity in Canada,” was produced in response to federal government findings of 38 cases of abuse that have occurred out of 160 alleged cases of scientific misconduct in the last decade. The CCA’s report uses the Lethbridge College definition of research misconduct, which includes “fabrication, falsification and plagiarism…[and] conflict of interest omissions.”
Paul Davenport, former president of the University of Western Ontario, chaired the panel that produced the report for the CCA – a third of whose board members are nominated by the federal Ministry of Industry. According to its website, the organization is dedicated to “science-based, expert assessments to inform public policy development in Canada.”
In an email to The Daily, Davenport said academic misconduct is hard to track. “Canada, the U.S., and other countries, have no way of estimating what percentage of misconduct cases are actually reported,” he wrote. “It is not possible to state how many cases there are, what the trend in the number of cases is, and in what disciplines the cases occur.”
The CCA’s report calls for the creation of a Canadian Council for Research Integrity (CCRI), which would be independent from the federally funded Tri-Council, the body currently mandated to supervise issues of research integrity. The CCRI would “function as a much-needed educational and advisory arm on issues of research integrity. Its key role would be to build and promote a proactive approach to research integrity in Canada,” the report reads.
CCA Director of Communications Cathleen Meechan noted, however, that this report does not tackle specific cases of academic misconduct. “There is not any set of clear evidence that says one way or another about cases of misconduct and if there is an overwhelming amount of cases in one field or another,” she said. “There has not been enough research done on research misconduct itself.”
The report is meant to provide the federal government with information with which they can create policies around research integrity. “We provide a diagnosis of sorts and then the government determines what kind of prescription they want to pursue,” said Meechan. “This report was requested as part of a review that the Tri-Council is undertaking on research integrity. It will help to inform that review. We think that this is a good report to spur an important discussion within the research community about research integrity.”
The report concludes that there is a need to instill a culture of research integrity in Canada. In order for this to happen, the report continues, there needs to be a common way of approaching breaches of academic integrity across Canada.
“We need to have a much more systematic approach taken at the university level to research integrity,” said Meechan.
Davenport stressed the importance of creating a better system in dealing with academic misconduct. “We live in a knowledge-based society, where research is vital to our future social and economic health, and research can only be used for public policy if it is viewed as trustworthy by citizens and their governments.  Failure to deal with the research integrity issue ultimately will mean that even outstanding research will not have the impact on public policy that it should.  All Canadians have a very large stake in this issue.”
Sherwin review kept secret
McGill has completed an internal review of potential academic misconduct by professor Barbara Sherwin. In an email sent to The Daily on Wednesday, Provost Anthony Masi said that McGill will not make the results public. The message read simply, “The investigation into the allegations of research misconduct is complete. In accord with University regulations, the results are confidential.”
In August of last year, Sherwin was accused of putting her name to an academic article she did not write. The article, published in April 2000 in the peer-reviewed Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, explored various hormonal and non-hormonal pharmacological treatment options for age-associated memory loss. Sherwin did not receive financial renumeration for reviewing, and attaching her name to, the article.
Court documents from August 2009 state that the article was written by a freelance writer working with the firm DesignWrite, who was paid by Wyeth. The article was then sent to Sherwin, whose name eventually appeared alone on the article.
“It is an error I regret and which had never occurred before or since,” Sherwin told the Toronto Star last August.
In August 2009, the Star obtained court documents showing that Sherwin was contacted by DesignWrite about writing a second article about estrogen treatments months after the ghostwritten article was published. Sherwin told the Star she did not use any material provided by DesignWrite for the second article, which was published in 2003.
In McGill’s “Regulations Concerning Investigation of Research Misconduct,” it states that “the Provost shall determine whether any government agencies, professional societies, professional licensing boards, editors of journals or other publications, collaborators of the Respondent, or other relevant parties should be notified of the outcome of the investigation.” In Sherwin’s case, the Provost has decided to keep the information under wraps.
Doug Sweet, Director of Media Relations at McGill, confirmed that the review was completed at the beginning of the summer. When asked who conducted the review, Sweet replied, “The investigation was all internal, but I don’t know the identity of the panelists.”
Sherwin refused to answer any questions on the matter.
Due to an editorial error, in the printed version of this article (News, Nov 1, pg. 5) there are several inaccuracies. It was incorrectly stated that McGill decided to keep the results of its internal investigation confidential; it is in fact University policy to keep the results of such investigations confidential. The article also falsely credited Wyeth with publishing Sherwin’s April 2000 paper, the article was actually published by the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. The contents of Sherwin’s paper were also incorrectly interpreted, stating that it explored the possible benefits of estrogen treatments in helping with memory loss. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Social movement activist speaks at McGill
John Downing – a scholar of alternative, social movement, and radical media – spoke at McGill last Thursday on the subject of “Transnational Social Movement Media.”
Downing, who is a visiting Media Studies professor at Aarhus University in Denmark,  framed the lecture in Room W215 of the Arts Building around his redefinition of the word “media.” In the attempt to break away from traditional assumptions of “media” as television, print, cinema, and internet, Downing provides a more anthropological definition, including more people and more expressions of communication, especially when it comes to social movements.
“I include under the heading of ‘media’ the body, dance, tattoos, popular song, graffiti, dress, street theater – a whole variety of cultural expressions of communication which are very often in the textbooks excluded from studies of media, but I would argue are precisely media,” he said.
After Downing’s talk, Marc Raboy, professor in the department of Art History and Communication studies and Beaverbrook chair in Ethics, Media, and Communications, described Downing’s definition of media as new and exciting. “I was very interested in his broad anthropological definition of media, and how he broadens the scope of media to encompass different forms of communication, such as dance or puppetry,” he said.
Downing went on to explain the power of small-scale social media, as opposed to more mainstream media.
“These are media that generate out of social movements, which feed social movements, which keep a certain flame alive between the upsurges of social movements,” he said. “They are, therefore, focusing on their social movement connections and their integration with social movements.”
Transnational social media has increased significantly in the past few decades. Downing explained that transnational social activism through media does not always reap positive results.
“Not every transnational social movement is a social movement, which is encouraging and offers a constructive hope for expanding democracy and expanding mutual dialogue and engagement in social justice,” explained Downing.
He also argued that the most prominent writing in the field of transnational social movement media fails to acknowledge humans as individual players in the world of media.
“The political scientists operate as though they were talking about a chess board and we are, collectively or individually, the sort of pieces on the chess board that move in accordance with certain pre-established rules in opposition to each other,” he said.
These writers discuss media using words like ‘mobilization’ and ‘connections,’ and fail to account for human agency and feeling, Downing posited.
“I would suggest that this perspective is implicitly masculinist,” he explained. “What tends to be missed out from this picture is a focus on symbols, on imagination, on emotion, on feelings, on fear, passion, humour, fantasy and vision, and implicitly, or tangentially, I think, perspectives which are more likely to be present in feminist readings than elsewhere.”
Downing provided examples of social movements through media – including the global anti-apartheid movement – to explain how media has been used as a form of social movement in the past.
“This wave of sustained protest, fed by media, the movements media, and expressed to a wider set of activists by the movement media, eventually had a great deal to do with the final collapse of the apartheid regime,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
