The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists decry militarization, profiteering, and political exclusion
On Monday, Montreal hosted the Ministerial Preparatory Conference on the reconstruction of Haiti. The meeting was attended by high ranking delegates who set out to establish a framework for the delivery of aid and the long-term reconstruction effort.
Assistance has been slow in reaching the people of Haiti, after a 7.0 magnitude earthquake devastated the country on January 12. The quake has left roughly 200,000 dead, with hundreds of thousands in need of medical assistance. Earlier this week, the World Food Program estimated that two million Haitians face an immediate risk of malnourishment.
Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive thanked the delegates for their countries’ assistance in the current crisis, but also emphasized the dire situation in his country.
“Four hundred thousand families…have to be put in emergency housing and we have to provide [them with] medical care,” said Bellerive in French, adding that the coordination of the relief effort faced serious bottlenecks in the days immediately following the earthquake. “People are being assisted in a more satisfactory fashion, [though] not totally satisfactory,” he said.
Too many guns, not enough aid
In addition to the ministerial delegates at the conference, representatives of the Canadian private sector and NGOs were also present. International financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Caribbean Development Bank were included in the day’s discussions, most of which were conducted behind closed doors. The morning’s discussions were devoted to the assessment of humanitarian relief efforts, while later negotiations focused on developing a long-term strategy for Haiti’s reconstruction.
In his opening remarks, Canadian foreign minister Lawrence Cannon acknowledged the close relationship between Haiti and his own country. “Canada’s commitment to Haiti was and is a key aspect of its foreign policy. United by language, culture, and a shared history in the Americas, our countries have a unique bond,” he said.
United States secretary of state Hillary Clinton encouraged the countries present at the conference to see themselves as “partners, not patrons, of Haiti.”
The United States’ relief effort has been roundly criticized, however, for its domination of Port-au-Prince’s only airport, and its prioritization of the U.S. military over aid organizations like Médecins sans frontières, whose flights have been repeatedly turned away.
In the afternoon, a small demonstration organized by Haiti Action Montreal took place outside the International Civil Aviation Organization Building where the conference was held.
For Patrique Volny, who attended the rally, the U.S.’s relief effort has been inappropriate and ineffectual.
“What we need above all, it’s medical care, it’s water, it’s food. These are essential needs. We don’t need an army – 20,000 soldiers, 16,000 soldiers – coming again to break the population’s back,” said Volny. “You can’t…give them a little bottle of water and have tear gas in the other hand. There’s something not working there.”
Yves Engler, author of “Canada in Haiti: Waging War on the Poor Majority,” agreed, saying that the humanitarian relief effort is not at the top of the U.S.’s agenda. “I think it’s been so heavily militarized because there’s a real fear of poor blacks – there’s a very racist element to it,” said Engler.
Elections deferred, president exiled
The earthquake took place in the run-up to an election in Haiti that had been planned for February 28, but several delegates at the conference, as well as Haiti’s minister of culture and communications have stated that the election will likely have to be deferred.
The deferral raises the question of whether Haiti’s most popular party, former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide’s Fanmi Lavalas, will be able to participate in elections when they take place.
After his election in 2000, Aristide was overthrown in a February 2004 coup supported by Canada, the U.S., and France. Aristide claims that he was “taken by force by the U.S. military,” that he was kidnapped from the country after his house was surrounded by U.S. and U.S.-backed Haitian security personnel, and that he was “forced to leave to avoid bloodshed.” The Bush administration maintained that Aristide had resigned and left the country willingly.
Last November, the Haitian government, led by current president René Préval, announced that Aristide’s party Fanmi Lavalas, would be excluded from the elections. The government alleged the party had failed to properly submit official documents. Thousands of Haitians rallied in Port-au-Prince following the decision, demanding that Aristide be repatriated and allowed to run in the elections.
“The rules were not respected; the will of the people was not respected; the Haitian constitution, the laws of the country, [and] electoral law were not respected,” said Volny, who is also a member of Fanmi Lavalas Montreal.
“When countries like Canada, for example, [and] the United States say…‘We’re spending money to support democracy in Haiti,’ I think that in the end…that’s pure and simple hypocrisy,” said Volny.
“Since Canada, the U.S. and France overthrew Haiti’s elected government nearly six years ago, there’s been a continued exclusion of the most popular party from the political process,” said Engler. “Haiti’s not going to be rebuilt with the political exclusion of the majority poor of the country.”
Rebuilt on debt, or grants?
Much of the conference focused on the question of debt relief for Haiti.
The IMF recently promised a $100-million interest-free loan to the country, bringing Haiti’s total international debt to roughly $1 billion. The reconstruction of Haiti has been estimated at as much as $10 billion.
Despite these efforts, Carlo Dade, executive director of the Canadian Foundation for the Americas, remained committed to the idea of extending loans to Haiti. “For productive investments, you have to keep the economic discipline in place,” he said.
Compton Bourne, the President of the Caribbean Development Bank, did not agree with Dade, saying that fiscal responsibility could be achieved through grants – depending on the conditions under which they are made.
“Loans are not necessary for discipline,” said Bourne in a phone interview with The Daily. “Discipline in itself is not a valid reason to increase debt.”
Last summer, Canada cancelled Haiti’s $2.3-million debt as part of the Canada Debt Initiative. The Paris Club, a consortium of international creditor states, has further urged Haiti’s creditors to cancel the country’s remaining debt.
World Bank vice president of Latin America and the Caribbean Pamela Cox said that the issue is not a large concern for her organization at present.
“Haiti right now is in a grace period. Haiti is not paying to the international organizations any amount because they’re either in a grace period, or the service fees are being paid in the [International Development Bank]’s case by a trust fund,” Cox said.
“There is debt through the Paris Club and other creditor nations, and we would call on those nations such as Venezuela to forgive that debt,” Cox said.
Robert Fox, executive director of Oxfam Canada, argued that complete debt relief is an essential element of any reconstruction effort.
“Haiti, as a nation, is bankrupt at this point. We need to eliminate all debt, to make sure that funding is in the form of grants, not loans. We are hoping for a clear announcement today,” he said.
Fox added, however, that he was skeptical of international financial institutions’ willingness to relieve Haiti’s debt. “We’ve had some positive signals, but when you’re dealing with bankers, I want to see the signature on the document,” he said.
Fertile land for disaster capitalism
The general consensus among conference’s participants was that the private sector would have a massive role to play in Haiti’s redevelopment. Cannon thanked the private sector for contributing to the aid appeal, and stressed that it “will also play an important role in Haiti’s future.”
The protesters, however, had far less faith in the beneficence of the private sector.
“Haiti’s comparative advantage in the world economy is as a place of cheap labour,” said Engler. “Sweatshop zones, that’s why Canadian capital companies like Gildan activewear – the Montreal-based T-shirt-maker – see Haiti as a great place to produce their products, because they can pay people three dollars a day.”
Diego Hausfather of Haiti Action Montreal stated that the West’s presence in Haiti might only serve to undermine the country’s sovereignty.
“We’re worried that this will be a reconstruction like after Hurricane Katrina, like after the 2005 tsunami, where corporate investors took advantage of the situation to push their agenda, to profit off of the destruction, off of the reconstruction,” said Hausfather.
Inside the conference, Dade stressed the private sector’s importance in Haiti’s future economy.
“Cell phone companies are booming in Haiti,” he said. “We’ve seen foreign investment in garment factories, so people are making good in Haiti.”
Haiti’s telephone system, run by Teleco, had been undergoing a process of privatization ever since 2007, resulting in layoffs of two-thirds of its employees. The cement and flour industries have also been privatized under Preval’s presidency.
Aristide has claimed that his refusal to privatize the country’s phone and energy enterprises was a major reason for his U.S.-orchestrated ouster. Since the earthquake, Aristide has demanded that he be allowed back into the country in order to take part in the process of reconstruction.
In the original version of the article, The Daily printed the name Oxfam Canada director as Richard Fox. His first name is Robert. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Cyber-activists organize global demonstration
Chants of “Harper, don’t be a jerk, get your ass back to work!” and “Harper, au travail!” were heard as demonstrators gathered before the locked doors of Parliament to decry Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s decision to prorogue Parliament.
Over 4,000 protesters descended on Parliament Hill last Saturday, joining another 500 in Montreal and 22,500 more in 60 cities across the country and as far as Tiananmen Square in an international day of protest.  They called for their Members of Parliament (MPs) to return to work on January 25, waving Canadian flags and placards reading “Stop Torture, Not Parliament,” and “This Is What Democracy Looks Like.”  The rallies were the culmination of weeks of organization by local volunteers and coordinated through the Facebook group Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament.
The decision, on March 3, to suspend Parliament for the second time in a year killed all government bills currently under review in the House of Commons and halted committee sessions. The prime minister’s office has stated that the government requires more time to finalize the federal budget. But opposition parties and other critics have denounced the move as a ploy to disrupt an inquiry into the government’s involvement in the torture of Afghan detainees.
Speaking at the Ottawa rally, Errol Mendes, a human rights lawyer and professor at the University of Ottawa, called the unprecedented action “an insult to democracy.” He also accused the prime minister of using prorogation power to deflect “one of the most serious allegations that this government, or any government has ever faced: the possibility of complicity in war crimes for the transfer of detainees to torture.”
Among the several important bills that died was a landmark piece of legislation dealing with women’s property rights on First Nations reserves. It was introduced in Parliament last year after decades of legal uncertainty on the issue of matrimonial real property. Aboriginal rights activist and former Canadian Human Rights Commission employee Pamela Tabobondung told The Daily that for her, the rally was not just about the prorogation but about more fundamental issues with the Harper government’s failure to listen to Canadians.
“What [Stephen Harper] is doing [by] shutting down Parliament is undermining the will of the people and First Nations rights,” she said. “It’s been a hundred years that we’ve tried to advance Aboriginal rights in Canada but it’s not happening.”
Representatives from the main opposition parties were in attendance at the rallies, and praised Canadians for showing pride in their democratic institutions.
NDP leader Jack Layton had harsh words for the prime minister, drawing a parallel between Harper and King Charles I, the seventeenth-century English monarch whose attempted prorogation of Parliament cost him his head.
“I want to be crystal clear on the following point: I am not advocating, nor will I advocate the decapitation of anyone. We have elections to prosecute such indiscretions,” he added, drawing cheers from the crowd.
Speaking in Ottawa, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff alluded to skepticism that support from the strong online movement would not materialize on the day of the protest.
“This was a demonstration that the pundits said would not happen. This is a demonstration that, frankly, many politicians didn’t think would happen,” he said. “This is a demonstration that shows that Canadians understand their democracy, care for their democracy, and if necessary, will fight for it.”
Elisabeth May, the leader of the Green Party, also spoke at the rally and MP Mario Laframboise spoke on behalf of the Bloc Québecois. Gilles Duceppe, the leader of the Bloc, attended the Montreal rally. Conservative Party representatives declined to respond to invitations to participate, according to protest organizers.
The prime minister’s office has not yet given an official response to the protests.
Christopher White, a graduate student from Edmonton, started the Facebook group after Harper’s December 30 announcement, to encourage others to write to their MPs to demand that they return to work on January 25. The group, which now has close to 220,000 members, attracted as many as 10,000 new members per day in the weeks leading up to the rallies.
White said the movement would never have been successful without an outpouring of grassroots support from communities across Canada.
“What’s really great about [about the movement] is that it is decentralized; I am only the Facebook administrator. There’s a lot of infrastructure at the local levels,” White said. “I think if this issue is to be sustained, we have to keep it going at the local level.”
Montreal rally coordinator Matthew Angelus said he was astonished that 60 volunteers attended the first meeting.  It was decided that the Montreal chapter would remain non-partisan and not accept funds from any group or individual. The open nature of the group was apparent on the day of the rally.
“[The rally] transcended linguistic lines. There were many different ethnic groups and different ages,” said Angelus.
The Liberals were the first opposition party to acknowledge the demands of the massive online movement,  and declared they would be at work in Ottawa on January 25. The NDP announced more recently that they will put forward legislation to limit the prorogation power of the prime minister.
White believes that his Facebook group is a forum for debate and unifying force for all Canadians, regardless of their political views.
 “I like the fact that that this issue has really transcended partisan lines. I think that people do recognize that this is not an issue of left or right,” White told The Daily. “I’ve been getting a lot of positive feedback from people who voted Conservative, or have never voted or been involved before.”
White and other organizers are optimistic that this experience with cyber-activism will have a positive impact on other forms of political action in Canada.
“I think this issue is going to change things in the future. The next time there is a political manifestation it will be compared to this and the ‘real world effects’ we’ve had as well,” said White.
He explained that as Canada’s political norms evolve, the debate around prorogation is forcing people, like himself, to consider new ideas.
“One of the things I have noticed is that a lot of people are talking about the coalition again,” said White. “Honestly, I was one of the few [people] who weren’t supportive of the coalition but now I’m starting to reimagine and rethink how democracy works in Canada.”
Tabobondung also told The Daily that she hopes cyber-activism will usher in a new era of grassroots political action and engagement, especially for politically isolated youth.
 “I think one of the challenges is that Canada is so wide and so vast. [But] Facebook has allowed us to network, to be in one place, to stand in solidarity. The key thing is reaching out to kids on Facebook, and getting the youth involved,” she said.
In the original version of this article, The Daily originally stated that the number of protesters were 7,000. The number was in fact 27,000. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists to speak on racial profiling, police shootings
On Friday, the Forum Against Police Violence and Impunity will begin a weekend-long conference to address police brutality in the Montreal area. The conference will bring together organizations and individuals in Parc-Extension to discuss for workshops and panel discussions.
Speakers will address topics such as gender-based violence, political repression, and youth and racial profiling in Montreal, with workshops conducted in French and English to inform participants of their rights. The forum will close on Sunday evening with an event titled “Beats Against the Police,” showcasing MCs, musicians, rappers, and other performers.
Nazila Bettache, one of the organizers of the forum, noted that the lack of transparency and accountability in the police force is one of the main recurring issues that will be covered at the conference. “There is no justice when youth are killed and harassed on the streets,” Bettache said.
Police violence has come under increasing scrutiny in Montreal following the fatal police shooting of teenager Fredy Villanueva in August 2008.
Earlier this month, eyebrows were raised when the City of Montreal blocked the Quebec Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission from investigating alleged racial profiling by police.
Gabriella Pedicelli, who will speak at this Friday’s opening panel discussion, said, “All the issues are systemic. The problems are embedded in the structure of policing, one of them being systemic racism, which is often denied by the policing organization.”
Trained as a police officer in 1989, Pedicelli eventually decided not to join the police and turned to police activism instead. Her book, When Police Kill, garnered public attention around police violence in Montreal and Toronto following its release in 1999. Pedicelli has remained a strong police critic. “I do think it is important to understand why we became disillusioned,” she said.
The conference will run from January 29-31 at Centre communitaire de Parc-Extension, 419 St-Roch. Free admission, schedule available online at www.forumcontrelaviolencepoliciere.net.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill professor Catherine LeGrand discusses the problems of post-disaster reconstruction in Latin America and Haiti
In the days following Haiti’s January 12 earthquake, McGill students and faculty have rallied around the ongoing effort to understand and assuage the tragedy. On Tuesday, January 19,  Professor Catherine LeGrand gave a talk about past earthquakes and reconstruction efforts in Latin America. LeGrand is an associate professor in the history department at McGill and takes part in the Latin American and Caribbean Studies program. She sat down with The Daily to talk further about some of the topics brought up at her lecture. LeGrand discussed the earthquakes in Nicaragua in 1972, Guatemala in 1976, and Mexico in 1985. Although these case studies do not present an exact model of what reconstruction in Haiti will look like, LeGrand believes they do prove instructive examples of possible future events.
McGill Daily: An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale struck Nicaragua’s capital, Managua, two days before Christmas in 1972. What factors led to the destruction that followed?
Catherine LeGrand: Well, [Managua] was located directly over three faults, and it had been destroyed twice before, in 1885 and 1931. So this was the third earthquake, and the city had always been rebuilt on the same site. I would imagine the building was not of great quality. The earthquake destroyed the personal residence of the dictator; the National Guard headquarters; the U.S. embassy. There were fires that engulfed the commercial district within 24 hours. All water lines were severed. [The earthquake] completely destroyed or severely damaged over 80 per cent of the buildings. Ten thousand dead. One hundred and fifty thousand people lost their homes.
MD: You mentioned that the Somoza government was corrupt in the rebuilding process in Nicaragua. What were the major indiscretions?
CL: The Somoza regime was known as a “kleptocracy.” I mean, he did distribute aid to the wounded and the homeless. But basically in the reconstruction, the Somoza family used the aid to accumulate a new fortune. They channelled aid through his own companies, and purchased parts of the city where he planned to undertake reconstruction.
And a lot of middle class people were alienated. Office workers were asked to work overtime for no pay whatsoever in order to help rebuild the country. The idea was, “Everybody must sacrifice to rebuild the country.” But in the meantime the Somoza family themselves were raking it in. This created a great sense that the government was not the government of the people.
MD: There has been coverage of the intense religious response to the earthquake throughout Haiti. Can you describe the religious dimension of the response to the Guatemalan earthquake of 1976?
CL: With these late-twentieth century earthquakes you don’t see people saying, “Well this is the wrath of God,” except in Guatemala. There was one Protestant church in Guatemala City that had almost predicted the earthquake, saying, “The apocalypse is coming.” They had stockpiled provisions and so forth and they apparently responded very well to the earthquake, in terms of distribution.
The foreign missionaries, who were involved in the Liberation Theology movement, and the people they were working with in poor areas, were upset by the government’s priorities in both the rescue and the reconstruction efforts, and were fired up by this sense of injustice. Some people have called it a “class quake.” And the reconstruction endeavours had mostly favoured market interests and private contracting companies and so forth. This led to criticism of the government, and a lot of mobilizing at the local level.
MD: What sort of repression did the Nicaraguan government engage in at the time?
CL: There was a backlash on the part of the military government against civil society organizing, partly stimulated by the earthquake. They massacred whole villages of Mayan peasants. Some say it’s the closest thing to genocide we’ve ever seen in Latin America. Even in the cities there was selective targeting of social activists, activist university professors, et cetera. The government kept saying, “We’re killing guerillas,” when in point of fact an awful lot of civilians were killed.
MD: You said that Mexicans really mobilized on a local level after the earthquake of 1985 in Mexico City. What form did this mobilization take?
CL: You had one earthquake of 8.1 on one day and one of 7.5 on the next day. And it hit the middle of Mexico City. Again: 5,000 people injured, 1,000 trapped under debris, 250,000 people homeless. Somewhere between 10 and 20,000 dead.
It’s interesting: the government at first rejected foreign aid. They were concerned with their international reputation. They actually paid for the earthquake reconstruction by taking out loans. That’s the question in Haiti: is it going to be loans, or is it going to be grants?
The Mexican government was concerned with restoring the services that had been put down: electricity, the telephone service. But people who had lost their homes criticized this, saying, “What about our lives, what about our shelter?”
And so the citizen movement starts, and it’s poor people but also some middle class people. Government accountability became a priority for these popular movements. The earthquake revealed one street where there were 55 illegal garment factories, when the buildings fell down. And the police were sent in with the owners to rescue some of the equipment. And yet there were still injured and dying people in the buildings. I mean, economic recovery does help people, but there is this question of private and capital interests.
Compiled by Eric Andrew-Gee
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
