The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student and labour unions host symposium
“Thank you for being here, and I hope we can stop this before it destroys what’s left of us.” That’s how Eric Martin, a doctoral candidate at the University of Ottawa, signed off to his audience in the Shatner Ballroom Friday, after giving the opening presentation in a marathon symposium on education and student activism hosted by SSMU, PGSS, and AGSEM.
Martin, who also works for the left-wing think tank Institut de recherché et d’information socio-economiques (IRIS), was introduced by a panel of VP Externals: Myriam Zaidi of SSMU, Ryan Hughes of PGSS and Michal Rozworski of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill. Zaidi, Hughes, and Rozworski, sitting together, went after the McGill administration, accusing it of seeing students as “cash cows,” “indentured servants,” and “indentured employees,” respectively.
Thomas Collombat, a doctoral student at Carleton University sits on the information committee and  pre-bargaining committee of  the Syndicat des chargées et des chargés de cours de l’Université de Montréal (SCCCUM), spoke after Martin. The day’s keynote speaker was Angus Johnston, a history professor at the City University of New York and expert on student movements in North America, and runs the blog studentactivism.net.
Martin had harsh words for administrators, politicians, and business people. Referring to external representatives on universities’ boards of governors, Martin said, “They obviously have conflicts of interest, because they are capitalist pigs.”
In his speech, Johnson presented a vision of public education and student activism that was both dire and hopeful. Pointing to tuition increases at the University of California and elsewhere, Johnston said, “Its almost a misnomer to talk about public higher education anymore [in the U.S.].” He also noted an upswing in student mobilization against these changes, however. “They used to ask me why there isn’t any student activism,” he said. “Now they ask me that less.”
Eric Martin: Researcher with think tank IRIS
The McGill Daily: Do you think lobbying the government on a wide range of political issues is the right way to go?
Eric Martin: No, because if you’re lobbying them, you’re playing their game. You’re using their language, the language of economy. FEUQ [Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec] has been doing this for a long time: trying to convince the government that, for example, it’s worth it for universities to invest in people because they’re going to pay their taxes in the future, they’re going to pay seven times as much as anybody else, so it’s a good investment. When you use this language, you’re using the economic categories by which knowledge is being destroyed. So you’re not putting yourself in another theoretical vantage point from which you can attack. FEUQ, for example, and FECQ [Fédération étudiante collégial du Québec], have been using the knowledge economy as a positive term. They’ve been putting out press releases saying, “We love the knowledge economy, we just want it to be more for us and less for them.” So they’re in the same paradigm. They’re not attacking the categories of what’s happening, they just want a piece of it. I’m not sure if it’s out of ignorance, or bad political analysis, or dishonesty. I don’t presume of anything. [In terms of under-financing] they’re using the numbers of the principals; you have to be wary of this. You’re not supposed to get your numbers from the governing class, this is a very elementary trick. When you want to argue something, the left must make their own numbers. So the only way to attack this is to, first of all, have a good analysis of what’s happening and not saying, “Oh we’re lacking 500 million and if we put it back, everything’s going to be okay.” No, no, no. The problem is not resources or money; the problem is a sense of purpose about what we’re doing.
MD: So what do students do about it, in terms of tactics?
EM: It’s not sufficient to oppose the tuition hike: you have to oppose the whole model of universities in the economy of knowledge as a patent-producing factory. To do this you should use any means necessary.
MD: You said the response from students should be “violent.”
EM: I’m not saying to oppose this by violence against people; I’m saying that it has to be stopped. So there must be mass demonstrations, there could be some occupations [of buildings] or some economic blockages. You have to be combative because the way to fight this is not by going to the prime minister’s office with a nice little document with numbers. They know all about that. They don’t care. They have decided they are going to destroy education in Quebec and with it the very possibility of forming  youth that will be able to critically resist what’s going on with capitalism. They’re bent on this. They have the principals with them, they have the business class, they have the political class, and the media have been put into the fold because they don’t understand what’s going on. This must be opposed. If you take away the spaces in which a society can think about itself, you are building a society
for authoritarianism.
Angus Johnston: History professor at CUNY
The McGill Daily: What have you found to be the most effective tactics for students trying to move their administration one way or another?
Angus Johnston: Doing actions where you’re soliciting the support of alumni and parents. On a bunch of campuses in the last year, universities have cut back on library hours, claiming that they didn’t have the money to keep the libraries open. And students have staged study-ins in the library, where they just go and they’re studying and they refuse to leave when the library is supposed to close. And it’s really hard to arrest students having a study-in in a library. It puts the administration in a box. And again, it’s not clear that you can have a revolutionary transformation of the university through a study-in in a library, but you can get the hours back. And another thing that that does is it puts the plight of the student, it puts the financial circumstances of the university, on the front page of the media. Because the media love a library study-in. And [the administration] are going to feel heat.
The idea is that you are operating from within your own experience and outside of [the administration’s] experience. That what you’re doing should be something that you feel comfortable with, that makes your opponent feel uncomfortable. It’s tricky to do that, and it’s getting trickier all the time.
MD: Over the summer, the Architecture Café was closed without real student consultation. Have there been cases that you know of the corporatization of food on campus?
AJ: I don’t know specifically about food stuff. But…at my campus, we had a record store on campus that was student-run, and it was constantly a fight to kept the university from saying, “Well, we need the space.” One of the things that’s really significant about that, in addition to the fact that it’s students providing a service for other students and it’s not profit-driven and all that, is the fact that it gives students an opportunity to be in a position of responsibility and leadership in terms of running these facilities, which is a tremendous opportunity.
MD: There’s a possibility that Quebec tuition will be brought to the national average in 2012. It’s not clear right now what student politicians and activists are going to do about it. What would you suggest?
AJ: I’m usually pretty skeptical about the idea of a global student movement, because I think students’ experiences are very different in different places. But, having said that, this current tuition spike is a global phenomenon. We’ve been seeing it going on in the United States: California is bracing for possibly another tuition increase. They’re now at well over $10,000 a year and they’re looking at the possibility that it could rise next month as much as ten or twenty per cent more. Britain is going through this right now. The new government has announced that they are planning to cut support for higher education by eighty per cent. I think what we’re finding is that the privatization issue is a global thing and students have been responding in a global way. Privatization is a nebulous term if you’re not already politically connected. If you don’t already have an analysis of higher education, then the concept of privatization is not going to be one that gets you out in the streets. But this ballooning of tuition – for a while in the United States we thought this was a one-year thing. But it’s becoming clear that this is just going to keep happening and happening. So I think there is an opportunity presented by this for a grass roots global movement.
MD: You’ve said that there wasn’t much media coverage of the University of California upheavals in recent years. How can students get their faces in print?
AJ: The first answer, which is the standard student answer, is to do something big, something really splashy. And that works to a certain extent. But in watching the media more…I’ve realized that keeping up a drumbeat of action is incredibly effective. Because the first time you have an action, in many cases you’re going to catch the media flat-footed. Or they’ll just think it’s a fluke, they’ll think it’s a one-time thing. But then when you have another action a few weeks later, they’re already primed, they already know what you’re issues are, they’ve already got their antennae up, and if they feel that it was a mistake to miss the last one, they’ll be sure not to miss this one. It’s an irresistible hook for the media…it takes it from being an anecdote to being a narrative.
—Compiled by Eric Andrew-Gee
Thomas Collombat: Union organizer at UdeM
The McGill Daily: In terms of job security, can sessionals [course lecturers] apply for the equivalent of tenure?
Thomas Collombat: There is no bridge between the two groups – tenure and sessionals. If a sessional is hired as a tenure – then de facto he doesn’t teach as a sessional any more. There is only one case of collective agreement: it is UQAM’s agreement between sessionals and university management, which says that sessionals should be given some kind of preference for hiring…but this actually jeopardizes the autonomy of the departmental assembly to choose who they want to hire: and they are very keen on their power to decide who they want to hire, so it doesn’t actually work. There is a very strict separation between the two groups [course lecturers and faculty]. UQAM is historically very departmental and controlled by tenure faculty – this is the case in most universities, but even more so in UQAM – so they resisted the idea that some kind of external rule would challenge their sovereignty to hire a new colleague.
MD: So does it make sense to merge the groups?
TC: Both movements are interactive. When sessionals started to unionize in the seventies, at first they wanted to be incorporated into the regular faculty union. Had they done that at that time – had regular faculty accepted sessionals into their regular faculty union – things would be very different today. There is a good chance that you would have some kind of collective agreement with some kind of career path. But things have developed differently: there are many sessionals who are not interested in a career, that are teaching a course for the experience, or for their resume or for another source of revenue, et cetera.
MD: Can you speak about the relationship between tuition hikes and sessional and TA wages?
TC: At UdeM, a sessional is paid $7,800 per course right now, but we’ve just signed a new collective agreement, so this will become higher in the next four to five years. By 2012 the average amount paid for one course for a sessional in [francophone] Quebec will be $9,000. And this is set in stone, because we’ve negotiated the agreements. At Carleton, CUPE 4600 collective agreement, the TA union had a clause in its collective agreement saying that wages were indexed to tuition hikes – so that if tuition went up, automatically TA wages would go up in the same proportion. But the university of course wanted to get rid of that, because it basically  meant a tuition freeze for TAs (and most grad students are TAs because it’s included in our grad program). In Quebec it’s a different issue, since tuition has been frozen for a few years now, so it’s not a concern for unions. Up until three years ago, McGill was the only university in Quebec where TAs were unionized. It’s actually one of the rare cases where McGill was at the forefront of unionization. It’s very recent that TAs are unionized at UQAM, at Laval…and it’s by a different organization, by the public service alliance of Canada. I don’t know how they will react if tuition is unfrozen, and I don’t know how they will include some kind of indexation of tuition rates in a way that may compensate for some of the burden of the [tuition] hikes.
—Compiled by Rana Encol
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Tuesday: Global prospects
Last Tuesday, October 19, McGill hosted a Public Lecture Forum as part of its Third Annual Conference on Global Food Security.  The event featured David Nabarro, the United Nations Secretary General’s Special Representative on Food Security and Nutrition and Beverly Oda, the Canadian Minister for International Relations. The forum also marked the official launch of the McGill Institute for Global Food Security.
Daniel Jutras, Dean of the Faculty of Law, began the conference by welcoming the establishment of the new institute that would help tackle “one of the key dimensions of our collective future.”
Nabarro was “delighted that McGill is taking leadership on an issue of such importance,” adding that “we can’t move forward on food security without the combination of natural and social science research.”
He said food security should encapsulate not only universal access but also “access to nutritional food within a sustainable environment.” Because of this, any approach will require governments and communities to come together in a manner that is interdisciplinary. He continuously emphasized the importance of trade but stated that community and small stakeholder involvement is integral to any sustainable approach.  “[This] approach,” he said, “puts people at the centre, not production.”
Oda discussed the Canadian International Development Assoc-iation’s (CIDA) belief that women are key when discussing food security. “Women are the guardians to nutrition,” she said. “Small farmers are the backbone of the rural economy and the majority of these farmers are women.”
Food Security is at the heart of the UN’s Millennium Development Goals (MDG). “Unless we make sure that people, and not production, are placed at the centre of our goals, we risk a very embarrassing miss come the MDG 2015 deadline,” said Nabarro.
McGill hopes that its new institute will be well placed to help bring an end to food insecurity worldwide.
—Stephen Eldon Kerr and Rachel Reichel
Wednesday: Water management
One of Wednesday’s panel discussions included representatives from Indian, Chinese, and Costa Rican institutions. The question and answer period was sometimes tense because of the disagreement that members of the audience had with India and China’s practices regarding water management.
M. Gopalakrishnan, Secretary General of the Indian International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage started off the talks by explaining the current and future situation of India.
“Extreme conditions are becoming a yearly phenomenon,” said Gopalakrishnan. “India has to learn to live with water scarcity.” he maintained that 27 per cent of the world’s undernourished are Indians, and that thus far government intervention has failed to redistribute wealth to the rural poor. However, he concluded that India may see sustainability of food production and water management by learning from “success stories.”
Zhanyi Gao, director of China’s National Centre for Efficient Irrigation Technology Research, talked about how China will respond to its foreseeable problems, involving mostly technological innovations – like building thousands of reservoirs and implementing drip irrigation systems. For China, it will be a difficult task to manage demand for food and water, as China’s population will reach 1.5 billion by 2030. With rapid development of urbanization, and there will be an increase in water competition between industry, domestic use, and agriculture.
José Joaquín Campos, the Director General of the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center in Costa Rica viewed socio-ecological rural systems not as problems of technology, as the two previous speakers had done, but as “interconnected, complex, and dynamic.” Campos stated that “both social and ecological resilience is key for local and sustainable development, [since] seventy per cent of poor live in rural areas.” Campos also stressed the importance of social responsibility and equity, which could be achieved through local “collective action.”
In the question and answer session, one audience member questioned China’s research in food diversity and resilience. Another doubted that China could solve its problems through its increase in damming and water reservoirs, especially because global warming will make such water storage facilities unsustainable because of increased evaporation.
— Aaron Vansintjan
Thursday: Response of international  agencies
Day three of the conference brought together four representatives from various international development agencies. They evaluated the different strategies used to deal with the 2008 food price crisis, and highlighted future areas of focus for improving agricultural productivity.
The panel acknowledged the importance of empowering small-scale agriculturalists, who are responsible for eighty per cent of the food production in developing countries, yet constitute fifty per cent of the worlds malnourished people.
The panel suggested helping these farmers to expand their enterprises by improving market access and scaling up their businesses. The panel said that because the world faces unprecedented population growth and a subsequent strain on global food resources, there was even more urgency to help small-scale farmers.
Rebekah Young, from the Canadian Department of Finance, cited innovative technologies as a means of accomplishing this, charging the private sector with the responsibility of funding research and development initiatives.
Meanwhile, Cheryl Morden of the International Fund of Agricultural Development (IFAD) discussed tailoring agricultural solutions to the specific ecological and economic needs of small-scale agriculturalists. Calling the population “a huge untapped potential for meeting the increasing global demand for food fuel and fibre,” she advocated for their direct involvement in the planning, development and decision-making processes, as well as the increased involvement of traditionally marginalized groups, namely women, youth ,and indigenous peoples.
The need for sustainability in any proposed solution was also heavily emphasized, despite the fact that governments tend to favour short-term solutions with immediately tangible results.
“Everyone wants results; not because they’re perverse, but because they’re out of business themselves if they can’t show results,” said Carlos Delgado, Strategy and Policy Adviser for the Agriculture and Rural Development Department of the World Bank.
Florence Rolle of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) proposed a combination of short-term solutions, directed at consumers, and long-term solutions. She gave the example of Ethiopia, where immediate government responses such as subsidies were paired with time-intensive solutions, such as the preparation of a five-year development plan.
—Nouran Sedaghat
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU now SSTEIRBBPPUSAMC; Gender parity abolished
The fall 2010 General Assembly (GA) in the Shatner cafeteria passed every motion on the agenda last week, but struggled to maintain quorum throughout the proceedings, prompting questions about advertising efforts and the viability of the structure of the GA. SSMU President Zach Newburgh thought that the poor turnout “displayed the need to review the General Assembly,” and that SSMU should explore “another mechanism by which the average student can engage in the legislative process.”
The motions passed included a mandate for SSMU to refer to itself as the “Students’ Society of The Educational Institute Roughly Bounded by Peel, Penfield, University, Sherbrooke, and Mac Campus” (SSTEIRBBPPUSAMC) for the duration of 2010, the formation of a SSMU Board of Governors (BoG) in order to maintain SSMU’s liquor license, and the abolition of gender parity in speaking privileges at GAs and Legislative Councils.
Liquor License
The creation of a seven-member BoG for SSMU was approved in order to maintain the liquor license. In consultation with their lawyers, SSMU discovered that it was in violation of Quebec provincial law, which mandates that the holder of a liquor license be Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Quebec.
Copi-EUS
A motion for SSMU to use Copi-EUS, a student-run printing service, for all printing jobs exceeding the capacity of the SSMU office printer, faced concern about SSMU being forced into a monopoly. The motion was passed with an amendment stating that SSMU “strongly consider” using the service.
Gerts Volume Regulation
An attempt to place a decibel cap on volume for Gerts passed, though an amendment eliminated the decibel limit in favour of a consensus of a majority of Gerts patrons regarding reasonable volume levels.
AUS Fundraiser
EUS member William Farrell authored a motion that would require SSMU to host a bake sale to raise funds for the AUS executive, which has posted a deficit this year. AUS President David Marshall commented on EUS’ lack of collaboration with AUS, saying, “We do have plans to get on track and do amazing things with our funds, so if a bake sale were to happen, we would most likely be donating the money to a charity.” The motion passed with an amendment that would donate the funds to a not-for-profit organization.
Liability
In response to the administration’s recent movement to disassociate the McGill name with certain clubs and services, the motion regarding liability detailed a plan for SSMU to refer to itself as  SSTEIRBBPPUSAMC. Author Eli Freedman defended the resolution, saying, “This is a joke, but it is a joke with a very serious punchline. I personally find [the administration’s actions] to be belittling to the students. … Using the new title will force an uncomfortable conversation with the administration.”
VP Clubs & Services Anushay Khan voiced concern about logistical difficulties and the potential blow to SSMU’s reputation. “The acronym SSMU has become popular for its reputation and credibility not only internally but externally as well,” she pointed out. “This takes away the reputation we worked for 102 years to create. … We are consistently sidelined from the community, why alienate ourselves further from our campus?”
Gender Parity
The resolution to abolish gender parity in speaking privileges passed with little debate. After the vote, Senator Amara Possian explained her disappointment with the decision and the method of debate surrounding it. “It’s not necessarily that I have a problem with a motion itself, it’s the process, because I think that the way the motion was passed is potentially offensive to a lot of people. A lot of white males in lab coats abolishing gender parity doesn’t make sense.” The policy for gender parity “took years to put in place because it is important to a large number of students, and the fact that 100 students can vote it down with no debate is ridiculous. This is a highly sensitive issue, and it needs to be discussed.”
Student Equity Commissioner Emily Clare echoed Possian’s sentiment, remarking that the resolution was unclear. “I think the issue was rooted in a misunderstanding about what gender parity really is. It’s not correlated with the percentage of the population [of males and non-males] in the student body, it’s more about the structure within SSMU. It’s too bad that it passed.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Advocacy groups point to funding gaps and misplaced priorities
Earlier this month, Montreal’s mayor, Gerard Tremblay, announced an ambitious plan to tackle homelessness in the city in conjunction with the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM). Advocates for the homeless have accused the mayor of simply sweeping the homeless under the rug and city hall of counting its financial chickens before they hatch.
The plan calls for the construction of 750 housing units for the homeless and a respite centre to provide mental health and addiction services. The city’s police will also undergo “sensitivity training” in order to reduce discrimination  toward Montreal’s homeless. In order to execute the plan, Montreal is asking for $29.5 million from Quebec, and a further $21 million from Ottawa. 
As part of the plan, the SPVM has also created Équipe mobile reference et d’intervention en itinérence, a mobile outreach program which seeks to aid homeless people who are repeatedly charged with criminal offences and fines.
The city has sought the assistance of the Makivik Corporation, an Inuit non-profit that aims to hire Inuktitut-speaking social workers as well as develop an Inuit- and Native-specific outreach program. Montreal’s homeless are disproportionately Native and Inuit.
The plan was met with criticism and opposition from organizations working on the ground with the city’s homeless.
Matthew Pearce, the Direc-tor General of the Old Brewery Mission – a hundred-year-old homeless support centre – said that although the plan is an important step toward addressing homelessness, it is significantly flawed. “We’re troubled by the plan in that the city has all of the actions it wants to take, but does not have the funds to do it,” said Pearce. “Their plan is dependent on the province agreeing to their request for money. If the city is truly putting homelessness as a priority it also has to do so in its budget,” he said.
Pearce went on to say that that the announcement of the initiative is premature. “I don’t think they should be advertising what they would do with money they don’t have. What they should do is: complete their conversations with the province, find out how much money the province will give, and…then they should develop a plan.”
Isabelle Raffestin, a representative from Réseau d’aide aux personnes seules et itinérantes de Montréal (RAPSIM) – an organisation which defends the rights of Montreal’s homeless population – said that the city’s plan will make concrete improvements in the area of housing, but thought it fell short in it’s treatment of judicial issues.
She pointed out that when homeless people fall victim to arrest and fines from the police, it is often for minor offenses. Public urination and sleeping on public benches can garner fines starting at $144. In the Ville-Marie – or downtown – area, fines for public disturbance and misuse of urban space can reach up to $628, a fee which few homeless people can afford.
“The Commission des droits de la personne [Commission for Human Rights] published a two- hundred page review which accuses the SPVM of social profiling,” said Raffestin. “What we at RAPSIM are asking for is a revision of municipal regulations that are discriminatory,” she said. The SPVM’s mobile outreach project seems beneficial, but the city needs to go a step further in “sensitizing judges and crown prosecutors to the different realities of people, including the homeless,” according to Raffstein.
In a press release dated October 15, Montreal’s Collectif Opposé à la Brutalité Policière (COBP) has also voiced opposition to the plan. Sophie Sénécal, a spokesperson for the organization, wrote in French that the city’s plan only perpetuates a zero-tolerance approach to dealing with the homeless. COBP maintains that the plan does not address the judicial victimization of homeless people and is an effort to conceal the problem of homelessness rather than eradicate it.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
