The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Newburgh’s Arch Café motion deferred to Senate Steering Committee
correction appended, Sept 23
Student Senators grilled McGill administrators at the first Academic Senate meeting of the year yesterday in Leacock 232, while an estimated 300 students protested outside against the sudden closure of the student-run Architecture Café.
Of the many issues discussed at Senate, the Architecture Café was debated the longest.
“80 per cent of the architecture students signed the petition to keep the café open,” said Arts Senator Amara Possian, who first brought up the issue. “[The closure] contradicts the wishes of many students. That is why there is a protest outside.”
Other student senators also argued for reopening the café, with SSMU VP (University Affairs) Josh Abaki reminding the chair that the Student Task Force on Life and Learning “stress[es] a student centred university.” In reply, Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson reiterated the administration’s stance on the issue.
“The café was operating on a loss… After three years when the ancillary services took over, the café was financially and managerially unsustainable,” said Mendelson.
He also stressed that student organizations were provided with spaces in the past to run operations for some time. These organizations ran into similar financial problems, and had to be taken over by the University.
Mendelson also took issue with the preamble of the question presented in the agenda, stating that he did not understand why the students were so concerned with a space whose area is, “less than a half percentage” of the total social space on campus. Mendelson said that students have “common rooms, and even the group workspaces are used for social interaction from time to time.”
When SSMU President Zach Newburgh started to present a resolution regarding the café, it was immediately struck down by the Chair of Senate, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum, on the basis that Newburgh was out of order.
Newburgh appealed the Chair’s ruling. A vote was held on whether to uphold or dismiss the Chair’s decision, and the appeal was struck down with only the student senators voting to support Newburgh.
Abaki also broached the deregulation of international tuition for French as a second language courses.
Mendelson said that McGill had been subsidizing the French courses for foreign students for a few years, but with deregulation of fees it was no longer possible to do so, as the government funding was no longer there.
“The University is severely underfunded. It can not simply afford to deliver services like this for free…and we can not afford to forgo revenue without charging.”
Abaki argued that the decision was made suddenly, without any student consultation and that “registered international students had been expecting to pay the Quebec rate.”
In response, Mendelson said that, “for the summer term, students who were newly registered for the programs were notified in early May,” but did admit to there being a “slip-off in the communication.”
Provost Anthony Masi also added that “setting tuition is not a policy issue for which a student consultation is needed, but an administrative responsibility.”
Arts Senator Tyler Lawson also went after the administration on tuition, pointing to Munroe-Blum’s presentation to the National Assembly’s Commission de la culture et de l’éducation September 7.
“McGill was the only institution that prioritized graduate education and infrastructure,” said Lawson, referring to the series of presentations given by Quebec universities to the Commission. “Improving the infrastructure…and subsidizing graduate education at [the] expense of undergraduates doesn’t make the academics better.”
The principal responded that graduate education has been neglected and “really needs serious attention with respect to our mission.” She also mentioned measures aimed at decreasing faculty-student ratios, and hiring and retaining tenure-track faculty to enhance the undergraduate experience.
Several motions and reports were deferred to the next Senate meeting, scheduled for October 20. At the end of yesterday’s meeting, Newburgh again tried passing a resolution – aimed at “creating an ad-hoc committee” that had a diverse representation from both the administration and the students – with regards to the Architecture Café issue. Munroe-Blum deferred it to the meeting of the Senate Steering Committee, which will meet Wednesday, October 13.
In an earlier version of this article, Arts Senator Amara Possian was misquoted as saying that “80 per cent of architecture students want the cafe opened.” In fact she said that 80 per cent of them signed a petition to that effect. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Largest student protest on campus in years
Over 300 students gathered outside Leacock yesterday to protest the closure of the Architecture Café, one of the last student-run food providers on campus. The protest began half an hour before the first Senate meeting of the year – which took place in Leacock 232 – and descended to the steps of the Macdonald-Harrington building (former home of the Arch Café), wound down to the Roddick Gates, and finally dissipated at the Y-intersection in the centre of campus.
Student senators walked through the rally outside Leacock, and SSMU President Zach Newburgh briefly addressed the hundreds of students from a coffee cart brought by Midnight Kitchen.
“Thank you for helping us send the message that we will not rest until the Architecture Café is reopened,” said Newburgh through a megaphone.
“This is just beginning,” he said.
A group of engineering students massed at the centre of the rally, banging hard hats together.
The Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) and the Architecture Students’ Association (ASA) have proposed that the café reopen under joint ASA and EUS management in a September 7 memorandum addressed to Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson.
Former manager of the café Carly Roualt, ASA president Kyle Burrows, EUS president Daniel Keresteci, and president Newburgh are signatories to the memorandum.
“We have a history of running good establishments…of making a small profit,” said EUS VP Internal Allan Cyril. “[But] we still think [the Arch Café] was making money.”
Mendelson has insisted that the café was losing money, but has until now refused to make the Arch Café’s accounts public. Student signs called for the administration to open up the Arch Café’s accounts, writing “Show us the books: Full Disclosure,” and “Show us the numbers or give us back the Architecture Café.”
“We don’t want fast food anymore. Arch Café was the last student-run food service on campus [sic] and we really want it back, cause it was really good food and its really cheap,” said Cyril.
Cyril was among three Engineering students who said they would be willing to work at the Arch Café if it was brought under EUS management.
Midnight Kitchen was also a vocal presence at the rally. Members of the collective and volunteers unfurled a “Midnight Kitchen” banner from the roof of the Leacock extension, before being kicked off the roof by a security guard — one of several who circled the rally.
Dana Holtby, a volunteer with Midnight Kitchen who was on the roof, said that “we probably weren’t allowed up there anyway.”
Holtby emphasized, however, that she was not at the rally representing Midnight Kitchen.
“I’m here because I’m pissed off about what the McGill administration has done, in terms of backdoor deals over the summer…and taking away the only student space we have left, really. I’m really, really angry.”
Midnight Kitchen brought coffee and cake to the rally, and Alex Briggs, a member of the collective, expressed concern that the Midntight Kitchen could be next in line to be closed.
“We’re the only [student-run café] left,” said Briggs. “[But] we’re under SSMU, so we have some protection.”
According to Briggs, however, that doesn’t provide Midnight Kitchen any added security.
“I’m sure if the admin wanted to shut us down, they would,” said Briggs.
Midnight Kitchen also announced a “Corporate Food Boycott Strategy Session” slated for Monday at 7 p.m. in room 403 of the Shatner building.
“This is not just about one café — it’s about the continued corporatization of our campus,” said Holtby. “We don’t wanna eat corporatized shitty-ass food.”
Security guards followed the rally on its route around campus, blocking the entrance to the Macdonald-Harrington Building as protesters massed below them. The guards refused to comment on their specific duties, but they kicked Daily photographer Nate Mosseau out of Leacock at the beginning of the rally.
“I was on the second floor [of Leacock] taking pictures of the rally. A guard asked me if I was a tourist. I said I wasn’t a tourist, and he told me I couldn’t take pictures then. I told him that was silly…[and] that I was taking pictures for The Daily. He said I needed to show some ID to prove that,” said Mosseau.
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum and Provost Anthony Masi skirted the protest on their way to the Senate meeting.
“It’s just part of life in university,” said Munroe-Blum as protestors yelled and banged drums metres away.
Masi refused to comment.
Michael Lipsitz, a member of the Arch Café Mobilization Committee, said that it was in the administration’s interest to accommodate student desires.
“I think if they don’t listen, everyone’s going to realize that they don’t give a shit about us, and I don’t think they want that,” said Lipsitz.
Referring to the size of the rally, Lipsitz asked, “When is the last time this happened at McGill?”
—With files from Eric Andrew-Gee and Michael Lee-Murphy
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Newburgh’s Arch Café motion deferred to Senate Steering Committee
The McGill administration has submitted a demand for some student services to remove the McGill name from their titles, sparking an outcry from the groups affected by the decision.
The most recently affected student services, TVMcGill and  McGill First Aid Service (MFAS), have expressed consternation over the impending name change. The University maintains that such changes have to be made to avoid liability.
In an interview with The Daily, Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson said that because TVMcGill never requested permission from the administration to use the McGill name, it is therefore illegal for the service to continue doing so. He said that individual clubs and services have to make their justification and reasoning for using the McGill name in their titles clear in their Memorandums of Agreement (MoA) with the University. Mendelson went on to explain the administration’s perspective on the use of the McGill name and brand.
“The University has the copyright of its name and it holds the brand on the name and the logo. The University has to protect the brand and the logo very vigorously so that it has true meaning, in the same way that Nike would do everything possible to protect its swoosh,” he said.
However, student services having the McGill name severed from their group titles do not understand exactly what sort of liability their services entail, and feel marginalized by the administration. Nicole Edwards, the director of MFAS, stressed the inconvenience such a change would have on the quality of their service, and explained her opinion on the matter.
“We think that changing our name is an unnecessary and unreasonable request,” she said. “Setting aside the costs associated with changing our name, we feel that they are trying to discredit us entirely. Asking us to change our name implies they do not trust us as students and as the much-needed service that we are providing to the University. We have been well-established as MFAS for ten years. A name change would not be inconsequential.”
Mendelson maintained that despite accusations to the contrary, the McGill administration is predominantly focused on student life and welfare, citing numerous administrative initiatives to provide SSMU and PGSS with more funding in regards to their building occupancy.
Mendelson insisted that the removal of the McGill name from multiple student services’ titles has nothing to do with the administration’s opinion of said services, and has more to do with preventing confusion regarding whether or not the University is directly affiliated with the organizations.
 “Over the past couple of years, we [the administration] have let students know that student groups can use the McGill name. We want student groups to see themselves as associated with the University, as so many of the groups do such good activities. It gives the University its pride to be associated with a student group, but we want the [McGill] name to be used in a way that doesn’t create confusion about the group or McGill’s role in the group.”
In order for TVMcGill to retain its current title, the service would have to make a disclaimer clarifying its independence from the administration more readily available on the station and on its website.
TVMcGill President Carter Li declined comment regarding the station’s impending name change “due to the delicate nature of the situation.”
“We do not want to jeopardize our standing concerning this situation,” he added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
