The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU and PGSS release joint statement with Concordia groups condemning government’s decision
McGill student groups are up in arms over the Harper government’s June decision to scrap Canada’s mandatory long-form census, saying they fear the change will strike at the quality of student research.
On August 11, McGill’s Post-Graduate Student Society (PGSS) and the undergraduate Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) released a press release along with two student groups from Concordia, railing against the government’s decision. Ryan Hughes, PGSS VP External, said that the not-for-profit Free Education Montreal was also involved in planning the coordinated statement.
The release asserts, “graduate students use [the census] data daily to complete research and conduct projects,” including gauging “the quality of public transit… and how civil society organizations can better engage with social issues such as poverty and discrimination.”
Hughes further described his organization’s opposition to the census changes as a matter of principle. “Generally, the PGSS does not support any actions taken by the government taken solely for ideological purposes,” he said.
He went on to say that his work as VP External, a position in which he is responsible for advocating on behalf of students to various levels of government, would be directly affected by the changes to the census.
“I’m currently conducting a tuition review and I’ve seen a lot of material that’s relied on StatsCan in my research,” Hughes said, referring to Statistics Canada, the federal statistical agency responsible for the census.
Myriam Zaidi, SSMU  VP External, echoed the press releases’ focus on student research in an interview with the Daily, saying, “SSMU is a student society and we want to support student research.”
Zaidi also said her work as a VP External would be affected because “as VP external we use StatsCan material to analyze the level of education in different provinces….I’ve used StatsCan already this summer four times, just to know how to compare Quebec to other provinces when it comes to education.”
Daniel Simeone, a graduate student in the History Department and Speaker of PGSS Council, worries about how this will influence the work of scholars a hundred years from now.
He conceded that most current historians would not be touched directly by the changes to the census, but said “historians of the future won’t be able to have as fine-grained an understanding of Canadian society.”
“One of the benefits of the censuses of the past,” Simeone continued, “is that you can read into them the history of groups that don’t otherwise produce history. So, women’s history, gay history, immigrant history.”
Under the Harper government’s proposal, a shorter voluntary census would continue to be sent out to one-fifth of homes every five years. But opponents of the changes believe the voluntary nature of the new census will create a self-selecting sample of respondents and weaken the credibility of the census data.
Munir Sheikh, who was head of Statistics Canada when the Harper government announced its decision regarding the census, resigned after Industry Minister Tony Clement repeatedly claimed a voluntary census could produce data as reliable as the mandatory form. Commenting on whether or not the voluntary census “can become a substitute for a mandatory census,” Sheikh said simply: “It can not.”
Many supporters of the government’s decision say a mandatory long-form census is unnecessarily coercive. Until the Harper government took its decision, the penalty for failing to complete the long-form census was either a maximum $500 fine or a maximum of three months in prison, although no one has ever faced prison time for the infraction.
On August 26 John McCallum, the Liberal Finance Critic, said he would introduce legislation to reinstate the mandatory long-form census, but without the threat of jail time for failing to complete the form.
Dr. Reuven Brenner, an economics professor and REPAP Chair of Economics at McGill’s Desautels Faculty of Management, opposes the mandatory long-form census on the grounds that any penalties attached to failing to complete the census are irrational and excessive.
“If people don’t vote (which is far more important for sustaining a vibrant democracy, I would think) there are no penalties involved and it’s nobody’s business,” Dr. Brenner wrote in an email. “I am not saying there should be penalties for this, but then it is a puzzle why ‘liberals’ think that not filling the forms deserves any punishment.”
Dr. Brenner also criticized opposition parties for making the census a partisan issue. “If, as now [Liberal MP John] McCallum admits, the Liberal Party wants to promote its agenda based on data from the Census, let their party pay for it,” Dr. Brenner wrote. “Not clear why all taxpayers should subsidize this or any party’s, or any interest groups’ (academics included), agenda.”  
According to a list compiled by the website datalibre.ca, 341 organizations and individuals are publicly opposed to the government’s census decision, while 11 support it.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Part one of a four-part series: deficit to be eliminated by end of fiscal year
Correction appended – Wednesday, Sep 1
On May 25, the Board of Governors approved the McGill University Budget 2010-2011, an ambitious document that has the potential to dramatically alter the direction of the University and its finances in coming years.
Among the goals set forward in the nearly 60-page Budget Book is the funneling of funding to lucrative graduate research, the deregulation and increase of student tuition, and the elimination of the University’s deficit by the end of this fiscal year.
The University’s Fiscal Year (FY) has been shortened to 11 months, with the year ending April 30 as opposed to May 31. The measure is part of an effort by the provincial government to bring the FY of Quebec universities closer in line with the provincial governments’ FY, which ends March 30. The measure is also aimed at reducing the province’s overall deficit. Various revenues and expenses have been reduced to accommodate the 11-month FY, to the degree where revenues now outweigh expenses.
The 11-month FY proposes a “close to break-even scenario’’ for the University. Within an 11-month FY the Budget predicts total revenues to reach approximately $1.03 billion, with total expenses at approximately $1 billion.
 Thus, the 2011 Budget is projected to break even, a significant accomplishment given the severe deficit the University has faced since the 2008 recession, and the even worse financial situation of other Quebec universities, as well as the provincial government that provides a large portion of their funds.
Of nine Quebec universities surveyed by the Conférence de recteurs et des principaux des universities du Québec, McGill had the fourth highest accumulated operating deficit in May 2009 with an approximately $70-million deficit. Université de Montréal led the way with a deficit of approximately $140 million. Université du Québec a Montréal had approximately $115 million in deficits, but the impact of UQAM’s capital project deficits, including millions of dollars the University lost in a failed real estate investment last year, was not taken into account. The average accumulated operating deficit amongst Quebec universities was approximately $55 million.
By the end pf FY 2007 McGill had a deficit of almost $20 million. By the end of FY 2009 the deficit had been reduced to $11.4 million, and last year — FY 2010 — it was reduced to $5 million.
The provincial government is in even worse financial straits. For the FY 2009-2010 the province posted a $4.3-billion deficit, a level not reached since 1996-1997. As part of the provincial government’s attempts to reduce expenses, post-secondary education institutions have received major funding cuts in recent years.
   The University still relies heavily on the provincial government for its funding; the most notable provincial grant, one from the Ministère de l’Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS) accounts for almost half McGill’s revenue.
“The Federal government has been slashing the post-secondary education budget, and the provincial government has followed suit,” said SSMU President Zach Newburgh. “There’s a serious underfunding crisis [at McGill].”
As a result of underfunding, McGill has attempted to find revenue beyond provincial grants in this year’s Budget.
“The percentage of McGill’s budget that comes directly from MELS is being reduced (even as its dollar amount increases),” wrote Provost Anthony Masi, in an email to the Daily. The Provost and his office are responsible for drafting the Budget each year.
 Instead of relying on provincial grants, McGill is harvesting additional revenue from “select priority areas” that are beneficial to the University’s global reputation and lucrative for its bottom line. The priorities are focused mainly on graduate studies and research.
“We are increasing research dollars and the overheads that accompany them…[and] we are working with foundations and the private sector on projects,” said Masi.
The University Budget is comprised of four funds: Operating, Restricted, Capital, and Endowment. The Operating fund deals with all activities associated with McGill’s core research and teaching activities. A large proportion of the MELS grant goes into this fund.
Click the graph above to download the University’s budget book
The Restricted fund is essentially the same, only the money deposited in that fund has specific restrictions. Research grants are an example of restricted money. The 2010-2011 Budget forecasts restricted fund research revenues to total approximately $263.5 million. Of that total, roughly $140 million comes from the federal government, $35 million from the provincial government, and $5 million from the U.S. government. Canadian corporations accounted for approximately $2.5 million, while Canadian foundations and associations contributed $14 million, and U.S. corporations contributed $92, 000, with U.S. foundations and associations accounting for almost $2 million.
The Capital fund comprises all revenues from sources specifically earmarked for the acquisition, construction or renovation of capital assets — in other words infrastructure purchase, maintenance, and construction. The recent purchase of a downtown hotel was funded in this way.
The Endowment Fund is comprised of all gifts, donations, and bequests made to the University for specific purposes, such as financial aid.
Due to an editorial error, the printed version of this article (News, Sep 1, pg, 3) contains inaccurate figures concerning the contributions of U.S. corporations and the University’s past deficit. The Daily regrets the errors.
Other installments in this series*
Part 2 – Budget forecasts severe tuition increases; student aid still inaccessible
Part 3 – McGill stuck on deferred maintenance treadmill; admin using outside investments to pay for new property
Part 4 – McGill cycling out tenured professors to cut costs; Admin staff, salaries, on the rise
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Third hotel in seven years costs McGill over 10 million dollars
This past spring, McGill purchased the Courtyard Marriott hotel, with plans to make it the university’s newest student residence.
The building is located at 410 Sherbrooke West, just east of campus. When it opens in the fall of 2011, it will house roughly 270 McGill students. The hotel was bought for a reported 12.3 million dollars, which McGill declined to verify. The purchase of the Marriott represents the third major residential real estate acquisition by McGill this decade, coming after the Renaissance Hotel (now New Residence) in 2003 and the Four Points Sheraton (now Carrefour Sherbrooke) in 2009.
“The main reason is so that we can make good on our guarantee of housing,” explained Morton Mendelson, Deputy Provost of Student Life and Learning.
At McGill, housing is guaranteed to all incoming first-year students under the age of 22. Previous real estate acquisitions, including the aforementioned hotels, have also been made in order to secure available housing for incoming students. Shortage of space in residence has proven troublesome in the past, most notably in the fall of 2008, when a building’s worth of apartment space had to be rented for first-year students lacking housing.
This year, according to Residences Director Michael Porritt, temporary housing had to be found for approximately 100 students as of move-in day. As in years past, many freshmen (also estimated at nearly 100) had to settle off-campus due to overflow. The newly-acquired Marriott will, when it opens its doors next year, help to accommodate a large number of students for whom housing would not be otherwise available.
By all indications, however, the Marriott is not an all-encompassing solution to McGill’s housing woes. McGill’s undergraduate class has been growing at an annual rate of 1%, roughly 200 students a year, and is projected to continue at this pace for the next two years. With no major real estate purchases slated for the near future students may still be left looking for housing options.
McGill’s budget for the 2010-2011 fiscal year states that, “It has become increasingly difficult to not only sustain McGill’s quality (and its approximate 29,000 students) while positioning the University to enhance its competitiveness in the future, but also to meet our obligation to reduce annual operating deficits and achieve a breakeven budget by [fiscal year] 2011.”
Mendelson explained the process behind the purchase.
“The university took out a bond to raise money. The bond was issued with the understanding that all the money raised by the bond would go into projects that created a financial return,” he said.
According to Porritt, the Residences department serves as a self-sustaining financial system, generating its own revenues each year. “Residences and the University do not purchase anything that we cannot pay for,” he said.
SSMU President Zach Newburgh reflected on the growth of the undergraduate class.
“The SSMU is glad that the university is opening its doors to more and more students, but recognizes that students will be faced with some of the negative consequences that will follow, such as increases in class sizes, fewer opportunities to engage with professors directly, longer wait times with advisors and other administrators, as well as a slew of others,” he said.
-with files from Michael Lee-Murphy
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Administration stresses pedestrian safety
Since May 28, cyclists have been asked to dismount their bikes across the downtown campus. While there is no official legislation enforcing the rule, the administration is trying to establish a norm across McGill that prioritizes pedestrian use of space.
“It’s the way we’re trying to manage things, to set expectations. You’re not going to find any document in a green book somewhere that says this is the policy of the University,” said Jim Nicell, Associate VP (University Services). Nicell has been coordinating many of the sustainability and infrastructure developments on campus.
The change is part of McGill’s master plan to update infrastructure and make lower campus a greener and safer space for pedestrians. The administration says there have been numerous accidents involving cyclists over the years.
“The reason for making the lower campus a walk-bike zone should be readily apparent: thousands of pedestrians cross McGill’s downtown campus every day, sometimes – especially when classes change – in substantial numbers,” a preliminary document explaining the new transportation protocols reads.  
“Mounted bicycles are incompatible with pedestrian safety,” it continued.    
Nicell emphasized the increased ability for pedestrians to take advantage of outdoor space. In addition to the ban on cycling, deliveries are now restricted to between 7 and 11 a.m., parking permits for about 150 vehicles have been transferred elsewhere, and McTavish is now completely car-free.
“We want to bring people off of the sidewalks,” Nicell said.  “The idea is to give them more social space.”
The University does not view the no-bike implementation as incompatible with its greening initiatives.  The number of bike racks on campus, mostly clustered around entrances, is also being doubled by the end of 2010.
According to the University, it shouldn’t be a big deal to dismount and walk.
“I think a lot of us feel that it’s not a huge compromise,” Nicell said. “To the cyclists, we’re offering them as many parking spots as we can physically fit on the campus. We try to make sure they’re as safe and secure locations as possible. And we’re asking them, as well, to walk the reasonable distance to wherever they’re going.”
As for general public who commute through campus or arrive by bike to enjoy the space, Nicell does not see any major inconvenience.  
“You have a choice to go around [McGill], or you can enjoy us for two more minutes,” he said.
Campus cyclists, however, are less than thrilled. Chuk Plante, a sociology graduate student, cyclist, and volunteer at the Flat, the student bike collective in the Shatner basement, says that the change is misguided at best.
“It’s not an anti-bike policy so much as an overly-reactive safety policy,” he said. “It assumes pedestrians are pretty dumb, and cyclists are pretty careless.”  
Plante argues that it further antagonizes the administration in students’ eyes. “The policy makes it seem like the administration is very out of touch,” he said. “As long as it’s in place, [students] interact with the admin every day in a negative way.”
While Plante tends to obey the dismount request and agrees that the new bike racks are helpful, others often speed past security guards.  Last Friday night, two disgruntled cyclists on McTavish even tried to steal a “Dismount Your Bike” sign before the guard was able to retrieve it.
Nicell concedes the change can seem harsh at late hours when there are virtually no pedestrians.  As the semester begins, the University may look to reduce the hours during which cyclists must dismount to peak times.
“From a long-term sustainability viewpoint, we need to figure out how we’re going to work with cyclists and put them into the mix with pedestrians,” he said.  “We’re trying to find that middle ground…and in this case, compromise on the ability of cyclists to pass through the campus.”
Further concerns have been voiced, however, about a perceived lack of consultation before the protocol’s implementation, which began in earnest this summer, but can be traced back to the construction at the Milton gates that restricted road space over the past two years.
Though the administration is holding a forum for cyclists and other interested parties September 23, some think it’s coming too late.
Nicell argued that proper consultation was done. He said that the diverse stakeholders involved in weekly planning discussions included avid cyclists, though no students. According to Nicell, several presentations on sustainability, including some to Senate last year, were sufficient, even though the presentations may not have specifically discussed the no-bike rule.
“They probably should have involved people before it was implemented,” Plante said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Abandoned Tribal theme leads to questions of Frosh reform
With public accusations of racism launched at one faculty over a contentious frosh theme, this year’s perennial orientation has been marked by a controversy that raises questions of oversight and possible structural changes to frosh in the years to come.
The dispute around the Management Undergraduate Society’s (MUS) Tribal Frosh theme arose several days before frosh festivities were scheduled to start. As part of their publicity for the event, the MUS released a video showing McGill students in costumes and face paint depicting four indigenous tribes–the Maori, Inca, Zulu, and Maasai.
The video immediately drew accusations of racism and cultural insensitivity; on Thursday, August 19, former SSMU Counsellor Sarah Woolf posted a Facebook callout to protest the Tribal Frosh. On August 21, she followed up with an online appeal to protest MUS frosh, in which she suggested writing letters to MUS and SSMU executives, as well as to campus media. Some hours later, MUS executives called Woolf to schedule a meeting to discuss the matter.
 Irkar Beljaars, producer of CKUT’s Native Solidarity News and a Mohawk himself, attended the meeting. Beljaars pointed out the heavy drinking that characterizes most frosh activities as a point of contention.  “I wanted the organizers to understand that alcoholism–the battle with the bottle–is a very big issue in indigenous communities around the world,” he said. Multiple sources have said that the meeting’s atmosphere was tense, and ended abruptly.
The next morning, MUS President Céline Junke posted an apology on the MUS website, saying that frosh coordinators “never had any intention of portraying tribes in a disrespectful manner and deeply regrets any offense this may have caused.”
MUS also removed all Tribal Frosh online promotional material and changed its theme to “Superheroes.” After the theme was changed, Woolf published a note online reading: “congratulations…to MUS for hearing the concerns of McGill students…and responding appropriately. Changing the theme of such a huge event on a few days notice is no easy feat, so a serious tip of my hat to the folks at MUS!”
 A further dispute arose after outgoing Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) president and current engineering senator Andrew Doyle posted an open letter to Woolf on his Facebook account. The letter, in turn, accused Woolf of racism and of “summon[ing] the Oka Mohawk community to picket Management” and contended that the sole reason for the change of the MUS frosh theme was because of threats or violent protest that Doyle deemed “terrorism.” Junke says that the claims of threats are not “true in the slightest,” and that the meeting was “respectful.” Numerous messages sent to Doyle for comment were not returned.
Administration officials have begun to assess both policy and procedural changes following the controversy. The administration has no application or vetting process for undergraduate society frosh, other than the customary security applications that accompany the booking of all campus space.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson expressed concern about the current system in the wake of this year’s events.
“I am wondering whether or not the situation of frosh, structurally, makes it impossible for students to manage the entire event,” he said, adding that the issue would be discussed at an annual review of first-year orientation events.
Officials at the office of Student Services were reluctant to discuss policy changes, but stressed forthcoming changes to the consultative process that accompanies the planning of undergraduate frosh events.
One such change would include the incorporation of McGill’s Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE) into the planning of frosh. Veronica Amberg, SEDE’s chief coordinator, said that while SEDE’s role in frosh planning is only beginning, her office was “concerned about these recurring froshes, and hoped that SEDE could assist in making frosh “inclusive and non offensive.”
SEDE is scheduled to meet Thursday with the office of Student Services and the McGill First People’s House.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
