The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Newspaper hemorrhaging as recession squeezes revenues
Published September 25 2009
Management at Montreal’s largest broadsheet French newspaper has announced that it will go out of print unless its workers accept a new contract by December 1.
La Presse’s unionized workers issued a public statement “deploring” the publisher’s hard-line tactics after the announcement was made on September 3, but the two sides have since commenced negotiations toward a new contract which Gesca Ltée – the paper’s parent corpoation – hopes will be $13-million less than the current one.
Like dozens of other daily newspapers across North America squeezed by declining ad revenues amid the current recession, La Presse has sought to cut its costs wherever possible. After announcing last June that the paper will be running a deficit of over $200-million by 2013 unless it radically restructures, management has sought to decrease its expenses by $26-million annually.
Having already decreased the physical size of the newspaper and discontinued its Sunday edition, Guy Crevier, the president of  Gesca Ltée, is demanding that the remaining cuts must come from the unions – namely, that the 600 unionized employees there start to work five days a week, as opposed to four, and accept a six per cent cut in pay.
In a press release issued last Friday, La Presse announced that while negotiations are ongoing, representatives of Gesca Ltée and La Presse’s unions would not make comments to the media.
In recent months, labour relations have deteriorated much more dramatically at one of La Presse’s rival publications, the daily tabloid Le Journal de Montréal. After the contract of the Syndicat des travailleurs de l’information du Journal de Montréal (STIJM) expired on December 31, the union and management were unable to agree upon a new contract, and the STIJM’s 253 employees have been locked out ever since.
Pascal Filotto, the Secretary General of the STIJM, said that the problems workers at the La Presse currently face are similar to those of his own union.
“We thought that we had offered them a lot of concessions, but they really haven’t budged much from their initial position,” he said. “They want to essentially outsource accounting, and a lot of the classified ads workers they want to get rid of. That’s more than a third of our membership.”
Filotto added that negotiations at La Presse are likely to fare better than they have at Le Journal because Gesca will be forced to disclose its financial accounts during the course of its discussions with the union. Le Journal’s parent company, Quebecor, on the other hand, has kept its numbers hidden.
“If you have real numbers then you can talk seriously,” Filotto said. “[Management] is asking us to make concessions that really are not in proportion with the actual crisis and the way it’s affecting our paper.”
STIJM’s previous contract included stipulations designed to keep corporate interference out of the newsroom. Filotto said that the union intends to maintain such agreements in its next contract, despite management’s intentions to omit them.
The Montreal Gazette, Montreal’s most popular English daily, also switched to a smaller-sized paper last spring as a result of the financial pressures it has been facing.
Gazette columnist Henry Aubin stated that workers at his paper have “backed off from pressure tactics” as the financial problems facing the paper, and its parent corporation CanWest Global, have come to light.
“I think everyone’s going to have to reduce their expectations. French news has had four-day papers, and I think it’s very naive to think that’s going to continue,” said Aubin, adding that workers at La Presse typically make more than those at The Gazette.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students vent frustrations but get few answers
Over 100 people filled the Shatner Ballroom for an open forum on cycling and pedestrian safety Thursday, September 23. The panel was comprised of students and staff and was moderated by Chemistry Professor David Harpp.
Associate VP (University  Services) Jim Nicell presented a brief history of the decision-making process that led to the ban on cars and bikes on the downtown campus.
“We considered principles and collected feedback… It’s our objective to arrive at a consensus view,” said Nicell.
Barbara Lewis, Special Projects Officer for the Office of University Services, wrote in an email to The Daily that the University decided the forum “would be the best venue for…outlining the varied – sometimes competing – interests and constraints which all had to be balanced in coming to a decision regarding circulation on campus.”
Lewis said she hoped the forum would achieve a higher level of understanding.
The forum was a mixture of anecdotes, debate, and suggestions for how to successfully remodel the campus in order for cyclists and pedestrians to coexist. Suggestions included varying surfaces, speed bumps, and speed limits. Many in the audience spoke to the idea that bikes and pedestrians can coexist. “I just want to see some discussion,” said Joseph Giardini, a U3 Neuroscience student.
There were concerns from pedestrians about the campus becoming a city thoroughfare, and concerns about general personal safety. Several students demanded to see data and proof that justified the University’s decision and explained their safety concerns. The forum ran late because of the volume of people seeking to be heard.
One of the most impassioned comments was given by Associate Professor in the School of Architecture Pieter Sijpkes. He spoke about the hope provided by the increase of bikes and cycling on campus. He lamented that today, the very people at the forefront of the green movement, cyclists, were being separated from – and not integrated into – McGill’s new “green” initiatives.
Bicycling is “urban dancing,” said Sijpkes, and perhaps with the inclusion of varying surfaces and road signs, he hoped a compromise could be reached.  Political Science Professor Jacob T. Levy pointed out that cyclists and pedestrians aren’t mutually exclusive, that people respond to their environment and that if allowed, cyclists and pedestrians could respond to each other.
The forum audience seemed largely in favour of allowing cyclists on campus, but Nicell said there was strong support for the ban on cyclists on campus.
“This happened to be a forum that mostly attracted people who had the perspective of the cyclists but there is a whole other contingent and actually an extreme contingent that says ‘Ban bicycles,’ and we’re not going there either,” said Nicell.
Nicell also stated that he wanted to get rid of the security guards stationed outside every campus entrance – asking cyclists to dismount their bikes – as soon as possible.
Randall Blom, a Faculty of Law student senator and panellist at the forum, said afterwards that while “it is a complex issue…I hope that [the ban] is reconsidered.”
The panel encouraged everyone to continue emailing thoughts and suggestions to the Office of University Services. Part of Lewis’ mandate involves reviewing and responding to emails regarding “changes to campus circulation.”
“I think it’s a little late for them to do something like this, I feel like this should have happened before they put anything in place, hopefully they’re going to listen to [everyone],” said Farid Rener, a volunteer at The Flat, the bike collective in Shatner.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
