The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Groups seek investigation into the treaty’s impact on human rights
The Ontario Public Service Employees Union (OPSEU) recently joined ranks with Amnesty International,  the Canadian Union of Public Employees, and other groups that have called for Canada not to renew its the Canada-Columbia Free Trade Agreement (CCFTA) with Colombia, due to concerns for the treaty’s effect on Colombian human rights.
A proposal to ratify the CCFTA is included in Bill C-2, which was tabled by the Harper government on March 3, despite the recommendations of the House of Commons Standing Committee on International Trade.
The committee’s report on a similar bill, which expired in its second reading due to prorogation, called for a human rights assessment before ratification of the CCFTA, and that the “Government of Canada develop new social responsibility standards for corporations as regards compliance with universal human rights standards.”
Jen Giroux, an OPSEU executive board member, explained some of the union’s concerns, which range from food sovereignty to land and worker’s rights.
“OPSEU met with 30 groups in August 2009, including indigenous groups and trade union members, and their concerns about human rights abuses led to our call for an independent human rights assessment before the passing of this free trade agreement,” Giroux said.
“Many Colombian farmers face hunger not through lack of production, but because the vast majority of their produce is sold to other countries. Union workers who voice their concerns are threatened by various paramilitary groups, and many have been murdered or disappeared entirely,” she added.
Giroux cited the case of indigenous leader Kimy Pernia Domico, who disappeared in 2001.
 Domico testified to Canadian Parliament in 1999, exposing the damage to both his people’s way of life and the environment caused by the Urra hydroelectric dam, which was financed by Export Development Canada. Paramilitaries later acknowledged responsibility for his death.
Berth Berton-Hunter of Amnesty International Canada said the international human rights group has also called for an independent assessment after meeting with various Colombian workers, journalists, and indigenous groups, in addition to Canadian government officials.
Both Giroux and Berton-Hunter emphasized the effects of the free trade agreement on mining and land.
“The main issue here is land. Colombia has many mineral resources and hydroelectric power [sources] that rest on indigenous land. Thousands of people and children have been killed and pressured off of their land by the government and/or paramilitary groups, despite the fact that Colombia claims to have demobilized them,” Berton-Hunter said.
“Passing this deal would only disenfranchise the poor and give more power to mining companies and the economic elite, perpetuating the current situation.”
According to the Canadian government, the agreement is not aimed at lowering import tariffs or widening the market for Colombian goods. The treaty is described as an attempt to secure and increase investment opportunities for Canadian companies in Colombia.
A press release by the prime minister states that “the Free Trade Agreement will provide greater market access for Canadian exporters of products….  In addition, the Agreement will provide greater stability and protection for Canadian businesses involved in oil and gas, mining, manufacturing, and financial services.”
The Canadian government also alleges the CCFTA will improve the human rights situation in Colombia by promoting economic development. According to the web site of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada, free trade agreements “promote economic development, which can strengthen the social foundations of countries and contribute to a domestic environment where individual rights and the rule of law are respected.”
If ratified, the CCFTA will include a Labour Cooperation Agreement, which has been included in similar treaties. The agreement will attempt to address some of the human rights concerns through a set of labour standards and a complaint procedure.
Giroux and Berton-Hunter worry that the provisions listed by the government will not be enough.
“Colombia has a better constitution on paper than Canada, but it is routinely ignored or worked around. Many Colombians have told me that they would welcome more economic development in their country, but not with the current issues,” Giroux said.
Berton-Hunter also explained potential threats to those that file labour complaints.
“Those who voice their concerns are continually threatened by paramilitary groups, who often have some connection to the government. At the same time the Colombian government routinely denies any involvement,” she said.
Giroux suggested that along with an independent human rights assessment, the Canadian Government should implement Bill C-300 on corporate accountability. “The Bill calls for corporate accountability in Canadian mining and oil companies when operating in developing nations and also allows local groups to file complaints with the minister of trade,” Giroux said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Loss of federal and provincial funding could push institution toward insolvency
Amid accusations of financial irregularities and mismanagement, the federal government announced last week that it will not reverse a decision to cut $7.2 million in funding from the First Nations University of Canada (FNUC).
Combined with the $ 5.2-million loss in funding from the Saskatchewan government that was announced in February, this decision could mean that the university is headed for insolvency.
The government made the announcement in spite of the recent decision of the FNUC and its owner, the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations (FSIN), to address the government’s concerns by transferring control of the university to the University of Regina and establishing a new board of governors.
“The [federal] government claims that the university has not managed its funds appropriately and has not taken the action recommended to address the issue,” said Jean Crowder, the NDP’s critic for aboriginal affairs.
“However, what I know from meeting with both the Canadian Association of University Teachers, with somebody from the Board of Governors, with the grand chief of the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations, with someone from the student union, from the faculty association, is that they have presented a plan to the government to address the issues, and the government really has had no conversation with them about this,” said Crowder.
FNUC’s finances have long been under scrutiny, and in a press release Indian affairs minister Chuck Strahl attributed the federal funding cuts to “long-standing, systemic problems related to governance and financial management.”
Critics of the university have alleged that it is not independent enough from the FSIN, and in both 2007 and 2008 it ran deficits of over $1 million. Rumours of unnecessary business trips to Hawaii and Las Vegas have been circulating, and most recently, Saskatchewan’s ministry of justice launched an investigation into whether $390,000 of a scholarship fund was mishandled.
Randy Lundy, who heads FNUC’s faculty council, compared the funding cuts to the residential school system.
“After having issued an apology for [the residential school] legacy, minister Strahl is enacting yet another policy of enforced assimilation by refusing to restore the $7.2 million in funding to the First Nations University of Canada,” Lundy said at a press conference on March 11.
The funding cuts precede a financial audit of the university, which is expected to be finished by the end of this month.
“The federal government has announced that they need to save money, and they are looking at all kinds of opportunities to cut programs or services. This would fall in line with that,” said Crowder.
“The provincial government has signaled that they would be prepared to come to the table if the federal government would,” said Crowder on March 15.
However, a meeting between Saskatchewan advanced education minister Rob Norris and Strahl the following day did not yield any sort of deal, and both governments’ previous promises to end funding by April 1 remained.
FNUC is the only university of its kind in Canada, and it offers an opportunity for First Nations students to study in a culturally supportive environment.
“First Nations have had such a terrible experience through residential schools,” Crowder explained. “What the First Nations University does is provide an avenue for students to get culturally appropriate education. There’s a lot more support around tradition and language… that makes it easier for students to return, to come to school.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
After being detained for six years under a security certificate, local teacher aims to clear his name
Montrealer Adil Charkaoui has launched a $24.5-million lawsuit against the government agencies and representatives who played a major role in his two-year imprisonment and four years spent living under strict house arrest conditions.
The last of Charkaoui’s conditions were struck down in September 2009, and in November his lawyers asked the government to issue him an apology and grant him both citizenship and reasonable reparations for the damage caused by his six-year ordeal.
“They asked the government to respond within 10 days – they didn’t, which left him no choice,” said Mary Foster, a member of the Coalition Justice for Adil Charkaoui.
“Adil’s struggle is extremely inspiring, and the fact that he is asking for an apology is symbolically important,” Foster said. “[His] life has been damaged, and there has to be some recognition for the rights violated in such a horrendous way.”
In 2003, Charkaoui was detained under a security certificate, a piece of immigration law that allows the government to use secret evidence to detain non-citizens indefinitely under threat of deportation. The Quebec Bar Association and the Canadian Bar Association have both released detailed statements opposing security certificates.
In his role as the attorney-general at the time, Liberal MP Wayne Easter signed the certificate and was personally named in the lawsuit.
Easter said he was not aware that Charkaoui’s lawyers had asked for an apology and reasonable reparations before launching the suit. “[Charkaoui is] exercising his legal right in a democracy, and it will go wherever it will,” he said.
Easter added tht the government has to take a balanced approach to security issues. “Government has a responsibility to protect its citizens, and it has to take all measures to do that. At the same time, [we] do not want to infringe on people’s liberties,” he said.
In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled security certificate legislation unconstitutional, but delayed the effects of its decision by one year. The following year, the Harper government introduced a new security certificate law and issued Charkaoui another certificate, although the conditions instituted under the old law stayed in place.
Throughout this time,  Charkaoui, a French teacher and father of four, was forced to wear a GPS-tracking ankle bracelet – which he has called his “bracelet of shame” – and was not permitted to leave the island of Montreal. He also had to be accompanied at all times by one of his parents.
“The toll this has taken on me and on my children is incalculable,” Charkaoui said in a press release. “That is why my three oldest children – aged eight, six, and four – who lived through this nightmare with me, are also named as applicants.”
The lack of evidence presented by government lawyers and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) prompted Quebec judge Danièle Tremblay-Lamer to lift the conditions and later remove the certificate in fall last year.
Hassan Almrei, whose certificate was also struck down, has also demanded an apology from the government.
Three Arab Muslim men, Mohammed Harkat, Mohammad Mahjoub, and Mahmoud Jabballah, continue to live under house arrest due to security certificates.
Charkaoui’s suit names CSIS, the Canada Border Services Agency, the attorney-general of Canada, and the ministers of justice, public safety, and Immigration. Conservative MP Stickwell Day and Liberal MP Denis Corderre are also personally named.
Corderre did not respond to The Daily.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists push government to fully comply with UN convention
Canada’s ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities last Thursday has garnered support among disability rights activists, though concerns remain as to when the convention’s terms will be fully implemented.
Minister of foreign affairs Lawrence Cannon has said that “Canada is committed to promoting and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities and enabling their full participation in society,” and that the ratification of the convention underscores the federal government’s “strong commitment to this goal.”
The convention protects the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities, and parties to the convention are required to promote, protect, and ensure the human rights of such persons.
Article 19 and 20 of the convention state, “Rights specific to this convention include the rights to live independently and be included in the community and to personal mobility.”
However, president of McGill Students Supporting Disabilities (SSD) Molara Awosedo asserted that the government would have to demonstrate its support for persons with disabilities by putting the convention into practice.
“Charters are only as good as they are implemented. In Canada true change will come about only if we use the Canadian Charter and therefore can hold the government legally responsible, which we have seen in the past,” said Awosedo.
Awosedo pointed to the lack of accessibility for people with disabilities using the Montreal metro system as an example of changes that needed to be implemented.
“We feel that the metro system should be accessible to everyone and we feel that this change can come about. If more people start paying attention to disability rights hopefully people will get involved and speak up,” said Awosedo.
Only five Montreal metro stations are wheelchair accessible and equipped with elevators.
“Although we do understand that there is specific transportation for those who are disabled, every person should have the choice to use the metro system,” said Awosedo.
Marianne Rouette, an official for the Société de transport de Montréal (STM), addressed these transportation concerns, saying,  “We are doing a lot of things for disabled people in Montreal because we care.”
She added that the STM provides other forms of transportation more accessible to disabled persons, such as improved buses with access ramps and reserved areas for wheelchairs, and that three additional metro stations would soon be adapted to accommodate wheelchairs.
Catherine Frazee, director of Ryerson’s Institute of Disability Studies, drew attention to the challenges faced by disabled persons seeking to travel across the country.
The Vancouver Sun reported earlier this month that Frazee was unable to travel directly from Toronto to Vancouver during the Winter Paralympics because of her disability.
Frazee must remain in her wheelchair at all times and can only travel by train. Despite her efforts to coordinate her travel with VIA Rail, the company was unable to accommodate her wheelchair. Frazee was forced to travel to the U.S. to take an Amtrak train adapted for persons with disabilities.
There are approximately 4.4 million people with disabilities in Canada, accounting for 14.3 per cent of the population.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
