The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Public hearings fail to address extraction methods
The provincial government held a series of public hearings on shale gas drilling from Monday to Wednesday night in collaboration with Quebec’s top natural gas and oil companies. Concerns about the social and environmental cost of the controversial energy extraction method have been mounting amongst Quebeckers in the lead up to the hearings.
Experts from nine provincial ministries, as well as representatives from Gaz Métro and the Quebec Oil and Gas Association, spoke about the shale gas industry and fielded questions from the public at the sessions, which were held Monday and Tuesday in the town of Saint-Hyacinthe, east of Montreal.
Opposition politicians have criticized Premier Jean Charest’s Liberal government for going forward with shale gas extraction before conducting research into the procedure.
Martine Ouellet, Parti Québécois MNA for Vachon in Longueuil, told The Daily, “The Quebec government does not have studies on how this will affect pollution or greenhouse gas emissions.”
“That’s the problem: there is a lack of information,” she continued. “If you look at the hearings, they kept repeating, ‘We don’t have that information, we don’t have that information, we need more information.’ There are no studies. The public has not been consulted enough, and what we really don’t understand is why the government is listening so closely to the industry and not to citizens.”
Extraction of shale gas, a previously inaccessible type of natural gas found in shale rock deep below the surface of the earth, has taken off recently in Quebec due to technological advances and a process called hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking.”
Companies drill a well to access the gas, into which they inject millions of gallons of water, sand, and chemicals under high pressure, creating fissures that open the gas flow. 
Questions remain about how drilling will affect Quebec’s plans to drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. Industry and government representatives have marketed shale gas as a “cleaner” fuel. However, Natural Resources Canada has warned the federal government that fracking could increase carbon dioxide emissions, interfere with wildlife habitats, and deplete freshwater resources.
In the U.S., shale gas drilling has caused water contamination so severe that people living close to drilling sites could actually light their tap water on fire. 
Some companies, such as Talisman Energy and Junex, have begun testing the viability of the gas reserves in the St. Lawrence Valley, and so far the government has issued 600 drilling permits. The province has ordered its environmental protection agency, the Bureau d’audiences publiques sur l’environnement (BAPE), to review the practice and to report to government officials by February.
However, critics say BAPE has not been given enough time to do a detailed study. A group of former BAPE members wrote an open letter published by the CBC last Friday, stating that the agency’s mandate “imposed constraints such that BAPE had neither the time nor the resources to stimulate rigorous and credible public debate.”
“Not only don’t we have enough time for proper study, but the documents are ridiculous,” said Kim Cornelissen, a spokesperson for the environmental group Jour de la Terre. “[In] examining shale gas we are not saying if it is good or not. We are saying we will do it, [but] how do we do it? It doesn’t make any sense.”
In a recent interview with the Gazette, Steven Guilbeault, deputy director of the environmental group Equiterre, wondered why the government was not taking more time before beginning drilling.
“There’s no rush. The gas is not going anywhere,” said Guilbeault. “It’s not going to evaporate. It’s not going to migrate to some other provinces or U.S. states. It’s going to go stay there. What’s wrong with taking six months, or a little bit more, to study this thoroughly?”
Cornelissen pointed to the close relationship between the provincial government and industry executives as a possible reason for the hurry.
“[Former Hydro-Québec president] André Caillé and other industry leaders [are] really close to the government, so they are in a really good place to say [to the government], ‘You know, we know what we are talking about.’ It’s like it’s between family,” said Cornelisson, who nevertheless remains optimistic about halting development.
“I think that the people are way wiser than this trick that says we must have shale gas. I don’t think it will work.”
There is now a petition before the National Assembly to ask for a moratorium on drilling. The next public shale gas hearings will take place in mid-November.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Jordan Flaherty talks to The Daily about New Orleans’s struggles five years after the storm
Jordan Flaherty is a New Orleans-based organizer and journalist whose writing about community struggle in post-Katrina NOLA has gained national prominence. He spoke at McGill’s Faculty of Law on Tuesday, October 5, as part of the Community and Resistance tour. The tour aims to “build relationships between grassroots activists and independent media,” and educate young activists about the concept of “solidarity work” in disaster situations – which respects established local community leadership structures – as opposed to volunteerism, which usurps these structures. Flaherty spoke at McGill as part of Culture Shock, the weeklong series of events hosted by QPIRG and SSMU. Flaherty spoke about the history of New Orleans’ culture borne of community and organizing, and a recovery effort based on “survival of the fittest.” He spoke to The Daily  the day after.
His  book, Floodlines: Community and Resistance from Katrina to the Jena 6, was published this summer by Haymarket Books.
The McGill Daily: A lot of people in the media have been calling the recent BP oil spill “Obama’s Katrina.” Do you agree with these parallels?
Jordan Flaherty: I do think that, in both cases, the problem is systemic. Bush’s adviser Grover Norquist said, “We want to make government so small that we can drown it in a bathtub.” The logical result of that policy – that started at least with Reagan, if not before – was this idea of making government ineffective, so that [the Federal Emergency Management Association] is not there when you need it; so that the federal Mineral Management Service is actually collaborating with the oil companies. The idea is that every aspect of government does not do what it’s supposed to do. I can’t really blame Obama for not making a radical change, because we’re talking about three decades of government policy that has done this. I think Obama is a change in tone, but not in direction. Definitely the drilling disaster is a continuation of what we saw with Katrina; of the government not doing its job to protect people.
MD: How do you feel about the oil drilling moratorium in the wake of the spill?
JF: The moratorium is too small a step. I think we need something much more major. We need to completely redefine the U.S. government’s relationship with oil companies. For people on the Gulf Coast, there needs to be some real focus on how you can really reinvest in those communities in a real way, because they are hurting from the effects of the drilling over decades.
MD: Do you see the new U.S. health care reform as helping New Orleanians?
JF: On a basic, nitty-gritty level, there were some concrete benefits for Louisiana. Louisiana is the only state in the country, I think, that has a free state-wide indigent health care system. On a bigger scale, health care is a major issue. Again, Obama is a change in tone, not in direction. We didn’t get anywhere near the Canadian system; we didn’t get the public option. So we didn’t get the change that was needed, but there were some positive steps.
MD: Twenty current and former New Orleans police officers have been indicted for misconduct in their actions in the days immediately following the storm. Have police relations deteriorated or improved since Katrina?
JF: We have a new mayor and a new police chief, and they’ve said that they’ll be addressing these issues and making these changes. Maybe the fact that there have been these high profile investigations and arrests have made people feel that there’s been some progress. When I talk to folks in the community – especially folks that are active on this issue – people are incredibly angry and do not trust the police. They feel that the new police chief is bringing more random [police]stops. Of course we’re seeing that overwhelmingly in poor African-American neighbourhoods. The struggle right now is on what form federal oversight of the police will take. If we can get some real positive reforms, that might make a difference.
MD: At the talk last night you said that the media, that America at large, had engaged in a process of “criminalizing the survivors” of the storm. It seems a fairly apt description of what has happened to people still living in inner cities across the U.S. Do you see any positive steps in Obama’s administration toward creating an urban policy in America?
JF:  His early action was criticizing the cop who arrested [Henry Louis Gates Jr.], and then back tracking and inviting him to the beer summit. I think that really represents what we’ve seen from the Obama administration. Again, it’s a change in tone, but are there real policies on the ground that are making a difference for people? We’re not seeing it. We’ve gone so far in the wrong direction over the course of decades that a slight altering of course is just not enough.
MD: How should the U.S. government facilitate the right of return for the 100,000-plus New Orleanians that are still displaced and with no ability to come home?
JF: The fundamental problem is that federal policy over disasters [is] governed under the Robert T. Stafford Act. The Stafford Act specifies the rights that people don’t have. Instead, [federal disaster policy] should be governed under the international law that governs internally displaced persons, which the U.S. has signed on to. That law facilitates not only the right of return, but the right of people to have a say in the conditions of their return. And that’s fundamentally what we’ve really been missing. If we just followed the relevant international law, we’d be making a huge step forward. People from New Orleans have been fighting, fighting desperately to come back. The reason that more people haven’t is because the government is literally putting walls in front of them. The firing of teachers [in New Orleans], the sealing up of public housing. All these things are putting up walls in front of people instead of helping them.
—Compiled by Michael Lee-Murphy
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Daily talks to the Jerusalem Post’s Yaakov Katz about Israel, Iran, and the political uses of warfare
Yaakov Katz, the military editor of Israel’s largest English-language daily, defended Israel’s right to pursue military action against Iran in a speech to around 30 guests at Hillel McGill on Tuesday. After his talk, The Daily had the chance to speak with Katz in Hillel House about Israel’s foreign policy, the possibility of peace, and the uses of warfare.
Born in Chicago, Katz moved to Israel in 1993, where he served in the Armored Corps of the Israeli Defense Force. He has since worked extensively as a journalist and editor, covering the 2006 war in Lebanon and Operation Cast Lead (Israel’s 2008 air campaign against Hamas in the Gaza Strip) for the Jerusalem Post and USA Today.
In his speech, Katz focused on Israel’s current standoff with Iran, arguing passionately for the use of military force against the Islamic republic. He also described Israel’s wars with Hamas and Hezbollah as proxy wars with Iran.
He later stated that if “Iran were to tomorrow begin to enrich uranium to higher levels, the levels required for nuclear weapons – go to what’s referred to as the “break out stage” – that would constitute the grounds for an Israeli strike against Iran, sooner rather than later.”
In his characterization of the threat of Iran developing nuclear weaponry, Katz also posited that the development of nuclear technology by Iran would “motivate other countries to test the NPT [Nuclear non-proliferation treaty] and to test the world’s willingness and readiness to take real and decisive action.”
When asked why Israel’s own officially-denied but widely-acknowledged nuclear arsenal hasn’t created a similar license in the international community, Katz paraphrased current Israeli president Shimon Peres’s response to a similar question.
“The nuclear program was to allow Israel to make peace not to make war and that’s part of the idea behind the program – to create a strong Israel so that enemies wouldn’t attack it,” said Katz.
Katz went on to underscore what he sees as the fundamentally cyclical nature of the conflict.
“What we’re looking at today are cycles. … All you can really hope for today [is] to postpone the next conflict for a significant period of time,” he explained.
According to Katz, war is essential in these cycles as a tool to reach settlements, a theorization he traces back to the early 19th-century.
“[Carl von] Clausewitz, who was a very famous Prussian military theorist…said that war is part of the process to create the conditions that will allow the diplomats, the political levels, to create some sort of just resolution,” he said.
Clausewitz’s most famous formulation – that war is politics by other means – has been thrown into question since the advent of world warfare and weapons of mass destruction in the course of the last hundred years. Nonetheless, Katz defended warfare as an essentially political tool.
“What war can do is create viable conditions in order to create new realities. And we’ve seen that, for example, in the second Lebanon war, in 2006. Israel was attacked. Two of its soldiers were kidnapped. Rockets were landing in Israel. And Israel decided to go to war. It could have decided to suck it up, to swallow hard and ignore what had happened. But it decided to go to war, and I think legitimately.”
Decisions like these, he argued, do not provide definitive solutions, but their short-term impact makes them worthwhile despite the human cost. Katz again used the 2006 war in Lebanon and the 2008 Operation Cast Lead as examples.
“The fact of the matter is that for the past four years there’s been quiet in Lebanon. So that war led to [UN Security Council Resolution] 1701, which led to this new quiet, which led  to this new understanding of the threat from Lebanon. … Operation Cast Lead in Gaza last year was very controversial, but also led to a new period of quiet which Israel has never had before, almost two years of quiet in the Gaza strip. Is it the end of the conflict? No. Did that war in Lebanon end Hamas or end Hezbollah? No, but it’s able to change the reality.”
Hearkening back to his cyclical view of conflict, Katz gave the example of the First World War as an effective, but temporary political tool.
“Think back to the end of the First World War,  when Germany was deterred until the beginning of the Second World War, when they were no longer deterred and decided to attack and invade Poland. So the concept is that these are all cycles and that’s what this warfare is all about. What Israel can hope for is that it can push off and stave off that future conflict for as long as possible.”
Katz did recognize the possibility of a paradigm shift in Israel’s situation with the arrival of new political actors.
“Hamas is part of the political process in the Palestinian arena, Hezbollah is part of the political process and part of the government in Lebanon,” he said. “Do we give them recognition? Do we talk to them? So that’s a whole separate issue in itself.”
In response, he asked, rhetorically, “What is there to talk about if they don’t recognize my right to exist?”
However, Katz did not entirely rule out the possibility that Israel would benefit from negotiating with Hamas and Hezbollah.
“So Israel refuses to talk to them. Is that the right or the wrong move? That’s a good question.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
