The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
9,500 students would join SSMU in student lobbying group
With a manila envelope handed across the table in Shatner’s Break-Out room, the Quebec Students Roundtable (QSR) gained a prospective member Saturday.
QSR is a provincial student lobby group of which SSMU is a founding member, currently representing over 65,000 students.
Two representatives from the Association Générale des Étudiants de l’Université de Québec à Trois-Rivières (AGE UQTR) were on hand at QSR’s monthly general meeting to deliver the envelope – containing the association’s notice of referendum to affiliate with the group – to the QSR secretary-general Philippe Verreault-Julien.
Joël Pedneault, Vice-Secretary General of QSR, said he was excited to have AGE UQTR on board. He noted that this would be the first member of the Université de Québec (UQ) system to be part of QSR, adding, “It’s really under attack, the UQ system.”
“They have less of a tradition of public funding,” Pedneault continued. “And they’re also the poorest universities.”
He added that having a UQ school in QSR “would allow [QSR] to be more up to date with what’s happening in the UQ system, and be able to fight that fight more effectively.”
AGE UQTR still has to put the question of membership in QSR up for referendum to its 9,500 student members before it becomes affiliated with the group. There will be a two-week period of student consultation, followed by a week-long electronic voting period before results are announced on November 19, according to AGE UQTR political attaché François Landry.
AGE UQTR left the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) last December in another student referendum. Landry cited, among other things, FEUQ’s “montrealization” – or what he saw as their focus on Montreal schools – as the reason for leaving.
According to Landry, AGE UQTR chose not to affiliate with the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), another Quebec-wide student group, because the student body found the group too “radical.” Landry noted that AGE UQTR does not support making university education free of charge, unlike ASSÉ, but said that the two groups have “good relations.”
Landry said he was looking forward to working with QSR on the under-financing of Quebec’s universities.
 He went on to reference a report produced recently by two QSR members, the undergraduate and graduate student associations of l’Université Laval, which proposes that revenue from a mandatory tax on the profits of companies should go to financing post-secondary education in the province.
“We were happy that research had been done on this subject,” said Landry in French, in an interview with The Daily.
He added, however, that he was not completely satisfied with the conclusions drawn by the report.
“[We should] not only be taxing super rich companies, with a significant mass salariale, as CADEUL [Laval’s undergraduate student association] suggest, but also looking at any company that’s making a profit.”
Marie Malavoy, Parti Québécois MNA and member of the Culture and Education committee, also weighed in on the Laval students’ report.
“It’s worth working more on this,” said Malavoy. “It’s not clear how you would go down this road [of taxing companies for university financing].”
 CADEUL VP External François Carbonneau said he hoped QSR would adopt the report at its next general meeting, but added, in French, “What’s important to us is not the document but the idea of contribution from companies.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Liberals deny everything in run-up to yearly meeting on education policy
The ministry of education will present students with three scenarios for tuition hikes – big, bigger, and staggered-by-program – this November, according to information obtained by a Quebec student lobby group.
The Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), which represents 40,000 students in Quebec, released a statement Sunday saying they had their hands on specific plans for tuition increases for in-province students. Tuition may more than double in 2012, according to one of the options published by ASSÉ, and the three scenarios the ministry allegedly plans to present to students in November each involve raising tuition on Quebec residents.
Phillipe Ethier, ASSÉ Secretary of Internal Affairs, told The Daily in French that the leak comes from “a ministerial source,” who Ethier believed to be “fairly credible,” though ASSÉ is not “100 per cent sure” of the information’s accuracy.
According to Philippe Verreault- Julien, Secretary-General of the Quebec Students Roundtable (QSR),  the Ministry of Education, Sports and Leisure (MELS) has denied the reports, telling representatives from QSR that ASSÉ’s numbers were “without foundation.”
ASSÉ expects the ministry to officially table their tuition plans in November at the annual Rencontre des partenaires de l’éducation. A precise date has not been set and no student organization has yet been invited to the event.
The government’s first alleged option would raise tuition by $500 a year for three years, until it had reached eighty per cent of the national average, leaving it at roughly $4,110, up from the current $2,415. According to Statistics Canada, the national average currently stands at $5,138 for undergraduates and $5,182 for graduates.
The second option has tuition jumping to the Canadian average over four years, beginning in 2012. This would more than double the current rate and constitute an increase of about $680 per year. The third option is to have different tuition rates for different academic programs.
“All three cases would be catastrophic,” said Ethier.
Ethier also charged that the third option, while less specific, could see steep tuition hikes. “You can think of what happened at McGill with the increase in tuition on its MBA program,” he said, referring to this summer’s spike in tuition from $1,700 for in-province students to $32,500.
ASSÉ has been planning to picket the Rencontre since September, calling for an all-student boycott of the meeting in a September 24 press release. The group is also staging a protest against the meeting at one o’clock today at carée Berri-UQAM.
“This meeting is a mechanism to give legitimacy to their tuition hike,” Ethier said. “We refuse to play their game…we will be in the streets, not inside.”
QSR is planning to attend the November meeting. Verreault- Julien said in French that “we [QSR] believe that we have a constructive contribution to make to the discussion.”
“The information published by ASSÉ has only contributed to the mystery surrounding the meeting,” he added. MELS assured Verreault- Julien that ASSÉ’s numbers were baseless.
He declined to state whether or not he thought ASSÉ’s report was accurate, but said the three scenarios it outlined were “unacceptable.”
Verreault- Julien said he fears that, whatever the government proposes, the Rencontre will be a one-sided affair.
“At the moment, there is every indication that the meeting is not a real consultation,” he said.
 Verreault- Julien said the government should be “rapidly revealing their intentions publicly,” regarding tuition. “It’s important that [their plans are] public,” said Verreault- Julien. “The government needs to show that it’s listening to students.”
In an interview with The Daily, Marie Malavoy, Parti Québécois (PQ) MNA and member of the Culture and Education committee, said she needed more information before being able to comment on the veracity of ASSÉ’s report.
She said one of the scenarios was being considered within the Liberal government, however. “I am sure that that’s up for discussion, the modulation of tuition” between academic programs, she said in French.
“I’m not comfortable with that, the Parti Québécois is not comfortable with that,” she added.
Citing the example of McGill’s MBA program, Malavoy continued, “We can’t just ask what this [tuition modulation] means for cost, but what it means for student debt.”
The Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) president Louis-Phillipe Savoie said that while the MELS has denied ASSÉ’s figures to FEUQ, too, he fears they may be more or less accurate.
“We don’t know if we can rely on those numbers,” he said, adding, however, “As far as we know the Liberal party’s position is to reach the Canadian average [of tuition], …until we see any other signal.”
Savoie said that they “don’t believe in the empty chair policy,” and that FEUQ plans on attending the Rencontre. However, he said the three scenarios outlined in ASSÉ’s report “go from insane to ridiculous.”
Education minister Line Beauchamp’s office did not respond to numerous requests for comment.
François Carbonneau, VP External of the Confédération des associations étudiants et étudiantes de l’Université Laval (CADEUL), a QSR member association, said that the alleged government proposals did not come as a surprise to him.
“They had talked a lot about the Canadian average and modulation of fees, so there wasn’t much that surprised us,” he said in French.
Carbonneau also said that he understood why ASSÉ was boycotting the meeting, but that CADEUL was attending.
“We’re going because, despite everything, we want to go to gather information,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill professors instrumental in creation
Correction appended: Friday, Oct. 22
Bill C-300, a Private Member’s Bill that would intensify investigations into environmental and social complaints against Canadian mining companies overseas, is set to be voted on next Tuesday in the House of Commons.
Several McGill professors helped work on the bill, which would mandate the withdrawal of federal funding from Canadian mining companies if they are found to be in violation of environmental and human rights policies.
John McKay, Liberal MP for the Scarborough-Guildwood riding, first presented the bill to the House of Commons in 2009.
“We had help from the University of Ottawa, the University of Toronto, and McGill University Law programs. … We’ve had every NGO in Christendom sign on. We have a pretty bullet-proof piece of legislation,” said McKay.
McGill Law professor Richard Janda helped formulate the wording and possible objections to the legislation as part of an informal working group.
“[The bill is] about managing, first and foremost, the basis upon which Canada puts money into operations abroad. Secondly, it’s about setting up a way of determining whether standards are being met,” said Janda.
Despite the years of work put into the bill, neither McKay nor Janda were certain it would pass. A diverse array of lobbyists have mobilized against the bill, including Canadian mining companies Barrick Gold and Goldcorp, the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada (PDAC), and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce.
“They’re going to have [Prime Minister Stephen] Harper’s minions attack you, all 450,000 of them. The government would like to terminate this bill with extreme prejudice,” said McKay.
The main arguments against passage of the bill are that it would invoke an extra-territorial application of Canadian law, and that it would damage the finances and reputations of Canadian mining companies.
“We agree with the principles of accountability. We don’t agree with the methodology the bill is trying to put into place,” said Bernarda Elizalde, Program Director of Sustainable Development at PDAC. She also said that unnecessary investigations stemming from passage of the bill “could damage [a company’s] image based on some allegations.”
Susanna Cluff-Clyburne, Director of Parliamentary Affairs for the Chamber of Commerce, said the potential withdrawal of federal funding from Canadian mining companies could have severe effects on the companies’ business, and the Canadian economy as a whole. The Canadian Pension Plan (CPP) is a major source of federal funding for Canadian mining companies.
“[The bill] would cut [financial] resources, and diplomatic resources from Canadian companies. It leaves nobody better off,” she said. “For many Canadian extractive companies…[federal] funding is critical,” she added.
The bill is likely to die in the Senate, if not first in the Commons. McKay said the Senate had a “super-veto” in place against all Private Member’s Bills the Conservatives don’t want to pass.
“The Senate would not welcome this legislation with open arms. There would be an effort to study it to death,” said Janda.
If the bill is not passed in the Senate before the next federal election, it would have to be issued again at the start of the next Parliamentary session.
The invisible gold rush
According to a 2009 PDAC report obtained by the NGO MiningWatch – and posted on their website on Tuesday – Canadian mining companies are implicated in four times as many violations of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), a form of corporate self-regulation, as mining companies from other countries. Canadian companies and global industry leaders such as Barrick Gold have had a number of mines in developing countries under scrutiny.
The report describes that, of 171 CSR violations reported since 1999, Canadian companies accounted for 33 per cent. The report also says that Canada has over 75 per cent of the world’s mining and exploration company headquarters, and that “it follows that there should be a proportional concentration of CSR violations. While our analysis suggests this is the case, this does not make the individual or corporate violations any more ethically acceptable.”
McGill History professor Daviken Studnicki-Gizbert was conducting research on the history of the central Mexican town of San Luis Potosí in 2001 when, through information gleaned from one of his colleagues, he started to investigate a Metallica Resources mine near the town.
One case involved local lawyer Enrique Rivera Sierra challenging the Canadian-operated Metallica Resources (now New Gold) mine on the outskirts of the town. Rivera Sierra was the legal representative for the Frente Amplio Opositor (FAO), which fought Metallica Resources and the ecological damage the mine brought to the town in the mid-1990s.
“The project destroyed plant life and wildlife that was very important to the region. There was water pollution, air pollution, [and] soil pollution,” said Rivera Sierra in Spanish.
Studnicki-Gizbert later presented his findings to the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Development.
His investigations soon became the catalyst for a broader investigation into the environmental and human rights violations of Canadian mining companies in Latin America.
“The project was illegal under Mexican law,” he stressed.
The FAO says that the cyanide-leaching gold and silver mine will contaminate the local aquifer that provides water for 1.5 million people and 73 per cent of the local agriculture.
“Mining in Latin America happens in densely populated zones. People are using the land intensively, and need the land for their livelihoods,” said Studnicki-Gizbert.
There was little mining in Latin America in the early 1990s, but developments in open pit mining – a far more invasive and ecologically unstable method of extraction – began a gold rush midway through the decade. According to Studnicki-Gizbert, the average concentration of gold is around half a gram per ton of earth, but open pit mining is able to capture this small but abundant concentration.
“It’s an invisible gold rush. The scale of gold has gone down so much, you need an electron microscope to see it,” he said.
The open pit system has had disastrous effects on the environment throughout Latin America.
Studnicki-Gizbert described how, when sulphurs in the soil are exposed to the air in an open-pit mine, they metabolize and generate acids that acidify the water and soil. He also described heavy metals like arsenic, magnesium, and lead which have been known to leech into the soil.
Open pit mines are designed to contain these waste products within “tailing ponds.” Studnicki-Gizbert said that tailing ponds, however, often fail to prevent toxic material from permeating the natural environment in surrounding towns.
“The reaction goes on for centuries,” said Studnicki-Gizbert. “The waste pile for an open-pit mine is the size of Mount Royal.”
Studnicki-Gizbert said that companies often claim they are aware of risks associated with tailing ponds, and take measures to mitigate the risks, but that the costs in time and money of such projects are so high that they can’t stop pollution that will affect regions for centuries.
“It takes hundreds of millions of dollars to do. They spend years working on this shit,” he said.
“They’re playing with really big dice on these mines. Do we want to be trashing other people’s environments for one-hundred years?”
Rivera Sierra said he was beaten and intimidated by corrupt state government and paramilitaries allegedly hired by Metallica Resources.
“The government used the police to repress freedom of speech. One year before I left Mexico I was attacked by…[people] that are helping the mining company,” said Rivera Sierra. “My life was in danger.”
Rivera Sierra fled to Canada and gained refugee status in Montreal in May 2007, where he knew people from FAO were already living.
“The companies are terrorists…they assassinate people, they beat people, communities disappear,” said Rivera Sierra, who alleges that in 2006, after condemning the San Luis Potosí mine, the town mayor was assassinated by paramilitaries.
Nine community activists across Latin America were killed in 2009 for their work against Canadian mining projects.
Movilización
Student groups and NGOs have mobilized to promote Bill C-300, reach out to MPs, and inform people of the violations associated with Canadian mining projects in Latin America. Greenpeace McGill and the McGill chapter of Amnesty International are a part of this effort and a rally is scheduled to take place outside the Shatner Building at 1 p.m. today.
“[The Bill] is in the interests of protecting both human rights and the environment,” said Nora Hope, Campaign Coordinator for Greenpeace McGill. “Many Canadians are unaware that this Bill will be voted on next week.”
“If those companies want the benefits of being Canadian, they should comply to the rules we as Canadians think are just,” said Sean Phipps, a member of Greenpeace McGill.
According to Elizalde, the 2009 PDAC-commissioned report detailing the extent of these environmental and human rights violations in developing countries was never meant to be made public. She said that it was “totally unethical” that MiningWatch made the report public.
“It was an incomplete study. It deals with unproven allegations and unproven violations,” said Elizalde.
“The problem isn’t human rights,” she added. “The problem is that companies have problems with community engagement. … [It’s] like any other human relationship: sometimes there are misunderstandings. Sometimes there are fights.”
Mining companies Barrick Gold, Goldcorp, and IM Gold have commissioned their own reports, conducted by retired Supreme Court of Canada Judge Frank Iacobucci, to expose the flaws in Bill C-300. The report will be released before the vote next week.
Regardless of whether the bill passes or not, Rivera Sierra remains skeptical that it would bring sweeping change to how mining companies conduct business in developing countries, given political ideologies and corruption. Studnicki-Gizbert said that Mexico has a sophisticated system of environmental regulation, but that enforcement is a serious problem.
“We don’t have a lot of confidence in the bill, and we don’t have much confidence in the MPs. Countries like Canada make lots of laws, they talk very, very well, and they say many things, but the fact is that they are countries that [profit] from the companies,” said Rivera Sierra.
“[Stephen] Harper in Canada, Felipe Calderón in Mexico…this type of president seems to defend the interests of the companies. …We are not going to achieve much. … We have to follow the political system that allows the companies to come here.”
In an earlier version of this article the caption of the graphic showed the “location of ownership of CSR violating companies.” In fact, it shows the “location of ownership of companies with alleged CSR violations since 1999.” The Daily regrets the errors. A paragraph stating that 75 per cent of mining and exploration companies are headquartered in Canada was also added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New legislation pushed through National Assembly
Over two-thousand demonstrators assembled in front of Premier Jean Charest’s Montreal office on Monday to protest Bill 115, legislation that would allow students who spend three years in an unsubsidized English private school to transfer to the public school system after receiving permission from government officials.
The Liberal government suspended National Assembly rules to call in MNA’s Monday to vote on the bill. After 15 hours of impassioned debate, the motion was adopted with a vote of 61 to 54.  Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois vowed to repeal the law once her party came into power.
Quebec’s Charter of the French Language, Bill 101, specifies that only students whose parents were educated in English in Canada are automatically permitted to attend English public schools. In response to this law, many non-anglophone families enrolled their children in private “bridging schools,” allowing them to transfer to public English schools after a year.
In 2002, the government passed Bill 104, blocking access to bridging schools. However, the Supreme Court deemed this unconstitutional in 2009 and gave the Quebec government one year to find a way to limit access to English schools without violating the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Supreme Court set Friday, October 22 as the deadline for the adoption of an alternative bill.
Protesters were outraged by both the bill’s content and the manner in which it was passed.
Mario Beaulieu, president of the Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Montréal – the Quebec nationalist group that organized Monday’s protest – told The Daily in French that the government pushed the bill through “at the very last minute…to do this as discreetly as possibly.”
Members of the francophone community consider the bill a threat to the French language in Quebec, as it will likely reduce enrolment in French schools.
“This bill will weaken French because schools are what is most important to the [perpetuation] of a language and a culture,” said Beaulieu.
On the other hand, proponents of English schooling are generally satisfied with the bill. Jonathan Goldbloom, a spokesperson for the Quebec Association of Independent Schools, told The Daily that he believes the bill is “a step in the right direction” toward following the Supreme Court’s guidelines. However, he feels that “too much discretionary power [is] being given to bureaucrats” and that the regulations “should be clarified and simplified.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Senate establishes working group on student consultation, to answer to Mendelson
More than one hundred students rallied outside Leacock at 2 p.m. yesterday with signs bearing slogans such as “Transparency” and “Time to Listen” in efforts to ensure increased student consultation in key decisions on campus. The rally was the culmination of a three-day boycott of McGill Food Services led by a new campus organization, Mobilization McGill, and was scheduled to coincide with Senate’s monthly meeting.
The boycott began at 11:30 a.m. on Monday, featuring a lunchtime campaign of flyers, electronic petitions, by-donation sandwich wraps, and free Midnight lunches served to students outside Redpath and McConnell Engineering, which house two of the largest cafeterias on campus.
“We want[ed] to…get people involved, let them know what the issues are,” said Arts senator Tyler Lawson. “And hopefully [we’ll] have as successful a rally as last time with…a better response from the administration on the end of the senate…meeting.”
“Ideally we’d like to get complete consultation institutionalized with all matters of student life on campus,” Lawson continued.
Senate created a Working Group on Student Consultation yesterday, which will answer to Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson (See below). Last week, the Senate Steering Committee redirected the question of the reopening of the Architecture Café to the Board of Governors (BoG), deeming that it was out of Senate’s purview.
Nicholas van Beek, U4 History student and Mobilization McGill, member,  expressed that the organization aims to address grievances beyond the Arch Café.
“There are a lot of different issues on campus that people are generally dissatisfied with, like food service, tuition hikes, [and a] general lack of transparency,” he said.
Mobilization McGill, distributed white pieces of cloth to increase the visibility of the boycott movement and to promote solidarity. They were white, Van Beek explained, so that students could write whatever they wanted on them.
Nick, a U4 electrical engineering student, explained why he stopped by the rally.
“I like offering alternatives on campus and I think that a campus should be run with students’ interests at heart and I think [the closure of the Architecture Café] is something that, evidentially, students do think is important,” he stated.
“If nothing else it shows that students aren’t nearly as apathetic as we make them out to be at times. I think it’s a great show … it will be difficult to convince the administration of something, but it’s worth the effort,” he concluded.
Kyle McLaughlin and a handful of other members of Free Education Montreal – a Concordia group created within the last two years – attended the Wednesday rally.
“We saw what was happening at McGill, and really an attack against any group of students, no matter what their campus, is an attack against all students. … We should help each other out.  So that’s what we at Free Education Montreal are doing – just helping our neighbour campus,” said McLaughlin before he addressed the crowd of students.
McGill Philosophy professor Calvin Normore, a fan of the Architecture Café, was a part of the crowd.
“I think it’s important because there is an increasing centralization of power in the University. McGill has always been a fairly centralized University but there’s an increasing centralization of power and it leads to things like this,” Normore said.
“[The rally is] not enormous, which indicates to me that faculty are not the only ones not yet involved, but it’s certainly lively and there’s a lot of spirit,” Normore added.
Lawson said he was energized by student enthusiasm. “It’s just so great when everything that we do is validated by actual students’ support. What we do doesn’t mean anything if students don’t know what is going on in those meetings,” he told The Daily on his way to Senate.
Students were out en masse to receive their lunch from Midnight Kitchen all three days of the boycott. Alex Briggs, a Midnight Kitchen serving coordinator, was impressed by student turnout at the Monday serving session held outside of Redpath.
 “This line, even by MK standards, is long,” he said. Midnight Kitchen collaborated closely with Mobilization McGill, on the boycott, preparing all the food served throughout the three-day event.
McGill Security guards were present Monday and Tuesday as students distributed flyers outside of McConnell Engineering. EUS granted MM permission to use tables outside of McConnell on Monday, although security guards told students that they needed a permit in order to table.
Students referred the guards to the SSMU-distributed Student Rights handbook. Part IV, article 26 of the handbook states that “every group of students has a right to organize and to promote the interests of its members, provided that the purposes of such group are lawful.”
The guards maintained, however, that the space was “private property” and that students required permission to be there. Mobilization McGill, reorganized and removed the tables later that day, placing signs, flyers and wraps on nearby stone benches instead.
“I think it’s a little odd that they’ve brought six security guards. … It’s a bit of an inappropriate presence,” said Sarah, an Anthropology student who witnessed the incident.
Mobilization McGill, member Christian Scott saw the security presence as a reaffirmation of the point of the boycott.
“We’ll get kicked out but [that is] also a symbol…we need to make it obvious that students cannot do anything spontaneously here,” he said. “Everything needs to go through by McGill regulations, by McGill censorship.”
On Tuesday, Mobilization McGill, moved to the recently reconstructed James Square, near the Milton Gates. About thirty minutes after the group arrived, McGill Security requested that the group move signs and flyers that were to be distributed off campus property. Sandwiches, however, could still be handed out.
“[M]any of our conflicts are stemming over really unclear rules at McGill with what is allowed in terms of protests and demonstrations…what counts as an event and what counts as a protest,” said Joesph Giardini, a member of Mobilization McGill who communicated with security guards Monday and Tuesday.
Director of Media Relations Doug Sweet appeared in James Square Tuesday to question McGill Security as to why they had such a large presence. Melanie Ouellette, McGill Security Operations Administrator, was onsite and explained that two of the security guards present were trainees.
“It’s not like the storm troopers are being brought in to close down Midnight Kitchen,” Sweet said as he left James Square.
———-
A new working group on student consultation, formed in response to the Arch Café closure, will report to Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson. The group was initiated after confidential consultation between Mendelson and SSMU President Zach Newburgh and will set its own agenda. Newburgh described it as a move toward “institutionalizing student consultation.” It will be composed of the following representatives from both the administration and student groups:
Josh Abaki is the VP External of SSMU. He has been a strong supporter of student activism surrounding the closure of Arch Café and boycott of McGill Food and Dining Services.
Alexandra Bishop is the President of PGSS, and sits on McGill’s Senate and Board of Governors.
Jane Everett is the University’s Dean of Students, appointed in 2007. A professor of French language and literature, she is responsible for overseeing student life and academic affairs. She works directly under Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson.
Jana Luker is the executive director of the University’s Services of Services, which encompasses student aid, counselling, and physical and mental health services for undergrad and graduate students. She has worked at McGill since fall 2007.
Zach Newburgh is the President of SSMU and sits on McGill’s Senate and Board of Governors. He brought a motion to September’s Senate session regarding Arch Café that was struck down by the Chair as out of order.
Michael Porritt is the director of Residences at McGill, responsible for overseeing housing for first-year and some upper-year students.
Finn Upham is a Music Graduate Student Society rep to PGSS and former VP External (2006-2007) of SSMU.
Paul Wiseman is an associate professor in the departments of Chemistry and Physics. The recipient of two McGill teaching awards in 2007, Wiseman has been selected to chair the new working group.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
As students protested inside Leacock, SSMU President Zach Newburgh’s resolution to create a committee to review the functions and operations of the Architecture Café was not brought before yesterday’s Senate meeting, following the recommendation of the body’s steering committee.
Despite this rejection, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson did announce the creation of a “working group on student communication and consultation.” Like Newburgh’s original proposed committee, the group will be made up of various administration and student representatives, and will report to the Deputy Provost. (See sidebar on facing page for more information.) However, it does not have an explicit mandate to discuss the Architecture Café closure.
At Senate, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum and Newburgh both expressed their gratitude to the Deputy Provost for establishing the group, and Newburgh later called it “a really good step in the right direction.”
Budget concerns in light of the provincial budgetary Bill 100, new accounting principals, and deferred maintenance dominated the remainder of the meeting.
Bill 100
Bill 100 stipulates that public institutions must reduce general administrative operations by ten per cent and institute a 25 per cent travel expenses reduction over the next four years, as part of a Quebec government initiative to return the province to a balanced budget by 2013-14.
Munroe-Blum described the bill as an “omnibus law that treats us all the same, and that distorts each university’s ability to follow through with their individual missions.” Its implications for McGill are not clear, she said.
Accounting
Until last fiscal year, the University’s financial statements were not in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principals (GAAP) issued by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants. This rendered the projected deficit for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2011 “greater than we anticipated,” according to the financial report of the Board of Governors, presented by interim Vice Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Richards.
 Under the former system, liabilities such as pensions, vacations, and retirement were not recorded and their addition has increased McGill’s non-cash accumulated deficit.
“You now get to see the full value of benefits we accord our employees,” said Richards.
Residences
Michael Porritt, Executive Director (Residences and Student Housing), announced that two market studies are currently underway to determine the future needs of first-years, upperyears, and graduate students.
As of 2008-09, residences accommodated 52 per cent of McGill’s first-years. Porritt projected that this figure would increase to 62 per cent with the opening of new buildings. “We are still 100 per cent over capacity and it is the end of October,” said Porritt. However, he also brought up the possibility of having upper-year students live in residence in significant numbers. Currently, of the 3,850 students in residence, there are 41 upper-year students who are not floor fellows, Porritt said.
Porritt also stated that the residence system is facing $150 million in deferred maintenance costs, forty million of which is deemed high priority. A five-year plan to reduce these costs by fifty per cent will begin in fiscal year 2012. These costs are mostly concentrated in older and smaller buildings around campus, including MORE and graduate student houses with low occupancies and urgent maintenance needs.
 – with files from Emilio Comay del Junco
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
