The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) VP Events Namapande Londe has resigned from her post, according to an AUS press release dated September 14. 
Londe’s departure comes a week after the first AUS Council meeting of the year, when Londe reported that Arts Frosh – a central part of the VP Events’ portfolio – would run a deficit for the first time in several years.
Though registration shortfall was cited as an official reason for the financial loss, in the days after Council, Londe was singled out as responsible for many of the management and budgeting errors made while the event was being planned.
However, the press release – signed by AUS President Dave Marshall and VP Communications Frances Hui – stated that this was not a factor in Londe’s decision.
“Contrary to recent speculation as to Ms. Londe’s resignation over issues pertaining to the budget and organization of the AUS 2010 Frosh event, Ms. Londe cited personal issues in her decision to resign,” Hui and Marshall wrote. “Ms. Londe wrote in her resignation letter to the AUS Executive, ‘Unfortunately due to personal reasons, I will have to take a year off from my studies at McGill, and will therefore no longer be eligible to fill [the position of VP Events]’.”
Arts Senator Amara Possian told The Daily in an email that she and other councillors were considering moving forward with impeachment if Londe did not resign. She noted that several Frosh coordinators, who had worked under Londe to plan Frosh, had also expressed an interest to her in seeing Londe replaced.
“We were waiting for the release of the budget so we could see how much student money was lost and so we had time to look into how financial decisions were made,” Possian wrote. “Regardless, we had the constitutional grounds to go forward with an impeachment if necessary.”
In a separate email to The Daily, Londe said that she was aware of the impeachment rumours, but reiterated that they did not factor into her decision.
“I was never planning on resigning or even on taking a year off, but I received some very distressing news Tuesday morning that made me realize I was going to have to take the year off, which forced me to resign my position,” Londe wrote. “I had heard that all of the buzz surrounding Frosh might have been leading to impeachment, but again, I was never planning to resign. I stand by what I said in Council, and in the interviews I gave, which is that Frosh was a learning process for me and for everyone involved.”
Marshall, however, explained that as of September 14, no official impeachment proceeding had gone forward. “There was no plan amongst the executives to go forward with impeachment. I can’t speak for all of council of any motion going forward. There was no business slated for Council when the [press release] was written,” he said.
AUS Council is expected to elect a new VP Events at its next session, on September 22. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students rally to bring back Arch Café
Students are banding together across faculty lines in an attempt to reverse Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson’s decision to close the Architecture Café.
On Monday, SSMU President Zach Newburgh and VP (University Affairs) Joshua Abaki met with Mendelson to present him with a memorandum showing that 80 per cent of undergraduate Architecture students are in favour of re-opening the Architecture Café.
“When I came out of the meeting, Josh and I had both left with the understanding that the deputy provost was going to reconsider his decision,” Newburgh said. “This was confirmed by his statements, which was ‘I will consider this advice and reconsider’. … He said that, point blank.”
Mendelson has publicly denied that he said in the meeting he would reconsider closing the Architecture Café.
Asked if this meant Mendelson was lying, Newburgh said, “Yes, that would be correct.”
Since the administration decided to close the Architecture Café this fall, student outrage has centred as much on the handling of the closure as the closing itself. Students have repeatedly cited a lack of consultation as one of the most contentious issues in the café’s closure. 
“In the original memo that we got from the dean of engineering, which heralded the official communication of the decision to students, the strongest argument made for closing the café was that the architecture students wanted a study space. However, as the decision was made in the summer, architecture students were actually not consulted,” said Abaki. 
According to the 2006 Principal’s Task Force on Student Life and Learning: “The Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) and the Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) should engage in broad-based consultations, through a round table or other appropriate mechanism, to streamline procedures and decision processes for the reservation of university space by student organizations wherever possible.”
Mendelson said that “there is no link between the Task Force recommendations and the administrative decision to close a money-losing food operation, especially where the space is required for other student activities. While I am certainly open to listening to arguments and suggestions regarding the positions taken by the University, nothing has persuaded me that I made the wrong decision.”
Despite Mendelson’s position, students remain hopeful about the possibility of the café reopening. A protest, called “Rally for Saving the Architecture Cafe!” on Facebook, is scheduled to be staged outside Leacock on September 22 at 2:30 p.m. The Facebook event for the protest had over 1,000 confirmed attendees when the Daily went to print.
On September 7, the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) and Architecture Students Association (ASA) sent a joint memorandum to Mendelson proposing that the café be put under the supervision of the EUS, which has a strong history of running successful business operations. 
“The ASA is relatively small, given other departments, but on principle it’s really important. It’s the last student-run café and people identify with that. People see the corporatization of the school, the closing down of student-run services in the name of financial efficiency or whatever buzz words that Voldemort [Mendelson] is using these days,” said Arts Senator Tyler Lawson. 
“What kind of administration is going to operate in stark ignorance of the students’ desires?” asked Lawson. “It’s important that this rally sets the tone for the rest of the year. We intend to mobilize students…[and] effectively take back this institution, what’s ours.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Kim Phúc, immortalized as one of the children in a photograph of an American napalm attack during the Vietnam War, gave a presentation entitled “I Crave Justice: A Story of Faith and Forgiveness,”  Monday at McGill. The talk was organized by McGill’s branch of Campus for Christ.
Before a crowded audience in Leacock 132, Phúc explained how the iconic image of war impacted her life, and how she finally forgave those who conducted the air strike on her village.
“I’ve learned to accept what happened to me, and move on to reach out and help others. That is my point, not politics. I’ve learned how to control my photo.”
Phúc is outspoken about her devotion to Christianity, but insists that her mission is to speak about how she found solace, rather than to promote her religion.
“I don’t want to advise people to commit to my God,” Phúc said. “I believe in Jesus Christ and I just want to share what happened to that little girl. I want people to have free will and see how they can have happiness, freedom, and peace.”
Phúc is currently a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador and has founded numerous hospitals and shelters for children affected by war through a secular, non-profit organization called the Kim Phúc Foundation International.
The organization is currently building a health center in Ongutoi, Uganda. Phúc spends most of her time travelling and working on behalf of her foundation.
The McGill event’s organizers requested that all questions directed at Phúc remain apolitical.  According to Andrew Williamson, a representative of Campus for Christ, Phúc’s capacity for forgiveness is the primary message the organization wishes to convey, rather than focusing on the photograph’s historical and political significance.
“Politics aren’t a big part of it,” said Williamson. “It’s really important to talk about Kim’s story and the role that her faith played in her ability to forgive.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Detained on the train, his laptop searched, Pascal Abidor fights back
Pascal Abidor, a McGill Islamic Studies PhD student and American citizen, is suing the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) after being detained at the U.S. border and having his laptop held for 11 days in May.
 Abidor’s arrest and the seizure of his laptop were prompted by a DHS policy that allows the search and seizure of personal electronic devices without reasonable suspicion.
The lawsuit argues a violation of Abidor’s 1st and 4th Amendment rights under the U.S. constitution, and is a potentially landmark case in defining the relationship between individual privacy and national security.
Railroaded on Amtrak
Abidor left Montreal May 1 on an Amtrak train bound for New York, intending to visit his family. At the American border, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) official boarded the train and began questioning him. As an American and French citizen studying in Canada, Abidor informed her that he was pursuing a PhD in Islamic Studies.
After speaking with him about his studies and travel history and looking at his passports, the officer asked Abidor to move with her to another compartment of the train, where she took out and turned on his laptop, ordering him to provide his password.
After going through photographs that Abidor had downloaded from the internet, including ones of Hamas and Hezbollah rallies, the officer took him off the train. He was frisked and handcuffed, and placed in a detention cell at the port of entry in Champlain, NY. Before being released three hours later, he was questioned by CBP and FBI officials. When he was allowed to go, he was told that his laptop and external hard drive would remain in custody.
Upon his arrival in New York City, Abidor tried several times to contact the seized property office back in Champlain in order to recover his laptop and hard drive. He was rebuffed, told that the U.S. government had the authority to hold on to the laptop for up to 30 days.
“As soon as this happened I knew this was wrong on multiple levels,” he said. “It completely contradicts all my basic ideas of what the government should be able to do.”
Abidor then contacted the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), who drafted a letter to the DHS on Abidor’s behalf demanding that his laptop be returned. It was returned to him two days later, after a total of 11 days. By checking the last opened date of specific files on his computer, Abidor ascertained that many files on his computer had been searched, including research, downloads, personal photographs, tax records, and correspondence with his girlfriend. Having no legal recourse under current DHS policy, he decided to file suit.
“It wasn’t merely about getting my laptop back,” commented Abidor. “It was to attack the policy that enabled this to happen to me.”
Unreasonable suspicion
Abidor is in the second year of his PhD program at McGill’s Institute of Islamic Studies, and is researching the social history of Shiite Muslims in Lebanon in the 19th and 20th centuries. He insists, however, that his background of studying, and traveling to, the Middle East – he has travelled to Yemen, Jordan, Lebanon and Egypt for his studies – is notespecially relevant in his case.
“Be wary,” he said. “For many students, I’d warn them about traveling across the border with their laptop. No one can take comfort in the fact that what my studies are may have been responsible for what happened to me. It’s an arbitrary thing that can happen at any point.”
 Current DHS policy, enacted in August 2009, allows for the search and seizure of electronics by American border officials without any specific, provable suspicion against the individual possessing the electronics – typically referred to as reasonable suspicion.
Border searches, unlike all other types of search by American law enforcement agencies, do not require reasonable suspicion. When the policy was enacted, U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano observed that, “keeping Americans safe in an increasingly digital world depends on our ability to lawfully screen materials entering the United States. The new directives announced today strike the balance between respecting the civil liberties and privacy of all travelers while ensuring DHS can take the lawful actions necessary to secure our borders.”
In addition to laptops, all electronics that a traveler may be carrying are eligible for search without reasonable suspicion, including mp3 players and phones. DHS spokesperson Amy Kudwa wrote in an email, “While we cannot comment on pending litigation, searches of laptops and other electronic media during secondary inspection are a targeted tool that CBP uses in limited circumstances to ensure that dangerous people and unlawful goods do not enter our country.”
Calling in reinforcements
Abidor’s lawsuit, filed with the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers and the National Press Photographers Association as additional plaintiffs, is represented by the ACLU. Abidor said that the diversity of plaintiffs “really shows a good spectrum of the type of people who are negatively affected by this.” The government has 60 days to respond to the suit, which was filed last Tuesday in New York’s 2nd Circuit court.
Catherine Crump, the ACLU staff attorney responsible for Abidor’s case, explained that, “we chose to become involved in this case because we believe that constitutional violations occurring at the border are serious ones. We believe that the 1st amendment and 4th amendment prevent the Department of Homeland Security from searching laptops at border absent reasonable suspicion.”
The 1st amendment, upholding freedom of speech, and the 4th amendment, protecting against “unreasonable search and seizure,” form the backbone of the legal case against suspicionless searches at borders.
“After that, when he returned, he expressed interest in making sure that the government hadn’t kept any information about him that it had gleaned from his laptop through what we believe was an unconstitutional search,” continued Crump. “We asked that any information gathered from his laptop be expunged.”
The case’s stakes are high: approximately 6,600 travellers at American borders have had their laptops searched under this policy between October 2008 and June 2010.
Crump concluded, “Mr. Abidor’s goal, as well as that of our other clients, is to make sure no one has an experience like this again. The broad goal of the case is to get the court to declare suspicionless search unconstitutional. … While it is recognized that the government has more discretion at the border than elsewhere, we believe reasonable suspicion balances civil liberties, [which] we are all beneficiaries of, with the need to secure the border.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The final part of a four part series :  Admin staff, salaries, on the rise
Click to view the University’s 2010-2011 budget
In a blend of economic, academic, and prestige enhancing goals, McGill has invested $9.8 million in an “academic renewal” program, essentially insitutionalizing professor turnover.
The measure is designed to replenish McGill’s professorial ranks, improving the University’s academic quality and international prestige, while also saving money in the long-term.
McGill started the program in 2000, augmenting it in Fiscal Year (FY) 2010 with a retirement incentive package designed to encourage a greater turnover among tenure-track professors. More than 80 tenure-track professors aged 64 and older signed up for the retirement package, which offered the professors a one-time buyout of one third more than their annual salary. The added expense is offset by the hiring of non-tenured professors at lower salaries, while continuing McGill’s strong reputation for professorial research.
A McGill professor, who asked to remain anonymous, said that the budget’s phrasing of academic renewal can be misleading, however.
“Many faculty members are eager to retire from McGill because their salaries and working conditions have been so poor throughout their careers at this institution, and they would just like to get away from a workplace that has treated them so ungenerously,” the professor said.
The professor cited the lack of a faculty union to represent the faculty and their interests.
“The McGill administration can autocratically say and do almost anything without ever being seriously challenged by the faculty any more than by the students,” said the professor.
2010-11 will see 76 new professors hired along with the departure of 80 more, leaving the end-of-year total of professors at 1,558. Following years will see the number of new hires exceeding those of departures, as well as the end-of-year totals steadily rising, reaching a projected 1,625 in 2014-15.
“McGill wants to provide the number-one academic experience to students. Students are of tremendous benefit if we have successful academic renewal,” said SSMU President Zach Newburgh.
Academic renewal also plays a role in maintaining McGill’s international prestige, as renowned professors attract more graduate students and research grants. This added motive means that some programs may feel the benefits of academic renewal more than others.
“Some programs have more academic renewal than others…[The renewal] leads to more grants and scholarships,” said Newburgh.
Newburgh identified medicine and science as programs that could see more professorial turnover than others.
Province wants “Bang for the buck”
Daniel Simeone, former PGSS President and Board of Governors representative (BoG), said that McGill has been successful in balancing its commitments to research and the undergraduate academic experience by maintaining one of the highest tenure-track professor-to-student ratios in Quebec.
Simeone said McGill is tasked with balancing provincial demands for increased undergraduate enrollment – putting more students in school in order to attract more votes – with the federal government focus on research innovation.
“Quebec City wants more bang for the buck,” said Simeone, meaning the provincial government wants McGill to employ more sessional lecturers than tenure-track professors, who can perform the same lecturing duties of professors at lower salaries.
Meanwhile, the federal government – in an attempt to market Canada as a world-leader in innovation – is rewarding universities with lucrative grants in return for intensive research.
PGSS VP External Ryan Hughes said that this focus on research is not unique to McGill.
“The last federal budget explicitly cited research as a focus for investment, and as a research-intensive university, McGill is following the money, but so is every other university with a graduate program,” said Hughes in an email to The Daily.
Increasing the number of tenure-track professors at McGill serves to attract more graduate students, and subsequently more research grants. These grants not only increase revenue, but also maintain McGill’s prestige as a top research-oriented university.
“The University wants to maintain its prestige…[it] needs to say it’s continually attracting the top professors,” said Newburgh, who also said that “[all] students are of tremendous benefit if we have successful academic renewal.”
Due to the direct relationship between research revenue, prestige, and the number of graduate students, the University and the province are subsidizing graduate education to a greater extent than undergraduate education.
Competition for research grants is fierce, and due to low government funding McGill relies on revenue from such grants. Thus, McGill is attempting to attract more graduate students – and thereby more research – by supplying them with more financial aid.
The graduate student lifestyle, compared to the undergraduate lifestyle, is also a significant factor in this economic strategy.
“In some cases Masters and PhD students have incomes that offset tuition fees, either through their program as a TA or RA, or from being employed outside of the university in some professional setting. Plus, graduate students can be funded in a variety of ways that are unavailable to undergraduate students,” including various endowments and grants that only graduate students are eligible for, said Hughes.
Simeone described graduate studies, especially in the case of lab students, as a full time job, with some students working eight to 12 hour days.
“[McGill] needs to pay to get the good [graduate students],” said Simeone. “Grads are doing the research the University is known for… It’s a different understanding of what school is.”
Student surveys forthcoming?
Amidst these efforts to increase the number of tenure-track professors and graduate students, the administration is also making efforts to alter its own operations through the budget. In the budget, the administration states a desire to increase its own efficiency and transparency through streamlining its operations, cutting red-tape, and introducing more extensive self-evaluation procedures.
The budget describes professional development programs and a “Financial Specialists” program designed to professionalize the administrative workforce and improve the reporting of McGill’s spending. Newburgh also described recent rises in administrative salaries, and said that such funding could be allocated more effectively.
“Academics should be the top priority,” said Newburgh.
Non-academic salaries will rise between three and 3.5 per cent this year, and the budget shows that management and professional staff at McGill has increased from roughly 1,150, to over 1,400 since FY2005, although the budget projects that the number of full time administrative staff is expected to decrease slightly in the coming years.
The budget also states a desire to “make sure we measure our internal performance.” It goes on to state that “we will be undertaking major surveys of faculty…[and that] we have already been surveying our students.”
No evidence of such surveys have been found by students at this juncture.
“I’m not familiar with any surveys [of students],” said Newburgh. “SSMU is working to revamp the way we get student feedback. I hope the University is interested in consulting us.”
In her November 2009 Economic Letter, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum wrote that “McGill punches above its weight [economically]…[but] to do more with less is not sustainable in the medium to long run.”
In an email, Provost Anthony Masi – whose office drafted the budget – said that every member of the McGill community, from undergraduate and graduate students to faculty and administrators, should find ways to tighten their collective belt.
“Everyone, including students, should be vigilant about cost savings and feel free to make suggestions about how these [cost-cutting measures] might be obtained in any and all aspects of the University’s operations,” said Masi.
Other installments in this series:
Part 1 – Administration releases landmark budget; deficit to be eliminated by end of fiscal year
Part 2 – Budget forecasts severe tuition increases; student aid still inaccessible
Part 3 – McGill stuck on deferred maintenance treadmill; admin using outside investments to pay for new property
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
