The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Part three of a four-part series: admin using outside investments to pay for new property
Click the graph above to access the University’s budget from the past four years
Of the roughly $1 billion McGill is projected to spend this fiscal year (FY), over $100 million is to be dedicated to infrastructure projects, according to the University budget.
The money is funnelled into the Plant fund, which comprises all revenue specifically earmarked for the acquisition, construction, or renovation of McGill’s infrastructure assets.
“There are a hundred different construction projects on as we speak,” said SSMU President Zach Newburgh.
Jim Nicell, Associate VP (University Services), said that McGill currently has $142 million invested in renovation projects across campus. The provincial government has given the university $15 million this FY2010-2011 for the specific purpose of renovation and repurposing of existing space, such as the new Service Point on McTavish.
However, the Plant fund’s major investments for the foreseeable future concern deferred maintenance. In 2007 McGill carried out a study that revealed $647 million worth of accumulated deferred maintenance. Other universities in Quebec discovered similar problems, and the provincial government responded for FY2008-2009 by initiating a 15-year program to catch up on deferred maintenance. McGill now receives $25 million annually from the provincial government to address deferred maintenance.
“Some [renovations] get left undone, and we end up deferring things to a later date. … Deferred maintenance is a huge problem for universities,” said Nicell.
With so many deferred projects building up, the issue for the University has become how to prioritize certain projects over others. Nicell said the top priority for deferred maintenance spending was to address health and safety issues, such as bringing decades-old buildings up to modern building codes. He identified the second highest priority as maintaining the proper running of facilities. Last was maintenance that halts the general degradation of buildings and facilities.
However, while McGill pours money into fixing decades-old maintenance issues, less immediate issues are deferred and degrade to dangerous levels over the years. Pierre Moreau, Senior Advisor (Policy Development), told a legislative committee in the National Assembly last Tuesday that 80 per cent of McGill buildings were built before 1940.
The federal government stepped in last year to try and bump Canada’s universities off the deferred maintenance treadmill by launching a massive stimulus package called the Knowledge Infrastructure Program (KIP). The federal government gave $1 billion, which the ten provincial governments then collectively matched. McGill received $81 million as their share of the package, and has until March 31, 2011 to spend all the money.
“The University is having trouble doing everything to finish before the deadline,” said Newburgh.
The three major KIP projects involve renovating the Macdonald Engineering, McIntyre Medical, and Otto Maass Chemistry buildings. However, as the stimulus is a limited federal project, Nicell doesn’t believe it will go far enough in completely solving deferred maintenance issues.
“It was a one-time thing. The federal government went into important debt to create the stimulus package,” said Nicell. “It’s part of the fundamental argument of the underfunding of universities. Hospitals are the same way, everything’s over-taxed.”
Nicell said that universities at present don’t have the financial resources to completely erase deferred maintenance, and that with current funding models, he was doubtful that all of McGill’s pending maintenance work could be tackled.
“That’s the trillion dollar question across the country,” said Nicell. “Capital funding wasn’t sufficient [in the past], and it created deferred maintenance. …. If we haven’t corrected the base cause of deferred maintenance, we won’t solve the problem.”
With so much of the Plant fund devoted to renovation and maintenance, McGill has to use other outside resources to buy new buildings. For the $12.3 million purchase of the Courtyard Marriott Hotel this past spring, McGill took out a bond to raise money. Such investments in stocks, bonds, and mutual funds are common for many post-secondary institutions.
“These [investments] are short-term instruments that allow us to get income in those periods when our cash-flow is positive,” wrote Provost Anthony Masi in an email.
The Budget conservatively forecasts investment income to amount to approximately $42 million in FY2011.
“The University invests in wide array of stocks, bonds, mutual funds, like most private citizens,” said Newburgh, who also admitted that McGill is “taking risks in a volatile market.”
Other installments in this series:
Part 1 – Administration releases landmark budget; deficit to be eliminated by end of fiscal year
Part 2 – Budget forecasts severe tuition increases; student aid still inaccessible
Part 4 – McGill cycling out tenured professors to cut costs; Admin staff, salaries, on the rise
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Daily sits down with Margaret Somerville
Last week, “Dying With Dignity,” a series of public hearings    debating the issues of euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide, kicked off its province-wide tour in Montreal. Led by a National Assembly committee exploring citizens’ opinions on the subject, the hearings consisted of discussions with individuals, medical experts, and pro-euthanasia groups. Euthanasia and assisted suicide are both illegal in Canada. Margaret Somerville, a McGill professsor and Director of the McGill Centre for Medicine, Ethics, and Law, submitted a briefing to the National Assembly committee titled “Living with Dignity When Dying.” She spoke to The Daily on the issue from a palliative care conference in Australia.
McGill Daily: What are the differences between euthanasia and assisted suicide?
Margaret Somerville: There are very much the same moral and ethical issues because they both involve somebody intervening in some way to help someone end their life. The technical legal difference is that in euthanasia, somebody – let’s make it a physician – gives a lethal injection. In other words, the act of the physician causes the death of the patient…putting it bluntly, the physician kills the patient. In assisted suicide, the physician gives the patient the means of killing themselves. That’s what suicide means: you kill yourself. And euthanasia is actually homicide; it means somebody else kills you.
MD: Is withdrawal of life support a completely separate issue?
MS: It’s a totally separate issue, yes, because in withdrawal of life support you’ve got to look to what it is the patient told you they want or don’t want. In Canada everybody has got a legal right to refuse all medical treatment, and life support is medical treatment. If somebody says they don’t want life support, to impose it on them is assault, and you can’t do that. Withdrawal of treatment is not euthanasia, providing it’s a justified withdrawal. Some of the cases end up in court, when the family or the patient want the treatment continued, and the doctors and the hospital want it withdrawn. That’s a very common situation that ends up in court, and it becomes an issue of who’s got the right to decide.
MD: What are the arguments surrounding the legalization of euthanasia?
MS: The strongest argument for euthanasia is that you’ve got an individual, and that person wants it.  They say, “it’s my life and I want to do this.” So that’s a strong argument for euthanasia; its autonomy, self-determination. The strong arguments against it are at the societal level. Once you institute this you can’t control it, and we’ve seen that…we’ve seen it in the Netherlands, who have the longest standing experiment in euthanasia, who have legalized euthanasia for 30 years. When it started off you had to be a competent adult who was in terrible pain that couldn’t be relieved, you had to be terminally ill, repeatedly ask for euthanasia, and then you had to give someone consent for it. Now, none of those conditions apply. Recently in the Netherlands they’ve broadened the law that parents who have a disabled baby can request euthanasia for the baby in the first month after it’s born, children aged 12-16 can with parents’ consent, those over 16 can consent for themselves, and those who are not terminally ill [can request euthanasia]. The [Dutch] courts just held that a seriously depressed woman whose psychiatrist gave her euthanasia was justified. As well as that, [the Dutch] government reports that at least 500 people a year are euthanized who haven’t given consent to it and don’t know what’s happening, they’re either incompetent or the doctors say, “well they asked for pain relief treatment and we take that as consent for euthanasia.” So all of those reasons. The most recent thing in the Netherlands is a petition signed by over 100,000 people that’s gone into the Dutch Parliament to legalize euthanasia for anybody over the age of 70: you don’t have to be ill, you don’t have to be in pain, you just have to be over 70 and…say that you’re tired of life. Now you imagine what’s going to happen when we’ve got an aging population and scarce healthcare resources. People will be pressured. If we have euthanasia there’s no question that they’ll be pressured into asking for it or accepting it in order to save resources. We used to not talk about saving resources as a reason for euthanasia. Even people who are in favour of it say “no that would never happen,” but now people are talking about that. You’ve [also] got to think about what’s the effect on health care professionals, and especially physicians. If we’re going to have euthanasia, we’re going to have to teach medical students how to teach their patients. It’s just a horrible thought; I can’t imagine doing it.
MD: In the parts of the United States where assisted suicide is legal [Oregon, Washington, and Montana], do you see the issue developing the way it is in the Netherlands?
MS: I just heard a report from Oregon where physician assisted suicide was initially legalized.  There’s extensive care, which can on average extend life between three and six months at the end of life, and people in Oregon [can apply] for the state to cover the cost of these drugs. The Oregon Health Authority, if they refuse to send the drugs, which they mainly do, send the patient a message that says, “we’re not going to send you the drugs but we’d like to remind you that physician-assisted suicide is covered by the health insurance and is not expensive.” And so, there is extension of what’s happening. The people who are most at risk are the elderly. And it’s even more dangerous when you implement things under a cloak of ethics and compassion. When doctors do things we often assume that it’s got to be ethical or else doctors wouldn’t be doing it, so [by making] euthanasia a medical act [you make it] a compassionate act, and both of those things stop our normal intuition. One of the things I talk about in some of the lectures I give – and this is not my original suggestion – is that if we’re going to have euthanasia, we shouldn’t have doctors doing it because, first of all, it mixes you up as to whether it’s ethical  – I call it putting a medical cloak on the act  – and the other thing is that people actually become frightened of going to doctors, because people become frightened of accepting pain relief treatment. In one case, in [one territory of] Australia, they did legalize euthanasia for a period of about 11 months in 1997… and the Australian aboriginal population simply refused to go anywhere near a doctor or a hospital, so they had outbreaks of contagious diseases [among] the kids; they had a public health crisis.
One alternative that was suggested was that if we’re going to have euthanasia we should have lawyers doing it, because they know how to strictly interpret the law and how to apply it. And most people have a complete freakout when you suggest that you have a lawyer. As one of the doctors who was for euthanasia said to me, “You’re crazy, Margo, you’d have lawyers killing people,” but it’s exactly the same thing when doctors are doing it, except we don’t see it the same way.
MD: Will these hearings in Quebec move the debates in the province and country forward?
MS: Well it depends what you mean by forward, doesn’t it? If by forward you mean that we’re going to legalize euthansia, then I’d see that as a backwards step, so it’s very much a value question. Certainly I think it’s good that we’re having the debate and I would hope that the outcome would be that we’d reject euthanasia but we’d understand how very important good palliative care is, and in particular how fully adequate pain relief treatment [is] for everyone who needs it…all of those things are essential and absolutely required, but none of them are euthanasia. I think the big divide is, should we allow doctors to kill people? And my answer to that is no, absolutely, totally not. And you know the question you have to ask is why are we debating this now? It’s not like new reproductive technologies where we’ve never faced the questions in the past. There’s nothing new about euthanasia. So what is it that we think after thousands of years of saying this is wrong, suddenly think it’s a great idea? And I think what it is, is some values in society that have gone astray that we need to come back to and rethink.
—compiled by Queen Arsem-O’Malley
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Liberal MP visits Shatner, talks up party’s hopes in next election
Liberal MP and current foreign affairs critic Bob Rae visited the Shatner building Friday morning to lay out the Liberal Party’s policy planks to students.
Rae used the event, hosted by Liberal McGill — the official arm of the Liberal Party of Canada on campus — to tackle a wide range of issues, such as post-secondary education, Arctic sovereignty, responsible industry, and the case for federalism.
Rae was also Premier of Ontario between 1990 and 1995 when he was the leader of the provincial NDP.
“I want you to be angrier,” he told the audience, which was packed into Shatner B-29. “I want youth to be telling us more about what we should be doing, about what the issues are, and to help us define the policies and ideas of the next generation.”
“A democratic country requires a democratic party,” Rae continued. “It requires a party that wants the participation and the ideas and the thoughts and contributions of its members. It’s very important that our universities and our student clubs become a base for that.”
Opening with a presentation of about 20 minutes, Rae acknowledged public suspicions that a federal election could be brewing, and made a pitch for why the Liberals should form Canada’s next government.
“We’ve entered an interesting stage in the parliamentary life of the country,” Rae said. “We’re at a point when people are going to have to decide the kind of government they want to have, the sort of approach they want to take.”
Rae’s visit comes as Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff finishes a cross-country bus tour designed to build up the Liberal support base. Rae remarked that public perception is what he views as the Liberal Party’s main challenge: “It’s not ‘Why should we defeat the Conservatives,’” he said, “but ‘Why vote for the Liberals?’”
He cited recent polls, which suggest that the Conservatives would claim about 30 per cent of the popular vote in an election. Rae interprets this to mean that over two-thirds of Canadians do not want Stephen Harper as their leader.
Commenting on a recent visit to Canada by speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, Rae said, “She told us America was waiting for Canadian leadership on climate change. I told her, with this government, you’ll wait a long time.”
After his speech, Rae and Liberal McGill President Kathleen Klein led a question-and-answer session with students.
Reacting to Rae’s appeal for youth engagement, Klein said, “He didn’t talk the general talk about getting youth involved. He talked to us as adults, as job-seekers. Innovation was a huge part of his chat today, and that’s something we’re all interested in, whether we know it or not.”
Klein herself would like to see more student involvement in the political scene at McGill. “My biggest concern is getting people involved and enabling them to make informed decisions for themselves.”
Jess Weiser, president of Conservative McGill, indicated that he was generally “impressed” by student engagement in federal politics, but added “the more the better.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
