The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concordia’s TA and RA union goes to arbitration
An ongoing labour dispute between the union of Teaching and Research Assistants at Concordia (TRAC) and the University’s administration will go to arbitration after union members unanimously rejected a proposed contract on January 21.
The contract would have seen a 30 per cent pay cut for several union members, while others would have gained a $1 per hour wage increase.
TRAC, which was established in 2006 as part of the Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC), has never had a collective agreement with the University.
“The main issue was the hourly rates set,” said TRAC President Bilal Abdul Kader.
The overall severity of the salary cuts undoubtedly came as a shock to many members, hoping that after two years of negotiations with the University the union could have procured improved contracts for its TAs, rather than the contrary.
TAs at Concordia are placed in distinct levels of pay, based on their level of study, faculty, and responsibilities.
“The next step is that we’re going to arbitration,” said Kader, adding that TRAC’s success in court “all depends on how the case is represented.”
TRAC VP external Mohammed Sabr, who sat on the negotiating team, stated that the terms of the proposed contract were so weak because of the administration’s efforts to stymie the union’s progress in gaining a new contract.
“Mainly they were not giving us enough dates to meet with them. Maybe one day a month or every two months. Like any employer, they want to save money,” Sabr said.
He added that the proposal was voted down partly because of the pay cuts involved, but also because the proposal did not guarantee TRAC members a minimum number of hours per week.
The union has also faced increasing tension with PSAC, whose regional executive vice president Jérôme Turcq sat on TRAC’s negotiating team.
“[PSAC] did not run the negotiation to its full capacity. They did not put enough of their energy into gaining better terms,” Sabr said.
On Friday, TRAC announced that negotiations with the administration would freeze until its members meet for another general assembly, which will likely be held next week. But according to Sabr, PSAC has indicated that it may proceed with the negotiations without TRAC’s involvement.
“We’re not happy with the whole status with them,” said Sabr. “The union should operate in the best interests of its members, and I don’t believe that PSAC [will necessarily do that].”
Since both parties wrote the by-laws of TRAC, resolving this struggle has proven difficult. PSAC, according to a press release on TRAC’s web site, has contested the union’s by laws, which were established in 2007.
Following TRAC’s decision to bring the labour dispute to arbitration, the Quebec Labour Relations Board appointed its secretary and general director, Jacques Doré, to oversee the case.
– with files from Niko Block
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Supreme Court leaves Canadian’s fate in the hands of Harper government
Omar Khadr, a Canadian citizen, will not be repatraited to Canada following a Supreme Court ruling that effectively absolves the government of any responsibility to seek his repatriation.
The ruling overturned two lower court decisions that ordered the government to request Khadr’s repatriation.
The Court denounced Canadian authorities’ role in Khadr’s interrogation  at Guantanámo Bay as a breach of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. However, the Court did not request his return to Canada.
The Court’s ruling said that the involvement of Canadian officials in Khadr’s interrogation “offends the most basic Canadian standards about the treatment of detained youth suspects.”
The justices also found that the request of repatriation was a remedy “sufficiently connected to the Charter breach,” but added that it was up to the federal government to determine how best to respond, because foreign affairs fall within its purview.
Dimitri Soudas, a spokesperson for Prime Minister Stephen Harper, has said that the federal government’s  policy on Khadr has not changed.  He added that Khadr faces “serious charges” and that he should stand trial in the U.S.
The government released a statement yesterday, however, that it will consider undisclosed alternatives that may compensate for the violation of Khadr’s rights.
Khadr’s Canadian lawyer, Nathan Whitling, said he was disappointed with the Supreme Court’s ruling, and that he did not expect any significant change in the government’s position.
“We’ve been trying to [lobby the Canadian government] for roughly six plus years now, and, so you know, frankly I am getting a little tired of it,” Whitling said.
Khadr is accused of having thrown the hand grenade that killed an American army medic in Afghanistan in July of 2002.  Khadr, now 23, was 15 at the time of arrest, making him a minor under Canadian and international law.
McGill law professor François Crépeau disagreed with the Court’s decision that Khadr’s case was a matter of foreign policy.
“The Court did not have to dictate the foreign policy…. Here they agreed there was a rights violation and I think they should have imposed a sanction. If there is a rights violation, it is within the Charter, and the Court has a right to enforce the Charter,” said Crépeau.
“[Khadr’s case] shows that the Canadian government cannot go in and interrogate someone that has been tortured, subjected to inhumane and degrading torture. That is against the Charter. In that sense, a small part of Canadian foreign policy is [now] constrained by the Charter, which is new. It didn’t exist in international law,” Crépeau said.
The Court’s ruling concludes years of litigation in Canada; Khadr’s legal battle in the U.S., however, is far from over. He will face a U.S. military commission in July, and his lawyers will now shift their focus to prepare for the trial in Guantanámo.
Whitling expressed concerned about the lack of due process in the military commission system.
“The Charter doesn’t apply to those proceedings, and the U.S. prosecution takes to the view that the U.S. Constitution doesn’t even apply. His rights are limited to what is recognized by the Military Commissions Act, and they are very limited,” said Whitling.
Crépeau said that the military commissions, though slightly improved, were still not normal criminal tribunals, and in that sense did not offer proper procedure for trying individuals.
“This is a convoluted and protracted process and we don’t know how they are going to behave, especially with someone who was a minor, who I think, as many others do, was a child soldier,” said Crépeau.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organization rebukes Conservative McGill for undercutting its finances
A campaign encouraging students to opt out of QPIRG’s student fee continued throughout January’s add-drop period. QPIRG staff and members say that the scheme is having a detrimental effect on the organization’s ability to operate freely.
The campaign started last term, when Conservative McGill, the Liberal Party of Quebec at McGill, the McGill Hellenic Students’ Association, and three other groups started a Facebook group and  web site encouraging students to opt out of the $3.75 per semester fee.
QPIRG internal coordinator Anna Malla called the group’s accusations that QPIRG is anti-democratic “ridiculous.”
“If people are actually interested in what we’re doing, then they should make an effort to participate in our democratic process which we believe in and which we have,” said Malla. She added that any student who has paid the opt-outable fee is welcome to attend the group’s annual general assembly, where they can elect QPIRG’s board of directors.
The opt-out campaign’s web site accuses QPIRG of hosting working groups whose politics “appall the mainstream of McGill’s student body.”
“We think that the majority of McGill students don’t want their money going to antidemocratic things, specifically the anarchist ones,” said Conservative McGill president Jess Weiser.
Weiser took aim especially at Tadamon!, one of QPIRG’s working groups, for its call for the federal government to remove the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah from its list of terrorist organizations. Weiser also criticized QPIRG’s support for the Chaotic Insurrection Ensemble, “an activist street band that organizes according to anarchist principles.”
“It’s our feeling that there’s a widespread opposition to the types of activities that QPIRG does on campus, and we feel that a lot of the people that are in opposition to those things don’t even know that their money is going to them to begin with,” said Weiser.
The opt-out campaign’s web site also criticizes QPIRG for attempts it made in the fall of 2008 to take the opt-out feature off of McGill’s web site.
Malla stated that QPIRG was the first organization on campus to fight for students’ right to opt out of fees. She explained QPIRG is dissatisfied with the online opt-out process because it is a violation of QPIRG’s memorandum of understanding with McGill, and because it does not impel students to make an informed decision before opting out.
“QPIRG believes in the democratic process that allows students to opt out. We believe in that process and we actually initiated that after QPIRG was founded,” said Malla.
Andrea Figueroa, QPIRG’s external coordinator, stated that the opt-out campaign’s assertion that QPIRG’s working groups should appeal directly to students for funding is the product of a basic lack of understanding of QPIRG’s structure. “It’s the same way that SSMU councillors get elected and they pick what to fund and what they don’t, so they have the same process as QPIRG,” said Figueroa.
Weiser later acknowledged that “not every single organization that they fund is radical.”
“There are some initiatives they’ve supported that do have merit,” he added. “We feel that the groups that would garner support from a majority of campus would be able to fund themselves, and we’d be happy to help them in that effort.”
The opt-out campaign’s web site initially included some factual errors, including the assertion that the McGill chapter of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights and Independent Jewish Voices are QPIRG working groups. It also claimed that QPIRG “supports and practices anti-Semitism” – a charge that QPIRG denounced as “offensive.” All of these errors were subsequently removed from the opt-out campaign’s web site.
Weiser stood behind the content of the web site, but added that changes to it could have been made by others involved in the campaign.
“There was nothing unfactual that we had to change,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Provincial party reps debate  postsecondary funding, taxes, and sovereignty
Senior politicians from the youth branches of the Parti Québécois (PQ) and the Action démocratique Québec (ADQ) staged a debate in French on Monday as part of Francofête, the annual week-long celebration of francophone culture at McGill.
The centre-right ADQ was represented by Andrew Noël Swidzinski, regional counselor from Montreal West, while the PQ’s youth president Alexandre Thériault-Marois stood in for the provincial separatist party.
The two politicians disagreed over funding for postsecondary education. Although Thériault-Marois expressed grave concerns about the nearly $4-billion deficit faced by Quebec in the wake of last year’s recession, he said raising tuition would not be a viable way of raising government revenue. He cited worries that high tuition would force Quebeckers out of province or abroad to attend university or college.
Swidzinski, on the other hand, argued that schools should be allowed to make their students pay for 30 per cent of the cost of their tuition. McGill Arts students already pay for more than 30 per cent, and thus would not be affected by the ADQ plan.
In reference to the recent drastic increase in McGill’s MBA tuition, Swidzinski said, “Whether we charge $2,000 or $30,000, students will have a tendency to go abroad.”
Swidzinski also indicated the ADQ would also like to see a rise in public service fees – including Hydro-Québec. He said the increase in utilities fees would encourage moderate use of electricity and other services.  Summarizing the ADQ position, which includes opposition to income tax hikes, Swidzinski quipped, “Tax spending, not income.”
Thériault-Marois adamantly opposed new service fees, saying that they “were not the answer.” to fiscal woes. “Increased taxes on public services would be the least progressive tax we could have,” he added.
An audience member had pointed out earlier that it is service taxes, not income taxes, that hit low-income people the hardest, as they pay little in income taxes to begin with.
When Swidzinski cited Ireland as a success story of low-taxes and raised service fees, Thériault-Marois retorted that, “Ireland was good about three years ago.” The Irish economy, he continued, has contracted about 20 per cent since the financial crisis hit in 2008.
Debate flared during a discussion of Quebec sovereignty.
The ADQ defines itself as an autonomist party, which Swidzinski described as a desire for a “constitutionalized” nation of Quebec within Canada. The ADQ is opposed to Quebec separatism, and Swidzinski said his party does not want any more referendums of the kind led by the PQ in 1995 and 1980.
Swidzinski further accused the PQ of being disingenuous in its sovereignty negotiations with the federal government, suggesting that they did not make honest efforts to reach an agreement.
“[The PQ] say, ‘If we fail in our negotiations with the federal government, we can say they didn’t give us what we want. Let’s separate,’” said Swidzinski.
But according to Thériault-Marois, the ADQ misrepresented his party. The PQ’s policy is not to negotiate or “send a letter to Ottawa” with sovereignty proposals. He suggested a referendum be held to “prove that the people of Quebec are behind us.”
Swidzinski retorted that this claim was questionable: “I don’t think the PQ really wants a referendum.”
Thériault-Marois forcefully criticized the ADQ position. “To be autonomist is a type of rhetoric that has been used before…. Bourassa used it,” he said, referring to the former Liberal Premier of Quebec, who was in power during the 1970 October Crisis.
The one aspect of “the national question” on which the politicians agreed was that Quebec should have a strong francophone identity.
“We want Quebeckers to feel like Quebeckers…. We don’t want Little Italies all over Quebec,” Thériault-Marois said. “We want to create a community by integration.”
Swidzinski said he completely agreed with the PQ stance. Both agreed further on the primacy of French in primary education.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
