The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
User fees for public services expected as province deals with financial squeeze
Faced with a predicted budget deficit of almost $5 billion, Quebec Premier Jean Charest has only two months to determine how he will deal with the looming budget crisis facing the province.
With the annual budget due in April, the province’s plan to deal with the deficit remains unclear. Charest has said that he will not be driven to raise taxes. However, groups across the province remain concerned about the possibility of cutbacks and increases in fees for public services.
Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), a Montreal-based organization of over 15 Quebec collegiate and university student associations, has assembled a coalition to oppose the possibility of increases in the cost of public services.
La Coalition opposée à la tarification et à la privatisation is opposed to any increases in the costs of public services that will limit their affordability for low-income peoples.
Jacques Delorme, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Finance, has commented that the government is currently involved in a pre-budget consultation, and that no decisions have been made. However, the Ministry of Finance has released documents from the Advisory Committee on the Economy and Public Finances that point to possible changes in the provision of public services.
The document recommends the “more extensive application of user fees” as a better way to fund services offered by the province, and refers to Ontario’s increase in user fees as an example. Ontario’s revenue from user fees in 2007-2008 was $6.8 billion more than Quebec’s. The ministry has also said that an increase in user fees will “foster good behaviour” in the use of public services.
This is, however, precisely the kind of solution groups like ASSÉ are concerned about. According to ASSÉ spokesperson Christian Pépin, a day of action is scheduled for April 1, which will “mainly be organized through protests in the streets of Montreal.”
ASSÉ has called for a “shift in taxation for people with higher revenues,” and expressed anger that there are “more than 150,000 businesses in Quebec [that] are not paying one cent of tax,” leaving citizens to make up the deficit.
The province held an economic forum earlier this month called Rencontre économique 2010, which brought together governmental officials and provincial business leaders. The two-day forum was initially supposed to examine the province’s immediate financial situation, but instead focused on long-term economic developments, such as plans for the growth of green energy in Quebec.
Pépin, who was among ASSÉ members in attendance at the economic forum, called the event a “diversion,” noting that the ASSÉ attended in hopes of taking a stand on the privatization of public services, an issue that he felt was glossed over during the forum’s discussions.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Federal recognition of First Nations could vanish in three generations
The Sheaf (CUP) – SASKATOON — A large contingent of First Nations people in Saskatoon protested the prorogation of Parliament, due to its impact on a planned revision of the Canadian Indian Act. The action was part of a national day of protest on January 23, when thousands of Canadians accross the country rallied against Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s decision to suspend Parliament until March 3.
Section six of the Indian Act, which deals with who is entitled to status, was judged by the B.C. Court of Appeals in 2009 to contravene the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Eldon Okanee of the Thunderchild First Nation spoke to the Saskatoon crowd about recent changes to the Indian Act and what they might mean for Canada’s aboriginal population.
Last Saturday in Saskatoon, amid signs of “Pierogies not Proroguing” and “King Stephen (The Last),” more ominous ones could be found,  bearing the slogan, “Let’s stop genocide in our country.”
According to protester Albert Angus of Thunderchild First Nation, the signs were intended to refer to the Indian Act and the “cultural genocide” it currently facilitates by tying registered Indian status to blood quantum.
Blood quantum refers to whether or not someone is eligible for Indian status depending on racial inheritance. The child of one aboriginal and one non-aboriginal parent is eligible for “registered” Indian status. However, if that person has a child with another non-aboriginal, that child will not be eligible for status.
“Since it’s been found that 50 per cent of our young people have children with one non-Indian as a parent,” Angus said. He explained that this would be “analogous to genocide” because there will be next to no Indians under the current Indian Act within three generations.
It is this provision that led to many First Nations protesters carrying signs asking to end the “genocide” in Canada. It is also this provision that was ruled unconstitutional.
The B.C. court suspended this ruling for one year until April 6, 2010, to allow the federal government to amend the law.
The Indian and Northern Affairs Canada web site reads, “The government intends to introduce legislation in early 2010 with the goal of having the proposed amendments in place by April 6, 2010.” But because the prorogation will set all parliamentary business back until March, this is unlikely to happen that soon.
This has caused consternation among Canada’s indigenous population.
In a recent media release, Chief Guy Lonechild of the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations said, “There are serious issues that need to be dealt with in Parliament, including citizenship.”
Shawn Atleo, national chief of the Assembly of First Nations, shares Lonechild’s sentiment. In a January 15 statement, he called on parliamentarians “to form a special legislative committee to examine the fundamental barriers inherent in the current Indian Act framework rather than focusing on issues in isolation.”
While politicians continue to duke it out in the national media over the issue of prorogation, many of Canada’s First Nations population wait for a change in the Indian Act that could strongly affect their lives.
“It may affect funding because they count Indians’ social services according to the Indian Act and when that’s in suspension, like now, it may not legally be possible for them to fund on a status quo basis,” Angus said. “People who live hand to mouth on these poor Indian communities, what are they going to do then?”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Suit alleges that chemical used by Canadian Forces base causes cancer
A fter years of delay, a class-action lawsuit filed by  residents of the Valcartier Canadian Forces base and the neighbouring town of Shannon is slated to begin in October.
The residents of Shannon and the Valcartier base are suing the attorney general of Canada and SNC Technologies Inc. for damages suffered as a result of the substance trichloroethylene (TCE) seeping into the town’s water supply.
TCE, used by the SNC Research Centre and Valcartier garrison to clean munitions since the 1940s, has been known to cause cancer. The plaintiff’s lawyer, Charles Veilleux, asserts that the TCE in the town’s drinking water is responsible for 440 cases of cancer in Shannon and Valcartier.
“[The residents of Shannon and Valcartier] want payment for their losses,” said Veilleux, who has been working on the case since the class-action lawsuit was filed in Quebec Superior Court in December 2003.
“They have been buying bottled water for several years, [as well as] medication and hospital treatment. It’s a lot of money. [The contaminated water] has caused very serious health problems.”
One of the residents’ main grievances is that they were never informed by the Valcartier base or the Canadian government that TCE had contaminated their water.
According to Veilleux, the minister of national defence gave Shannon $3.5 million to build a small aqueduct after the TCE was discovered. The aqueduct has been effective in stopping more TCE from getting trapped in the area groundwater, but traces of the chemical remain.
After filing for a class-action lawsuit in December 2003, the municipal government of Shannon settled for a $19-million payment in 2004. In 2009 the federal government gave an additional $13.5 million for damages in return for a denial of responsibility by the federal government.
Although filed in 2003, the class-action was not certified by the Quebec Superior Court until March 2007.
“There were protestations from the defendants,” said Veilleux.
“They tried everything to protest [the lawsuit]. They protested because [the lawsuit was filed] in front of a Quebec Superior court and not a federal court.”
According to the Department of National Defence (DND) web site: “In 1997, Valcartier Garrison discovered the solvent [TCE]…in its waterwork system, coming through the groundwater.”
“A series of initiatives were immediately implemented to bring TCE concentration levels [in Valcartier] to within acceptable limits,” reads the DND web site.
Marie-Paule Spieser, who represents the town’s residents as the case’s plaintiff, said that TCE was discovered in the water supply in December 2000.
“My neighbour worked in the SNC factory. They tested his water and found there was TCE in it,” said Spieser.
TCE evaporates harmlessly once it enters an open river, but traces of the chemical have been trapped in the groundwater beneath Valcartier base and Shannon – covering an area of about five squared kilometres – since the SNC Research Centre and the Valcartier garrison first started using TCE in the 1940s.
According to the DND web site, in July 2006 the DND “began pilot tests to assess the performance of in situ technologies for removing TCE from contaminated groundwater. The goal [was] to find the most effective technology to keep the TCE plume from spreading outside garrison limits.”
These technologies included air-sparging barriers, which vaporized the TCE in the groundwater, and zero-valent iron barriers, which involve introduction of zero-valent iron into the groundwater, causing the TCE to chemically decompose.
But according to Veilleux, these high-tech solutions have not completely solved the problem.
“There is still TCE [in the water] under the homes of some people [in Shannon],” said Veilleux.
“TCE is volatile, and it builds up. There is up to 1,200 micrograms per litre in some homes.”
Veilleux added that TCE has been known to cause cancer 35 years after exposure. As a result, the contamination of Shannon’s groundwater could affect the towns’ residents for many years to come, and could have affected many of the towns’ former residents, who left before the substance was discovered.
“We believe the contamination started earlier [than the 1940s]” said Veilleux.
“It may get to 500 cases [of cancer] before the trial starts,” he said, due to the slow effects of TCE on the body.
Spieser now represents more than 2,000 people affected by the TCE contamination.
“I lost confidence [in the water],” said Speiser. “There’s still a little bit of TCE in the water. No one ever told us about that.”
The federal government’s lawyer, Chantal Sauriol, did not respond to The Daily’s phone calls.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
