The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Barbara Sherwin reprimanded for one of three allegations
Correction appended – Tuesday, Sep 20
After concluding an investigation into McGill psychology professor Barbara Sherwin’s alleged academic fraud, the University has officially reprimanded her for failing to acknowledge a ghostwriter involved in drafting one of her articles.
The decision, which amounts to a censure, spares Sherwin from a harsher punishment, such as sanctions or suspension.
A McGill internal review committee investigated three allegations made against Sherwin in relation to an article she published in a 2000 edition of the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. First, that she had participated in ghostwriting, second, that she had an untoward relationship with a pharmaceutical company, and third, that she failed to acknowledge assistance with the article. The committee cleared her of the first two allegations.
McGill’s investigation began in August 2009 after Sherwin’s name was brought up in a class action lawsuit against pharmaceutical company Wyeth, which has since been bought by Pfizer. In the case, 8,400 women claimed they were hurt by the hormone replacement therapy (HRT) drugs the company sold. The women’s lawyers also claimed that there had been insufficient information given about the potential harm of the drug.
According to a Maclean’s article published in May, Wyeth paid DesignWrite to produce articles on HRT, asking leading academics to sign their names to them, and then publish them in academic journals.
Sherwin was one of the academics mentioned in the case, prompting the allegations that she had both participated in ghostwriting and had been involved in an inappropriate relationship with a pharmaceutical company.
Sherwin has publicly admitted failure to properly acknowledge the assistance she received from DesignWrite.
Richard Janda, a McGill Law professor who advised Sherwin throughout McGill’s investigation, described how Sherwin “continues to be used as an example of how there are problematic relationships between corporations and universities.”
“If anything, this is a professor that has been scrupulous and almost paranoid about having involvement with pharmaceutical companies,” said Janda.
“She has always refused to take products even if it’s a matter of use in research. She has not taken drugs from pharmaceutical companies. She has not had sponsorship by pharmaceutical companies for her own work. She only had public funds for her own work.”
According to Janda, Sherwin never knew of the relationship between Wyeth and DesignWrite, who often do not disclose that they are working for pharmaceutical companies.
“If she had been asked to promote [the HRT drugs], bells would have gone off, but since that’s not what she was doing, there were no alarm bells that went off,” Janda said.
The article was a comprehensive, peer-reviewed paper, considering a range of possible treatments for cognitive disorders, including both hormonal and non-hormonal treatments.
In regards to whether or not a DesignWrite employee had ghostwritten Sherwin’s article, Sherwin told Maclean’s she offered editorial credit to DesignWrite employee Karen Mittleman – who typed and formatted Sherwin’s manuscript to fit the style of the journal – but Mittleman refused.
DesignWrite defends its position. Rosie Lynch, the CEO of DesignWrite, explained in an email to The Daily that Sherwin “authored an article that was medically and scientifically accurate and valid.  We assisted her in writing and editing the article, which was common practice in the industry.  She had control over the final product and final approval over the article. The article was published by independent peer reviewed journals that were completely autonomous in their decision to publish the article based on its scientific merit.”
When asked whether or not Sherwin was aware of the relationship between DesignWrite and Wyeth, Lynch replied, “The editorial assistance we provided to Dr. Sherwin was common practice in the industry and we have never had an author express any confusion in this regard.”
She did admit that Wyeth paid DesignWrite “to assist Dr. Sherwin with writing and editing the article,” but also stated that journals were never paid to publish the article.
In an email to The Daily, Sherwin said she had been advised “to not communicate with anyone in the media for the time being.”
Doug Sweet, McGill Director of Media Relations, said the University was not commenting on the investigation.
 Due to editorial errors, the printed version of this article (News, Sep 8, pg. 4) contains several innaccuracies, which accounted certain facts in an erroneous manner and incorrectly portrayed Professor Sherwin.
We, the editors and writers of the McGil Daily, would like to sincerely apologize to Professor Sherwin for the printing of said article and any harm that may have been caused to her. We deeply regret our actions. We are reviewing our internal procedures to ensure a similar event does not occur in the future.
The following highlights the errors and corrections of the September 8, 2011 article: The article incorrectly identifies the nature of Professor Sherwin’s misconduct in the subhead; she was not reprimanded for falsely crediting her article. The article also incorrectly identifies the nature of Professor Sherwin’s misconduct in the article; she was not reprimanded for failing to acknowledge a co-author, but, rather, for failing to acknowledge Karen Mittleman’s assistance with the 2000 article. The printed article referred to Professor Sherwin’s reprimand as a ‘public censure’; this is technically inaccurate, as the University did not make their decision public. The article also identified Provost Anthony Masi as leading the internal review committee; such information is confidential and could not be confirmed.The article misrepresented the content of Sherwin’s article; the article dealt with a range of pharmacological treatment options for mild cognitive impairment, not Hormone Replacement Therapy, as the article stated. DesignWrite’s role in drafting the article was misrepresented; Designwrite provided modest editorial assistance to Sherwin. Professor Janda was paraphrased as stating that Professor Sherwin was “under emotional strain”; he did not comment specifically on her emotional state. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS president threatening legal action
A string of miscommunications have escalated a dispute over an annual Frosh fee paid by the Education Undergraduate Society (EdUS) to the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS).
As early as 2004, Education students have participated in Arts Frosh, with EdUS compensating AUS $2,000. When planning for this year’s Frosh events began in May, AUS President Jade Calver increased the fee to $8,000.
Kady Paterson, EdUS SSMU representative and former design editor for The Daily, said AUS initially asked for $10,000.
“We cannot pay $8,000, and will not pay $8,000. We negotiated; we said we’d be willing to pay the $2,000 that we normally do. AUS said they wouldn’t go anything lower than $6,000,” said Paterson.
Calver maintained, however, that EdUS was willing to pay up to $10,000. “Obviously that was a little much, so we decided on $8,000 together,” she said.
“[Paterson], in front of all five of my other coordinators, agreed numerous times on this amount,” Calver continued.
Paterson, who sat on the AUS Frosh Planning Committee this summer in lieu of EdUS VP Internals Elizabeth O’Dwyer and Talia Kelly, described the fee as “essentially a donation to Frosh.”
“They keep all of our Froshies’ registration fees, they keep all of our leader registration fees, all of the liquid sales – so all of the beer that in the past has been included in ticket price but now is being charged for, they are now keeping all of the profits off of that,” she continued.
According to Calver, the increase was the result of calculating the cost per student for Frosh – which included insurance, the hiring of Frosh coordinators, and labour over the summer – a measure AUS took after financial mismanagement of AUS Frosh last year left the society with a severe deficit.
Paterson brought a motion to EdUS Council a few weeks before the start of Frosh to authorize the $6,000 increase. The motion was defeated.
Paterson said the council, which runs EdUS events on a $30,000 annual budget, “didn’t really see why $8,000 was justified.”
She also spoke to the fact that she never had the authority to agree to a fee increase.
“I don’t have the authority to promise anybody anything. [Calver] knows this. Her rep to SSMU couldn’t do it either; neither can I. And she also knows that changes of budget do need to go through Council. I can’t willy-nilly guarantee money and not tell anybody on Council – especially for us when it’s a 400 per cent budget increase,” she said.
Nevertheless, Calver maintained that it was “made fairly clear to us that [Paterson] was sent to us on behalf of EdUS.”
“[Paterson] said they had the payment ready to go,” she continued.
Paterson did have an $8,000 check from EdUS, signed by President Vanessa Harman and VP Finance Susanne Farag, but was only authorized to give AUS the check once Council approved the increase.
Once EdUS Council defeated the motion, Paterson claims she tore up the check, at which point she also alleges Calver threatened legal action.
“[Calver] informed me that there had been a verbal contract – which I was completely unaware of – and that we had breached the contract,” said Paterson.
Paterson also said that Calver “would be consulting with a lawyer and looking to take legal action, which is something she has expressed to us further since then.”
Calver said legal action would be a “last resort,” and that AUS had not begun any legal proceedings. She would not comment on whether she has spoken with a lawyer about the dispute.
“I don’t seek to hurt them financially,” said Calver. “Obviously I’ll do everything in my power to enter into negotiations with them before we ever pursue legal action.”
Apart from one meeting between Calver, Paterson, Farag, and AUS VP Events Jason Karmody several weeks before Frosh, no negotiations have taken place.
Paterson said Calver refused EdUS’ request for a mediator, after which SSMU President Maggie Knight offered to mediate negotiations. Calver refused Knight’s offer.
Knight said she had been “willing to mediate as a peer, as a student,” though not as SSMU President, as it is not SSMU’s role to mediate disputes between student societies.
According to Knight, Calver initially said she didn’t think it would be appropriate for Knight to mediate.
Last weekend, the Education Froshies who were not registered for Arts Frosh, along with Education leaders, participated in Science Frosh. According to Paterson, the Science, Management and Engineering faculties all offered to take the roughly 100 Education Froshies and ten leaders for free.
Paterson emphasized the importance to Education – one of the smallest faculties at McGill – of having their first-years experience Frosh together.
“There are almost more people attending Arts Frosh than there are in my entire faculty,” said Paterson. “We’re just trying to actually give our students something tangible to do, and things to bring out of Frosh aside from a hangover.”
“The AUS has had a habit of not reclaiming the money that is owed to them,” said Calver. “That’s what we agreed upon during our meetings, that’s what they owe to us, and it is now Arts students’ money.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
External committee criticizes BoG for lack of transparency and communication
Concordia University’s Board of Governor’s (BoG) is set to meet on September 28 to vote on the implementation of recommendations by an external governance committee.
The external committee was created in February 2011 in response to the growing concerns of Concordia’s faculty and students over the role of the university’s BoG.
Disconnect between the Concordia community and the BoG began to develop three years ago, with the dismissal of a number of Concordia’s managerial staff. The reasoning behind the dismissals, which cost the University $11 million in severance packages, was not immediately made public.
The dismissal of former Concordia President, Judith Woodsworth in December 2010, led to further questioning of the BoG’s role, leading to the release of an open letter published on January 10. Signed by over 180 faculty members, the letter demanded a full review of the governing structures of Concordia “with particular attention to the constitution and the power of the BoG.”
In response to the tense situation, Concordia’s senate and BoG agreed to appoint an external governance review committee made up of three independent experts to evaluate the current situation at Concordia.
The review committee put forward a report on June 15 analyzing university management, highlighting a lack of transparency from the BoG and a lack of effective communication between the BoG, the senate, and the president. Its proposed solutions were to modify the university’s charter, increase senate and community participation, and increase communication between all governing bodies.
The most significant change proposed by the committee concerned the BoG, whose size would be cut from 42 to 25 members.
In an interview with The Daily, Lex Gill, president of the Concordia Student Union (CSU), said that undergraduate students would be “losing out significantly” if the BoG’s size were reduced. Concordia’s undergraduates would lose 60 per cent of their voting power, she said.
Currently, four undergraduate student representatives sit on the 42 member board; the proposed reduction of the BoG to 25 members would contain only one undergraduate representative.
Gill said that while the university has traditionally empowered student participation in governance, this change in the composition of the BoG is clearly a step in the wrong direction.
She further explained that, at Concordia, “there was a sense that the university valued the student voices.” However, with the new model, “it is clearly no longer the case.”
In an attempt to address these concerns, the ad hoc governance committee proposed adding an “alternate member” on the board, able to vote in the absence of the other student representative.
“But in the end,” Gill said, “this is not really an acceptable offer. They are acknowledging the problem, and doing something about it, but not doing enough.”
The committee’s recommendations also included stricter term limits for governors on the BoG and increased internal community participation in the board.
Lucie Leguin, President of the Concordia University Faculty Association (CUFA), told The Daily that the recommendations were a move in the right direction.
“By June 1, 2012, if the changes are approved there will be a very different board,” he added.
Although Gill recognized that some of the recommendations, if passed, would positively impact the university, she stated that the CSU was still skeptical.
For Gill, a collective effort is needed to regain a trusting and collaborative atmosphere within Concordia’s administration. “The BoG is unwilling to treat students as equal partners,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Talks between University and Non-Academic union resuming today
Correction appended Sept. 8
The McGill administration begins conciliation meetings with the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) today, one week after the union’s members commenced a general strike.
In conciliation, the MUNACA and McGill bargaining teams are joined by a third party, a representative from the Quebec Ministry of Labour, who mediates the negotiations.
MUNACA president Kevin Whittaker said the purpose of conciliation “is basically trying to get [McGill and MUNACA] back at the table and to get us talking.”
He added that MUNACA is willing to continue negotiations, but that the union has been unsure as to McGill’s readiness to discuss issues. “I have many members that are quoting Provost [Anthony] Masi, who’s walking through our [picket] lines saying, ‘Have a Merry Christmas.’ That doesn’t look like McGill is very serious about this conciliation, when their own Provost is saying such things, so we find it very unprofessional and not very encouraging.”
Picketers have marched at three locations over the past week: the Roddick Gates on Sherbrooke, the Milton Gates on University, and the bottom of McTavish. There are also two picket lines at Macdonald campus. According to Whittaker, there are plans to expand the picket lines to more locations, though he could not offer details as to where or when.
Confrontations at picket lines
Morton Mendelson, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) held a meeting last week with reporters from The Daily, The McGill Tribune, and Le Délit to discuss issues surrounding the strike.
Mendelson called the picket lines “respectful on both sides.” He said that the only incident of disruption was a noise complaint from a resident in the Milton-Parc community that was resolved by moving a drummer from the Milton to the Roddick Gates. A delivery truck was also directed to an alternate entrance due to MUNACA’s picket line.
On Wednesday morning, picketers on McTavish were faced with vehicles that refused to be re-routed.
A delivery truck from Ozawa, Inc., with Ontario license plates, tried to cross until McGill security moved picketers to allow the vehicle to pass. Bertrand Lavoie, Regional Coordinator for PSAC-Québec, took issue with the role that McGill security officers played in the situation, stressing that picketers were not on McGill property.
“If there is a problem here, it is not their jurisdiction. It is the jurisdiction of the police, and that’s it. If the police arrive, we will discuss with them,” Lavoie said.
Whittaker said that the incident on Wednesday was the only one of which he was aware. “There was some disruption with cars coming through. We’ve been asking [vehicles] if they can go around, which – in 99 per cent of the time – they go around. There’s only a few that actually force their way in,” he said.
“We’re not blocking them. If they want to go in, we stop and ask them, ‘Would you please consider not passing our picket line?’ And if they still insist then we let them through,” he continued.
Campus mobilization 
Mendelson said that the he had reviewed the list of Frequently Asked Questions released by SSMU concerning the strike, but was “a little disappointed that there was a number of inaccuracies in what they said.” He added that he had informed SSMU of the mistakes.
Joël Pedneault, SSMU VP External, explained that the fact sheet was updated after communicating with the University. “The major change was that we make reference to employees’ benefits being cut, whereas it is only current and future retirees’ benefits that are being cut,” Pedneault wrote in an email to the Daily.
“The nuance is significant, although we are perplexed as to why the University took the time to point out the fact that people who cannot defend their rights (i.e. current retirees, who are not part of a union) are in fact the most affected in the short run,” he continued.
The Mobilization Committee (Mob Squad) at SSMU has also organized around MUNACA’s cause and members reported that more than forty students attended a recent meeting to discuss ideas for demonstrating support.
The Mob Squad organized a rally for this morning around the McGill Board of Governors on campus luncheon.
“People are very excited about this,” said Mob Squad member and SSMU Arts representative Jamie Burnett. “People care a lot about this and people are really wanting to get involved.”
Micha Stettin, another Mob Squad member and SSMU Arts representative, explained one of the group’s goals in mobilizing around the MUNACA strike. “We are trying to show that the McGill administration cannot just take whatever action they want without a response from the rest of the McGill community. We are the largest body in the McGill community and we have the most power, so we can act. And we will act.”
When asked about student response, Mendelson referred to a campaign that encourages students to send emails en masse to administrators stating support for MUNACA workers.
“That is something that happens from time to time depending on issues, you know, many students complaining about one issue or another issue,” he said. “Interestingly, we don’t get those campaigns when people want to say that things are really going well.”
Whittaker said that MUNACA picketers would join the rally, and expressed gratitude for the various forms of support. “We’ve had a number of students that were out here [on picket lines], and we had a teacher bring her class out to picket as well,” he said.
Faculty members have demonstrated their solidarity in a number of ways. “We’re getting a lot of independent professors coming out and marching with us; there were about thirty of them at one point…and we have been contacted by a number of other professors that are apparently forming a group,” said Whittaker.
The group, which is made up of faculty members from nine departments within Arts, is called the McGill Faculty Labour Action Group. Additionally, individual faculty members have published letters of support, which are posted on MUNACA’s website. Some professors have chosen to move the location of their classes in order to avoid crossing union picket lines.
According to Mendelson, the relocation of classes is not an issue unless professors cease teaching altogether. Otherwise, he reassured students that, despite the possibility of delays, “we’re going to try our darndest to keep all the services that are really important going.”
– with files from Henry Gass
 
In an earlier version of this story, Dr. Hang Lau was mistakenly identified as attempting to drive through a MUNACA picket line, and as the owner of a car featured in an accompanying photograph. Dr. Lau was not at the scene, and was not involved in the incident described.
The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
