The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The City’s $5.5 million program works to change how space is used
After holding consultation sessions throughout the spring, the City of Montreal has approved a $5.5 million urban revitalization program, known as the Programme particulier d’urbanisme (PPU). Montreal Mayor Gérald Tremblay stated in a press release in late September that “It’s time to continue the development and enhancement efforts of this central and unique Montreal district.”
The program, proposed by the borough of Ville-Marie, calls for the protection and enhancement of heritage sites and sustainable development. It also calls for a “targeted action plan for homeless,” a plan to build more affordable housing in the area, and the greening of Cabot Square, which is located in Shaughnessy Village along Maisonneuve.
Spokesperson for Ville-Marie borough, Ann-Sophie Harrois, told The Daily in an email that the borough adopted a plan addressing homelessness, targeted particularly at Ville-Marie, in October 2010. She noted that the plan “specifically proposes actions to [be taken] around Cabot Square.”
Kelly Pennington, an Urban Planning undergraduate student at Concordia, learned about the project from a paper she wrote. She told The Daily that, after looking more closely at the “grand scheme of the project,” she noticed that “certain classes of people are being chosen over other classes.”
“They’re saying it’s this key part to Montreal that needs to be brought back to life, which ignores the fact that there are a whole contingent of people who are using that space right now, who call that space home – or at least, temporarily, home,” she continued.
Consultation
The Office de consultation publique de Montréal (OCPM) conducted a consultation on the program earlier this year. The consultation included information sessions and meetings where community members and interest groups presented changes and comments on the program.
According to Luc Doray, secretary general of the OCPM, their office did “a lot of promotion of the consultation,” including flyering, an online questionnaire on the OCPM website, advertising in the metro and local newspapers, and a booth at Concordia’s downtown campus.
Doray said they heard more than eighty presentations from community members.
“The feedback was basically in agreement of the proposal of the City, but a lot of people [had] some more fine-tuning comments,” said Doray. He said that the commission submitted its recommendations to the City after six meetings.
Pennington was critical of the effectiveness of the OCPM’s recommendations.
“[The OCPM is] allowed to offer suggestions, but there’s nothing that makes them accountable to what is asked for,” said Pennington.
William Thompson, who has been frequenting Cabot Square for over a decade, was aware of the PPU, but doubted its ability to improve the park.
“This park has been like this for 15 years. It’s going to take more than new benches to make a change,” he said. “It’s a good idea, but all you’re going to do is push the problem somewhere else.”
A First Nations “gathering point”
Ramélia Chamichian, a coordinator for the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Strategy Network, described Cabot Square as “a gathering point where all the aboriginals that come from out of Montreal, that come to Montreal, they gather over there to meet other aboriginal people.”
A subcommittee for the network submitted a brief to the OCPM commission, stating that “the result will likely be continued displacement of aboriginal peoples, which will result in the perpetuation of safety issues, including an increase in the number of arrests.”
The brief also recommended that aboriginal artwork and cultural elements be introduced to the Square, and that aboriginal outreach workers work in the Square.
Chamichian said she did not know if their recommendations had been included in the finalized program.
After the PPU was approved, the same committee presented similar proposals to a newly formed Equipe médiation urbaine, a roundtable with representatives from the City, the Montreal police, and community residents and businesses, as well as one aboriginal representative.
According to Chamichian, the roundtable will be meeting every few weeks over the next months.
The homeless will “adjust”
Pennington said that, while she understood the Shaughnessy Village community’s desires to improve the Square, she felt the homeless population was excluded from consultation on the project.
“Generally they’re probably going to impose a lot more ‘order.’ The plan is to generally tell people to move along if they’re just hanging out there and drinking,” she said. “I don’t mean to say that nobody wants improvements, but if you’re going to make the park nicer, you can’t just move people out.”
One homeless man, who has been sleeping in the metro station entrance near Cabot Square since October, said he wasn’t worried about the implications of the PPU for the homeless population.
“Really it’s not a homeless presence, I’d say it’s more an alcoholic presence. More like people drinking beer and wine and hard liquor…that they might become more strict on,” he said.
“We adjust to situations,” he continued.
Another man in the station, who identified himself as Daddy-O, said he is no longer homeless, but has slept in Cabot Square in the past.
Daddy-O spoke to those who frequently used Cabot Square.
“They’re still gonna come back. [It’s] not gonna work. It’s their home; it remains their home, and nothing gonna move them. I guarantee you that,” he added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Syrian activists allegedly harassed in Canada
More than 100 people marched through downtown Montreal on Saturday in a show of solidarity with anti-government protestors in Syria.
Protestors chanted “Solidarity with the Syrian people” and waved placards reading “Freedom for Syria.”
“We want to send a message to the Canadian people that we cannot stand silent to what is happening in Syria,” Ibrahim, a protestor, explained. “This is a criminal regime that is corrupt and greedy, and they are ready to kill the entire Syrian people to stay in power.”
Since March, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has been sending armed troops into Syrian cities in response to largely peaceful protests that are calling for democratic reform and, more recently, for Assad’s ouster.
According to the United Nations, nearly 3,000 Syrians have been killed since the beginning of the anti-Assad uprising in March, including nearly 200 children. Opposition groups have maintained that the number of deaths is over 5,000.
In a petition circulated during the demonstration, the protestors called for the Canadian government to increase diplomatic and economic pressure on Syria.
Despite new parliamentary sanctions imposed against Syria by the Canadian government in early October, Suncor Energy, a Canadian oil company, still runs a $1.2 billion operation in the Ebla Gas Fields in central Syria.
The project provides electricity for about 10 per cent of the country’s population.
According to Suncor’s website, while the new Canadian sanctions “are aimed at our industry, they also allow for continued operation of existing operations [and] agreements.”
Suncor jointly operates the project with Syria’s state-owned General Petroleum Corporation. The company website states that it is not directly involved with the Assad regime.
Suncor Energy was not available for comment at the time of press.
Other protestors in Montreal expressed concerns for their safety.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, a protestor spoke to some of his fears. “I am afraid. I am trying my best to avoid cameras,” he said.  “My family is ready for anything. They asked me to be careful in Canada. They expect pro-government people to attack me.”
A recent report published by Amnesty International has revealed that members of the Syrian secret police, the al-Mukhabarat, have been actively plotting to undermine anti-Assad protests in Canada and other countries.
The Director General of Amnesty International Canada’s francophone branch, Beatrice Vaugrante, attended the rally and elaborated on the report.
“People have been harassed on the streets, but, most importantly, families [were harassed] in Syria,” she said. “We have a case of a protestor in the U.S. whose parents ended up being arrested and beaten. Another, whose brother manifested outside of Syria was also tortured.”
According to the report, staffers at the Syrian embassy in Ottawa allegedly filmed anti-Assad demonstrations and took pictures of the protestors. A woman, identified in the report as Abeer, also received threats against her family on Facebook after she spoke out against the regime on Canadian television.
Although Amnesty International has only reported cases of harassment in Ottawa, some protestors hinted that similar activities might be occurring in Montreal.
“We have a regular stand on Ste. Catherine, and usually we get some harassment,” a protestor said. “They insult us, they accuse us of being traitors. They tried to [film us] once, but when we called the police they stopped.”
When asked whether the harassers worked for the Syrian government, another protestor replied that it was difficult to know. “Some of them do and some of them don’t,” he said.
The Assad regime enjoys some degree of support among different sectors of Syrian society.
Imad Mansour, a Political Science professor at McGill who specializes in Middle Eastern politics, explained that Assad hails from the country’s minority Alawi community, and many supporters – Alawis and others – fear that the toppling of the regime would mean an end to some of their economic and social privileges.
According to Mansour, support for the Assad family can be explained by a combination of factors.
“There’s a variety of reasons why a group would support a sitting regime,” he said. “Either their economic interests are tied with it, they benefit from it in terms of division of spoils and political favoritism, or they are simply convinced that the absence of this regime would mean chaos.”
While a copy of the Amnesty International report was provided to the Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade earlier this month, the department claims that it has no evidence of any wrongdoing from Syrian security forces.
In a written statement to The Daily, a department spokesperson said that if such reports were confirmed, it would constitute “unacceptable behaviour on the part of the government of Syria.”
Meanwhile, the French and British governments have already taken steps to protect Syrian activists within their borders by enhancing police protection around protests and opening investigations into allegations of harassment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Rally commemorates failed Quebec independence referendum
Last Saturday, over 300 people marched through the streets of downtown Montreal calling for an independent Quebec, inviting demonstrators at Occupy Montreal to join them.
The march – held a day before the 16th anniversary of the failed 1995 referendum that saw Quebec lose a bid for independence by 1.16 per cent of the vote – left Place du Canada early in the afternoon and wound its way down Ste. Catherine street towards Champ-de-Mars.
In the days leading up to the rally, the organizers Cap sur l’independance appealed to the occupiers to join them.
“We would first like to affirm our solidarity with all those involved in the Occupation movement of financial markets, around the world,” said Cap sur l’independance leaders – Claude Béland, Pierre Paquette, Gilbert Paquette, and Geneviève Boileau – in an October 26 press release in French.
“In Quebec, we are doubly indignant: by the international financial system and the political dependence of Quebec that deprives us of a national state capable of action,” they continued.
Yvan Lamonde, a professor emeritus in French Language and Literature at McGill, said he found the Occupy movement to be “more social, more global, more radical” than the Quebec independence movement.
“The link between the occupying people and the [Parti Québécois] is not obvious for me, honestly,” he said.
Pauline Marois, leader of the Parti Québécois, joined the march going east along Ste. Catherine. She spoke to The Daily about the Occupy movement.
“The national independence movement…[is] a movement that protests the exaggeration of financial institutions and large financial banks, and I [have] the same logic as the youth who [are occupying],” she said in French.
Lamonde, however, described a “lack of vitality” within the independence movement.
“If [they marched] supposedly to present some kind of a unified sovereignty movement it’s, let’s say, a minimal vital sign,” he said.
“There is a kind of fragmentation, almost everyone in the party has its own ideas,” he continued.
Many of the demonstrators reached different conclusions about the relation between the Quebec sovereignty movement and the Occupy movement.
Claude Talbot, who attended the rally with “99%” written on his hat – in reference to the label many occupiers have adopted – felt that the Quebec independence and Occupy movements were similar.
“The independence of the people is in the context of the global battle” against financial institutions, he said in French.
“The Quebecois of Occupy Montreal who are for national independence, [are] at the same time [for] changing the world economy and changing the democracy. Therefore it’s going to be…a country with a different economy and a slightly different democracy,” he continued.
Jean-François Faucher, a U4 McGill Political Science student who attended the march, said he saw Quebec independence as an opportunity to build a new society along the lines prescribed by global Occupy movements.
“We don’t get much money out of our resources, our social programs are being dismantled, and with a sovereign Quebec we have a unique opportunity to make a state that’s more democratic, that’s more just economically and socially,” he said.
“That kind of project can include others, like Anglophones, immigrants, who can also get on board with a project for a new society with a vision for a just future,” he continued.
Faucher said he thought the sovereignty movement and the Occupy movement were variations on the same theme.
“They are linked, and they’re about the same thing, it’s just they’re different takes,” he said. “The Occupy Wall Street thing is a useful thing because it brings up awareness, and this is one of the ways – independence done the right way – is one of the ways that we should address the problems that Occupy Wall Street brings up.”
At the occupation in Place du Peuple, occupiers acknowledged a number of sovereigntists living in the camp. One occupier, Stéphane, said he didn’t see “how l’independance du Quebec can solve anything.”
Reda Birouch, who works at the information tent in the camp, said he doesn’t support Quebec independence.
“I am not for the separation of people for the reason that I am for the conviviality of cultures, for change, for love between cultures,” he said in French.
“If it’s just independence for [the sake of] independence, and separation for [the sake of] separation…No, I am against independence in Quebec,” he added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
