The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Nunavik region’s health and social services search for permanent residence in Montreal
The Northern Quebec Module (NQM), a branch of the Inuulitsivik Health Centre that facilitates health care for Inuit patients in Montreal, announced on March 2 that it will be centralizing its facilities.
The NQM will consolidate its resources, currently scattered across Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, when it moves to the YMCA’s Y Residence in Westmount on April 9.
The Inuulitsivik Health Centre, along with the Ungava Tulattavik Health Centre and the Nunavik Regional Board of Health and Social Services (NRBHSS), makes up the Nunavik health and social services network. These organizations serve 14 communities in the Nunavik region of Northern Quebec, 90 per cent of whose residents are Inuit.
They routinely refer patients that they cannot accommodate to Montreal for specialized medical treatments. The NQM processes these referrals and arranges all transportation, lodging, interpretation, follow-up, and support services for the patients and their families.
According to an NRBHSS press release, the new facility remains a “short- and medium-term” relief for for the NQM’s continuing need for a permanent residence in Montreal. The NBRHSS press release also states, “the MNQ is pleased to retain the services of Chez Gigi et Michèle, a residential resource that will continue offering lodging to pregnant women who encounter complications during their pregnancy.”
The goal of permanent residence seemed in reach last May when the NQM sought to purchase a vacant former Chinese hospital in Villeray. Several elected officials and residents objected to the plan, making the NQM apprehensive about community acceptance and ultimately led to the decision to look for space elsewhere.
“Faced with the opposition,” said an NRBHSS press release from September 9, 2010, “the Nunavik health and social services organizations were strongly concerned that the Inuit clientele would not be accepted in the Villeray borough.”
“The organizations of the Nunavik network firmly believe that the injury inflicted is too deep to pursue the relocation project to the former Chinese hospital,” Alasie Arngak, chairperson of the NRBHSS board of directors, added in the press release.
The consolidation of the NQM’s services at the Y has several benefits including increased security. At the Y Residence the NQM’s patients will enjoy the building’s security service, its registered and controlled user access, and additional security guards posted 24 hours a day on the three floors occupied by the NQM.
As to amenities, the Y Residence offers 150 beds, an on-site cafeteria, as well as laundry facilities. Its proximity to the McGill University Health Centre will also make the centre’s services more accessible to patients.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU hopes to institutionalize event
SSMU’s Faculty Olympics wrapped up this past Sunday after a successful four days and nights of events.
Events kicked off last Thursday night.  420 people on 13 teams from almost every faculty participated. Points were awarded for each event and the winning team, Zeus’ PEKer – representing Phys. Ed. and Kinesiology – was announced at the closing ceremonies on Sunday.
Throughout the Olympics, participants competed in a variety of events including dodgeball, trivia,  a spelling bee, chocolate wrestling, scavenger-hunt and flip cup tournament.
Captains for each team were recruited from the different faculties and worked with the organizers to plan and run the event.  There were also 17 volunteers who helped to make sure that everything ran smoothly.
“There were five volunteers who each ran an individual event and twelve others who helped out.” explained Kate Barker, one of the head volunteers. One of the goals of the Faculty Olympics was to encourage inter-faculty interaction.
“When can we all compete against each other? We never can. This gives us that opportunity,” said SSMU VP Finance Nick Drew.
Christina Sfeir, one of the co-chairs and organizers of the Olympics, celebrated how well the events achieved this goal.
“The reaction from participants has been great. … Many teams have been speaking about having reunions because they enjoyed themselves so much and have been brought closer together with their faculty,” she said.
Expenses for the event were expected to be approximately $21,800 with returns expected to be $17,600.
“Given the events we wanted to do we knew that we would have to spend money for it to be a success,” explained Drew.
The biggest expense was the closing ceremonies, which included a power hour. However, organizers were able to save about $1,700 on the power hour when difficulty getting a liquor permit led to a last minute location change from Circus to Le Drugstore.
Despite losing approximately $2,000 on the event, Drew said that everything went according to plan.
“It was budgeted to lose money,” he said “ We need to spend money to make sure [Faculty Olympics] is something that will last.”
This is not the first Faculty Olympics, however it is the first one to be considered a success.
“The First Faculty Olympics to our knowledge was in 2007 and there has not been one since due to its unsuccessful outcome,” said Sfeir.
As a result of the 2007 failure, this year’s Olympics had to be organized from the ground up, as there was no previous framework to build on.
SSMU’s goal is to make Faculty Olympics an annual event, much like Management’s Carnival or Engineering’s Eng-games.  Carnival has been running annually since the 1980s and generally breaks even.
Sfeir linked Carnival’s economic success to the fact that it’s been running for so many years.
“We are extremely excited about next year and the ideas for new contests are already flowing,” she said. “It will bigger and better with each year so get ready, because Faculty Olympics is here to stay.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
University “perplexed and disappointed” by government penalty
The provincial government announced Monday that McGill will be penalized $2,011,719 for the 2010-11 year after increasing tuition in their executive Master of Business Administration (MBA) program by around 900 per cent.
According to a statement released by the Ministère de l’Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport, the fine corresponds to the amount of provincial funding granted to McGill to train 200 students who could have enrolled in the program had prior accessibility levels been maintained. The penalty also includes the amount of provincial subsidy granted for each of the 57 MBA students enrolled in Fall 2010.
McGill increased tuition for its MBA program this year from roughly $2,000 to $29,500.
The Ministry press release stated that McGill’s “decision [to increase tuition] not only violates current budgetary rules, but also the principle of accessibility, as new students must pay tuition fees higher than those determined by the government.”
Line Beauchamp, minister of education, also said in the press release that the penalty “will be applied until the situation is corrected.”
SSMU VP External Myriam Zaidi said “it was a very bold reaction to a very bold move.”
“The principal can’t break the law, go against the government and normal process, and not expect to get any punishment from that,” said Zaidi. “They went against basically Quebec’s constitution.”
In a statement released the following day, McGill said they were “perplexed and disappointed with the response of the Government of Quebec.” The press release went on to state that the University has no intention of adjusting its MBA tuition rates in response to the government’s annual penalties.
Peter Todd, dean of the Faculty of Management, described McGill’s stated goal to bring MBA tuition up to the Canadian average, currently around $37,000 a year.
“For next year we plan to have the tuition set at $32,500 a year,” said Todd. “Right now our commitment is 100 per cent. This is what we’re doing, we stay the course with what we’ve done.”
Pat Tenneriello, president of the McGill Masters of Business Administration Student Association (MBASA), said MBA students were also disappointed with the provincial government’s reaction.
“Students are overwhelmingly in favour of the Faculty’s position, which is to move to this self-funded model, because it was necessary to maintain the prestige and the quality of the program,” said Tenneriello.
McGill’s press release described the penalty as “an arbitrary, elective, and unprecedented exercise of authority of government.”
“We cannot find another case where the government has levied a penalty like this against a university,” said Todd.
Todd noted that in the past McGill has applied a self-funding model – where a university program funds itself independent of government subsidies – to other programs in the Faculty of Management, but that this was the first time the government had punished McGill for doing so.
“Our understanding at the time, having done a number of self-funded programs, is that we create the program; we inform the government. The decision, as we understood it, was the decision for our Board of Governors to take, and that’s what was done at the time. The Board approved this change, and we went forward,” said Todd.
“We put these programs together, and the government certainly acquiesced to them going forward. They certainly didn’t make objections in the way they are right now,” he continued.
While Beauchamp does not have the legal power to force McGill to lower its MBA tuition rates, she does have the power to determine government funding to Quebec universities.
According to Todd, McGill had been in discussions with the Ministry of Education for years over possible alternatives to the self-funded model, without success.
“We’ve tried over time to work with the government on this, to explain to them that the funding models for universities – and particularly the funding models for business programs and MBA programs – in Quebec are broken,” said Todd.
Todd added that the University has been in “constant discussion” with the Ministry of Education, trying to make the case that the MBA was a special program.
“Our curriculum – with our integrated management approach that we use for the management core that teaches students about how the whole business works together – is not something that’s done. Not just at any other program in Quebec, but, frankly, not at any other program in Canada,” said Todd.
McGill’s press release also described how McGill’s new MBA program provides an average of $12,000 per student in financial aid, a “unique level of support for any Quebec university program.”
Tenneriello said that, though the overall financial aid situation had improved in the MBA program, the provincial government’s complete withdrawal of bursaries for MBA students is a significant financial challenge for students in the program.
“From what the school has done, yes, it has improved. From what the government should be offering students, it’s gone to hell. It’s awful,” he said.
The press release also noted that the shift away from government subsidization would save Quebec taxpayers about $1.2 million annually.
“It really is time to start to think about alternative ways of funding these programs, and in this case having the people who are going to most richly benefit from the program be the principal ones to pay for it,” said Todd
SSMU VP University Affairs Joshua Abaki, however, said the government’s penalty would keep the burden on undergraduate students despite anticipated increases in provincial tuition over the next three years.
“They will be anticipating new revenues, but it will go toward the [funding] gap that the $2 million created, so the burden will remain on the undergraduates,” said Abaki. “So in the end the argument they made at the beginning doesn’t hold at all.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators trapped between police forces as St-Denis is cordoned off
As part of the International Day Against Police Brutality, Montreal began its annual anti-brutality demonstration on Tuesday at 5 p.m. outside Place des Arts metro station.
Organized by the Collective Opposed to Police Brutality (COPB) in conjunction with other groups, the demonstration marched east along Maisonneuve and onto St. Laurent. Demonstrators chanted “No justice, no peace! Fuck the police!” and “Who’s street? Our street!” as they walked. They made it as far as St. Denis and Mari-Anne before police, clad in riot gear – some mounted on horses, some with dogs – moved in on demonstrators and cordoned off the block.
Two helicopters observed the demonstration’s progress while police cars, police mounted on bikes and horses, and on foot shadowed the march, observing from parallel streets.
“It was amazing how much manpower, energy and time just for this manifestation…it was a spirit-breaking game,” said Ray Corkum, a demonstrator who was arrested along with 258 other people.
Sarita Ahooja, a friend of  COPB’s and an activist with No One is Illegal Montreal, said arrests began before the demonstration. Six friends of the COPB were arrested en route to the demonstration in lieu of their protest signs.
“Because of our political beliefs, because of what we think, we are criminalized,” Ahooja said.
“It’s important to show that people do oppose and disagree with the culture of impunity that reigns – not only in the City of Montreal but throughout Canada – when it comes to police abuses,” Ahooja added. “Whether it be the daily injustices of racial profiling, social profiling, an attack against poor people, marginalized people, [or] political profiling.”
Montreal-based journalist and activist Stefan Christoff spoke about the issues that underly police brutality.
“I don’t think you can really address police brutality without understanding the systems that create it,” he said pointing to the Conservative government cutting social programs and then handing out corporate tax breaks. He identified police as being the “enforcing arm” of the socioeconomic context created by such policies.
“No one else is really allowed to pull a knife or a gun or a taser on anybody but the police, and most of the time they’re not pulling it out for some radically peaceful reason, right?” said Joshua, a participant in the demonstration. “They’re corporate policy enforcers. They’re there to protect the profits of other people, other companies.”
“[It’s] an economic reality that undermines the basic dignity, and also the sustenance, of so many people in our society,” added Christoff. “We can’t disconnect issues.”
Since 1987, 43 people have been killed by police in Montreal. This is one of the primary issues regarding police brutality that must be adressed stated Christoff.
“The police have not been held to proper account for these killings,” he said. “The only reason that there is some cosmetic moves to talk about the issue is because demonstrations happen like this every year, because people are speaking out.”
“No matter how many cops you put on the street, no matter how many times you beat people down, no matter how many times you prevent them from protesting, there will always be someone to call out the truth and fight to defend what’s right and what’s just,” stated Ahooja.
Joshua marched with demonstrators he identified as being part of the black bloc – a label attributed to those who wear all black and conceal their identities.
“They were making rocks and stuff like that. I got to see them smash the Gap store,” he said. “If everybody took on the responsibility of being violent, to a certain degree, we would be able to be a lot more effective. We wouldn’t have violence be stereotyped by the lowest common denominator in the protest.”
According to Corkum, police were prompted to cordon the demonstration when a woman was hit over the head with a wine bottle. He said that, although he was uncertain of the exact circumstances, he believed the woman was among the demonstrators.
Corkum also said that the police initially cited an attack on a police officer as the reason for intervention, revealing the “false pretense” behind the police’s decision to end the demonstration.
“So be a cop, do your job, isolate those problems and allow the rest of us to demonstrate as it is our right to do,” he said. “It seems the only idea they have is to just shut everything down.”
As they cordoned off blocks police hit their batons against their shields as they advanced to blockade demonstrators in the street. Police detonated a “stun” which Corkum explained makes a lot of noise and smoke, and is meant to startle.
“They all just kind of ran at you, and that made people run out to the sides and have a certain amount of people in the centre cornered. And they continued to do that three or four times, further cornering people in the centre,” said a demonstrator who wished to remain anonymous after being released from the cordon. “There’s nowhere to go. So the people who end up getting arrested are just those who get stuck there.”
“The way we were detained, the length of time was a demoralizing experience,” said Corkum.
A group of around 20 people escaped the cordon through an apartment building lobby. The cordon detained both demonstrators, residents, shoppers in the adjacent buildings. One demonstrator called out to a woman who stood on her balcony directly over the cordon, “Call the police!”
—With files from Henry Gass
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Norman Cornett discusses dismissal and views on education
McGill graduate Norman Cornett taught religious studies at the university for 15 years before he was fired without explanation in 2007. His unconventional teaching ethics, views on learning, and unprecedented dismissal were portrayed by filmmaker Alanis Obomsawin in the documentary Professor Norman Cornett: Since when do we divorce the right answer from an honest answer? The film screened yesterday at Université de Montréal.
After the screening, Cornett took time to field questions from the audience and speak to The Daily about his unique vision for education.
“I started out normal. I would give quizzes, midterms, and final exams. But when a gifted 21-year-old male student comes to your office and literally breaks into a nervous meltdown, you start telling yourself that there has to be another way,” he said.
Cornett recalls being exposed to innovative ideas on education as an undergraduate student.
“Before coming to McGill, I had studied at the University of Berkeley where the sky was the limit in terms of education,” Cornett told The Daily. “I see education as a field of dream. For me, the classroom became a theatre of learning with no restrictions, no boundaries: uncensored, unedited, and unplugged.”
Cornett was very clear about his views on education at university.
“An undergraduate degree should not teach you a vocation, it should teach you how to live. As a teacher, I feel entirely responsible for giving to my students the peripheral vision and the confidence they need to face life once they graduate. Life is not a straight line. We should bring to our students life as it is,” he said.
As a result, Cornett developed over the years what he calls a “theatre of learning.”
“As I liked to tell my students during the add-drop period, my class was an academic version of Survivor,” he said.
In the documentary, former students described the class and testified to the merits of their professor. Classes were composed of a mixture of creative writing, fieldtrips to various artistic events around Montreal, and rigorous dialogues with distinguished figures such as politicians Paul Martin and Lucien Bouchard, author Harry Rosen, musician David Amram, and actor Ethan Hawke.
“The classroom became a community. The students were empowered and free to express themselves, to voice out their thoughts, even in front of a former Prime Minister,” he said. “As a teacher, I wanted to teach the students to have the confidence to validate their own convictions, and to engage in a mutual dialogue. The rest is academic BS.”
Cornett also spoke to the importance of creativity in education, which he believes is not implemented enough. His classes involved creative writing exercises, and required the students to choose a pseudonym, which would be used to refer to them all throughout the semester. Examples from the film included “Unintentional Matchmaker,” and “Little Mermaid.”
McGill’s dismissal of Cornett, along with the administration’s refusal to justify their decision, shocked many students, family and friends, who denounced the institution as being “too rigid” and “unable to take risks.”
Cornett’s dismissal is currently under review by Quebec’s Commission des normes du travail, although Cornett says his return to McGill is “unthinkable to the administration.”
Despite losing his job, Cornett still believes in the realization of his dreams about education. He continues to “walk the talk,” and energize the debate on education practices by orchestrating open dialogic sessions in Montreal with worldwide figures.
Information about Prof. Cornett’s dialogic sessions can be found at have
youexperienced.wordpress.com.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Casual workers union drafts first collective agreement
The Board of Representatives for the McGill University Association of Support Employees (AMUSE) held an open meeting Tuesday night for members to add input on the union’s first-ever collective agreement with McGill.
AMUSE represents 2,500 casual workers at McGill and became officially recognized as a union last December. Casual employees are part-time employees who often replace full-time staff, represented by the union McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), when they are on temporary leave of absence.
AMUSE and McGill will begin negotiations on their collective agreement March 23.
McGill Associate Vice-President (Human Resources) Lynne Gervais said that McGill employs 10 per cent of the student body as casual workers.
“[Casual workers are] the only support staff group in McGill that are not unionized, and they don’t have any benefits that MUNACA workers have,” said Fariduddin Attar, president of AMUSE. “As we get to this point right now where we have 2,500 workers, we need to have a collective agreement that includes some of the benefits that MUNACA workers have.”
“We do have specific issues that we’re fighting for with McGill that are unique to casual workers,” he added, highlighting three key issues: contracts, fair wage increases, and a push for general increases in wages.
“We do know that casual workers in UQAM and UdeM who are already unionized, they tend to get higher pay after the collective agreement, so we want to push that,” said Attar.
Attar explained that casual employees who replace full-time MUNACA workers do not recieve the same rate of pay. He noted that casual workers are often paid about $9.50 per hour – a rate Attar called “deplorable.”
According to Attar, AMUSE will wait to see what McGill presents in terms of the administration’s budgetary concerns.
“We want to see what McGill offers on the table and then work with that,”  he said.
“We’re kind of in uncharted waters,” said Gervais of the upcoming negotiations. “We haven’t even had a dicussion with them yet.”
Regarding the challenges that AMUSE will face in the negotiations, Attar pointed to the diversity of the union’s membership. He said that casual employees range from employees like himself, who has worked at Printing Services for five years, to referees at the Athletic Centre working one hour a week.
“There’s no sense of solidarity that is constructed in the usual way as unions do, which is meeting in the workplace,” he said.
He identified another key obstacle to mobilization as one of “self-perception.”
“Most of the workers are students and they don’t really see themselves as workers – they see themselves primarily as students,”  he said.
AMUSE has conducted outreach to casual workers over the past several months through a variety of different methods, including a newsletter sent out to all casual employees. However, the union has experienced difficulty obtaining up to date employee lists from McGill in order to send out the union’s newsletter. Until last November, the most recent list of casual employees that AMUSE had recieved was dated June 2010.
“It’s still a process, we’re still a very young union and we’re still working at developing a culture, and we’re hoping that the collective agreement and bargaining process will help that. I think it’s a matter of time,” said Attar.
AMUSE’s temporary office is located in MUNACA’s building at 3483 Peel. Attar stated that the two unions have a strong working relationship and have formed a Joint Bargaining Committee.
“We are in a very funny way interdependent on one another,” he said. “What we do is share information and share strategies.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Black-clad protesters singled out, detained for 55 hours
On Saturday March 12, forty mounted riot police surrounded and arrested ten people attending the demonstration against the Quebec government’s austerity measures. The demonstrators were charged with conspiracy and possession of weapons.
On Monday, nine were released without bail, and one was released with a bail of $500. Conspiracy charges were dropped, while charges of possession of weapons still stand.
The arrestees were released under the condition that unless they live together, they may not communicate with one another in any way, except in the presence of a lawyer to discuss their case. Furthermore, the ten individuals are not allowed to possess weapons or carry tools in public, except where their work requires it.
The arrestees are bound to these conditions until they have been proven not guilty. The first court hearing will take place on April 29.
Olivier, who was present at the demonstration on Saturday and knows some of the arrestees, explained what he saw as the reason for the arrests.
“I saw the people being taken before the protest even started. They were charged with conspiracy, possession of weapons, mostly because they were dressed in black,” he said.
“They were circled by people on horses, anti-riot troops, inside the protest. The troops were permitted to enter the protest by some of the labour unions. The more mainstream labour unions pointed them out, the riot cops circled them and took them away immediately,” Olivier continued.
Michel, who was present when the prisoners were released, told The Daily that, “the police were targeting the anti-capitalist bloc at the demo. It was a very targeted, very deliberate attempt to take a certain segment of people out of that demo and make sure they were off the streets.”
Those arrested were not told what they were being charged with at the time of their arrest.
They were kept in permanently lit cells with no beds for a total of 55 hours.
One woman was given a black eye during the arrests, others were bruised and some later complained of headaches. Doctors were not available in the detention centre.
The arrests sparked a series of solidarity demonstrations over the course of the weekend.
At 9 p.m. on Saturday night, between two and three hundred people met in front of the Guy-Concordia metro station and marched down Guy to the Centre Opérationnel Sud police detention centre downtown in solidarity with the detainees.
Chants of “No justice, no peace, fuck the police,” “Liberez nos camarades” and “Les riches et les fascistes, la police, en service” were directed toward the police by protesters.
Philip Schoettle-Greene, a McGill student present at the solidarity march, described a moment when police cars sped through an intersection which was filled with demonstrators.
“Two people with a banner nearly got hit by a police car,” he told The Daily.
Protesters moved from the police station along Ste. Catherine, where people scattered after a trash can was dragged into the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Metcalfe. Thirty police cars filled with riot police carrying batons and tear gas arrived shortly after, entering Simons and banging on their shields. No arrests were made.
On Sunday afternoon a solidarity vigil, drawing fifty to sixty people, was held outside of the police station.
Monday, the prisoners were taken to the Palais de Justice for a bail hearing. About 100 people came and sat in solidarity outside the courthouse. People brought food and hot drinks for when the prisoners were released.
“They were pretty poorly fed – they have been eating cheese sandwiches and drinking orange juice for the past two days,” Olivier said.
Solidarity, Michel told The Daily, is “when some of us are attacked, then all of us stand up and fight back against that.”
*Some names have been changed at the request of interviewees in order to protect their identities.
—With files from Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students rally against tuition hikes amidst province-wide fear of austerity measures
On Saturday, March 12, at Place du Canada, an estimated 55,000 people gathered to protest Quebec finance minister Raymond Bachand’s budget, which will  be released today. The budget is expected to include tuition increases for all students studying in Quebec, along with other cuts to public services and a $200 health tax.
The march, which ended outside of Quebec Premier Jean Charest’s office on McGill College, attracted approximately 100 McGill students who stood in solidarity with other protesters, some coming from as far as Saguenay–Lac–Saint-Jean.
“The budget must be equitable. We are gathering against an anti-social justice and anti-union government,” declared a Confédération des syndicates national (CSN) spokesperson in French, over loudspeakers, to the rally. “We are in solidarity with the unions in Wisconsin,” she added, referencing the weeks of protests in opposition to the recently passed Wisconsin bill collective bargaining rights for public employees.
Amir Khadir, Québec Solidaire member of the National Assembly for the Mercier riding, was present at the demonstration.
“We don’t expect, frankly, that Mr. Charest and Mr. Bachand will change the global orientation of the liberal government that has been downsizing public services and increasing the burden of middle class, of lower income people,” said Khadir.
“But there is a need to unite people, there is a growing capacity in our society to say no to government policies and government decisions,” he continued.
Holly Nazar, a councillor on the Graduate Students Association at Concordia and member of Free Education Montreal, predicts that the budget will include a $500 or $1,000 per year increase in tuition fees.
“This time,” she said, “we can’t settle for a compromise, we have to settle for a real commitment – we are really losing what Quebec is supposed to be, and what Canadian society could be.”
“I predict the budget will be on the same lines as last year, which in my mind is pretty monumental as it started changing the course of Québécois society,” explained Sebastian Ronderos-Morgan, former SSMU VP External.
Last year’s budget introduced plans to increase tuition starting in 2012, along with other significant cuts to public services.
“We have to build on the uproar and dissatisfaction of the government so the government cannot go further in its determination to implement new liberal policies. It carried these to the extreme in its budget in 2010,” said Khadir.
Protesters came to share their grievances from across Quebec. Three to four hundred buses brought in protesters from outside of Montreal. The array of complaints brought together unions from different sectors.
“It’s a cause that unites everyone,” said Luc Vandal, president of the Shawinigan CEGEP teachers union, in French.
“I think there is a pretty good variety of groups. It is rare to see student federations – ASSÉ [Association pour un solidarité syndical étudiante],  TaCEQ [Table de concertation étudiante du Québec] – together in the same way,” said David Chamberlain, former VP External at Université Laval. “Social groups, the major unions – it’s the right time.”
Myriam Zaidi, SSMU VP External, along with members of the McGill student mobilization group Mob Squad, organized a bed-in on Friday night in order to prepare students for the upcoming protest. About fifteen to twenty people came to help make protest signs and join in movement building exercises.
Organizers had expected a much larger attendance, and had organized a series of workshops with the Sexual Assault Centre of McGill Students’ Society, and the Montreal Media Co-op, among others. However, due to the low turnout, these did not take place.
“It’s a cool type of event to hold – it creates strong ties between people. Bed-ins can be an intense moment of politicization for people. They end up connecting a lot of issues that they might not have connected before,” said Joël Pedneault, incoming SSMU VP External and current vice-secretary general of TaCEQ, who was present at the bed-in.
The next day, thirty McGill activists, carrying signs with slogans such as “McGill Students in Solidarity,” “We won’t pay for their crisis” and “Stop hibernating, spring of resistance,” met outside Shatner ahead of the march. They were joined by members of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) and members of the PGSS.
In total, Zaidi predicted that there were a hundred McGill students at the demonstration.
Émilie Fillion-Donato, SSMU political affairs coordinator, told The Daily, “This is a good turnout for McGill, usually I don’t think the McGill population is super mobilized.”
Some people, such as former McGill student Aimée Cloutier, were not as impressed by the turnout.
“I think it’s really important to be here, I’m a little surprised there are not more people. McGill’s a large university,” said Cloutier in French.
Zaidi expects that having students mobilized around wider Quebec issues will put pressure on the McGill administration.
“The administration is definitely banking on the fact that the University is a bubble. They are lobbying intensely for tuition increases, having students not know what is going on outside of the University is to their advantage. Seeing McGill students mobilizing in solidarity with the Quebec student movement will definitely help,” she said.
“People in power see McGill as an elite institution, so when McGill students start to raise their voices to say they are fed up about things, we tend to get listened to,” Pedneault added.
A banner that read “No Tuition Hikes” was hoisted onto the Roddick gates by members of the Mob Squad during the protest.
The demonstration proceeded relatively peacefully. However, before the demonstration started, a group of ten people dressed in black were surrounded and arrested by approximately forty riot police on horseback. Originally charged with conspiracy and possession of weapons, all ten were released on Monday.
—With files from Adrian Turcato and Rana Encol
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
