The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Controversial McKinsey Co. will offer services free of charge
The Washington, D.C.-based management consulting company McKinsey has offered its services to McGill’s senior administration free of charge to help in the University’s recently launched Strategic Reframing Initiative (SRI).
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum made the announcement in a short video circulated to McGill students via email on November 30, 2010. “As it happens, we have several alumni who are senior folks in the McKinsey Consulting Corporation,” Munroe-Blum said in the video. “They have volunteered their services pro bono,” she continued.
The SRI is aimed to “advance [McGill’s] progress on top priorities” in five areas including research, enrollment and fundraising, according to Munroe-Blum. The principal indicated that the McKinsey alumni would be used to train McGill employees in the company’s methods. “This is not a one-shot effort,” Munroe-Blum said. “It’s something that we will make endemic.”
Munroe-Blum called McKinsey “arguably the best consulting company in the world.” However, she stressed that McGill’s relationship with the firm will not be like those of American universities, in at least one respect. “One way we’re doing it slightly different than our sister universities south of the border,” the principal said, referring to working with McKinsey, is to work “without hiring in a lot of external people – using the pro bono consulting of our McKinsey alumni – but actually building that capacity and expertise in using these processes right within our organization.”
McKinsey has a checkered history advising in the education sector, and has been unpopular with teachers’ unions in the U.S. In 2007, McKinsey recommended that the Minneapolis Board of Education replace the lowest-performing 25 per cent of their schools, or restart them as privately-run charter schools. McKinsey also advised the Board to cut teacher health-care plans to save costs.
When Seattle’s school board hired McKinsey to survey their public schools and provide recommendations, teachers banded together to oppose the move, introducing a resolution against McKinsey to the board’s Representative Assembly.
In the most recent issue of the New York Review of Books, author and Oxford scholar Simon Head charged that McKinsey was one of the consulting companies responsible for instituting management programmes in British universities that “dominate” scholars’ lives and demand that “the academy must deliver its research ‘output’ with a speed and reliability resembling that of the corporate world.”
McKinsey won its last major contract with an academic institution in November, when the University of Conneticut hired the firm to “examine UConn’s operations and recommend savings and revenue-enhancements that could total a significant amount of money to the university.” The consulting firm is being paid $3.9 million and expects to recoup roughly $50 million in savings, according to the chairman of UConn’s Board of Trustees.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill professor Khalid Medani speaks with The Daily about yesterday’s referendum in Sudan
Sudan faced a fateful vote yesterday, as Southern Sudan decided whether to separate or remain a part of the country. The referendum for southern self-determination was a key element of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) that ended Sudan’s civil war in 2005 – the longest civil war to date on the continent, spanning almost five decades.
The CPA mandated both free and fair national elections, which were held last year amid allegations of intimidation and fraud on the part of President Omar al-Bashir, and a referendum presenting southern Sudan an opportunity for political self-determination. 
Bashir’s government has consolidated its power in the north, enforced the Islamicization of Sudan’s judicial system, revoked Sudan’s old constitution, and systematically shut out opposition. 
The Daily spoke to Khalid M. Medani, an Associate Professor of Political Science and Islamic Studies at McGill, ahead of the referendum about his view on the vote, and what it means for Sudan. Medani, who grew up in Sudan and is a frequent visitor to the region, specializes in African and Middle Eastern politics, and has studied various aspects of Sudanese politics. 
The McGill Daily: Have you traveled to Sudan lately? What was the atmosphere that you observed there surrounding the referendum?
Khalid Medani: I was there this summer and the atmosphere is very tense. There are a lot of different emotions. It’s not easy for people to wake up one day and realize their country is going to be split in two. There are different attitudes in the north and the south.
In the south, the southerners are very nervous and apprehensive – many southerners think that the northern government is not going to go through with the referendum in time. Many in the south talk about going back to war if the southern government doesn’t allow them to have this referendum.
In the north, there are two different points of view. There are many people in the north who want the south to separate. Civil society in Sudan is very diverse, but in twenty years of Islamicization – and with an Islamic government – a younger generation of Sudanese is increasingly attached to Islam as both a religion and as a primary source of cultural and political identity.
There are others in civil society who feel that if the south separates it’s going to have negative consequences in political terms for both regions of the country. These are people who’ve been fighting for democracy for decades and they say that the northern government is going to continue to be authoritarian and … that in the south the Sudan’s Peoples Liberation Movement (SPLM) [the predominant political party in Southern Sudan] is also not democratic – it is dominated by essentially one tribe, the Dinka.
So there’s that concern among many people about the prospect of these two countries separating but increasingly becoming, or continuing to be, really authoritarian dictatorships.
MD: Why do the international community and Sudanese feel that it is so important that the referendum take place on time? If tensions are rising, would it not be best to postpone the referendum?
KM: It is my opinion that, if it was up to the international community, they would have preferred to delay the referendum to ensure that it goes through smoothly. Understandably, many in the international community involved in the politics of Sudan are concerned about a number of technical and political problems.
I think what the international community is rightly concerned about is that any delay in the referendum will just give the opportunity for those hardliners in the north and in the south to make an excuse of this and to go to war – and it wouldn’t be the first time. I have to admit that the international community is in a bind, but they’re not wrong about this. Any delay could be used very quickly to start arming different proxy militias along the borders – they’re already doing that, both northerners and southerners.
MD: Why is the Abyei region so important?
KM: Abyei is important because it’s a border region between the south and the north, where you have residents of both Arabized tribes and Africanized southern tribes.
Most tragically, in a policy of using militias as proxies to fight the long south-north war, the regime armed Arabized nomads in and around Abyei with the result that the latter were responsible for displacing hundreds and thousands of southerners during the war. Consequently, grave animosities have developed.
There is still a great deal of conflict over precious resources – namely water and livestock resources – but the real problem is that much of the oil in the south is in that province. It is for this reason that the people of Abyei have found themselves the focus of international attention, and face the likelihood of a more locally-based conflict if their status is not worked out peacefully following the referendum.
MD: Are there southern Sudanese who want to remain a part of greater Sudan, and do they argue that instead of secession being the solution, the solution is making efforts to democratize Bashir’s regime?
KM: The reality is that there’s over two million southern Sudanese in Khartoum, in the greater north and the capital area. We’re talking about two million in a capital city of maybe seven or eight million – it’s not a small percentage.
One of the ministers – a couple of the ministers actually – have threatened the southerners by [saying] that citizenship rights will not be given to southern Sudanese in the north if they do not vote for unity. This is quite troubling because it suggests possible attempts and policies aimed at disenfranchising, marginalizing and eventually repressing people who have grown up all their lives in the north. Their solution and their security can only be fortified and ensured in the context of a more politically open system that includes more political parties and includes a participation of civil society.
I know people think that is a pipe dream, in the African context in general, because many of these governments are very authoritarian, but they really require legitimacy at any cost and in [Bashir’s] case he tried to fake these [2009] elections.
The Bashir government thought that they had the elections in the bag. They were going to allow some political parties, but make sure they had the money, the TV spots, the cars to bring in voters and that they were going to win. Low and behold, as the elections started going on this young man was becoming more and more popular, and by the end he threatened to push Bashir to a run-off.
I spoke to this major contender, Yasir Arman, and he was like the Obama of Sudan. He was a candidate who was a northerner married to a southern Sudanese woman running on the ticket of the southern Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) whose voting block was mostly young northerners, young southerners, and educated people who were voting across ethnicity [and] class lines.
As the elections – true democratic elections – threatened the incumbent regime, the Bashir government realized that it had only one choice and that was to say, “Hey, I don’t come back to power: no referendum.” The important point to emphasize is how successful this candidate was in amassing so many votes. So democracy is not a lost hope, it’s something that has been part of Sudanese political culture since the first elections of 1955.
MD: What are the perspectives of neighboring countries regarding the referendum?
KM: At a larger level, African and Arab countries really don’t like it. Africans are more supportive of southern Sudan’s separation because they have linkages to the SPLM, but that doesn’t mean that they really think that separation is a good idea.
Kenyans, more than other countries when I was there, were very critical of this notion of a quick independence, and establishing a new state as if it’s going to work overnight. They are very aware about the refugee problem and what the war has actually done to the south for decades. There are no hospitals, no schools, not enough people to man the ministries that are supposed to be set up.
MD: If it is held on January 9, what do you see being the outcome of the referendum? What do you hope to happen in the best-case scenario?
KM: What I would hope is that the war fatigue of what was Africa’s longest civil war would take precedence over any potential conflict and especially that local communities in Abyei would … come back to what really was their real relationship between them: the relationship of cooperation and, most importantly, peace, because they are the ones who have suffered the most.
I would hope that the international community keeps an eye on the SPLM and the central government, and makes sure that they don’t militarize the situation. I think that it’s important to pressure both sides to put security arrangements in place along the borders, and I think if that happens the war fatigue in conjunction with these security arrangements are the best way to go. That’s what I hope for and I think that’s what’s possible – too bad we don’t have a little bit more time.
The worst-case scenario, of course, is [that] the oil issue, in particular, is not settled, and this central government decides that they would profit more from instability than peace.
On a more positive note, it’s heartening that the international community is taking such a serious look at the situation.
I think [for] most people this [civil war] was a war much worse than Darfur. I think people who are older, even people in the international community, remember it: four decades, two million dead. I’ve visited and it’s a devastation that is really hard to describe.
—Compiled by Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Prominent Montreal-based civil liberties lawyer Julius Grey, began his politically crusading career in an office familiar to most McGill students – that of SSMU President. In 1969-1970, when Grey presided over the student society, campus politics were different. Grey sat down with The Daily before the winter break to discuss what he sees as an… Read More »Back in the SSMU of ’69
Prominent Montreal-based civil liberties lawyer Julius Grey, began his politically crusading career in an office familiar to most McGill students – that of SSMU President. In 1969-1970, when Grey presided over the student society, campus politics were different. Grey sat down with The Daily before the winter break to discuss what he sees as an alarming rightward shift in the politics of Quebec, and the world at large.
The McGill Daily: You are a former SSMU president, and the Daily’s archives seem to show that you had a good relationship with the administration.
Julius Grey: The administration in those days was academic; it was not business. The administration changed during the [former McGill principal] David Johnston years [1979-1994], our present Governor-General. It became much more conservative, much more concerned with fundraising and big business than the actual day to day fraternization between the administration and the academics. We did not have a professional, bureaucratic, business oriented administration. What we had were a bunch of academics who were named, and you’d see them in the faculty club. There was no real difference between [administrators] and the other professors. And when I came back from England and started to teach, I would walk up to Principal Robert Bell and say, “Bob, what’s the policy in this or that.” There was not the same barrier.
One of the things that worries me – if you read the Times Literary Supplement, New York Review of Books, the London Review of Books, and Le Monde Diplomatique – you’ll find all over the world a growing corporate takeover of the university, so that the university is all a matter of corporate money coming into places and sponsoring research. Remember that the research will not be objective. It’s difficult to imagine sponsoring economic research that concludes they should be nationalized. When you say that I as student council president was close to the administration, yes, but it was a bunch of academics. The people I was close to were not at all right-wing, they were all of different views and different shades, but they were all people who wrote books and believed the financing of a university depended not on corporations but on the government.
MD: Do you see the new type of administrator as accountable to students?
JG: They’re not. They’re not accountable to students; they’re not accountable to faculty. What you’ve got is a growing alienation, a Marxist alienation – a term which I use consciously. The professors are being alienated, the students are being alienated. One day what will happen is what happened in the middle ages in that everything was in the hands of the church, and then there would be secessions: people forming their own little groups. The real origin of Oxford and Cambridge was that people would gather around informally around some guy who had a somewhat different view of Holy Communion that might be considered heretical somewhere else. And they would discuss it. And the Sorbonne became great because people like Abelard and Thomas Aquinas who weren’t fully orthodox in every possible way, and they too found Aristotle, found some of the Arab philosophy and applied it. What you’re going to have sooner or later is people either seceding from the university, saying all they’re doing is they’re training MBAs or engineers for business, and you’re going to have discussion groups, clubs like during the French revolution – the Jacobin club. Because I don’t think we’ll take it. I’m not interested in a corporate university. I think companies, if they want to participate, they’re welcome – but on a level playing ground. They’re no different from unions, from other lobbies, and in the end, the university must not become an instrument of lobbies.
MD: What do you think of Heather Munroe-Blum?
JG: I think she is part of the new system, and I criticize the new system. But I don’t criticize her personally. I think she’s a very able and charming lady. It’s not her fault. It’s that the whole university world and North America has fallen into the hands of corporations. The reason it’s falling more and more into the hands of corporations is because the government is withdrawing. It’s cutting taxes, it’s making savage cuts. All universities have tremendous problems because they had to guarantee pensions. The pensions are fixed return pensions, so [employees] guaranteed X amount of money. Then their investments crashed in 2008, and they have a hole in their pension account. And the government, which is in serious trouble, doesn’t want to fill that hole. So what they’re saying is “manage, cut, get rid of unnecessary things.” And then what happens of course is the corporations come in and say we’re not all that interested in Latin scholars, but engineering, MBA, Law: “we might be able to fund as long as we can be certain you fund these programs the right way.” But don’t let the university become dependent on a particular lobby.
MD: What are your thoughts on the Quebec government’s decision to increase tuition in 2012?
JG: On tuition increases, what I want to say is that the present tuition increases are not written in stone. Remember, what I’m paying for my children right now, is virtually the same thing I was paying, with the inflation having doubled. So I’m not saying though that they could not raise the tuition fees a very moderate amount. But there are two things: First of all, if they’re raising it in order to cut the subsidies to the universities, it’s not at all improving the university. The university will get nothing; they’ll end up with the same thing. It’s relieving the pressure on the government so they can cut taxes for big corporations. It’s people like you subsidizing big corporations, and I certainly don’t want to see that. The second thing is, without being dogmatic, that it’s got to be exactly the amount it was last year, there’s one fundamental principle that without which the left has no sense: there are certain things that have to be accessible to everyone, and the most obvious two things are health and education. The third one is culture. The fourth one – which is not for everybody, but it has to exist – is a minimum income –minimum security that if you fail, fall ill, do something wrong you can’t fall below a certain point, and your children will have the same access to education, health, and so on.
In the long run what it does is put the government in the hands of an elite, that doesn’t use the public school system, public health system; they’re not interested in it. They let it fall into complete neglect, and gradually you have the foundation of firm and impenetrable classes: those who have gone to the private schools, the private hospitals and clinics, who have private performances, who go to vacations in private clubs – and the average person who can no longer get there. So without postulating there can never be an increase in tuition, or it can’t go up or down a few dollars, the whole trend of terrible things is McGill’s arrangement of the [self-funded] MBAs, of the University of Toronto’s paying law degree. My God, I shudder at the thought. In 1989 they got rid of the Russian Revolution, and maybe it had gone wrong, and Stalin was a murderer and so on, and all that was true. But now they’re doing away with the French Revolution. They’re doing away with the notion of liberty, equality, and fraternity. There’s no more liberty because there’s a security state around, there’s no equality because they’re allowing the formation of classes and they don’t want to fraternize with anybody. So what we’re doing is watching the undoing of the French Revolution, and I’m asking myself when are people going to wake up and say, “No you can’t keep cutting taxes, and putting in private institutions at all costs.” This is exactly the opposite of what we’ve fought for. I became a moderate in the 60s and 70s because I thought the battle had been won. We got Medicare, the segregation system fell apart in the United States, and so on. But right now the world’s going the opposite direction, and nobody’s saying a word.
— Compiled by Erin Hale
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Union claims University in contravention of Collective Agreement, Quebec Law
After an almost seven year back-and-forth with McGill, Ron Zahorak, a technician once employed by the university, was fired in late November because an injury limited his lifting abilities.
David Roseman, Vice-President of Labour Relations at the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), said that McGill’s refusal to place Zahorak in a job commensurate with his capabilities was in contravention of the Quebec Charter of Rights and Articles 37 and 38 of MUNACA’s Collective Agreement with the University, which stipulate that an employee cannot be discriminated against on the basis of disability.
NCS Director Gary Bernstein, who signed the November 26, 2010 letter firing Zahorak, declined to comment.
“We do not make public comments on personnel matters,” wrote Bernstein in an email to The Daily.
In 2003, Zahorak, then a Security and Telecommunication Technician at McGill Network and Communications Services (NCS), was carrying a stepladder and his tools through the back door of the Arts Building when the ladder hit a four-inch recess in the ceiling, hyper-extending his left shoulder and leaving him with a permanent disability.
On December 15, 2010 MUNACA presented a 300-signature petition to the University, demanding that Zahorak be placed in a job.
Lynne Gervais, Associate Vice-Principal of Human Resources, said that McGill had made “every possible effort within the constraints of what the CSST [the Commission de la santé et de la sécurité du travail du Québec] said…was allowed,” echoing the words used in the administration’s formal response to the petition.
Adrienne Gibson, Quebec Regional Representative of the Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC), which has a service agreement with MUNACA, explained that McGill’s position was the result of a “legal grey zone.”
“There is this interpretation that…because the CSST is involved in getting injured employees back to work, the CSST has the responsibility of ensuring that the Quebec Charter is applied – and nobody else,” said Gibson.
“We’re not talking about a firefighter whose injuries might have posed a safety risk – we’re talking about someone whose limitations are lifting his arms above his head. … It seems crazy that McGill couldn’t find a job within the limitations of the Charter,” said Gibson.
Zahorak said McGill did little to help him. “The extent of [McGill’s] help was that they would either call me or email me saying, ‘Look, there’s a posting online that you might be interested in,’ which I was doing on my own anyway,” he said.
Zahorak had participated in the expansion of the McGill security system when he started at NCS in 2001. His job was to install, maintain, and configure the relevant software, and teach security personnel how to use it.
“We had it running in a way that we did a lot of upgrades to it ourselves – a lot of homemade stuff. I have a degree in electronics so I did a lot of modifications myself. The system became very personalized to the University,” he said.
Last year, Zahorak lost a new software programming position – which required no physical labour – to someone from outside of McGill, “which once again goes against the Collective Agreement,” Zahorak emphasized.
“The guy that interviewed me for the position, I taught him how to use the system – so how do you not give me that job?” Zahorak said.
Gervais retorted that “jobs that are given here are based on qualifications. If he didn’t get accepted, that’s because he didn’t have the qualifications.”
In an internal newsletter sent December 2 to all staff and obtained by The Daily, MUNACA and PSAC are also disputing McGill’s claim to a “Certificate of Compliance from the federal government’s Federal Contractors Program (FCP),” which is necessary for all provincial employers that receive $200,000 or more in goods or services contracts from the federal government.
“This certificate attests that the University is developing a plan to ensure that no person will be denied employment opportunities or benefits for reasons unrelated to ability,” the memo reads. “Women, aboriginal peoples, persons with disabilities and members of visible minorities are the four groups targeted by the government.”
“We’re asking the federal government to assess this claim especially in light of Zahorak’s case – and if [the government] has indeed issued a Certificate, to revoke it,” said Gibson.
Zahorak had filed a claim with the CSST and received Workman’s Compensation and Long Term Disability (LTD) payments, which worked out to approximately seventy per cent of his original salary. When his LTD payments ran out, Zahorak had no revenue and went on unpaid leave, but was ordered back to work by McGill in November 2010 before he was fired.
McGill lost all three hearings. The CLP confirmed Zahorak’s permanent disability, and he received a “back-to-work” order from his doctor in November 2009.
“So I went back, and they essentially left me hanging – they refused to reintegrate me, they didn’t pay me, they did absolutely nothing,” said Zahorak.
“I’d come into work everyday at 8 o’clock, sit down, read the paper, have breakfast, and wait ‘til 4 o’clock. Occasionally, they would give me a chore. I’d sit here and answer the phone for a while or do this or do that. And that went on for several months,” he added.
Zahorak claims that, despite his physical limitations, he could still do eighty per cent of his job – and that the remaining twenty per cent “I could probably do – just not repetitively, all day, everyday. But [McGill] said it had to be 100 per cent every day.”
“Since November 2009, they’ve completely and utterly raped the Collective Agreement – they didn’t live up to any of their responsibilities whatsoever,” he added.
Around this time, Zahorak fell into depression and was put on suicide watch at Lakeshore General Hospital in Pointe-Claire, Quebec.
“I had absolutely no revenue; I was a single dad; I had to abandon my apartment; I had to move in with my girlfriend. My girlfriend had to support me and my daughter for an entire year. She doesn’t make all that much – she’s a registered nurse so she makes a half-decent living – but between the two of us we have four kids, so 50,000 [dollars] a year for six people – you can imagine,” Zahorak said.
“I went from being given complete and absolute access to the entire university – I had more access than security did. I could do absolutely anything I want in the system from my home computer in my living room. If I wanted to be malicious, I could have locked down the entire university from home. So I went from that kind of status and access, to not even being able to be good enough to answer a phone,” he continued.
There will be another hearing before an arbiter this year, but no date has yet been set as it is dependent on the employer’s lawyer’s availability.
Zahorak is currently working part-time for MUNACA and has taken out student loans to enroll in a programming analyst and internet solutions course at CDI College.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
