The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill students join the fight for accessible education
Last Thursday afternoon, tens of thousands of students took to the streets of Montreal in protest of the upcoming tuition hikes proposed by the Quebec government.
Led by the Association pour la solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), students from different universities, CEGEPs, and their supporters rallied at Place Émilie-Gamelin before marching to the office of Quebec Premier Jean Charest to protest the hikes.
The Charest government first proposed the tuition hikes in the fall of 2007. This second round of increases will raise tuition costs across the province by $1625 over the next five years.
A McGill contingent estimated at over 1,200 gathered at the Roddick Gates at 1 p.m. before heading down McGill College to join the main protest at Place Émilie-Gamelin. The group consisted of campus unions, students, faculty, and  striking MUNACA workers who could fulfill their picket duty by attending the march.
At the intersection of McGill College and Ste. Catherine, they were met by cheers from roughly 1,000 Concordia students, led by Concordia Student Union President Lex Gill and VP External Chad Walcott.
The march continued to Place Émilie-Gamelin, where the Anglophone students joined Francophone students from across Quebec in the square.
For Saurin Skah, a U0 Arts student at McGill, it was solidarity that pulled him into the street.
“The tuition hike may not affect me a lot, but I know that for the people of Quebec, and for everyone who chose to come to Quebec for their education, low tuition is what makes college and universities acceptable,” he said.
Although the thousands of students present at the demonstration were united against tuition hikes, expectations for the day were varied.
Paula Furfaro, a Psychology student at McGill, expressed what success would be to her.
“If all we can accomplish today is for [the government] to second guess themselves, and take a minute or two more to finally think about the decisions they make, then we know we accomplished what we were here for. We have a voice, let’s use it,” Furfaro said.
Amir Khadir, a member of  the Quebec National Assembly and spokesperson for Québec Solidaire, was also present at the demonstration.
Speaking to The Daily in French, he emphasized the importance of accessible education, saying that “to improve access in a durable and promising manner, we need free education from preschool to university… Education is liberty, and liberty is a right – it’s not a privilege. Education must be free,” he said.
For Khadir, the hikes reflect a problem within the Charest government. “It’s the ideological decisions that they make in favour of the one per cent,” he said.
Following the gathering at Place Émilie-Gamelin, volunteers from ASSÉ donned red pinnies and guided protesters as they marched to Charest’s office on Sherbrooke and McGill College.
Hugo Laframeara, a Law student at McGill, was at the demonstration with a large group of McGill Law students.
Laframeara said he was concerned about the lack of opinion from the McGill administration around the tuition hike rally.
“When you are such a highly recognized university…you have to take a position in such a debate. I find it deceiving that there is no real will from the administration or from the SSMU to create a forum for this event,” he said.
SSMU President Maggie Knight told The Daily that SSMU stands by its official policy against tuition hikes.
“We think the march showed the power of the student movement and we think that the turnout from McGill students was really solid. It was a strong spirit of solidarity between Anglophone and Francophone [students] coming together to express their concerns,” she said.
— With files from Laurent Bastien Corbeil and Esther Lee
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Sex worker advocacy group concerned about limitations of the project
The Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) launched a program two weeks ago that seeks to aid sex workers and other victims of sexual exploitation in the Montreal area. The project, called “Les Survivantes” – “the Survivors” – is mandated to provide counselling and better care from the police department for victims.
The project, which has received mixed feedback, is the result of joint efforts by the SPVM, the Centres d’aide aux victimes d’actes criminels (CAVAC), and former sex workers, who will work as consultants with police officers.
SPVM Commander Antonio Iannantuoni, who has been heading the project since its inception, explained that the project intends to aid sex workers who, under this project, are regarded as victims of sexual exploitation.
According to an SPVM press release, sexual exploitation is a broadly-used concept that has many definitions. The term includes street prostitution, escort agencies, erotic dance, and pornography.
“The main goal of Les Survivantes is to bring prostitutes and other victims of sexual exploitation out of their situation, because it is really a context of exploitation and manipulation,” said Iannantuoni.
According to Iannantuoni, the project seeks to foster a broader understanding among police officers about the situation of sex workers so that they can better understand victims and their struggles.
“[The project aims] at enabling the police officers to have an open mind. People think the girls, they are doing it freely – they don’t see the whole picture I think,” said Iannantuoni.
Karine Lasanté, a CAVAC spokesperson, explained why the SVPM and CAVAC decided to team up for this project.
“We helped the victims in the past, and [the SPVM] realized that we were very specialized in our services, and that we were the resource to help those kinds of victims. So that’s why they invited us to join the project, just to help, to make the victims better know that we exist and we can help them,” said Lasanté.
Iannantuoni spoke to the importance of having former sex workers as consultants on the project.
“They were themselves victims, they went to testify, they went to the police and the criminal system. Because they went through the whole system, they know exactly where we could improve,” he said.
“[They] gave us their output, they told us how they felt when we spoke to them.”
Valerie, a former sex worker and consultant for the project, explained that she feels she is better able to help victims of sexual exploitation in Montreal because she has been able to identify with them.
“I lived the same things they live, I am the person who does everything the police cannot understand,” she said. “[The police] can say they understand what [sex workers] live, but it’s not true. I am the one that can truly say that.”
According to Valerie, the project would have had a great impact if it had existed when she was a victim of sexual exploitation.
“Now they have all these resources where they can go and get out. So the best thing I can say is that they are not by themselves anymore,” she said.
However, not all groups feel that the project has been a success.
Émilie Laliberté, director general of Stella – a Montreal-based sex worker advocacy group – explained that, although the project addresses some issues, it leaves the fundamental problems for sex workers unresolved.
“The real problem here, especially regarding sex work, is that sex work is being criminalized, so if you really want to make a change and have the women come forward and press charges when they do suffer an assault, they shouldn’t be the ones considered criminals,” said Laliberté.
“You have to make a distinction between sex workers who are consensual adults, and victims of violence and exploitation. It’s a really important difference to make,” she added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Senate questions Jutras Inquiry into November 10 as students launch parallel inquiry
One week after the events of November 10, students and faculty are questioning the inquiry launched last week by Principal Heather Munroe-Blum to investigate the events.
The inquiry, led by Dean of Law Daniel Jutras, was announced the day after Montreal riot police broke up a student demonstration outside of the James Administration building. The demonstration formed in solidarity with 14 students who were occupying the fifth floor of the building in protest of numerous McGill positions, practices, and policies.
In an interview with The Daily, Jutras said he “thought it was important that I [lead] it,” adding that the fact-finding inquiry “relates to the hopes that this will not happen again.”
“If there are appropriate recommendations to be made with this purpose in mind, I will make them,” he continued.
“The process is not meant to assign blame to anyone,” Jutras said. “The effort is to identify the facts, determine the facts, and report them to the community.”
Jutras said he has never performed an investigation similar to this one before, and added that he was unaware of any precedent for such an inquiry on campus.
Students and faculty have been quick to speak out against the Jutras Inquiry, however.
At a student meeting in the SSMU cafeteria the same day that Munroe-Blum announced the Jutras Inquiry, three students – U2 Economics and Political Science student Christopher Bangs, U4 Anthropology student Allison Cooper, and U4 History and Canadian Studies student Matt Dowling – helped to form an independent student inquiry into the November 10 events.
“We think that there are some real problems with the idea of the Dean’s investigation,” said Bangs. “I’m sure the Dean will conduct a very comprehensive institutional review, but that’s not a student perspective.”
In response to a question about how he hopes to stay impartial in conducting his inquiry, Jutras stated that, “I stand on my own reputational integrity.”
Jutras said he would not have the authority to compel the Montreal police to give testimony to the inquiry, saying it “most likely will be up to the police itself.”
Furthermore, Jutras said similar parameters applied to dealing with McGill Security. The James Administration fifth floor occupiers have alleged that they were shoved, dragged, and kicked by McGill security guards.
“I have no power of constraint, or to compel testimony, so I’m inviting people to communicate with me, and I will solicit interviews whenever I think it’s useful – but if people don’t want to speak to me, I won’t be able to force them,” said Jutras, adding that he will be asking McGill Security to provide testimony.
Regarding the occupiers themselves, Jutras said he will “see whether they communicate with me in writing” before interviewing them. He also stated that he had been unaware that student Senator Matthew Crawford was among the 14 occupiers.
Lerona Lewis, president of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill – who have called for an independent inquiry – said she was troubled by a perceived focus on police intervention in the inquiry.
“I don’t see much emphasis on what took place for the [fifth floor] occupiers,” said Lewis. “The fact that the security guards could actually physically assault students – I mean, this is what has been said – so I think that’s where we want to place emphasis, too. Who gave them the authority to do that?”
Lewis also questioned the impartiality of the Jutras Inquiry, saying that an investigator from another university would understand the “culture of universities” without having close ties to McGill itself.
The independent student inquiry is hoping to release a preliminary report by the end of November, and a final report in January. The deadline mandated by Munroe-Blum for the Jutras Inquiry is December 15.
Bangs said the students hope to offer a wide range of student and community voices in their inquiry.
“If we issue recommendations, they won’t be political or biased,” he said.
At the Senate meeting yesterday, both student and faculty representatives voiced concern about the Jutras Inquiry. Post-Graduate Students’ Society Senator Lily Han said that the way the investigation is set up is “highly problematic.”
“It’s not merely the events that occurred that should be investigated, but the actual structures and systems that led to those events,” said Han. “The position of Dean is an inherent part of the administrative structure of a university, so the fact that [Jutras’] running the investigation is pretty problematic.”
Arts Senator and Anthropology professor John Galaty proposed that Jutras be assisted and accompanied in the investigative process by one faculty member and one student. Despite his recommendations, Galaty added that Jutras is “probably the best person in the University to head this investigation.”
Addressing concerns about his impartiality as lead investigator, Jutras told Senate that, “In this investigation and report, I will speak for no one but myself, and serve no one but the McGill community as a whole.”
Jutras also admitted that, given the mandate for the inquiry, “I will not necessarily receive [testimonies] from all sides of every story.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Medical residents latest to suffer without support staff
The provincial conciliator assigned to oversee negotiations between McGill and its striking non-academic workers has suspended talks as both sides continue to struggle to reach an agreement.
The conciliator suspended negotiations at the end of a meeting last Friday. The meeting was the 17th between the two sides since the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) went on strike September 1.
MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker said talks stalled at discussions over the implementation of a graduated wage increase grid.
“It became clear to both the conciliator and the parties that we are very far apart,” said Whittaker. “The University appears to have no desire to implement a grid. They claim that it would be far too costly for them in the future, and that they simply don’t have money.”
Whittaker referenced recent negotiations at the University of Sherbrooke, where 85 per cent of striking non-academic workers voted against a deal that would have seen a 2 per cent per year increase to their existing wage grid.
“We haven’t got close to anything like that with what McGill was willing to put on the table,” said Whittaker. “We made it clear that this was not going to end the strike, and for them to end the strike they would have to find more money.”
Although a November 12 statement from the union added that they have had “serious discussions” on other key issues, Whittaker said that all talks up to this point had been exploratory, with no concrete solutions agreed upon.
“Nothing was put down in writing and saying, ‘This is what we’re willing to do,’” he stated, “but I will not say that there wasn’t some movement, and I think that we could probably come to some clear agreement if we can resolve these other issues, mainly the salaries.”
In a statement released on November 14, McGill Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa said the University “will not rest in our effort to find a settlement as quickly as possible,” confirming that the two sides remain “far apart on wages.”
MUNACA has been asking for a base salary increase of 3 per cent to account for inflation. The last McGill counter offer was for a 1.2 per cent base increase. The union is further asking for an increase within the pay scale per year for members, so that they can reach the top of their pay scale faster.
“We have stated from the outset of these negotiations that we are committed to winning a fair agreement,” stated the MUNACA press release. “Unfortunately, McGill to date has not demonstrated that it is prepared to agree to this.”
Additionally, the union has been asking for the restoration of their benefits package, which was cut by $1 million last year.
In his statement, Di Grappa said, “The administration wants an end to this strike as much as anyone at McGill.”
“To that end, the University made significant changes in its positions on a number of issues during the course of the negotiations – as has the union,” he said.
“We have always known that these would be challenging negotiations,” continued Di Grappa.
Although no date has been scheduled for the resumption of talks, MUNACA met last Monday morning “to prepare next steps,” according to their press release. Di Grappa also said the University is “exploring a number of options open to us in terms of resolving the issues.”
According to Whittaker, the conciliator will not call the two parties back to the table until she has reported to her superior, the Associate Deputy Minister of Labour.
“It’s up to [the conciliator] to call us back when she thinks that we can talk about this and get some resolution,” said Whittaker.
Medical residents jeopardized
A letter obtained by the Montreal Gazette, from Associate Dean of Postgraduate Medical Education Sarkis Meterissian and addressed to Interim Dean of Medicine Samuel Benaroya, details how the strike endangers both the academic year for McGill medical residents and McGill’s academic reputation.
The letter, dated October 17, states that the consequences of the strike lasting beyond November 15 – two days ago – would be “catastrophic” for McGill teaching hospitals.
At the time of the letter, there was concern that, without MUNACA, it would be impossible to meet the deadlines of the Canadian Resident Matching Service (CaRMS) process, which begins December 1. CaRMS brings together applicants and hospitals for postgraduate medical training in Canada.
“The ongoing strike places McGill at a significant competitive disadvantage,” reads the letter. “[It] has a clear and measurable impact on our ability to attract and train top-quality candidates.”
Furthermore, the strike could “compromise the graduation of our residents,” as a lack of administrative assistants could affect exams and evaluations, and “disrupt our ability to trace the academic programs of our trainees.”
In a statement released last Friday, Benaroya said, “In the context of the MUNACA strike, certain priorities in the Faculty of Medicine were identified mid-October and an exercise has since been conducted in order to deploy resources to those areas to help mitigate disruptions.”
“Clearly, the strike presents challenges, and we are doing our utmost to maintain all activities, with the hope that a reasonable resolution will be arrived at very soon,” continues Benaroya.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Fifteen speakers discuss ‘ideas worth spreading’
On Sunday, November 13, McGill hosted its third annual TEDx event at Bain-Mathieu on Ontario Est. The event brought together 15 speakers, about half of whom were McGill students, to share their reflections on the theme of “Redefining Reality.”
TED is a nonprofit organization whose slogan is, “Ideas worth spreading.” TEDx, an offshoot of TED, brings people together in local, self-organized events to share the TED experience and spark discussion.
U3 Arts student Nida Nizam and postgraduate medical student June Lam organized Sunday’s entirely student-run event.
Lam said he was drawn to TEDx for its optimism. “I love TED Talks because it’s not financial, it’s not for economic success. It’s untinged in that it is just about ideas… I’m drawn to it because it’s pure joy, optimism, and idealism for the future.”
Regarding the preparation for the event, he explained that, “It’s been a challenge, but a really fun one.”
Within the broader theme of “Redefining Reality,” the speakers were split into three sessions, each with its own sub-theme.
The event featured speakers Morgan Wienberg, founder of Little Footprints, Big Steps and primary caretaker for over 75 children in Haiti; Alain Tascan, co-founder of Ubisoft in Montreal; Pinny Gniwisch, professor of McGill’s first ecommerce and social media course; and Joshua Kyle, U3 Engineering student and founder of Reboot McGill.
For Wienberg – who, at age nineteen, decided to forgo university to care for over 75 victimized children in a Haitian orphanage – redefining reality means changing your perspective and stepping outside the box.
“[Redefining reality] means taking into account other peoples’ perspectives. Make sure your eyes are not the only ones that you’re looking through,” she said.
“Don’t let the expectations of society or your own expectations of yourself and your comfort zone stop you,” she continued. “If it’s never been done, who cares? You can do it.”
Alex Pritz, student and co-founder of Developing Pictures Media – an organization that films pro-bono films for NGOs in Haiti, among other projects – echoed this sentiment. “Step out of the one dimensional perspective that you’ve built up throughout the years,” he said. “The key to redefining your reality [is] accepting other peoples’ realities as just as genuine as your own.”
Christian Elliot, Pritz’s partner in Developing Pictures, added, “Don’t accept your own limitations, because the moment that you do is the moment you stop yourself from potentially doing something amazing.”
Throughout the talks, audience members were encouraged to live-tweet questions on Twitter, to be answered in a panel discussion of speakers after each session. Audience members were also invited to give short reflections of each session.
For Tabia Lau, who gave a spoken word performance at the event, “The importance of TED is the discussion that happens after the talks.”
“[TEDxMcGill] is the stirring pot that gets people thinking about ideas. [It] creates a space that’s safe for people to keep an open mind, to redefine and reevaluate their lives and ideas,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students walk out of Senate in protest of the Provost
McGill Senate met on Wednesday, the same day that rabble.ca published the “Letter from the Fifth Floor Occupiers,” definitively identifying eight of the fourteen occupiers of the James Administration building on November 10.
Student Senator Matthew Crawford announced during his speech at the “We Are All McGill” rally on Monday that he had been on the fifth floor. In addition to Crawford, Arts Representative to SSMU Micha Stettin also signed the letter published on rabble, as did McGill students Jean-François Faucher, Ethan Kyle Feldman, Kevin Paul, Ben Patrick Stidworthy, Alex Timmons, and Derek Tyrrell. The other six occupiers wish to remain anonymous.
Senate suspended procedural rules to allow for a Committee of the Whole in which the events of November 10 could be discussed – including the inquiry to be conducted by Dean of Law Daniel Jutras.
With a room capacity of 125 people, administrators warned students and professors that space for spectators would be limited. As a result, over 50 students who did not make it inside gathered outside of the room. A live stream of the event was set up so that those outside of the room could watch the discussion.
In Senate, Jutras explained the process for his inquiry. As he spoke, many members of the gallery rose and turned their backs to the rows of senators, to show their disapproval of the administration’s decision to appoint Jutras to head the inquiry.
Senators were invited to talk about issues surrounding November 10. Management Senator and former Daily Web Editor Tom Acker read a statement regarding the events. “Thursday marked the day [students] stopped seeing their campus as a safe space,” he told senators.
Acker also referenced the fact that, despite an entirely peaceful gathering on Monday, at which numerous senior administrators were present, “McGill still had police cars waiting outside three campus entrances,” leaving students – still reeling from their November 10 experiences – uncomfortable.
Darin Barney, a Senator and associate professor in Art History and Communication Studies, urged the administration to “reverse the trend of the securitization of this campus.” He further called on the Principal to rename James Square “Community Square” – to honour the decision made by students at “We Are All McGill” – as well as to designate November 10 “Freedom Day” at McGill.
Crawford addressed the room as he recounted his experience on the fifth floor. “I really, really hope that our efforts were not in vain, and that this sees a new era at McGill where we see frank discussions about student representation of the student voice on campus,” Crawford said in an interview before the Senate meeting.
Gallery members stood in support as Crawford explained that McGill Security should not be able to lay hands on students, deny giving their names when asked, or “wantonly call the police when a clearly peaceful demonstration enters campus.” Crawford assured those listening that the “fifth floor of the James Administration building was entirely peaceful.”
Provost Anthony Masi, who had previously been identified as participating in negotiations with the fifth floor occupiers on November 10, spoke minutes after Crawford.
“I actually witnessed some of the things on the fifth floor,” Masi said, claiming that staff was “subject to attack by individuals who were wearing scarves and hoods.”
Gallery members stood and turned their back to the room as Masi began to speak, hissing when Masi commented, “You can’t turn your backs on the truth.”
“The only thing we wanted to do was make sure that every one of them got out safely and securely,” Masi added, referring to office staff.
Crawford rose and left the room at Masi’s comments. Students in the gallery began to walk out after Crawford, crying “lies.” Timmons, another occupier, shouted, “Students were assaulted… Shame on McGill” as he walked out of the room. The students joined a group of peers still outside, who began to chant “no more lies” and “shame on McGill.”
After the meeting, Timmons said he felt that Masi was “skewing the reality of what happened” on the fifth floor.
“As someone who had no voice [in Senate]… I feel that my voice had to be heard,” he added.
Crawford also expressed reservations about Masi’s monologue. “I felt [Masi’s] narrative was problematic, planted in a particular bias that did not fully respect what the students [occupying] were trying to do,” he said. However, Crawford did say that he thought the Principal’s remarks on the subject “were extremely productive…even if they were somewhat late.”
—with files from Erin Hudson and  Michael Lee-Murphy
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Community regroups in front of James Administration after November 10
“This is what democracy looks like,” shouted nearly a thousand McGill community members who gathered in James Square on Monday.
The rally, “We Are All McGill,” was a student initiative organized in response to the events of last Thursday, November 10, when McGill students were pepper sprayed, teargassed, and pushed off campus by riot police.
Alex McKenzie, a U2 Arts student and Daily staffer, created the event on Facebook the night of November 10.
“I was sitting at the library getting these crazy text messages from my friends, saying they were getting hurt, and I got really angry, and posted one of those angry Facebook events which I was expecting 10 people to join and embarrassingly have to delete six hours later,” McKenzie explained. “And I had 500 people on it in 30 minutes.”
“I woke up the next morning to realize that there were over a 1,000 people attending, and something needed to be done,” he added.
McKenzie, a Mob Squad member, then conferred with other members, who began to plan the event together. A meeting after the sit-in outside of James Administration on Friday formed working groups to help with organization.
The rally, which began with a march from Roddick Gates, opened with a sound collage from the night – which captured the screams of students as they were pepper sprayed by police – followed by a moment of silence.
A motion was then introduced to rename James Square. The crowd voted to rename the space  Community Square, or Carré Communautaire.
Those present were encouraged to share personal experiences relating to the events and discuss “how we can move forward,” according to the Facebook event page.
One of the first students to speak expressed his refusal to stay silent amidst recent events that have taken place at McGill.
“We can dramatically change this University. We really, really can,” he said. “We must stand up, we must get loud, and we must act now.”
Jonathan Sterne, chair of the Department of Art History and Communication Studies, and member of the McGill Faculty Labour Action Group, also spoke.
“In the face of administrative inaction, let’s escalate our commitments to one another, and to other students around the city,” said Sterne. “Let’s escalate our commitments to fair compensation for our colleagues in MUNACA.”
At one point during the rally, the crowd waved to the MUNACA workers picketing across the road from Milton Gates, shouting “solidarité!”
“I believe in the protesters,” Sterne added. “I believe in my students, and I ask you to believe in yourselves, and let’s work to write the course for this University, in this province, and in this world.”
The open forum culminated in a General Assembly, which discussed commitments to future action, including forming a committee to democratize McGill’s governance structure.
Despite the peaceful nature of the event, police officers were stationed at three entrances to McGill throughout the afternoon.
According to Montreal Police Sergeant Guiseppe Boccardi, McGill called the police “to inform us that there’s going to be some kind of gathering between 12:30 p.m. and 5 p.m., five to six hundred people, to make sure that everything stays well.”
“We’re on what we call standby mode, in case something were to get out of hand,” he added.
Administrators in the crowd included Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson and Principal Heather Munroe-Blum.
Munroe-Blum sat on the steps for a portion of the gathering, and was on the speakers list before she had to leave for another appointment.
In an email to staff and students yesterday, Mendelson said the administration “clearly understand[s] the concerns expressed at Monday’s gathering and elsewhere in response to the events of November 10.”
He goes on to list services available to students who experienced “distress, fear or anxiety,” who “witnessed or were subjected to violence,” or were “hurt or otherwise affected” as a result of the events of November 10.
McKenzie said the most important thing to take away from the event was that “this isn’t the end.”
“This was a forum to start thinking about a set of ideas, to start making opinions about a set of ideas, and to start being active about a lot of ideas,” he said.
­—with files from Juan Camilo Velásquez and Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
