The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Government spends $50,000 on Google keywords; students respond with their own website
On November 11, a day after thousands of students took to the streets to protest impending tuition hikes, the Quebec Ministry of Education launched a new website advertising the merits of the increases.
Within 24 hours, a group of anonymous students created their own site, arguing against the increases, which will levy an extra $325 a year extra for five years – amounting to $1,625 by 2017 – starting in September.
The government’s website, quebectuitionfees.com, argues, “[A tuition fee] increase is necessary to continue to ensure the quality of teaching and guarantee the value of a university degree.”
The website includes graphs breaking down personal costs for students, promotional videos, and a section on keeping education accessible through loans, financial aid, and other programs.
The ministry reportedly spent $50,000 on Google keywords to ensure that the website appears first in results of Google searches. Some of the keywords purchased include the acronyms of anti-tuition hike student organizations such as FEUQ (Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec) and FECQ (Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec), as well as words like “strike” and “manifestation.”
Martine Desjardins, president of FEUQ, confirmed that the organization knew that the website was being planned.
“The worst thing was actually the key words that they bought,” she said. “It’s not ethical. We think it’s the wrong way to send a message to the population, instead of having a debate with students and the population about whether or not it’s right to raise tuition fees.”
SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault said, “[The fact that] the government has been spending tens of thousands of dollars on a PR campaign…really insults people who have to work a job and study and take care of other commitments.”
The address of the students’ anti-tuition hike website, quebectuitionfees.ca, is nearly identical to that of the government.
Responding to the statements on the government’s website, the site claims, “The $1,625 tuition increase has nothing to do with the quality of teaching or the value of a university degree.”
It goes on to state, “this website has been made available on-line in response to the disinformation campaign led by the Quebec Ministry of Education – who, by the way, just spent $50,000 of taxpayer money buying Google keywords to push propaganda.”
Pedneault said, “It’s really important for people to counter the information that the government has been putting out.”
However, he had doubts about its influence on the tuition hikes themselves. “I don’t think it will be enough to really tip the balance and get the government to back down,” he said.
“The government is rolling out a PR campaign,” Pedneault continued. “The tuition hikes battle is far from over.”
The Ministry of Education could not be reached for comment at press time.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Inaugural KANATA conference hopes to provide “greater understanding of indigenous realities”
Despite the presence of an active Indigenous Studies community on campus, McGill has yet to implement an official Indigenous Studies program – something that KANATA, a group representing the indigenous community at McGill, is working to change.
On November 24 and 25, KANATA will be hosting its first annual “Peer-to-Peer Indigenous Studies Conference,” which will include academic presentations, panel discussions, and opportunities that will allow “peers to come together to gain broader perspective and greater understanding of indigenous realities.”
KANATA’s first annual conference will host 16 presenters from five universities, with discussions on a wide variety of topics, including First Nation resource development in southern Alberta and the commodification of the Mayan culture.
According to Jocelyn Dockerty, the executive president of KANATA, “[We] also hope it will demonstrate to McGill’s administration that students are highly interested in a field that the University is choosing not to support, or support poorly.”
Dockerty explained that currently, “There is not a full-time professor at McGill who would be willing to instruct a necessary introductory Indigenous Studies [course].”
She added that, although many professors in a number of departments and faculties are willing to confront indigenous issues in their classrooms, they are preoccupied with other projects on campus.
Paige Issac, the interim coordinator for McGill’s First Peoples’ House, explained that while there are not many opinions opposing the development of an Indigenous Studies program, some are perplexed as to why McGill must compete for a program that already exists at Concordia.
Issac added that developing a new program will take time.
“I haven’t heard many opinions that were strongly opposed [to the program]; however, I have heard that it’s going to take a while – Concordia’s First Peoples’ Studies program took 10 years,” Issac said. “I think these are all comments that are only delaying action, and we need to strategize on how to move forward.”
In the winter of 2010, McGill’s Aboriginal Affairs Working Group submitted a proposal to the Principal’s Task Force on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement for the approval of a “minor concentration in Indigenous Studies and an Aboriginal Field Course…[that] is in an advanced planning stage and needs to be expedited through a collaborative and timely approval process.”
Despite these recommendations, no program has been created.
McGill graduate in Anthropology and KANATA co-founder Pamela Fillion stated that, although the idea of indigenous studies at McGill has not been rejected, “As a student, I was not privy to step beyond the red tape and see why it is that previous program proposals were dismissed. There are different issues that I heard may be stopping development in this area, but this has always been secondhand or speculative.”
In 1860, it was discovered that McGill sits on land that used to be Hochelaga, an Iroquoian village. In order to commemorate this settlement, Parks Canada established the Hochelaga Rock, which stands left of the Roddick Gates.
Dockerty explained that despite the physical closeness of the University with indigenous history, most students are unaware of this cultural attachment.
“Obviously, this represents a hole in our education system at all levels… A minor program in Indigenous Studies can offer one more world view and knowledge system that is particularly useful and important in a university, especially one that rests on Mohawk territory, but also within the nation of Canada,” she said.
According to Issac, “Creating a platform where students can think critically about the different processes and policies that exist today and how this has an impact on peoples’ lives, would do tremendous work in bridging this gap between the indigenous and non-indigenous worlds.”
Issac added that “the Aboriginal population in Canada is growing, and it’s growing fast, and we are not going anywhere. We are highly resilient people.”
Will Straw, director of McGill’s Institute for the Study of Canada, explained that, “At this point, the ideas for a program in Indigenous Studies are still in their early stages. It is likely that [Indigenous Studies] would be a minor at present, growing as interest and resources allowed.”
McGill has an estimated 300 Aboriginal students enrolled – 1 per cent of the student body – and employs two full-time Aboriginal professors.
In an email to The Daily, Dean of Students Jane Everett stated that she does not have “sufficient information on these matters to provide useful answers.”
Concordia’s First Peoples Studies is open to native and non-native students, and includes aboriginal history, health, and educational practices, native folktales, and contemporary aboriginal politics and social concerns.
However, Fillion explained that McGill may not necessarily model their program after Concordia’s.
“Since students from Concordia and McGill can so easily take courses from each university…it is in McGill’s interest to create links between Concordia’s program and what would be [the] McGill Indigenous Studies program,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Details unavailable until Thursday
This Thursday, TAs will vote on a new contract proposal hammered out between union and administration negotiators.
The vote will take place at 6:30  p.m. in Leacock 132.
“A large turn-out of members is expected,” said a statement on the union’s website.
The union – the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) – has been at the bargaining table since March. TAs have been working without a contract since then.
Saying that they don’t want membership to read the administration’s proposals for the first time in the press, union officials are not giving any details about the new proposal. The proposal is the administration’s second; AGSEM rejected the first last month.
“It’s going to be their second answer to our initial proposal, and really our position hasn’t changed,” the chair of the bargaining committee, Renaud Roussel, said last Wednesday, before he had seen the offer.
The union is seeking a 3 per cent pay increase, increased TA-ships, limits on class sizes, paid training, and mandatory meetings with course supervisors.
According to AGSEM negotiators, McGill has thus far offered the province-mandated 1.2 per cent pay raise, and no increase in payable hours offered.
The administration has consistently declined to comment on AGSEM contract negotiations.
TAs currently make about $4,500 per TA-ship per term. A TA-ship is defined as 180 hours a semester.
AGSEM leaders are not yet saying whether or not they will be recommending ratification to the membership on Thursday.
Last Wednesday, AGSEM hosted a “Pep Rally” event at the Roddick gates, with popcorn, cotton candy, and bubbles. The idea was to cheer on their bargaining team, who were in negotiations at the time.
Roussel said the event was designed to increase AGSEM’s visibility on campus.
“It’s getting cold, it’s getting a little bit grey, and a little bit of colour is not bad,” he said.
Invigilators
Somewhat lost in the shuffle are McGill’s invigilators, who have also been at the bargaining table since March, negotiating their first contract with the University.
Invigilators form a separate bargaining committee from TAs and course lecturers, and are seeking an increase from $10 an hour to $15.25.
The union is also seeking recognition of seniority, and the establishment of a standardized pay scheme.
Invigilators number about 500, according to Kazem Fayabakhsh, a member of the invigilators bargaining committee. Invigilators voted overwhelmingly to join AGSEM last school year.
Fayabakhsh wrote in an email to The Daily that the union “believe[s] that McGill is capable of meeting our monetary demands.”
According to Fayabakhsh, McGill has so far offered a 12-cent raise, or 1.2 per cent.
Lerona Lewis, the president of AGSEM, said that the 12-cent raise offer was “ludicrious.”
“They might think invigilators aren’t important… Imagine if all the invigilators were sick on one day, there would be no exams,” she said.
The bargaining committee for invigilators next sits down with McGill administration on December 1, and again on December 5.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Bill cracks down on drug trafficking
A new British Columbia-based coalition is calling for the legalization and regulation of marijuana, claiming that illegal trafficking of the drug is fuelling gang violence, despite the best efforts of law enforcement.
The coalition – named Stop the Violence – includes high-profile groups and institutions such as the University of British Columbia, Centre for Addictions Research BC, Providence Health Care, and Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, as well as former BC Supreme Court justice Ross Lander and chief coroner Vince Cain.
The group claims the drug is more available to school children than tobacco and alcohol, and that gang wars within the industry causes dozens of deaths every year.
According to Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) statistics, the percentage of BC gang-related homicides has risen from 21 in 1997 to 34 in 2009. Stop the Violence, however, said there were 43 such deaths in 2009. Furthermore, they pointed out 276 gang-related drive-by shootings that year, which present a more immediate threat to public safety.
Jodie Emery – wife of BC marijuana policy reform advocate Marc Emery, who is currently serving a five-year sentence in an American prison for the sale of cannabis seeds – is director-at-large of the BC Green Party, and has been campaigning for the legalization of the drug for years.
“The message is very important,” Emery said. “We need to point out violence is caused by the policies surrounding the drug and not the drug itself. Keeping it illegal keeps it under the control of gangs.”
Donald Skogstad, a prominent criminal lawyer in BC, told The Daily that the war on drugs diverts resources and prevents law enforcement agencies from dealing with other more serious issues.
“Gangs in BC are highly developed and control what’s become a multi-billion dollar industry,” he said. “The situation we’re in at this moment regarding marijuana legislation is the worst possible. It’s prohibition.”
At the federal level, an omnibus crime bill was reintroduced in September after being voted down before last May’s national election. The bill seeks to mandate provinces to crack down on illegal drug trafficking across the country.
The majority Conservative government has promised to pass the bill – called the “Safe Streets and Communities Act” – within 100 sitting days of the next Parliament session, which starts June 6.
Minister of Justice Rob Nicholson said in a press release that the bill was introduced “on a promise to get tough on child sexual offenders, crack down on illegal drug trafficking, and improve the overall efficiency of our judicial system.”
The portion of the legislation dedicated to drug consumption and trafficking, Bill C-10, extends the maximum sentences for any marijuana-related crime from 7 to 14 years, and contains mandatory minimum prison sentences for growing cannabis.
The Conservative government has estimated that the implementation of the bill would cost $78.5 million, a figure contested by the opposition. Provinces have also criticized the Conservative government for not detailing how much provincial governments would have to pay, should the bill pass. Both Quebec Justice Minister Jean-Marc Fournier and Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty have said they would be unwilling to foot the bill for the federal initiative.
Skogstad said the bill would use resources from all provinces in a useless effort to reduce crime.
Emery explained that cracking down on marijuana trafficking will do the opposite of what it claims to, saying it could cost taxpayers billions of dollars through consequences like increased prison populations, and serve to make the drug market more violent than it already is.
“The only parties who benefit from this are the police, the politicians and the gangsters,” Emery said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
An interview with The Daily, The McGill Tribune, and Le Délit
On Monday, November 14 – four days after the events of November 10 – Principal Heather Munroe-Blum sat down for an interview with reporters from The Daily, the McGill Tribune, and Le Délit. While the conversation was intended to broach a variety of subjects, November 10 dominated the interview. When asked for a response to a recent petition calling for her resignation,  Munroe-Blum stated she was not aware of it, though she was asked the same question in an interview two hours earlier on CBC Daybreak. Read the full interview here. 
The McGill Daily: Why was Dean of Law Daniel Jutras chosen to do the investigation, and why was it decided to be an internal investigation?
Heather Munroe-Blum: My interest as principal is that we learn from what happened to do the best that we can to not have that happen again… In that regard, I wanted someone who has deep loyalty and concern for the University and the well-being of everyone in it, and yet who is known for impartiality, independence. He is a highly distinguished, member-trained lawyer, [who] has worked at the Supreme Court. He is a guy who’s beyond reproach in his character. In a university, we do a lot of things that depend on internal judgments, you know, the whole peer-review system is us, judging ourselves as a community. We have a very self-governed approach to our operations, and so choosing someone of the highest distinction, whose integrity is so highly regarded, who has training to look at facts, and make judgments, and who is willing to undertake to do this. He was the first person I thought of to do it who would be able to conduct it.
MD: You made this decision unilaterally?
HMB: Yes. It was my decision. It was my judgment that this was the way to proceed.
The McGill Tribune: It was reported that activating the [emergency alert] system [on November 10] could have increased the amount of students in the area. Why did the University act with mistrust of students, thinking that they would automatically incite violence?
HMB: What actually happened I think is a big question. One of the issues of course with demonstrations that are called for the University is that with social media everybody knows about them and anybody can come… Then the issue is not a question of distrust of students, it is a question of the mix of protesters you get in…a climate of activism. So any demonstration can become a bit of lightning rod for activists across the city with a range of issues. That’s one of the things that has to be dealt with.
Le Délit: Are you concerned in terms of what happened in your office pertaining to students’ relationship with the security agents?
HMB: I’m very concerned with what happened, but I’m concerned in both directions. There are colleagues who feel they were hurt, there were people who were pushed aside by masked intruders who wouldn’t identify themselves.
LD: So you feel we can wait [for the Jutras Investigation to conclude on December 15]?
HMB: I think if anyone wants to file a disciplinary complaint or press legal charges, this does not get in the way of them doing that.
MD: If there is some kind of dispute over the process which Professor Jutras goes through for his investigation, who would people go to in a situation like that?
HMB: Well, it’s all going to be public, so what won’t be public will be the names of people, and no person will be identified by name.
MD: So if one of these anonymous people have an issue, what can they do?
HMB: That’s what I’m saying. They can be using the disciplinary process, they can be filing a complaint, they can be taking legal action. And they don’t need to be waiting until the report comes out to do that… This is not an investigation for people that are looking at perpetrators and victims, this is not an investigation to do that. This is an investigation to understand: Did processes fail? How did processes work? Were there groups that could have done things differently? In general, is there a sense of responsibility in one direction or another to do things differently, should a similar situation be on the horizon?
LD: Have you read the McGill Security Services’ report?
HMB: I have only seen some video footage, and as I said, I wasn’t here, so Friday I had a briefing. Thursday, I was off-campus and had a briefing in real time on it, both while the occupation was going on, and while the riot police were here. Then I had a pre-set meeting with a group of professors first thing in the morning on Friday, so I met with them then, in full. I had asked Thursday night for all the people that I [wanted] to come in to give a full briefing so I could hear their point of view.
LD: If you thought that there were claims against employees, would you wait for the “victim” to come forward or would you be able to bring it up yourself?
HMB: I have not seen anything that would make me take action before December 15. I was very concerned about hooded, masked people, breaking their way in, pushing staff, and not identifying themselves, nor even saying what their purpose of being there was. That’s very concerning to me. If there was any abuse in any direction I expect that will come out in the report, and that will form the basis of judgments of what to do next.
MD: So even though staff members have said they were pushed or felt scared, there is not evidence to lay disciplinary charges?
HMB: No, I’m saying that it’s up to them, if they’re going to do that, if someone feels they were hurt, and the only evidence I saw was a video clip. So do I believe that there were people who were masked and hooded in my office? Yes, because I saw a video of it, and some who weren’t.
LD: What about the allegations of assault on the fifth floor during the occupation?
HMB: I’ve actually seen no evidence that that happened. I’ve received no complaint, and I’ve received no evidence that happened, and I’ve asked Professor Jutras to investigate for me. There are a lot of allegations out there, they’re very general allegations.
LD: They’re actually pretty specific. I don’t know if you’ve seen the coverage of The Daily?
HMB: I’ve certainly seen the coverage of The Daily, and I see no evidence presented in support of them. We do have due process here, and no one has filed a complaint through the normal channels for due process. The Daily is not a vehicle for due process.
LD: On November 10 – this is from eyewitness account – I saw seven security managers who were standing by while people were crying, they offered no help. How do you react to this?
HMB: You say you experienced this, I know a lot of people felt upset and felt isolated on Thursday evening, and I feel terrible about it. If that’s what happened, I feel terrible about it. And then that raises a question of qualifications to do that and that’s something we’ve got to look at.
 
—Compiled by Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS now mandated to help promote their cause
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) will now begin to actively lobby to restore the African Studies program’s introductory course, and support the program in general, following a motion that passed during the AUS General Assembly on November 9.
The motion mandates the AUS to, specifically, lobby to hire a full-time faculty member to teach the introductory course AFRI 200.
According to Kathleen Fallon, chair of the African Studies program, the Faculty of Arts is required to have an introductory course for all interdisciplinary programs – in this case AFRI 200 – and a higher-level seminar to allow for cohesiveness within these programs.
However, the course was not offered this year because of financial constraints.
“It seems counterintuitive to require it, and then take it away,” said Fallon.
John Galaty, former chair of the African Studies program, used to teach the course, but was unable to continue due to other responsibilities in the Anthropology Department.
According to Galaty, efforts were made to receive more funding to hire a new faculty member to teach the course.
“Despite our complaints and pleads, they weren’t able to provide the funds. I then proposed that we teach it on an alternate basis, every other year, but at least until now they haven’t responded positively,” said Galaty.
Noteh Krauss, president of the African Studies Student’s Association (ASSA), said the course is fundamental for giving foundational knowledge to students who wish to pursue the African Studies program.
“Without AFRI 200, except for a 500-level seminar at the end of the program, there is no class that gives students a foundation to what they are going to study. Without this class, it’s just a mix of random courses, and that’s not a proper education in African Studies,” said Krauss.
The ASSA is also seeking to gain more respect and recognition from the Faculty of Arts, as it feels it has been overlooked because of the smaller size of the program.
“We are talking about not just one specific class that we are fighting for – in fact, the most important class of the program that we are fighting for – but also it’s just a general lack of funding for the program. It’s generally been a program that has been disregarded,” said Krauss.
Galaty said that the lack of funding might reflect reduced confidence from the Faculty of Arts towards interdisciplinary programs.
“The argument, of course, is financial, because the faculty has gone through a budget cut, but it may also represent a larger lack of confidence in interdisciplinary programs…which is strange in some sense because the University has made [interdisciplinary practices] – whether in teaching or research – one of its priority areas,” said Galaty.
Yusra Khan, AUS VP Academic, wrote in an email to The Daily that the AUS is ready to “put its full support” behind the ASSA.
“I will be bringing this issue up in the AUS Academic Council, where we will decide on the appropriate way in which to help the ASSA in its endeavors,” wrote Khan.
Khan also stated that the faculty has put in place several committees to review the needs and highlight the importance of smaller programs, although the Committee on African Studies is not scheduled to meet until the winter semester.
“There has not been active discrimination or negligence against smaller programs in the Faculty of Arts,” said Khan.
The ASSA is also concerned about the future of the African Studies program if the course is not restored.
“A lot of first years and second years will take an introductory class to African Studies because they are curious, and that’s exactly how students get involved in the program. Without that spark of curiosity, students aren’t going to keep getting involved in the program, and it’s going to die off,” said Krauss.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
