The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill law student witnesses and records incident
Correction appended – Thursday, Sep 22
A McGill law student intends to file a complaint with the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse (CDPDJ), the Quebec commission on human rights and youth rights, after witnessing students of the École des Hautes Études commerciales de Montréal (HEC Montreal) wearing blackface on September 14, 2011 during their Frosh activities.
At the start of each fall semester, HEC Montreal, an independent business school affiliated with the Université de Montréal  (UdeM), organizes Frosh events for incoming students as a way of facilitating their integration into the student community.
After students were divided into several groups, each group was given a sporting event to represent. Group A01 was assigned Track and Field, and drew inspiration from Jamaican Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt.
Jacques Nantel, general secretary of HEC Montreal and a marketing professor, discussed the incident with The Daily.
“The group [inspired by Bolt] decided to represent Jamaica, which up to that point was not a bad idea,” he said.
But, Nantel explained, when the students showed up at the day’s activities with faces painted black and chanting defamatory songs, the situation became “unacceptable.”
Anthony Morgan, an undergraduate law student from McGill, was passing by the UdeM campus when he heard the HEC Frosh participants. He heard one of the groups shouting, “Yeah man, yeah man,” and went to take a closer look. He told The Daily that he “was absolutely shocked and horrified to see that this group was painted, face, neck, arms and legs in blackface.”
According to Morgan, students where chanting “smoke more weed” and one student was carrying a stuffed monkey and wearing a monkey hat.
Morgan described feeling unsure of what to do, but concluded that he needed to take some kind of action. He noted other black students around him that looked uncomfortable, and who, to him, shared “a sense of humiliation that this was taking place as a representation of black people.”
After recording the incident on his phone, Morgan posted the videos on YouTube. When asked why he decided to make the videos public, Morgan explained that he wanted to create a public discussion around the event.
“This is a problem at Canadian universities at large when it comes to representation, access to information and just free and fair discussion about the contribution of people of African descent,” he said.
Morgan added that he was not trying to point fingers at the students involved, but rather at the lack of institutional framework that should prevent such scenes from happening.
Nantel said that “if there is even one person being offended by this matter, that is too much for us.” The HEC administration has admitted that the actions were racist and unacceptable.
Morgan stated that he was pleased with HEC’s response so far.
“I think that this is a very commendable step as an institution, other Canadian universities have experienced blackface on campus and haven’t responded as effectively and as quickly, so I laud them for that,” he said.
Morgan is planning on filing a complaint with the CDPDJ because he believes the commission has the expertise and resources necessary to deal with the incident. He explained that he is not looking for financial compensation, but rather wants to open discussion about similar incidents.
Morgan said he is looking to the CDPDJ to set up an independent investigation on what happened at HEC’s Frosh and how the situation got out of hand. He spoke about his hope that HEC and other universities will partner with organizations like the CDPDJ to create a safe space where students can discuss and be made aware of the representations of different people in society.
Nantel stated that measures would be put in place to prevent such incidents from reoccurring.
Due to an editorial error, in the printed version of this article (News, Sep 22, pg. 4) it is stated that some of the HEC students were wearing monkey masks; in fact, one student was carrying a stuffed monkey and wearing a monkey hat. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU and an inter-faculty initiative work towards proposals 
Since the closure of the Architecture Café in the fall of 2010, demand for a cafe run by students and for students has prompted SSMU to take action towards realizing such a project on campus.
Following the closure of the Arch Café – and subsequent student demonstrations against the administration’s role in turning the cafe’s former location into a study area – SSMU VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel told The Daily that demand has risen for a space managed by students and independent from corporate ties.
Patel has been involved in the planning for a potential student-run cafe.
“A student–run cafe will happen for sure; if not, I will resign,” Patel said. “It is something students care about and even the University criticizes us for not having a student-run cafe.”
Financial concerns are at the forefront of discussions regarding the development of a student-run cafe. Financial mismanagement was among problems cited by the McGill administration as cause for the closure of the Arch Café.
Patel described a student-run cafe as being a worthwhile investment.
“I think in the past there was some hesitancy about finances, but right now we are in a position in which we are financially more sound and able to move forward, so this is the perfect opportunity,” he said.
A cafe would join a short list of existing student-run food services at McGill. Since its creation in 2002 under the name of The Food Club, Midnight Kitchen (MK) is one of the most prominent student-run food services at McGill.
Carol Fraser, SSMU VP Clubs and Services and former volunteer coordinator for MK, spoke about the presence of a student-run food service on campus.
“It is really important to create a community… It needs to be a place where everyone feels safe and welcome, and wants to come back,” Fraser said.
Students are involved in the planning process through a SSMU working group, which Patel is a part of, to develop a proposal for the student-run cafe.
“Anyone can join. We have one councillor, but to be honest, most of the members are outside of SSMU – not councillors, not executives,” said Patel of the working group. He cited the group’s research as being helpful to the eventual creation of the cafe’s business proposal.
An alternate proposal for the project will be created by the Inter-Faculty Case Competition in Sustainability (IFCCS), which is sponsored by SSMU. The idea for the competition originated last year out of discussions between undergraduate faculty presidents.
Omer Dor, chair of IFCCS, explained that this group would work independently from the SSMU working group, and would try to find the most sustainable operating practices for a student-run cafe.
“The main objective is to create a collaboration from students across McGill to work on an issue that is pertaining to sustainability [particularly in] the student-run cafe,” said Dor.
The competition aims to design a proposal for a student-run cafe that is “innovative and implementable,” including a business report and model for the project.
Patel spoke about student reaction to the creation of the SSMU working group and IFCCS case competition.
“Many people…are interested in when we will have the student-run cafe,” he said. “It’s going to be two years from now… This year is going to be used to plan things.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Investigating the ethics curriculum in McGill Engineering
A report leaked to the media last week confirming suspicions of widespread corruption, collusion and mafia connections in the Quebec construction industry has prompted questions concerning the ethical instruction students receive in Quebec university engineering programs.
The report, compiled by the Ministère du transportation du Québec’s anti-corruption squad, the Unité permanente anticorruption, was first leaked to Radio-Canada and La Presse last Thursday.
“In short,” the report reads, “criminal organizations are taking advantage of legitimate companies, in which they are silent partners, to funnel public funds, controlling the construction world.”
For civil engineering students at McGill, the exposed corruption is especially damaging. “It reflects badly in the public’s eyes on civil engineers,” said Ethan Landy, President of the McGill Civil Engineering Undergraduate Society (CEUS).
Engineers in Quebec are required to be members of the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec (OIQ) and to adhere to their code of ethics. The code includes duties and obligations towards the public, clients, and the profession.
“I don’t like it that this is reflecting badly on the profession when the profession is required to uphold such a high code of ethics, in theory,” Landy said.
The report gave an example of the kind of unethical behaviour Quebec construction companies engage in: “An engineer foresees 1,000 loads of contaminated soil when he knows full well that [the removal of] only 100 loads is necessary. By communicating that information to a certain company he can [tip the construction company off] to a savings of 900 loads, which can be advantageous to his offer,” reads the report.
The OIQ code of ethics stipulates that an engineer “must charge and accept fair and reasonable fees,” and that an engineer “shall not resort to dishonest or doubtful practices in the performance of his professional activities.”
The Faculty of Engineering incorporates ethics into their curriculum, requiring that all of its students take two courses that deal with professional engineering practice. Mohamed Meguid, Associate Chair of the McGill Civil Engineering Department, said students will learn “more information about engineering as a profession,” the “expectations from professionals,” and “the obligations that are attached to the profession” from the courses.
Ghyslaine McClure, a professor in the Civil Engineering department, who also acts as a liason between the OIQ and the Engineering Faculty, said that the ethics curriculum at McGill has been recently revised. Students used to take one course in their first year. The course has now been split into one 100-level course and one 400-level course.
“At the end of your program you have a better understanding of what it means to be an engineer and [of] the difficult decisions you have to make from a technical perspective,” she said.
The two courses are replacing MIME 221, Engineering and Professional Practice. Landy, who took the class several years ago, said it was a discussion-based course looking at cases of engineers’ unethical behaviour. Landy said the situation surrounding the Quebec construction industry was not discussed.
“We looked at a lot of different cases, one of which was the Challenger space shuttle, and it had to do with a fault in the [engineering] process,” he said.
“There was a whistleblower, essentially. The person, the whistleblower, suffered consequences because they took a stand against it.”
According to Landy, the class discussed whether engineering ethics encouraged or discouraged whistle-blowing.
“I don’t remember, so maybe it is me, but I didn’t come out with a strong impression, a strong yes-or-no, what’s-right-what’s-wrong, in that respect,” he said. “It would be good to know.”
Landy stressed the importance of educating engineers in the ethical issues that surround their profession.
“It’s really important for a civil engineer – especially for someone who’s going to be graduating soon, moving into the industry – to establish their view on this,” he said.
Alain Azar, now a Masters student in Civil Engineering, thought the one course he took on ethics as an undergraduate was “more than enough,” and that the questions he faced in the class were “really straightforward.”
McClure pointed out that students are educated about ethics long before they arrive at university.
“It has to do with your own values,” she said. “Are you willing to compromise and tell a few lies or not?”
“I always tell the students that the most important thing that you have as a professional, and that you never lose, is your reputation,” she continued.
McClure hasn’t read the report, but from what she has heard, she said its revelations don’t surprise her.
“I know people who have to work in those situations, and this collusion thing,” she said. “It does exist, and I think in a way it must exist in many other professions too.”
The report cites a decline in enrollment in civil engineering programs over the last decade in Quebec as a contributing factor in the corruption scandal engulfing the province’s construction industry. Enrollment in McGill engineering programs, however, has remained steady.
“I’m not sure [the corruption] is a factor that plays a role into directing students or scaring students away from engineering,” said Meguid.
— with files from Henry Gass
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Other faculty societies preparing to debate issue
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Council was evenly divided yesterday over a motion to support striking non-academic workers in their negotiations with McGill.
The McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) represents over 1,700 McGill employees and has been on strike since September 1.
The motion was brought to Council by Arts representative to SSMU, Micha Stettin, and VP External of the History Students Association, Jonathan Cohen.
The motion read: “the AUS officially declares its support for the workers unionized by MUNACA and declare solidarity and agreement with MUNACA’s position in negotiations with the McGill administration.”
The motion failed with 14 councillors voting in favour of the motion and 14 against.
Stettin opened debate over the motion by stating that AUS “has the chance now to be a leader in the student body, and to do something that is just, and in the interest of the students that we represent.”
Stettin also said that he had informally canvassed Arts students, and felt that there was overall support by students for MUNACA.
“Arts students really are supporting the MUNACA workers,” said Stettin. “More students are trying to become involved, more students are realizing that the MUNACA strike really does affect the McGill community.”
Several councillors, including AUS President Jade Calver and VP Events Jason Karmody, expressed concern that without concrete information on student opinion, the motion could have a divisive effect on the Arts student body.
“I think there’s a lot of misinformation out there, and we’re not really informed enough as a group to make a decision like this,” said the representative for the Economics Students’ Association (ESA), Hannah Herman.
Calver explained to Council that, although she personally agreed with the motion, she felt it was possible for AUS to support MUNACA  without issuing a direct statement.
VP Finance Marlene Benavides expressed concern that issuing a statement of support for MUNACA would reflect badly on the McGill administration.
“I just want to say that I personally do support what’s going on with MUNACA,” Benavides said. “What I don’t support is a resolution that seems one-sided and makes it seem like the administration are the bad guys.”
After Council, Cohen explained in an interview with The Daily that he thought the motion was a “great opportunity for the AUS to stand in solidarity with MUNACA and represent its students, and display its willingness to take arguably difficult stances in its support for its students.”
“I think that it was a disappointing refusal by many councillors and many members of the executive to do what I think many students have in mind, and what I think is best for the AUS and the University,” Cohen added.
Stettin agreed, explaining that “this is the biggest issue at McGill right now for the McGill community, for Arts students, and for us to not want to take a stance on it is unacceptable. We owe it to the people who elected us to be assertive, to say what we mean with conviction. When we all care that the MUNACA strike ends, and ends in favour of the MUNACA workers, then we should respond accordingly.”
Isaac Stethem, representative for the Department of Philosophy, expressed his support for the motion in an interview with The Daily.
“There were some things discussed in Council that were fair points, that perhaps we do need to be more informed and need to consult more. So that’s certainly a positive step, but I definitely think a lot of students have expressed their support, and we can definitely see the problems [the strike] is causing, so I think it is important that we express our support [of MUNACA] more strongly in the future,” said Stethem.
The motion will be discussed further at the next AUS Council on October 5. Both Cohen and Stettin expressed their intent to continue seeking a statement of AUS support for MUNACA.
Other faculty Societies, including the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) and the Education Undergraduate Society (EdUS) have discussed the possibility of a motion regarding the strike, but neither group has voted on the issue yet.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Deadline for new tenants to submit business proposals extended 
Since attempts at negotiations ended between SSMU and the MTY Group, the contractor who operates the Shatner cafeteria, the current subcontractors of the space, have not been informed of the status of their contract.
SSMU VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel confirmed that SSMU provided prior notice to MTY that they would be publicizing the termination of their business relationship at the first Council meeting of this academic year. After repeated attempts to reach the president of the company, however, MTY has not responded to SSMU.
“If we ever were to receive a response, it was, ‘Give us more time’, so I’m still trying to figure out what’s going on on their side,” said Patel regarding attempts to negotiate with MTY.
Cultures, Franx Supreme, and Tiki-Ming are subcontractors of MTY, and therefore any information regarding their contracts in SSMU must flow through MTY itself, who ultimately holds the lease on the cafeteria space.
“In our contract it’s MTY that should be telling them, but I also feel like telling them ourselves is appropriate because they deserve to know,” said Patel.
When asked whether she had been in contact with MTY, Jing Yao, the owner of Cultures, said she hadn’t “heard anything for a while.” She explained that the cafeteria subtenants are currently on a one-year lease extension. She expects to be meeting with the SSMU General Manager in the near future to discuss plans for the upcoming contract term.
“I don’t know what the plans are for next year. I think we need to sit down and talk about some changes [to the contract],” said Yao.
Rena and Lihui Wan, owners of Tiki-Ming, have heard that the contract with MTY will not be renewed next year.
Patel said he was approached by the Wans, who expressed interest in continuing to occupy the space. Patel stated that SSMU would be accepting business proposals from the current subtenants to occupy the space as individuals unaffiliated with MTY.
“We understand these are the lives of individuals, and giving them the chance to make proposals is great,” said Patel.
A presentation on the tenant selection process and the current proposals was originally scheduled for the next Council session on September 29, but it has been rescheduled for the first meeting in October in order to give current subtenants adequate time to prepare any proposals they plan to submit.
Multiple businesses, including Burritoville and Lola Rosa, have already expressed interest in working with SSMU and have outlined their plans for student-friendly food services. The deadline to submit proposals is October 3.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
