The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators subjected to tear gas and pepper spray
Over 100 riot police stormed McGill campus last Thursday evening, forcing demonstrators, who had gathered in front of the James Administration building, off of campus. Police used pepper spray, tear gas, and physical force against demonstrators.
The demonstration began as the earlier protest against tuition hikes concluded outside Quebec Premier Jean Charest’s office, at McGill College and Sherbrooke across from Roddick Gates. Several McGill students received text messages informing them that 14 students had entered the James Administration building and were occupying Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s office. The occupation began at 3:45 p.m.
At 4:05 p.m., a group of approximately fifty students entered McGill campus.
Farid Attar Rifai, president of the Association of McGill University Support Employees, was one of the first people on the scene.
“I saw Security…were rushing towards the James building, so I knew [the students] were already inside at that point,” Attar Rifai said.
He explained that, upon his arrival, all entrances to the building were locked, and security guards were positioned outside.
Some of the demonstrators took a megaphone back to the Roddick Gates, where they encouraged others to join them. “We’re in McGill, we need more people,” screamed one demonstrator. The crowd outside of James Administration grew to around 200 people.
Reports of violence used against the occupiers by McGill Security reached those outside through text messages and phone calls. Demonstrators proceeded to form a human chain around the building, demanding entrance.
At roughly 4:50 p.m., four Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) officers approached the building from the Milton Gates and entered James Administration through a back door, where students attempted to block them.
“When we heard the cops were coming…we decided to delay them so people inside could have time to negotiate,” said Attar Rifai.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson confirmed that he had been inside the James Administration throughout the demonstration.
“There were four police who came to survey the situation. They at no time interacted with the people upstairs,” he told The Daily.
Mendelson noted that he did not know who had called the police officers. According to Mendelson, McGill Security is “mandated – or certainly allowed – to call the police when they feel that there is a threat to people or a threat to property… but I don’t know what triggered the decision to do that.”
Moments after the four police officers arrived, around twenty students entered through a side door for a peaceful sit-in on the second floor, with McGill Security supervising.
Just before 5 p.m., twenty police officers on bicycles approached James Administration from the Milton Gates. The officers spoke with McGill Security, but did not take action immediately.
Officers lined up, using their bicycles as barricades against the demonstrators. Some swung their bikes at demonstrators who attempted to push the police off campus.
A brief confrontation took place between demonstrators and police. Demonstrators pushed police back while officers dodged items, including sticks and water bottles, thrown by the crowd. The officers rode away, to the cheering of students.
Shortly after 5 p.m., about forty riot police entered the campus through the Milton Gates, beating their shields with batons. Police pushed the crowd towards the Arts and Ferrier buildings. Demonstrators were pepper sprayed after pushing back against the police lines in front of James Administration.
“The University did not call the riot squad. I can tell you that, unequivocally,” Mendelson said in an interview Friday afternoon. “I know that the police who were here called in [the riot squad].”
He elaborated on what led to riot police being called onto campus.
“[The four police officers] looked out the window, and they saw the crowd was growing – there were conversations, things seemed to be getting more heated,” Mendelson explained. “I don’t know why, what factored into their decision.”
Jean-Pierre Brabant, a member of the SPVM’s public relations team, declined to answer questions as to whether the riot police had authorization to enter McGill campus.
A second wave of over fifty riot police approached from the Y-intersection and surrounded demonstrators. At this point, students taking part in the occupation on the second floor of James Administration exited the building.
One demonstrator, who was trying to cross police lines on the west side of the building, was picked up, dragged, and thrown to the ground. Police formed a line and began forcibly pushing demonstrators down the steps, towards the Milton Gates.
Dozens of demonstrators were pepper sprayed by officers while others carried water to those who had been blinded by the spray.
Gregory Mikkelson, an associate professor in the Environment and Philosophy departments, was on his way to pick up his children from daycare. While leaving campus he noticed the protest outside of James Administration and stopped to observe.
“Three Montreal riot police came at me, clubbed me in the ribs and stomach with a baton, knocked me over – I don’t know if it was a club that knocked me over or one of them pushing me, you know, it all happened so fast – I popped right back up and they pepper sprayed me in the face,” Mikkelson said.
“After I was attacked, my first thought was to check with the person I had been talking with shortly before that and see if he had witnessed it, and ask him if I could get his information so I could corroborate if necessary,” he continued.
Anna Hermanson, a U2 McGill student who was involved in the demonstration, spoke to The Daily after the event.
“We were beaten in the ribs, in the back of the knees, on our shoulders, it was unbelievable,” she said.
“We decided to let go of one another and put our hands up, and say, ‘We’re standing here peacefully, this is our campus, we have a right to be here. Please.’ I’m sobbing at this point…asking, ‘Why are you doing this? We’re students, we can be here, we’re protesting peacefully, please don’t come forward,’” she continued.
Fleeing protesters were unable to enter McGill buildings, which had been locked. McGill’s emergency alert system was not activated.
Mendelson spoke to the activation procedure of the system, which is controlled by McGill Security.
“The emergency alert system would go out to all the members of the community, and there’s a trade-off whether or not that would have calmed the situation or fuelled the situation,” he explained.
Once protesters had been pushed off campus onto Milton, police shut down the intersection at Milton and University, while demonstrators lingered in the street.  Shortly after, tear gas was deployed. The police proceeded to charge towards remaining demonstrators, breaking up the crowd.
U2 student Zoe Pepper-Cunningham, who had been walking through campus with her bicycle and was not involved in the demonstration, was pushed to the ground by police in the intersection.
“I couldn’t run really because I had my bike, so while they were charging, they just pushed me down onto my bike and pinned me on the ground. It was kind of blurry for me but I felt kicking and hitting and they threw my bike – which is now broken, pretty badly – and dragged me by my arms,” she said.
Four arrests were reported from Thursday’s demonstration, two of which have been confirmed to be McGill students. U3 students Alex Briggs and Ariel Prado were arrested, separately, near James Administration. Both were released late Thursday evening, although Briggs has a pending court date.
Immediately after the demonstration ended, McGill student groups, including SSMU, QPIRG, and McGill Student Emergency Response Team began mobilizing to offer support to demonstrators who had been affected.
 
— with files from Henry Gass and Anthony Lecossois


Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Second wave of occupiers reach second floor; all released without charges or punishments
Article updated Nov. 11
Fourteen students claim to have been assaulted by McGill Security while they occupied the fifth floor of the James Administration building for two hours last Thursday afternoon.
The occupation coincided with a 30,000 person-strong demonstration against tuition hikes, which ended at McGill College and Sherbrooke.
The students occupied several rooms on the floor, including Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s office, before negotiating an end to the occupation with Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson and Provost Anthony Masi. The protestors have been granted immunity.
“Each person occupied for their own reasons, even though those reasons intersected, I think,” said one of the students. All students involved in the occupation spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The Occupation
According to an interview with three of the occupiers, the students entered the building around 3:45 p.m. and encountered no security. Once they reached the fifth floor, four of the students occupied Munroe-Blum’s office, while three other students controlled the door to the main hallway and two students controlled the door to the stairs. The remainder of the students occupied the reception area on the floor.
Office staff videotaped the demonstration. “We informed them this was a peaceful occupation,” said one of the occupiers.
At a demonstration outside James Administration on Friday morning, Susan Aberman, chief of staff for the office of the principal – who was working in the office Thursday afternoon – told students and staff that she was threatened by occupiers the day before.
“I was in my office when people with hoods and masks broke their way into my office, they pushed their way through locked doors, they pushed my colleague, and they pushed me and they came into my office and they threatened me,” she said.
Upon entering the office, the students dropped a banner, reading “10 Nov – Occupons McGill,” from one of the fifth floor windows.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson was alerted to the situation and arrived on the fifth floor, where he said events were “already in progress.” According to Mendelson, the students barged into the offices, some wearing masks and hoods.
Occupiers have said that some of them wore bandanas covering their faces, but that none of them wore masks.
“Security was called by the people in the office, who were quite disturbed by their presence,” said Mendelson in an interview Friday afternoon with reporters from The Daily, the McGill Tribune and Le Délit.
According to the occupying students, a security guard tossed an occupier to the ground and dragged him by the legs into the reception area. The student had been sitting in Munroe-Blum’s office chair.
“At some point during that altercation he was hit in the stomach, either by a leg or by an elbow, and he was injured,” said one occupier.
According to another of the occupiers, the student who was hit in the stomach “went into mild shock for a while and was winded. Luckily, there was a person who knew first aid.”
One occupier, who spoke to The Daily, said he has osteoporosis. The occupier said he was seized from behind by one security guard, and pushed and dragged by several security guards into the main reception area.
“I was dropped on the floor and he kept jumping on me,” he said, “and literally [they] like threw me out.”
“A single punch could probably break my rib cage,” said the student. “In the end I didn’t get much, I think I just got a little bruised on my right side, near the ribs.”
The student told McGill Security “very, very clearly” that he had osteoporosis. “They completely disregarded it and threw him out of the room,” said a witness.
Mendelson said that Security was “concerned about the safety of the situation.”
“You don’t think it’s confrontational to storm into an office, to swing open a door, walk by people, have a mask on – you don’t think that’s confrontational?” he asked, in response to a question from the Tribune as to whether he thought Security had exercised their mandated amount of force.
According to Mendelson, the University has the right to ask students to leave when they are “in an inappropriate place.” According to several of the occupiers, the 14 students were not made aware of any rules or laws that they could have been violating.
“I’m 99 per cent sure that did not happen, and definitely no one read to me from the student handbook,” said one of the students.
According to Mendelson, “when a student was asked to leave and didn’t, the student was in violation of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures.”
Negotiations
The students said they were in the main reception area for approximately 45 minutes, during which Masi and Mendelson came in to speak with them. Mendelson said he was the first to speak with the students, before Masi arrived on the fifth floor.
“They wanted to tell me what their position was on tuition. I reminded them what the University’s position is on tuition. They weren’t willing to listen to me. I have heard their position before. It’s clear that there wasn’t going to be a settling of that issue,” Mendelson said.
He said that, when Masi arrived, they asked the occupiers what they wanted.
“We thought maybe they’d want to have a conversation, whatever, and at that point they said they wanted to leave, and we said, ‘Fine, we’ll take you out.’ And then they said they wanted to have some assurances,” said Mendelson.
According to both the students and Mendelson, the students asked to be allowed to leave without any arrests, charges, disciplinary action, or names taken. The occupiers also said they refused to leave unless students who had forced their way in to occupy the second floor of the building were allowed to leave under the same conditions.
According to the students, Masi originally stated that they wouldn’t be allowed to leave without non-academic probations or charges. However, Mendelson claimed that Masi never made such a statement.
According to Mendelson, talks between the two parties concluded in less than five minutes, after Masi and Mendelson had consulted with each other and the Montreal police, and subsequently accepted the students’ terms. The students on the second floor negotiated with a member of McGill Security and a Montreal police officer. One student occupying the second floor said later that the sit-in was non-violent.
The police assisted Mendelson and Masi in negotiations with the students, though the officers never had any direct interaction with the students.
“They’ve had experience in this sort of thing,” said Mendelson. “We needed some advice about security in the building, because the building was surrounded… People were very disturbed. They offered some advice about what we should have people do.”
Mendelson added that, “What happened inside [actually] unfolded reasonably well.”
The students disagreed. One said on Thursday night that, “The only violence that we experienced was at the hands of McGill Security.”
Mendelson said he would not be obtaining the McGill Security report on the incident, as Security reports to Associate Vice-Principal (University Services) Jim Nicell.
“Obviously, we don’t know everything,” Mendelson said.
— with files from Queen Arsem-O’Malley and Erin Hudson

 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Canadian neuroscientist honoured with Greengard Prize for achievements of women in science
Brenda Milner is a Canadian neuroscientist who has worked at the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital (MNIH) since 1950, when she joined celebrated doctor Wilder Penfield in studying the field of clinical neuropsychology. Born in Manchester, England in 1918, Milner has become a pioneer in the study of memory and cognitive functions in humans. She was the first to study the effects of damage to the medial temporal lobe on memory through work on the famous patient, known simply as “HM.” She has been the recipient of a number of awards, including  the Pearl Meister Greengard Prize, which recognizes achievements of women in science. 
The Daily spoke with her about working at the MNIH, her achievements, and what it has been like working as a woman in science.
 
The McGill Daily: What made you stay at the MNIH for so long?
Brenda Milner: McGill has always been famous for its medical school, and science in general. When I was coming to Canada in 1944, my professor at Cambridge said to me, ‘Oh, well, McGill has a very good medical school.’ And within this medical school, this institute has always been very special. I think most people would agree with me that Doctor Penfield’s greatest contribution…was his vision for an institute where he had people coming from all parts of the world. And what is quite remarkable is that today, we have the same vision. This has never died, this feel about the institute.
MD: What pushed you towards psychology?
BM: I discovered that I wasn’t going to be a great mathematician. I had a sort of romantic notion about pure logic. People at my high school wanted me to do languages, which came around easily to me, and go to Oxford. I didn’t want to go to Oxford, I wanted to go to Cambridge and do mathematics, which was the place to do mathematics in those days, probably still is. And then, you know I realized that it wasn’t my forte. Fortunately I passed my exams, but I had a chance to change to a different field. It was luck. People agree with me when I say this: people who have gone somewhere, nobody really gets anywhere in life without some luck along the way. If they tell you that they do it without having any luck, just by their effort, don’t believe them, because I don’t think that’s possible. You have to grasp opportunities before they go away. I knew nothing of psychology – they gave me a handbook on experimental psychology, like a telephone directory to take home to read during the summer, which I dutifully did. Mathematics is a very lonely occupation, and I value very much the companionship that science brings you. It was a revelation. So it worked for me, but it was luck.
MD: What motivates you to pursue your research? Is it the companionship that science brings?
BM: And curiosity. These two things. I’m very curious, and when I was young I was certainly a good observer. I’m quite observant on how people and animals behave, and then my curiosity is excited – why did that happen, and how I can study it? So it’s my curiosity. I like working with young people. I like the medical students, I think its very bad to have people segregated by age, its not natural, it’s not how families are.
MD: Have you ever felt discriminated against in your field of work because of your gender?
BM: I have never felt that at all, not in England, you know, and I haven’t felt it here at all at the neurological institute. [The MNIH], in Doctor Penfield days, it was a sort of pyramidal structure with Doctor Penfield very much at the top, and the younger people lower in the pyramid. But there were never any gender differences, and [Penfield] was also very interested in hearing what anybody had to say about his patient. He was never, ‘Oh I don’t want to hear anything from you because of your gender or anything,’ that was quite different.
MD: What advice would you have for undergraduates at McGill?
BM: I suppose to know yourself in a way. Think of the field of neuroscience, which is very exciting, you still have to ask yourself, ‘Is this right for me?’ You have to be very patient; you have to be capable of taking many many boring readings, not being bored. I don’t bore easily. You also must not go in expecting to have a wonderful discovery every week or even every month. If you get something really exciting every year, that’s good. You have to be patient, and you have to be a little bit obsessive. The other thing is that if you find you’ve chosen the wrong field, don’t hesitate to change. I obviously changed from mathematics to psychology. I know somebody that changed here at McGill from philosophy to physiology and made a huge successful career in physiology, and it was quite late. So don’t be afraid to change.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU Legislative Council voted last week to sign the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) between SSMU and McGill after hours of confidential debate.
Council voted to publicize the results of the vote on the MoA, which passed with fourteen in favour, five against, and four abstentions.
Those involved with the decision had mixed reactions to ending a multi-year battle with the administration over the use of the McGill name.
Clubs and Services Representative to SSMU Sahil Chaini explained why her constituency is worried.
“I have received numerous complaints about the MoA and how frustrating it is for clubs to have to change their names, merchandise, banners, signs, et cetera. The principle behind the change is the real problem, however,” Chaini wrote in an email to The Daily.
According to Chaini, the MoA creates a precedent of agreeing to the demands of the University in a way that divides the students from the McGill administration.
“We are all part of the same University, and should be able to define ourselves as such,” Chaini added.
Engineering Representatives to SSMU Alex Kunev and Tariq Khan expressed dissatisfaction about the outcome of the vote. Many of their constituents made an appeal at Council for SSMU to postpone signing the MoA, and to support the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS)-organized “We are ALL McGill” campaign.
Kunev explained that EUS is in a different situation than other faculty associations, since they are beginning the process of negotiating their own MoA, and face similar issues pertaining to the use of the McGill name and logo.
Though unsatisfied with the vote, Kunev acknowledged that the issue has dragged on since last year. “Not having an MoA affects every student group’s ability to do their work,” he said.
Former SSMU VP University Affairs Rebecca Dooley pointed out that SSMU’s negotiations with McGill are not finished until the lease is signed. Council voted last week not to sign the lease until more information is provided by the University.
“While the MoA is really important for delineating student autonomy and SSMU’s formal relationship to the University, the lease is really key because it’s one of the resources that students use most,” said Dooley.
“You know McGill is going to call upon this student work as a source of pride. They are aware of what their name means, but they treat it as a corporate entity and not something that can empower members of the community,” Dooley added.
Khan sees the battle as far from over. “What I see is that all university students will be united on the forefront and this will be a literal fight with the University,” he said.
SSMU VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser said that, after voting to sign the MoA, SSMU is seeking student fees that the administration has been withholding for the last month.
“Legally, they have to give them to us within thirty days after the last day of registration under the Act [Respecting the Accreditation and Financing of Students’ Associations],” Fraser said.
Fraser explained that SSMU VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel asked the administration for the fees.
“We were not going to do that, because negotiations were going well and we did not want to seem aggressive about it, but now that we agreed in principle with the MoA, we do need our fees,” said Fraser.
In a memo distributed to the gallery at Council, Fraser wrote that McGill offered $25,000 to help with costs pertaining to name changes, if the alterations are made by November 15.
“Please note that the name you choose must be reflected in your website, Facebook groups, Twitter, any official correspondence, banners, et cetera… If making these changes is going to incur serious financial expenses, McGill (through the SSMU) may be able to reimburse you,” Fraser wrote in an email to affected groups.
“Some groups are really confused and upset, rightfully so…but I think a lot of people understand, because the issue has been around for so long, nobody is personally angry. A lot of people get the trend that McGill, in general, is not prioritizing its students,” said Fraser.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Unions conflicted over provincial construction bill 
Since October 11, one of the largest construction unions in Quebec, the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ)-Construction, protested a proposed bill that would end the ability of construction unions to place workers within the industry.
Labour Minister Lise Thériault presented Bill 33 at the beginning of October to the Quebec National Assembly. The document of the bill states in French that, “This proposed bill introduces a new reference system that would replace the current practice of union placement of employees within the construction industry, and proposes various measures that aim at improving the functioning of the construction industry.”
Construction workers must belong to one of the unions to work legally in Quebec.
The bill comes on the heels of a corruption report by the former head of the Montreal police, Jacques Duchesneau, which was leaked to the media in September.
Quebec construction unions are at odds over support of the bill.
Arnold Guerin, president of the FTQ, spoke in French about the report’s relation to Theriault’s bill.
“[Duchesneau]’s report did not ever speak of the union, it never spoke of the workers,” Guerin said.
The FTQ strongly opposes the bill and the proposed changes that it would have on the construction industry. The union represents 45 per cent of the construction industry and, according to Guerin, would be the worst affected union.
Guerin explained some of the FTQ’s reasons for protesting the bill. “Us in construction, we do not have security in our jobs. We don’t have job security. Others are protected, but not us,” he explained.
There were numerous unplanned walk offs at construction sites across the province in October to protest the bill, including blocking the entrance to the Montreal offices of the Construction Commission of Quebec.
Guerin stated that the walk offs were due to the inability of the unions to be heard.
Guerin added that the workers were frustrated with the proposed bill, and were “provoked.”
Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN)-Construction, another construction union in Quebec, supports the intentions of Bill 33.
Jean Pierre Laiche, a representative for the union, told The Daily that, “We believe that the placement of people is not a union task.”
“There are people who think that their work is to place people. We think that everyone should have access to work regardless to the quality of relations with those people,” he said.
“We are backing that part of the bill,” said Laiche, though he noted that, “We have a couple of problems with Bill 33.”
Some of these problems include the ability for workers to get a raise. “We think that there should be a place for a pay increase,” he explained.
Laiche also commented on the fact that the way workers voice their demands is also a problem.
“[It’s a] general strike or nothing in the construction industry – we are not allowed to do anything else legally,” he explained.
Laiche said that CSN believes that transparency is needed within the industry. “What we want is transparency of that process. We want everyone, everywhere to have access.”
Another aspect of the proposed bill is forcing construction unions to open their books to the public.
Guerin stated that the FTQ already publicizes their finances on the Internet. “We have no problem that our members can consult that. Even if it’s the law, it was already like that, but what is the interest for the public to know our financial state?”
The Daily asked Guerin whether there would be any further action to protest the bill.
“I hope not, but we don’t know,” he replied.
The FTQ and the CSN are two of the five construction unions in Quebec, with around 155,000 members. The Construction Commission of Quebec declined to comment on the bill.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
As over 200,000 students from across Quebec go on strike today – including McGill’s Arts Undergraduate Society – McGill’s graduate students, teaching and support staff are adding their voices to the fight against tuition hikes
As over 200,000 students from across Quebec go on strike today – including McGill’s Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) – McGill’s graduate students, teaching and support staff are adding their voices to the fight against tuition hikes. 
Unions representing McGill’s TAs, course lecturers, striking support staff, and even some professors, are mobilizing around today’s province-wide student walkout that could see tens of thousands of students take to the streets of Montreal. 
AGSEM
The Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill represents TAs, invigilators, and – as of this year – course lecturers. AGSEM will be hosting an assembly for its members at the Y-intersection at 12:30 p.m., after which members will be encouraged to join the main McGill contingent at the Roddick Gates, who are meeting at 1 p.m.
Lerona Lewis, AGSEM president, said that the union’s participation in the protest is mandated by a 2010 General Assembly, in which members voted to “support the movement against the increase in fees.”
After months at the bargaining table, Lewis spoke against the Quebec government and the McGill administrations’ claims that higher tuition will allow schools to attract better teaching talent. “The University has not yet come back with a response that says [we] will get more than 1.2 per cent increase in pay,” she said, referring to TA salaries.
Lewis added, “We don’t think…students have to pay more so that educators can be paid,” citing a “bloated administration” in her criticism of University management of finances.
MFLAG
The McGill Faculty Labour Action Group, a loose organization formed in response to the recent MUNACA strike, has been circulating a statement pledging to grant academic amnesty to any striking student.
At press time, the statement had been signed by 17 professors two days after an AUS General Assembly voted to lobby professors for academic amnesty. Derek Nystrom, a professor in the Department of English and a signatory, said that while AUS has been encouraging professors to cancel class, there is no organized campaign to cancel Thursday classes.
Asked if he expects any repercussions from the McGill administration, Nystrom said, “It does raise questions about academic freedom, pedagogical freedom, and things like that. So I genuinely don’t know if they’re going to bother.”
Yesterday morning,  Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi sent an email to department chairs reminding them that there is no “general academic amnesty” for students who miss class.
If professors cancel their classes, the email continues, they will be required to inform the chair of the department, provide “Reasonable Justification,” and indicate how the missed class time will be made up.
PGSS
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society is encouraging their members to participate in the demonstration, though it has not voted to strike. The PGSS contingent will meet up with striking Concordia students at Ste. Catherine before moving to the main protest site, Place Émilie Gamelin.
According to PGSS VP External Mariève Isabel, the society has been publicizing the day of protest since September with posters, fliers, and a town hall on tuition fees. They have also been working closely with the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ), their parent student lobbying organization.
MUNACA
The union representing support staff at McGill, on strike since the beginning of the school year, will also be joining the demonstration. According to MUNACA VP Finance David Kalant, the union has moved its picket duty to the march so striking workers can fulfill their duties by attending. The union and student protesters share similar concerns, he said.
“We do support the students fighting an increase in tuition fees. We think the problem really is not the funding, it’s a matter of how it’s used. That’s [MUNACA’s] issue as well… It’s part of the same problem.”
Kalant said he expects roughly 900 MUNACA strikers to attend the march, based on the number of workers regularly on the picket lines.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
