The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
2000 signatures call for heightened security in the borough
At the September 12 City Council meeting for the Ville-Marie borough, residents of Montreal’s Gay Village presented Mayor Gérald Tremblay with a petition calling for greater security in the borough.
The 2000-signature petition, collected over four weeks, points to homelessness, drug addiction, and mental health problems as major causes of the insecurity.
Frustrated merchants and residents voiced their concerns that security in the Village is not being enforced to the same degree as it is in other areas of the city, and that business is suffering as a result.
Measures called for in the petition include the implementation of the “Projet Nuisance” – an initiative specifically designed to deal with drug-related crime which has already been implemented in the Plateau – and a demand for direct actions to be taken by the city to help the homeless, and assist their reintegration into society.
Storeowner Ghislain Rousseau initiated the petition after witnessing numerous incidents – including an event in which he himself was assaulted while trying to help a homeless man.
“The problem has been ongoing, but there’s clearly been a recent upsurge in crime, incivilities, and verbal abuse in the neighbourhood,” Rousseau explained to The Daily in French.
Rousseau holds the City of Montreal government accountable for residents’ insecurities and for the increasing number of homeless people in the borough.
Some worry that the petition may do more harm than good, increasing the marginalization and criminalization of those targeted.
A member of Queer McGill’s Political Action Working Group, Kevin Paul wrote in an email to The Daily that he finds the petition to be a “disturbing testament to a gay, white, affluent class that has turned its back on the most marginalized individuals in the queer community.”
Paul attributed insecurity in the Village to insufficient provision of resources and social services, adding that business and condo owners in support of the petition are speaking to their economic interests.
“When the petitioners refer to ‘insecurity,’ they are concerned about their profits and real estate values, and not the well-being of people,” he said.
When asked whether the homeless population in the Village deters business, Paul responded, “I know of many people deterred from going to the Village due to its commercialism and over-policing, but I have never heard of anyone who avoids the neighbourhood because of homeless people.”
Fuck Yeah Quebec blogger William Raillant-Clark has documented various security incidents around the Village in support of the petition.
“We are asking the City of Montreal to work with the boroughs, municipalities, police, and provincial health services to ensure that the welfare of these people in need is shared equally throughout Quebec and the Montreal region,” he wrote in an email to The Daily.
Raillant-Clark explained that the petition is, above all, concerned with the fact that so many homeless people are concentrated in the area and have been abandoned by social services.
“Such concentration is providing drug dealers and pimps with an easy to access pool of victims, which, needless to say, is amplifying the problem,” he stated. “The city and province expect an already vulnerable community – gays and lesbians – to take on the responsibility of integrating these people back in to society.”
Rousseau said that the petition is not advocating the “hunting” of homeless communities, but rather the elimination of drug dealers and gangs that bring insecurity to the area.
Many agree, however, that increasing police presence in the Village is not the answer.
Isabelle Rassestin, an intervention worker at Droits Devant clinic affiliated with Le Réseau d’aide aux personnes seules et itinérantes de Montréal, spoke to possible solutions to homelessness, mental illness, and drug addiction in the Village. She suggested creating more shelters and “sites of secured injection” in order to reduce the presence of drugs on the streets, or at the very least ensure they are consumed safely.
Rousseau stated that new solutions to enhanced security, in the place of an increased police presence, must be found.
“Repression just doesn’t work, and neither have the past 15 years’ policies,” he said.
Paul shared similar sentiments, stating that “based on reports from Queer McGill members and friends, experiences of violence and intimidation in the Village are far more likely to arise from actions of the Montreal police than from the individuals targeted by this petition.”
No representative of the Village’s police force at Station 22 was available for comment at the time of press.
Upon receiving the petition, Tremblay stated that he was aware of the problem and that measures would be taken. However, residents have not heard from the City since Council.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Cree MP representing Northern Quebec riding talks to The Daily 
Romeo Saganash, NDP MP for Abitibi-Baie-James-Nunavik-Eeyou, declared his intention to run for leadership of the party on September 16. A Cree lawyer, Saganash was elected to Parliament last May. The Daily spoke with him about his decision to run, and the future of the NDP in Quebec and Canada.
 
The McGill Daily: What prompted you to run for the NDP leadership?
Romeo Saganash: Mainly the fact that I believe in what Jack [Layton, former leader of the NDP] had proposed for Canada and what he had asked me to do. When I accepted to be an NDP candidate for the last election he proposed to me a vision of Canada that I agreed with, so that is the vision, that is the dream, I want to carry on with, first and foremost as an MP of course, but also as a candidate for this leadership bid for the leadership of the NDP.
MD: Why did you decide to run for parliament in the last election? Had you tried to run before?
RS: I have never been a candidate in any election, although there is a history of parties that have approached me. In every election, whether provincial or federal, almost every party [approached me], except the conservatives – don’t ask me, why I don’t know – but in every election I have been approached by every party, but I was just not ready at times. And [Layton] has asked me to run for the NDP at least since 2006, and the reason I have been refusing so far has mainly in particular been that my children had not grown up yet, and I believed they weren’t ready. I waited just because of that.
This last time I said, “Yes, I am ready.” I had proposed to him that I run in Quebec City, because I have been there for 20 years representing the Cree in governmental affairs with the Quebec government and international affairs. I had that portfolio for the grand council of the Cree for a long time. So my base is in Quebec City and I asked [Layton] if I could run in Quebec City, and at that time when I decided to say yes, that was in February, and he looked at me straight in my eyes and said, ‘You belong in the north. You have to represent this north, the people that live in that north, whether they be Inuit, Cree, Abitibi, that is where you belong. And you are the best person to defend the rights of all in that region. So you have to go there.” I accepted his recommendation on that basis, and the rest is history.
MD: Can you expand on what experiences and perspectives you would be bring as leader of the NDP?
RS: I think the candidates that will be running will be formidable ones. Whether it be [NDP president] Brian Topp, [NDP MP for Outremont] Thomas Mulcair, [NDP MP for Ottawa Centre] Paul Dewar and the rest, if they decide to go in. These are excellent candidates, even compared to me. I am humble enough, I have enough humanity to say that these are great candidates that I will be confronting in this race. I respect that, I respect them, and that is how it is.
I think that the vision that we have, that we all have as candidates, is the same as [Layton’s]. There is no issue there we all agreed with [Layton] and we all want to pursue what [he] had in mind for Canada and the people of Canada. That is a given for all of us. How we articulate what we want is another story. In that sense, I have experience with the Cree and aboriginal peoples, which involves environmental issues, international law issues as well. I have experience negotiating agreements on behalf of the Cree and governments. That is another dimension that I will be bringing to the table. I have a long experience with the United Nations since I was involved with negotiations, discussion and the drafting of the United Nations Declarations of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples adopted in 2007. All this will bring a dimension of experience that I will perhaps be required in understanding were we want to go as a party. I say that in a sense that Canadian people and people in Quebec do not realize how we have been leaders in so many issues in the past and that this present government is doing away with our leadership, is doing away with our reputation that we have around the world. That is something we really have to consider in this race as well, what is the [Conservative] government doing with our reputation internationally? [They are] giving it away. That is something we have to be worried about, concerned about. That isn’t something that has seemed to bother the [Conservative] government. Its agenda that we can see in the 41st  parliament that started this Monday is very worrisome for Canadians, and even the expression right wing is no longer appropriate. There is an erosion of human rights in every bill they are tabling right now in the House of Commons. And the Canadian people should be worried about what is going on here.
I have worked on behalf of the Grand Council of the Cree for the Cree as you perhaps know. So on behalf of the Cree we worked with the national assembly in Quebec we worked with the parliament of Canada here in Ottawa we presented briefs we met with ministers we met the premiers of Quebec and the prime ministers in parliament. So the process and how things happen in both institutions I have experience in. So yes I maybe a rookie MP, granted, but I am no rookie in politics. So that is what I am bringing to this job, that I love, by the way.
MD: What do the results of the 2011 Federal election say to you about the changing desires of the people of Quebec and the rest of Canada? And how would you address this in your leadership?
RS: The very first day that I arrived in the riding, the very first day we found an apartment and everything, in my whole life I never had to take more than ten minutes in a grocery store. I wanted to get some groceries, food, and everything, for supper. And it took me not ten minutes, it took me an hour and a half to get out of the IGA I went to in Val-d’Or. That was telling because people approached me, people said, “We are happy that you are running, we no longer need what has been going on in Ottawa for such a long time with the Bloc [Québécois]. I am a former voter for the Bloc, and its time that we changed. We need to have a dialogue we need to have a discussion. We need to have a public discussion on a lot of things and we want this.” A lot of people even before the polls showed us we were climbing in the polls we felt it the very first day. There were a lot of Bloc Québécois members, former Bloc Québécois members that came over to the NDP. There were a lot of Liberal members that came over to the NDP, a lot of Conservatives as well. And a lot of people – and this part is important – a lot of people were blasé about politics in Quebec, and a lot of people for the first time voted in the last election. That is also telling because people were sick and tired of what they were seeing and they want a change, and that is what they told me.
MD: Do you think the NDP’s mandate has changed now that it is the majority party in Quebec?
RS: No, I think the NDP has to represent everybody in Canada, not just Quebec. I have mentioned in my many interviews that I have done since I announced that I was running that I am not there. I may be a Cree – Cree background, Cree culture, Cree language – but I never asked during the last election that the Cree vote for me because I am Cree, I asked for them to vote for me because of the values, the position and the policies that I will defend as a member of the NDP caucus, and as the official opposition. And that should remain true across the country. Just because we have 59 members in [parliament] from Quebec that we should change. We should be there to represent everybody. The 59 members understand that, and I think that the other members from across the country understand that as well.
MD: What problems do you think could affect the NDP in its shift of its support from the Anglophone community to the Francophone community?
RS: It is not a problem, it is a challenge, and every challenge has its opportunities. … I am willing to do the work to get more membership in Quebec – being an MP from Quebec – and the same challenge mind you belongs to other candidates that are not from Quebec. I have to do the work in Quebec to get more delegates and more members, that’s a given. I think the other candidates have to do the same work both in Quebec and outside Quebec. I have to the work outside of Quebec as well. The challenge is there. There are 4.5 million people that voted for the NDP in the last election, so I think there is some basis there that we have to work on. And that is one of the things that we need to tackle in this leadership race.
MD: Will your leadership focus the platform of the NDP in a different way?
RS: The NDP has changed a lot. It will continue to work on protecting the rights of workers across the country. That is something that will not change. But the NDP has other issues that it wants to work on. That includes the youth, people that are out of work, the elderly, students, aboriginal peoples, and what have you. We have an incredible agenda in front of us, and that is what we are working on. It is not just the workers, it is everybody. [Layton] said we must not leave anybody behind, and that is something that we believe in.
MD: Traditional political commentary attributes at least part of the NDP’s success to the forceful and engaging personality of Jack Layton? What role do you see the next leader of the NDP having within the party and in Quebec?
I have said since I announced since that I was running, I think this is also an opportunity for the party to showcase the talent and the depth that we have in the party. There are incredible people in this party, they are very talented, so I think that is something that we need to show Canadians across the country – that this party is here for business, and they’re serious, that we can do this job and that we can govern this country, and that is what people need to understand. Obviously the Conservative government will deny that. We will continue to do the work that needs to be done. And we will not stop until the sun comes up. That is what [Layton] has asked us to do and that is what we are going to do. Whether it is Romeo Saganash or the others that will run, I know that there will be a lot of very good candidates, excellent candidates, incredible candidates. We have to show the people that we can do this.
MD: What goals do you have in supporting sustainable development in Canada?
I have worked on constitutional issues, international law issues, on behalf of the Cree, environmental issues as well, resource development, responsible resource development, sustainable development, water rights, climate change, relations with aboriginal people and so on. I think these are all interrelated, interconnected, and we cannot separate environmental protection from anything else in all of this. 
Because natural resources are naturally related to aboriginal people, to the environment, to economic development, to social development, to cultural development, and even political development. All of this is related, is interrelated, interconnected. And that is how we have to approach issues in this country in the coming years. I think the time where we tended to put these issues in different compartments, separate compartments, is no longer there. We have gone past that, and I think we need to see the whole picture now.
 
— Compiled by Adrian Turcato
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Compromise reached with end keynote moved to Thomson House
Organizers of the McGill Science & Policy Exchange were made aware last week that the key endnote speaker for the event, Thomas Mulcair, would not be attending the event.
MP for Outremont and deputy leader for the NDP, Mulcair backed out Monday morning due to concerns about crossing picket lines formed by striking workers in the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA).
“He said that as a matter of principle he would not cross picket lines, and if he had to, he would not be able to speak,” said Jonathan Mooney, one of the conference organizers.
“We got in touch with MUNACA and Mulcair and were in open communication all Tuesday to see what we would be able to do,” he continued.
The organizers spent Tuesday in negotiations with Mulcair’s office trying to reach a solution that suited both Mulcair and the Exchange. “What we were able to do was move the entire speech to a different spot entirely, from the Faculty Club to Thomson House,” said Mooney.
By Tuesday night the organizers, MUNACA, and Mulcair had come to a compromise that would allow Mulcair to fulfill his role as endnote speaker without crossing the picket lines. It was decided that the majority of the Exchange would occur at its original venue in the Faculty club, then a break would allow attendees to make their way to the Thomson House.
Thomson House is home to the McGill Post Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), who issued a statement of support for MUNACA workers on strike at their most recent Council meeting.
“We [the exchange] are supported by PGSS who supports MUNACA, so it really is a chain of support and respect,” said Janet Price, another organizer of the event.
Price added that, “Mr. Mulcair actually addressed the picket lines before he went into Thomson House, so he was able to respect us by coming to speak as well as respecting [MUNACA].”
“He never actually said that he [could] not come, it was that he had issues with the venue that we had chose previously,” said Monika Rak, another conference organizer. “This was a nice little in-between.”
The Science & Policy Exchange is put on by graduate and post-doctoral fellows at McGill and is run completely by volunteers. The theme for this year’s conference, held at the McGill Faculty Club, was “Quebec’s Future Research: Economy and Society.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Discussion of ongoing labour dispute dominates first meeting of the year
The McGill Senate held its first meeting of the year last Thursday, while nearly thirty students held a demonstration in support of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) outside the room. The students marched from the Roddick Gates to the Leacock Building, where the meeting was held.
Before the march to Leacock, Claire Stewart-Kanigan, U1 Political Science, explained her attendance at the event.
“This is an institution for the students,” Stewart-Kanigan said. “If the students themselves don’t approve of the administration then I think it sends a clear message to the administration that something needs to be done.”
Security initially blocked entry to the group as they attempted to enter the building, after which students found an alternate entrance. Once inside, guards allowed few spectators to enter the room, and told the majority of protesters that they would not be let in due to their potential disruption of the meeting.
“There was an illegal demonstration inside the Leacock Building with participants intent on disrupting the Senate meeting,” Michael Di Grappa, VP (Administration and Finance), stated in an email to The Daily. “The participants refused to exit the building or to stop their demonstration. There were not sufficient guarantees that, if allowed into the meeting, the participants would respect the right of Senators to conduct their meeting with dignity and decorum.”
Di Grappa refused to address the fact that security filmed the demonstration, explaining that the administration “won’t discuss security procedures.” Security at the scene told students that they were being filmed because they were protesting inside.
Students sat outside of the meeting for an hour and half, while various participants, including members of the McGill Faculty Labour Action Group, spoke to the group.
Despite the fact that singing and drumming was clearly audible from within the room, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum, who chaired the meeting, never acknowledged the protesters.
Munroe-Blum did address the issue of the strike, giving a brief background of each side’s demands and calling the strike an “unfortunate development, one that I know we all wish to resolve as quickly as possible.”
“We are all proud of all members of our employee groups,” she added.
Munroe-Blum then spoke about the state of McGill’s self-funded MBA program, and detailed the criteria used for national and international university rankings, and how McGill’s rankings compare to other Canadian schools.
Professor Darin Barney, an associate professor in the Art History & Communication Studies department and Canada Research Chair in Technology and Citizenship, rose to give a statement about the impact of the strike on campus. Barney said he wanted to “fill in the gaps” in the administrations assessment of the strike’s impacts. Barney had previously authored a letter of solidarity with MUNACA, which was sent to Munroe-Blum and Provost Anthony Masi, with no response from the administration. The letter is also posted on the MUNACA website.
Barney’s statement detailed responses that he has received from MUNACA workers, fellow professors, and students about how the strike has affected them.
“A 20-year employee of the University told me that when her several managers cross the picket line, they refuse to acknowledge or even look at her,” he said.
Barney explained that he has walked with MUNACA workers on picket lines, and that “it’s the first time [some MUNACA workers] have ever felt that professors even know they exist, let alone what happens to them,” he said.
Law professor Richard Janda raised a question about the University’s policy to not allow professors to teach off-campus. In an email to all staff and students last Thursday, Di Grappa wrote that, “A professor’s right to not cross the picket line does not confer the right to move classes off campus.”
Janda said the email “raises great concern.” He asked how Senate could “move away from this rather polarizing moment in the life of the community,” and give professors who wish to show solidarity with striking workers the ability to do so.
Barney also spoke about student concerns about crossing picket lines to attend class, and, later, asked whether provisions are made for students who may miss classes in their refusal to cross.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson addressed the concern, explaining that students are responsible for their academic assignments and class attendance, and that “a strike is not a normally acceptable excuse.”
When asked whether it would be possible to establish a policy of academic amnesty to deal with situations like these, Mendelson said that it is “not for [him] to say.”
The issue of managers shouldering extra work to make up for MUNACA workers was raised, as John Galaty, an associate professor in the Department of Anthropology and Director of the Centre for Society, Technology and Development, questioned whether the “extraordinary efforts” of staff are sustainable.
Munroe-Blum ended the discussion by saying that it is “not going to be productive to go into a detailed exchange on these comments [at Senate].”
Over the course of the discussion, multiple Senators expressed gratification that the administration had admitted that the University is not business as usual.
SSMU VP University Affairs Emily Yee Clare, a student Senator, brought forth a question regarding the effects of the labour dispute on student services, and asked what the administration is doing to consider the needs of students in their decision-making process.
The question asked how students can achieve full potential “in light of critically reduced access to vital services.”
Mendelson disagreed with the terminology, telling Senate that, “The vast majority of services, at least for now, have not been critically reduced.”
“Frontline student services have been a priority,” he added, and cited the fact that McLennan Library is open 24 hours daily as proof.
Following discussion of the MUNACA strike, Galaty asked a question about the implication of University budget cuts to teaching assistants (TAs).
Masi explained that the central administration does not control how many TA-ships each faculty has, as the line item in the budget is labeled as “teaching support,” which faculties can spend on anything that falls under that category, including classroom materials.
When pressed further about negotiations on the TA’s collective agreement, Masi said that the administration cannot comment on negotiations due to legal restraints.
Masi, referring back to the discussion about MUNACA negotiations, added, “I have many things I would like to say to Professor Barney, and will do so in private.”
– with files from Henry Gass
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students remain unaffected, but anticipate significant slowdowns
As the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) strike enters its third week, students, administrators, and faculty at the Macdonald campus are feeling the absence of the approximately 90 clerical, teaching, and research employees who work there.
At the entrance to the campus, which houses McGill’s Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences and the School of Dietetics and Nutrition, a picket line has formed every day since the strike began on September 1. The group is made up of MUNACA members who work at Macdonald Campus, as well as downtown employees who live in the West Island.
David Kalant, MUNACA VP Finance, explained that the impact felt at Macdonald is similar to that at McGill’s downtown campus.
“I have no good way of comparing the campuses, but I suspect it’s similar. In both cases the normal functioning of the University is impossible without us,” he said.
Macdonald’s Career Planning Service (CaPS) office is one of the many services at the campus affected by the strike. Callers to offices are temporarily being greeted with a recorded message that redirects them to the downtown receptionist.
Susan Smith, the Office Coordinator for CaPS, expressed regret over having to leave her job and did not see a fast resolution as likely.
“I’m not under any illusions – this is going to go on for awhile,” she told The Daily. “I’m not seeing any lack of resolve on the picket line, and I think it’s just a sad situation. All we need to do is get together and talk.”
Some picketers, although reluctant to comment on the strike, pointed to the suspension of inter-library loan and difficulties in Macdonald’s IT department as signs that their absence is having an effect on campus services.
Students who take classes at Macdonald expressed differing views on how the strike is affecting them, including some who said they haven’t noticed much of a difference at all.
Elodie, an Agricultural and Environmental Sciences student, said,  “It hasn’t really affected me in any way in particular. I can still go to class and do my labs,” although she did add that she had to wait longer than expected for her doctor’s appointment. Like many offices on both campuses, the Macdonald Student Services Center’s hours have been cut as a result of the strike.
Chris Borkent, a graduate student in the Department of Natural Resource Sciences, said his day-to-day life was unaffected, but expressed concern about who would handle his thesis submission if the strike continued into December.
“I know that that paperwork stuff is being handled by some administrators here,” Borkent said, “but of course they’ve got to do it for everybody and I won’t be the only person submitting, so it might get a little snaky.”
Sunny, a U3 Arts student taking a course at the Macdonald Campus, explained that she supports MUNACA and stood on the picket line with the strikers for a day, but that she is concerned that her fellow students do not appreciate the strike’s significance.
“I’ve been quite ashamed of [McGill] University during the strike, and with the lack of solidarity from other staff at McGill,” she said. “I was hoping for more support, and I’ve seen none – if [anything] I’ve seen sort of anti-strike attitudes, which I find really scary.”
In an interview with The Daily, chief technician at the Montreal Neurological Institute and MUNACA member Farah Jalili was asked by a passerby why MUNACA members don’t work for themselves or another university, rather than go on strike.
“McGill goes from 20 to 19, 18 to 17 [in university rankings],” answered Jalili. “We are part of that strength, that McGill is ranking higher and higher,” she said.
Her companion, Aghdas Zamani, a course coordinator for the Department of Microbiology and Immunology, characterized the strike as an unfortunate necessity.
“MUNACA is not pro-strike, and we do not want to put McGill into chaos or shut the University down. McGill put us here. They didn’t give us our rights for a long, long time and we decided that enough is enough.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Humane Society International underlines need for new animal rights legislation
Correction appended – Tue, Sep 27
On September 16, Paws ‘R’ Us Kennel, a rural dog breeding facility located in Quebec’s Clarendon Township, about 90km outside of Gatineau, was found to be in violation of the Quebec Animal Welfare Act (QAWA). That weekend, employees and volunteers from the Humane Society International (HSI) and Le ministère de l’Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l’Alimentation du Québec (MAPAQ) removed over 500 dogs from the facility.
Rebecca Aldworth, director of HSI, spoke with The Daily concerning the conditions at the rural Quebec kennel, where over 40 breeds of dogs were found.
“I have participated in removals before, and I can say that this was the largest breeding facility I have encountered, where the most basic needs of these animals were not being met,” she said.
The Quebec Animal Health Protection Act, known as P-42, states that, “Safety and welfare of an animal is jeopardized where [it] has no access to drinking water or food in quantity and quality compatible with the biological requirements of its kind.”
The bill also states that fines for an owner or custodian of an animal whose treatment violates the conditions regarding the safety and well being of animals or the facilities in which they live, range from $400 to $3,600.
According to Aldworth, an inspection on early Friday morning was “warrant for immediate removal.” Videos posted online by HSI show the condition of the dogs as they were being evacuated from the kennel.
The owner of the operation, Charlene Labombard, insisted that there was no wrongdoing on her part. According to the Ottawa Sun, Lambobard said that the seizure was part of an ongoing campaign by a former customer to slander her.
In a 2009 ruling by the Superior Court of Justice in Ontario, a former customer of Paws ‘R’ Us, Lorie Gordon, was forced to pay $14,000 in reparations for slandering Labombard’s business.
Gordon owned two dogs born at Paws ‘R’ Us: one was euthanized after being diagnosed with hip dysplasia – which can be easily bred out with genetic testing, a common practice with most breeders – and one which had mange, a skin disease.
The crux of the case was Gordon’s online description of the business being a puppy mill. The judge used the Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council of Canada (PIJAC) definition of a puppy mill to deem Gordon’s description slanderous.
PIJAC defines a puppy mill as “a high volume, sub-standard dog breeding operation, which sells purebred or mixed breed dogs to unsuspecting buyers.” The definition continues to list common characteristics of a puppy mill, including the failure to provide socialization, safe housing, maintained sanitary facilities, veterinary care, and husbandry.
During the evacuation, Labombard spoke to reporters, stating, “I just wanted to breed dogs so that they could go to families and be loved… I am losing my livelihood and I’m very upset.”
The intervention is the latest incident that adds to Quebec’s poor animal rights record. Quebec was called “the best province to be an animal abuser” in a report released by the U.S. Animal Legal Defense Fund earlier this year.
The evacuation has sparked calls for reformation to P-42.
“HSI has been working with the Quebec government on new legislation that will be coming out in [the next few] days that will help shut down some of the worst offenders,” Aldworth said.
Higher fines and jail sentences for offenders were among changes that Aldworth felt could be effective.
HSI is also calling for people to stop buying dogs and cats at pet stores, especially ones who do not actively trace the origin of the pets they sell.
Aldworth said that the onus is on pet owners to be aware of where their dog is coming from. “People don’t really know what they’re buying. They see a cute little puppy in the window and have no idea where that dog comes from.”
Katherine Macdonald, an employee at the Montreal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) and the president of McGill’s Animal Liberties Club, tied the weekend seizure to a lack of public awareness.
In an email to The Daily, Macdonald wrote, “The closure of Paws ‘R’ Us is yet another example of the overpopulation problem, especially in Quebec…there aren’t enough inspectors to cover all of Quebec, making the probability of a puppy mill being discovered slim.”
Due to an editorial error, in the printed version of this article (News, pg. 7, Sep 26) inaccurate information is given regarding the nature of the basic needs of animals not being met in the breeding facility. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
