The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councillors question whether strategic five-year plan will benefit McGill employees
McGill Provost Anthony Masi made an appearance at Legislative Council last Thursday to present the ASAP 2012 White Paper (Achieving Strategic Academic Priorities), a five-year strategic plan for the University referred to as the “blueprint by which we allocated funding.”
The plan was updated at Council to include a greater focus on technology in pedagogical work and interdisciplinary research. Masi remained for questions for nearly an hour after the allotted time for his presentation.
A major focus of the plan is increasing the number of professors at the University. Arts Senator Matt Crawford brought up concerns that this would come at the expense of course lecturers and TAs.
“We’d like to have more tenure track professors who can bring their expertise into the program,” stated Masi, who continued to explain that the positions would vary across disciplines. “Some faculties will be requiring more course lecturers,” he added.
Masi was reluctant to answer questions regarding the MUNACA strike, citing the fact that he has not been present at the bargaining table.
Education representative and former Daily Design and Production editor Kady Paterson questioned the White Paper’s proposed commitments to enhancing career development opportunities for all McGill employees, citing a perceived reluctance on the part of McGill to allow MUNACA members back to work.
“The support staff walked out. There’s a strike, so people should tone down their rhetoric,” Masi responded.
The comment came after questioning about the administration’s treatment of students who protest and visibly support MUNACA on campus.
“There is confusion between the ability to conduct freedom of expression and the inability of the University to go about its business,” Masi said.
“The injunction [against MUNACA] doesn’t say you don’t have the freedom of speech,” he added.
Masi spoke of increased commitments to TAs. “We have engaged with TAs in something called a ‘skillset’ program.  We are certainly in favour of anything that enhances the skills of our graduate students and our TAs,” he said.
Jonathan Mooney, representative for the Association of Graduate Students Emplyed at McGill, announced that the union will vote during its next Council meeting on whether to authorize pressure tactics.
“When we vote to authorize pressure tactics, that excludes a strike,” said Mooney, specifying that tactics may include letter writing campaigns and rallies.
In light of the upcoming fall referendum period, members of community radio station CKUT were present to see their referendum question approved by Council. The question asks students to vote on the continued existence of CKUT by renewing the $4.00 per semester fee from every undergraduate.
The motion is similar to their previous existence referendum question, but includes specification that the fee “is not opt-outable on the Minerva online opt-out system but is refundable on the premises of CKUT.”
Since the online opt-out system was instituted in 2007, CKUT and other interest groups supported by opt-outable fees have attempted to negotiate the system with the University, but have yet to see any changes made.
Myriam Zaidi, a CKUT board member and former SSMU executive, responded to concerns that forcing students to retrieve their refund from CKUT’s premises might be intimidating for some.
“This is like a refund, so when you purchase something at a store, you’re not pressured to answer whether or not you’re going to keep it,” she said.
Since McGill has control over the Minerva online opt-out system, questions were raised whether or not the University would make changes if such a motion were to be passed.  VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser, who authored the motion, responded that, “McGill would be grossly delegitimizing democratic processes if it ignored the votes of thousands of undergraduates.”
QPIRG put their referendum question forward by collecting 500 student signatures, as opposed to submitting the question to Council. However, QPIRG representatives were present at Council to discuss the work of the group and answer any questions that councillors had.
A motion presented by the Executive Committee to enhance transparency was passed, despite questions regarding its constitutionality from former SSMU President Zach Newburgh. Minutes from in-camera sessions of the Executive Committee will now be available to Councillors upon request.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Opponents argue private member’s bill represents excessive intrusion
Canada’s unions may be forced to disclose annual financial statements to the federal government if a private members bill passes.
Russ Hiebert, Conservative MP for the South Surrey-White Rock-Cloverdale riding in British Columbia, tabled Bill C-317, “An Act to Amend the Income Tax Act (labour organizations),” in Parliament two weeks ago. Under the bill, every labour union in Canada would be required to file a standard set of financial statements each year with Revenue Canada.
“The Federal Government provides substantial public benefits to unions as they perform this valuable task for Canadians. My bill is designed to provide for the financial disclosure of how those public benefits are used,” said Hiebert in a press release, referring to the federal tax exemptions granted to unions.
Hiebert was unavailable for comment due to meetings.
“With public disclosure, Canadians will be able to gauge the effectiveness, financial integrity and health of their unions… The principle is, just like charities, labour organizations receive a public benefit and the public should be informed how that public benefit is being used,” continued Hiebert in the press release.
The bill is accruing significant opposition. Jinny Sims, NDP MP for the Newton-North Delta riding in British Columbia, called the bill “absolutely ridiculous and unnecessary.”
“It is an attack on the union movement. This government has made no secret that they see the unions as barriers, as getting in the way of some of their agenda, and this is another way to undermine the union,” said Sims.
“I think that whenever any of our institutions have this kind of intrusion and oversight it hurts all Canadians, because if you’re going to do that with unions, what’s the next step? If you’re going to do it with the unions, let’s do it with the private corporations as well,” she continued.
The bill is in its second reading in the House of Commons.
Sims, a former president of the British Columbia Teacher’s Federation – which represents 41,000 public school teachers in the province – said union finances are already well monitored.
“Russ Hiebert is behaving as if union funds are public funds. People pay to be members of a union, and there is an incredible amount of oversight into the funds,” she said.
“The business of union dues and how they are handled is the business of those people who belong to that union. It is not public money. It’s money that belongs to members of that union,” she continued.
Lerona Lewis, president of McGill’s largest on campus union – the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) representing over 3,000 members – does not see the bill as a problem.
“You can go online to look to see what was spent, when it was spent, and so on,” she said, adding that transparency was “something we believe in anyway.”
AGSEM’s financial statements are public on the website of their parent union the Confédération des syndicates nationaux (CSN).
Molly Alexander, an advisor to AGSEM from the Fédération nationale des enseignantes et des enseignants du Québec, another CSN subsidiary, said they were fine with the bill so long as “it doesn’t become just more bureaucracy and more paperwork.”
“Constitutionally…the [AGSEM] executive is required to present a budget and financial statements to its members,” she said.
But Lewis expressed the concern that C-317’s proposals were not worth the potential costs for unions.
“Probably you’ll have to hire another person to just meet those requirements, and if you multiply all the unions and, you know, are you creating more bureaucracy to solve a real problem?” she asked.
A website in support of the bill – c317.ca – states on its home page that “using electronic filing, the annual filing expense incurred by unions and by the federal government should be negligible.”
The website also states that “public disclosure will demonstrate that unions spend their money wisely, effectively and obtain good value for members’ dues. To suggest that this is somehow an attack on the NDP or the labour movement is a fiction.”
Peterborough Conservative MP Dean del Mastro recently accused unions’ leaders of “seeking to buy influence” with the NDP.
Sims noted that a bill to reform union political contributions would have to amend the Elections Act, while C-317 proposes amendments to the Income Tax Act.
“So far the Elections Canada, the people who investigate, have said they’ve got nothing of substance, and once again it is the Tory backbenchers throwing out all kinds of allegations,” she said.
Sims continued to state that Conservatives are “creating a kind of excitement out there to detract from the fact that we have a lot of people in Canada not working.”
“I think the biggest chill factor in this is that this government actually believes they can go in and investigate how people spend their money, money belonging to a group,” she added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Society debates whether new mobile plans will be effective
The Science Undergraduate Society (SUS) voted in a general council meeting on October 6 to allow an expenditure of $4,320  for mobile phones and plans for executives.
The budget allocation, which was brought to council by SUS President Akshay Rajaram, passed with 14 councillors for and 9 against.
According to Rajaram, the mobile devices, iPhone 4’s, will be used exclusively for business and will be passed on to incoming executives from year to year.
SUS Executive Revenue Officer Akal Sethi  explained that the “reason we chose to get a smart phone, in this case the iPhone, is the amount of emails we receive per day. It’s nearly impossible to handle such an amount, say 50 to 60 emails per day, if you’re only accessing them on your computer.”
“It helps us communicate more efficiently,” he continued. “Increasing our speed and our response time makes us plan events better, helps us solve problems better.”
Rajaram agreed, explaining that “one of the biggest issues is that we’re all full time students, and sometimes you can’t pick up your phone in class. So sending an email is a lot easier and a lot more discrete than answering your phone.”
Not everyone on Council, however, agreed on the rationale for the expense of the phones.
According to SUS VP Finance Elaine Xie, when the 2011-2012 budget was originally presented to council in late September, the allocation for cell phones had to be tabled because it was such a “contentious issue.”
Science Senator Max Luke  explained that concerns included how personal usage of the cell phones would be regulated, and whether using student dollars for mobile devices was justified.
“I’m a senator, and I know that tons of other people, like councillors…and all the other [faculty societies], and they seem to be able to do just fine, and I’m fairly sure that we receive a similar volume of emails,” said Luke.
“They claim it’s for efficiency’s sake,” he continued, “but I don’t think it will be more efficient, and, honestly, I don’t think that’s the rationale behind it. I think part of the rationale behind these phones is that it’s just a cool gadget.”
Luke also expressed concern that the budget allocation within SUS would set a precedent for other undergraduate faculty societies to follow suit.
SUS is not the first student society at McGill to incorporate cell phone expenses into their budget. SSMU executives have been given mobile phones for the past four years for work related uses.
According to Carol Fraser, SSMU VP Clubs and Services, the added yearly expense is worthwhile because it “helps the executives be more accountable to students and more efficient in a lot of ways.”
“I think it’s really useful, it makes executives a lot easier to get in touch with, and it’s nice because I know that, for myself, the bill, if it wasn’t covered by SSMU, would be a lot financially,” she said.
When asked whether the expense for undergraduate faculty societies was justified, Fraser said, “I think it’s really useful [with SSMU]. So if they have the same kinds of needs, then yes, for sure.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Provincial government allocating $1.9 million to municipal climate programs 
Montreal has been rated the second worst city in Canada in regard to air quality according to a September 26 World Health Organization (WHO) assessment. Montreal is ranked only behind the industrial town of Sarnia, Ontario.
The WHO compiled data from 1,100 cities in 91 countries worldwide to create an assessment of urban outdoor air pollution. The goal of the assessment is to raise awareness and facilitate solutions to limit the impacts of outdoor air pollution on public health.
Nada Osserian, the communications officer of the Health and Environment Department at the WHO, explained to The Daily that the WHO estimates more than 2 million people die annually from breathing in tiny particles present in indoor and outdoor air pollution.
Air quality is determined by the presence of one air pollutant, known as PM2.5, which measures less than 2.5 microns. Cities were rated based on the concentration of this pollutant per cubic meter of air. Air quality is represented by annual mean concentration of this fine particulate matter.
According to the WHO’s assessment, Montreal contains an average of 11.3 micrograms per cubic meter of air of pollutant. This is slightly lower than the 12.7 micrograms in Sarnia.
Toronto and Vancouver were rated as having higher air quality than Montreal, containing 7.9 micrograms and 4.9 micrograms of PM2.5 respectively.
According to 2006 data from the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency, the type of pollutants assessed in the recent WHO report are shown to lead to more than 4,000 deaths each year in Canada.
These pollutants have contributed to approximately 1,500 deaths each year in Montreal.
The City of Montreal’s environmental municipal branch, Direction de l’environnement et du développement durable, focuses on environmental services and sustainable development. The purpose of this branch is to improve and monitor the quality of the physical environment in Montreal and the quality of life for citizens.
As of 2010, there were 14 monitoring stations located throughout the island of Montreal, creating a network able to assess air quality.
Data collected in these monitoring networks in 2010 showed that there were 65 days that year with air quality ratings of “poor,” three less days of poor air quality than in 2009. Fine particles alone accounted for 63 of the poor air quality days.
Despite the data on air quality in Montreal, Canada ranks as the third-best country in WHO’s worldwide air quality ratings.
The level of air pollution in Montreal is lower than other major metropolitan cities. Paris rated at 22.7 micrograms, and according to the WHO, the rate of PM2.5 in Beijing reached 121 micrograms per cubic meter of air.
In a 2010 Highlights report, Chantal I. Gagnon, the director of Direction de l’environnement et du développement durable, states that “air and water quality continued to be closely monitored.”
The government of Quebec recently granted $1.9 million to its Climat municipalités program. This grant will be put towards “mak[ing] Montreal a sustainable metropolis,” according to Gagnon.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
