The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
2010
SEPTEMBER
Frosh
Frosh season never goes by without some flak, and this year was no exception. Management Undergraduate Society Frosh planned a tribal frosh that drew accusations of racism and cultural insensitivity for its overt thematization of indigineous culture: MUS president Céline Junke apologized online, and the theme was subsequently toned down to “Superheroes.”
In the meantime, Nampande Londe Arts Undergraduate Society VP Events resigned after announcing that AUS frosh was severely in the red.
Architecture Café closed
Students returned to school to find that the historic cafe in the basement of the Macdonald-Harrington building – and the most popular meeting place relatively free of the homogenizing hand of McGill Food and Dining services – was permanently shut down. Morton Mendelson told the Reporter that “there was no such thing as a free lunch,” and revealed his stance on student-run enterprise outside of Shatner to the Daily: “I assume it was being run in good faith by students who were really dedicated to the enterprise… but the café was essentially run like a lemonade stand.”
SSMU endorsed a lively boycott of McGill Food and Dining Services and students retaliated with a hundreds-strong protest outside of two Senate meetings. Later in the semester, The Daily found that the cafe was running a minor deficit after MFDS took their cut (they partly managed the operations). Emails revealing back-and-forth between the ASA, the EUS, and the administration over the cafes future were obtained from an Access to Information request.
Bikes banned
Students complained about the lack of consultation when the administration began enforcing a campus ban on bike riding, coupled with the rhetoric of a greener, more pedestrian friendly space.
Abidor v. Napolitano
Pascal Abidor – a McGill Islamic Studies PhD student and American citizen – took on the U.S. Department of Homeland Security after being detained at the U.S. border and having his laptop held for 11 days in May 2010.
He was challenging American policy that allowed for border searches without reasonable suspicion.
Streetwalkers come indoors
Ontario Superior Justice Susan Himel struck down three provisions of the Criminal Code that placed sex workers at risk in the now historic case Bedford v. Canada. The three provisions – communicating to solicit sex, running or working in a brothel, and living off income procured by sex work – were ruled to be in violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms when they were challenged in court by Terri Jean Bedford, a dominatrix, and two former sex workers.
 
OCTOBER
Union drive
The Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) began to organize a union for course lecturers – McGill’s are among the lowest-paid in the province – but faced obstacles from the administration. After an altercation involving the removal of AGSEM posters, more than twenty faculty members signed an open letter stating their support for AGSEM’s campaign and denouncing the administration’s behaviour.
Omar Khadr
Former child soldier and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr pleads guilty to a military commission on five charges – including the murder of American medic Sargeant Christopher Sheer – on a plea bargain deal that reduces his sentence to eight years, with permission to apply for transfer to Canada after one year.
Khadr was 15 when he was captured by American troops in 2002 in Afghanistan after throwing a fatal hand grenade and has spent over eight years at the detention centre at Guantamo; Prime Minister Stephen Harper repeatedly stonewalled court decisions to repatriate Khadr.
 
NOVEMBER
Construction Halted
Construction of the $1.34-billion McGill University Health Centre was halted after companies were issued a “stop-work order” for beginning construction on a temporary parking lot in the City of Westmount without a building permit.
State of emergency declared
On October 21, the remote First Nation community of Eabametoong is sent two OPP officers after Chief Lewis Nate declared a state of emergency. The declaration was made in response to a number of escalating issues the small community had recently faced, including the arson of a local school, two murders of local youth and the fire-bombing of a church minister’s house while five people were inside.
Pizza with the IDF
The Jewish Studies Student Assocation (JSSA), along with the Bronfman Israel Experience Centre – commonly known as Birthright – hosted a pizza lunch and discussion with three IDF soldiers in the Jewish Studies building on November 4. Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR) organized a protest outside of the event to demonstrate against the presence of Israeli military on campus.
Bill C-300
Bill C-300 – a private member’s bill – would have held Canadian mining companies accountable for infractions against the environment and human rights, if enacted. The bill was first brought forward by Liberal MP John McKay with assistance from the University of Ottawa, McGill, and the University of Toronto. Stephen Harper, who normally does not vote on private members’ bills, was present and had his caucus vote against the bill. Canadian mining companies have close relationships with the economy and the federal Canada Pension Plan. The bill was defeated 140 votes to 134 votes.
Arch Cafe’s docs revealed
After two of the biggest campus rallies in recent memory, getting access to the Arch Café’s financial books, and continuous sleuthing, The Daily received a document dump that finally broke the story wide open. The documents included personal emails between administrators and student politicians, internal memoranda, and reports. The documents came after filing an Access to Information request; the new information shed light on the decision-making process surrounding the closure and detailed the coordinated media strategy on the part of the administration.
 
DECEMBER
Quebec City protest
On December 6 student and labour unions gathered in Quebec City to protest the second Rencontre des partenaires en éducation – a meeting of provincial government ministers and university administrators regarding austerity measures and tuition increases.  Over 60, 000 students were present; most were members of the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ). The strike was province-wide. Representatives from student, professor, and labour unions walked out of the meeting due to what they saw as the government’s unwillingness to negotiate on proposed tuition hikes.


2011
JANUARY
McKinsey and Co.
Management-consulting firm McKinsey and Co. offered its services pro bono to the McGill administration as a result of several alumni holding senior positions at the firm. The company helped with McGill’s Strategic Reframing Initiative, despite an attempted GA motion calling for the University to reject the offer.
Tunisia
Thousands of supporters of the Jasmine Revolution gathered in Montreal’s Dorchester Square after Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was ousted on January 14.
Egypt
Amid chants and songs in Arabic, English, and French, several hundred from Montreal’s Egyptian community converged in front of Montreal’s Egyptian consulate. Protesters celebrated the four consecutive days of mass protests in Egypt against the government of Hosni Mubarak.
 
FEBRUARY
#ssmupocalypse
SSMU President Zach Newburgh revealed his involvement with internet startup Jobbook in a six-hour closed session of SSMU Legislative Council. Council introduced a motion to impeach Newburgh, but amended this to a public censure. Newburgh disregarded numerous calls for his resignation, maintaining that he had not violated any SSMU regulations.
Revolution accomplished
Montreal celebrated the ousting of Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak. The end of Mubarak’s thirty-year reign came after weeks of massive protests across Egypt, and rallies worldwide in solidarity with the Egyptian people.
 
MARCH
SSMU elections
Maggie Knight won the SSMU presidency by a landslide, winning 67.2 per cent of the vote, over the 25.8 per cent taken by her opponent Cathal Rooney-Céspedes. The remainder of the SSMU executive elected was VP External Joël Pednault, VP Finance Shyam Patel, VP Internal Todd Plummer, VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser, and VP University Affairs Emily Clare.
McGill fined by province
The Quebec government imposed a $2-million fine on McGill for raising tuition in the MBA program. MBA tuition was increased by about 900 per cent, violating Quebec budgetary laws.
Protesting tuition hikes
Quebec Minister of Finance Raymond Bachand announced the 2011-2012 Quebec budget. Tuition hikes were included in the budget; tuition will increase $325 per student per year for five years, beginning in 2012. Students from l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ) demonstrated in and occupied the offices of the Ministry of Finance in Montreal; in Saguenay – Lac-St-Jean, students of the Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec (FECQ) occupied the premises of Serge Simard, Quebec delegate Minister for Natural Resources.
Twitter trouble
Student Haaris Khan was investigated by the McGill administration and Montreal police after he tweeted from a campus film screening, threating to shoot students in attendence. Khan later deleted the Twitter account and apologized.
Harper government in contempt
The conservative government of Stephen Harper fell when Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff introduced a motion of non-confidence. The government was also found to be in contempt of Parliament, for the first time in Canadian history.
Disaster in Japan
A 9.0 magnitude earthquake and a tsunami hit Japan on March 11, resulting in mass destruction and a death toll of over 27,000. The earthquake caused the collapse of nuclear power plants, prompting fears of radiation and nuclear leaks.
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Nuclear Safety Commission to review Hydro-Québec’s proposed refurbishments
In nine days, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) will entertain public opinion on proposed refurbishments to Quebec’s only nuclear power plant, the Gentilly-2 plant, in Bécancour. Hydro-Québec has slated nearly $2 billion for work on the plant.
A coalition – including Greenpeace Canada, the David Suzuki Foundation, the Canadian Coalition for Nuclear Responsibility, and the Parti Québécois – is criticizing the proposal, claiming that the power plant is dangerous to the environment and human health, as well as being an unnecessary fiscal burden.
“Quebec has no need for the risks associated with rebuilding Gentilly,” said Shawn-Patrick Stensil, Nuclear Analyst for Greenpeace Canada.
Opened in 1982 outside Trois-Rivières, Gentilly-2 currently provides 3 per cent of Quebec’s electricity. Hyro-Québec’s planned refurbishments would replace the nuclear reactor inside the plant, which has been in use since it first opened.
According to Stensil, the CANDU reactor – the type of reactor used in all 22 nuclear reactors in Canada – is comprised of 380 “pressure tubes” that host the nuclear reactions. These tubes create heat, which is turned into steam and harvested by turbines to make electricity.
However, Stensil said the pipes were increasingly likely to bend or crack, considering that the pipes are over 25 years old and are in a highly irradiated environment.
“Your probability of accident is going up the longer they run this plant. … So they have to basically rebuild it; it’s a heart transplant,” he said.
According to Stensil, the principal reason for the steep price tag is the delicate and dangerous nature of the proposed refurbishments.
“It’s a highly radioactive environment; that’s one of the reasons it costs so much,” Stensil said. “You have a maximum dose [of radiation] that you’re allowed to have as a nuclear worker, so you can’t be in there very long. So it means you have to hire a lot of workers, or spend more money on really expensive robots, that also break.”
Hydro-Québec needs approval from the CNSC to begin the refurbishment project. The CNSC will hold a public hearing on April 13 and 14.
Aurèle Gervais, spokesperson for the CNSC, emphasized that the Commission’s responsibility is to protect the health of the workers, the public, and the environment.
“We listen to all information that is presented to the Commission, whether it be from CNSC staff, Hydro-Québec, and the public, and based on that information there is a decision made,” said Gervais. “Our role is to make sure that the work that is going to be carried out is done safely, to protect the workers, the public and the environment.”
Financial concerns are central to the argument against the refurbishment.
According to Karel Mayrand, Quebec director general for the David Suzuki Foundation, a similar refurbishment project in New Brunswick at a twin power plant, the Point Laperle project, is two years behind schedule and already $1 billion over the initial projected cost.
“I think [Gentilly-2] is a crazy idea, financially,” said Mayrand. “Hydro-Québec is telling us that they’re going to refurbish Gentilly for $2 billion. We could expect $3 billion, we could expect more than this.”
Gervais said the financial aspect of the refurbishment project was “not something that [the CNSC] take into consideration,” although Stensil questioned the impartiality of Canada’s federal nuclear power regulator.
“We have a lot of problems with the [CNSC],” he said.
Stensil described how, in 2008, the Harper government had fired CNSC president Linda Keen “for applying modern safety standards to reactors in Canada,” putting the independence of the CNSC into question.
He also said that he had acquired correspondences between Hydro-Québec and the CNSC from 2004, where Hydro-Québec told the CNSC that “the economic case for refurbishing for Gentilly was…weak.” Stensil said Hydro-Québec’s correspondences implied the company wanted the CNSC to “loosen the safety requirements so the project would be economical.”
“So here is a very important point: there’s a conflict of interest between safety and cost, and reducing the cost of Hydro-Québec means increasing the accident risks for Quebeckers,” said Stensil.
In a press conference on March 24, Hydro-Québec President Thierry Vandal said they were following developments in refurbishment projects at twin power plants at Point Laperle in New Brunswick and in South Korea, as well as at the Fukushima Daiichi plant. The Daiichi plant in Japan has been struggling to prevent a meltdown in several reactors since the country was hit with a massive earthquake on March 11.
“We’re going to provide all the information that is required by the government to provide a thoughtful and informed decision on this very, very important project,” said Vandal.
Both Stensil and Mayrand attributed part of the survival of nuclear energy in Quebec and across Canada to an effective government lobbying effort. However, neither Stensil nor Mayrand could give a clear answer as to why Hydro-Québec is choosing to continue to rely on nuclear power, when less expensive and safer renewable alternatives exist.
Currently, the Nuclear Liability Act in Canada caps the maximum possible compensation to victims of a nuclear accident from the power company at $750 million. Stensil pointed to this act as evidence that those involved with nuclear power believe that there is the real possibility of an accident.
“The truth I think Canadians need to remember, to turn this around – the industry believes nuclear accidents are a realistic possibility in Canada. … So while they’re claiming publicly their reactors are perfectly safe, their accountants and their investors know accidents are a realistic possibility,” said Stensil.
“I trust what their investors say, and I’m skeptical of their public [statements], and I think everyone else should be too,” he continued.
Opponents to refurbishment also point out that the Gentilly-2 provides such a small amount of electricity to the province that a surplus in electricity makes its contribution optional.
“One thing that’s notable is the state of Vermont voted to shut down their one reactor, Vermont Yankee, last year, and Quebec has recently signed a deal to export power to them. So we have the power,” said Stensil.
Mayrand also identified multiple health risks associated with Gentilly-2.
“We know that there is radioactive contamination happening, and it’s allowed under Canadian law,” said Mayrand. “In Canada, the regulation for the level of radioactivity contained is 7,000 becquerels per litre, and in the U.S. it’s 700…and in Europe it’s 150.”
“Our regulations on what is allowed in terms of radioactive contaminants in the environment is much higher here than elsewhere,” she continued. “So basically, we have this false ceiling of security, but it may not be as secure and as healthy as some people would like us to believe.”
 
—With files from Mari Galloway
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Slow response, insufficient resources blamed for misrepresentations in Western media
Professors at McGill and Concordia are working to translate Japanese media coverage of the recent disaster in Japan to supplement major gaps they seenin mainstream Western media coverage.
They believe that Western reporting on Japan’s triple disaster – earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear accident – was crippled by a lack of preparedness and journalistic resources in Japan. The consequences of which have been a reporting style from some media outlets which sensationalizes and generalizes the Japanese experience.
“Part of the initial problem was that they wanted to report on this event but they didn’t have anyone who could speak Japanese, so then they start, you know, madly scrambling around looking for people and they picked really strange people,” said Thomas Lamarre, a professor in McGill’s department of East Asian Studies.
“It seemed like their lack of ability to get anyone to speak helped shape the kinds of things they would say subsequently,” he added.
The idea of the Japanese as stoic, or having samurai-like qualities, surfaced early in stories such as ABC’s “Nuclear samurai recalls meltdown struggle” or the Melbourne Herald Sun’s “Japan nuclear crisis: Atomic samurai not afraid to die.”
“Their experience is being generalized in two ways: the emphasis on their Japanese-ness – going much further with the samurai cliches than the more subdued Japanese press has – and a hesitance to interrupt the heroic narrative,” said Matthew Penney an associate professor at Concordia specializing in Japanese history.
Reducing the Japanese experience to cliches overshadows important issues and trivializes the significance of the individual’s experience, explained Lamarre.
“It gives you this huge distance, this kind of mastery of knowledge. It objectifies people, it takes real courage and transforms it into national narrative,” he said.
“Obviously it portrays this really kind of simple picture of what the Japanese are like that is easy to digest for foreigners, like ‘Oh, all Japanese are stoic, so this is how they are going to deal with things,” he added.
Striking a balance between accessibility and accuracy is a long-standing battle in journalism.
Ian MacDougall, a Canadian freelance journalist in Japan, said it’s difficult for journalists to not simplify their coverage.
“Television, in particular, is always up against the attention span of its audience. If that audience has a broken leg in its understanding of Japan, you need to give them crutches. Newspapers can do more, but there are only so many column inches available,” he wrote in an email to The Daily.
MacDougall also pointed to financial constraints placed on news bureaus.
“Ideally, you would have a large number of experienced full-time reporters and a network of stringers, all who are fluent in Japanese and well-connected in the community. You would also have a desk staff back home that had the wit, the experience, and the time to background themselves on the area,” said MacDougall. “That never happens, of course; you go with what you have, and you react as best you can to what is coming across the desk.”
Stephen Northfield, the foreign editor for the Globe and Mail, acknowledged the dangers of gross generalizations, but maintained that contextualizing a country’s unique social or political contexts is one of the great insights that foreign correspondents can provide their readership.
“I would agree with the criticism that if people drop the idea that Japanese people are stoic people culturally and so nobody is going to be showing any emotion or any sort of concern about this and that. If anybody made a sort of blanket statement that’s obviously not true,” said Northfield.
“I think if people said that generally speaking there is a political context of stoicism, and I think that it is probably accurate that politically there is a tendency for them to try and present the face of calm and assurance that we saw,” he added
Most recently, the political and social response concerning the nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant has dominated Western media at the expense of much of the humanitarian context.
“The media outside Japan has been overemphasizing the nuclear accident,” said Penney. “Coverage from some corners has been seeking to contradict Japanese government and TEPCO accounts, not to help resolve the problem.”
MacDougall agreed that the nuclear accident has eclipsed most other news from Japan.
“A few things have thus got lost in the shuffle…for example some of the good news, such as how quickly road, rail, and air links are being restored,” he said.
“The effect has been a lot of sensationalized fear-mongering.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The penultimate meeting of SSMU Legislative Council took place last Thursday, where VP University Affairs Joshua Abaki announced that the 2011-2012 winter break will be extended for McGill students. Students will not return to class until January 9. To allow for this, evening exams will be administered during the final examination period.
In his report to Council, VP Finance and Operations Nick Drew expressed concern about the increasing number of students opting out of SSMU fees. In an interview with The Daily, he noted that the opt-out rate increased by roughly 3 per cent over the past year, and suggested that the QPIRG Opt-Out campaign has played a role in this.
“The QPIRG opt-out is spilling over into all of the groups. People are just randomly opting out of things without making an informed decision…It makes SSMU look bad. Opt-out campaigns are hurting everyone across the board,” Drew said.
Drew also discussed Gerts’ upcoming renovations, since recent cost estimates exceeded the expected budget for the project by $300,000. Multiple councillors, including Clubs and Services Representative Max Zidel, expressed concern about the financial feasibility of the endeavour.
“I actually don’t think [SSMU has] the money. I’m under the impression that it doesn’t exist. We’re committed to several other projects right now from CERF [Capital Expenditure Reserve Fund]…I think [Gerts] is a huge part of campus life, we just don’t have the money,” Zidel said at Council.
Drew explained that Gerts is a priority for SSMU, noting that the Society has already paid $8000 in architect fees for the project. He went on to emphasize the bar’s increased revenues this year, and stressed its importance for student life.
The approval of an increased budget for bar renovations was ultimately tabled.
Simon Gosselin, who is running for Secretary General of Quebec Student Roundtable, and Lauran Ayotte, running for Vice-Secretary General, were present at Council. The candidates presented their goals for next year, but voting on the subject was postponed due to a loss of quorum.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Vigile.net received over $1,000 in donations from PQ
Pro-sovereignty website vigile.net was condemned last week by Liberal Quebec National Assembly (MNA) member Lawrence Bergman for publishing a controversial article claiming Jews were not “true Québécois.”
Bergman put forth a motion denouncing the comments and calling on the Parti Québécois (PQ) members who donated to the site to stop their financial support. The PQ did not sign onto the motion.
The website published an article on March 23 entitled “Are there any Québécois Jews?” The piece claims that there are no Jews who are real Quebecois because, among other reasons, they do not speak French with the right accent, do not subscribe to French newspapers like La Presse, and do not recognize famous French figures. Some comments on the website include declarations that Jews “control the banks” and caused the recent financial crisis.
“The Quebec I know and love is tolerant, accepting, and against all forms of racism. This is the Quebec that my party believes in…we must stand up and condemn the site because nobody in our society should tolerate anti-Semitism or racism,” said Bergman.
Several PQ MNAs, including Bernard Drainville, Agnès Maltais and Louise Beaudoin, have donated a total of more than $1,000 to vigile.net.
“The leadership in our society should show that this [hate speech] is not acceptable. The PQ didn’t sign on to the motion, and we have to ask, ‘Who are they trying to protect? Are they trying to protect the radicals in their party and certain MNAs?” said Bergman.
PQ house leader Stéphane Bédard said in a Gazette story that he would not condemn the website based on a few articles.
“I would never condemn people who have at heart to spread profound ideas and reflections on Quebec, on its society and its future, for what I would call a marginal number of texts,” Bédard told the Gazette.
This issue speaks to tensions within Quebec between the Montreal Jewish community and other groups, including francophone nationalists. Earlier this year, six Montreal Jewish institutions were vandalized, causing damage to four synagogues, a Jewish school and a daycare center. In 2004, Montreal’s United Talmud Torah School was firebombed.
A 2009 League for Human Rights of B’nai Brith Canada report to the Canadian Parliamentary Coalition to Combat Antisemitism showed that incidents of anti-Semitism have been rising in Canada. In 2008, 1,135 anti-Semitic incidents were reported, increasing 8.9 per cent from 2007. There were also 405 reports of hate incidents online, an increase of 30 per cent from the previous year.
According to Bergman, however, relations between Montreal’s Jewish and francophone communities are fine.
“The relationship between the Jewish community and the Québécois society are good. There are always examples of anti-Semitism or intolerance or racism, but this is not something that is predominant. When it happens from time to time, we must stand up and condemn it,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Management of the recent Science Undergraduate Society (SUS) election has resulted in allegations of unfair treatment of candidates.
Two current SUS executives, President Dara Djafarian and VP Academic Heather Johnson, acted as Chief Returning Officers (CROs) after the resignation of the appointed CRO, Andaleeb Shariff. Shariff resigned from her position in order to run for VP External. The CRO is responsible for running and administering elections.
According to Djafarian, graduating members of SUS are allowed to act as CROs.
“Technically there’s only supposed to be one [CRO] but I decided to have two, I decided to appoint Heather as co-CRO,” said Djafarian. “I felt it was a good idea to have another party so that all the decisions didn’t come from me.”
Concerns stemmed from the fact that candidates included two of Djafarian and Johnson’s fellow SUS executives, Akshay Rajaram and Maria Zamfir. Rajaram, outgoing VP External, won the presidential race. Zamfir, the current VP Communications, was reelected to her position.
One candidate, who did not wish to be identified by name, said that while “technically, every single rule was followed,” some participants felt that rules governing the elections were interpreted differently for various candidates.
“[The CROs] tried to be impartial,” said the candidate. But, when dealing with subtle interpretations of the rules, “you’re going to be more lenient with your friends than with other people.”
None of the winning candidates received sanctions, though nearly every other candidate did.
The candidate that spoke to The Daily did not file a complaint because they felt that there was not enough hard evidence to support a case. In the future, however, “there’s no way that people on SUS should be running [elections],” the candidate said.
Ingrid Tam, a candidate for VP Communications, agreed with these sentiments.
“I hope that by coming forth, changes can be made so that any individual who has the initiative and courage to run for a position can do so,” Tam said. “I am currently meeting with members of the SUS general council to suggest amendments to electoral bylaws, in hopes of moving in a positive direction.”
The issue was presented at General Council on March 31. Council amended some aspects of the SUS Constitution, and plans to issue an open letter explaining the situation in the near future.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
On March 25, McGill’s graduate students approved two referendum questions that will enact major changes to the PGSS health and dental plan and raise the student fee to improve service at McGill Mental Health Services (MMHS). The health plan costs will rise 14 per cent to a total of $413.50 per year.
The PGSS council drafted the referendum questions based on recommendations made by its Health and Wellness Committee (HAWC). The PGSS’s health and dental plan, which automatically enrolls every full-time Canadian graduate student, is voted on every year by students in order to be renewed.
The PGSS’s Health Commissioner and HAWC chair, Jonathan Mooney, had promised to review the plan while campaigning for his post last year.
“This year, because of an increase in claims in the prior year, it was predicted that the costs [of the health plan] would increase substantially,” said Mooney. “One of mandates of the Health and Wellness Committee is to make sure health plan costs don’t become onerous to the members of the PGSS. We have to try to control those costs.”
The committee decided to reduce or remove coverage of certain medical services. Coverage of biological drugs, which treat major illnesses like Multiple Sclerosis, will be maintained despite climbing costs while low and frequent coverage for eyeglasses and contacts will be reduced.
PGSS’s Student Service Fee was also raised to improve the level of care graduates receive from MMHS.
In 2008, graduate students rejected a fee increase that undergraduates accepted, resulting in a disparity in how the two groups are received at MMHS exists. Graduates face longer waiting times and no access to the staff hired as a result of the fee increase.
The issue came to the attention of Elizabeth Cawley, the HAWC’s liaison to McGill’s Mental Health Advisory Board, who encouraged HAWC to propose changes to the PGSS council last year.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Project takes on new role as election campaign begins
Repairs to the surrounding Champlain Bridge, the busiest bridge in Canada and an economic lifeline for the area, has become a hot button issue in local political campaign ahead of the May 2 federal election.
The bridge has needed repairs since 2000, and there has been significantly increased repair work in the last three years. Yet, it is becoming apparent that repairs will not be sufficient, and local politicians have begun to lobby the government in hopes that a durable solution will be found.
Larry Smith, Conservative Party candidate for the Lac-St-Louis riding, announced on March 18 that the government would be adding an additional $158 million to the prior $212 million in funding that was announced in 2009. There has been no announcement of plans to build a new bridge.
Given the upcoming elections, some have interpreted the funding pledge as an attempt by the Conservatives to gain seats in Quebec.
“It was pretty insulting,” said Shawn Murphy spokesperson for Alexandra Mendes, Liberal MP for the Brossard-La Prairie riding. “We all know we need funds for repairs, but they made a big show of this announcement when it didn’t make much of a difference.”
Catherine Bérubé, spokesperson for the office of Catherine St-Hilaire, the mayor of Longueil, compared the efforts to repair the bridge to “putting a plaster in a big injury. It’s not really durable.”
“We are asking for a new bridge now because we need to stop patching and start finding solutions,” she said.
Deputy Mayor of Brossard Alexander Plante explained the time sensitivity of constructing a new bridge.
“They have to be ready to announce the construction of a new bridge now so it can be ready in ten years,” said Plante.
This echoes a report from the Delcan Corporation, which conducted an in-depth study on the safety of the bridge. The study concluded that the deficiencies and associated risks with the bridge would warrant its replacement as soon as possible, with ongoing repair work needed in order for the bridge to remain safe.
Jean-Vincent Lacroix is a spokesperson for Jacques Cartier and Champlain Bridges Incorporated, which is handling the Champlain project. Lacroix said he was aware of the calls for a new bridge, but that multiple options for a long-term solution should be considered.
“We need to think of the future of the bridge,” said Lacroix. “Our main goal is to finish the studies in the next few weeks and give them to the government that will be in place after the coming election.”
According to Bérubé, both Bloc Québécois leader Gilles Duceppe and Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff have pledged their support for the bridge’s reconstruction. The Conservatives have yet to announce anything other than monetary support for repairs, though that may change as May 2 nears.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Maclean’s says incident is “all in the past” despite calls for funding cuts from community groups
On March 26, a panel discussion titled “Too Asian? And Beyond: Stereotypes and Representation of Asian North Americans in the Media” was held as part of the Equity and the Media Conference. The conference was co-hosted by the Equity Committees of SSMU and PGSS.
The panel was held amidst nationwide condemnation of Maclean’s November 2010 “Too Asian?” article, which addressed the increased enrolment of Asian students in Canadian universities.
McGill students and Montreal communities are circulating a petition to pull Maclean’s $1.5 million in federal funding.
Ed Lee, a coordinator and panelist of the “Too Asian? And Beyond” discussion, said the panel “was a good way to start a conversation and a dialogue around the issues,” and to raise awareness.
Following the publication of the “Too Asian?” article in November, groups from across the country formed the Community Coalition for the Elimination of Anti-Asian Racism, and drafted an open letter to the magazine asking for a public apology.
In response, Maclean’s sent the Coalition a letter, demanding an apology and a retraction of their open letter. The magazine wrote that the Coalition’s letter was a “deliberate and obscene misrepresentation of Maclean’s journalism” and that it was “clearly objectionable and…defamatory.”
The magazine’s legal counsel, who authored the letter, could not be reached for comment.
In December, the Coalition organized a petition to pull federal funding from Maclean’s. Karen Sun, Executive Director of the Chinese Canadian National Council (CCNC) – a member of the Coalition – expressed why they felt the need to start the petition.
“We’ve tried to have conversations with Maclean’s; we invited Maclean’s to attend a community forum so that they could actually speak to the community directly, [but] they don’t seem to be interested in talking to us. So we’re talking to the government,” said Sun.
“It would be great to have a national magazine that actually represents the views of the Canadian public in the broadest sense, [but] I’m part of the Canadian public and I’m not happy that my taxpayer dollars are going to a magazine that’s offending me,” she continued.
As stated in the petition, the Ministry of Canadian Heritage can revoke funding from periodicals for publishing offensive content that denigrates identifiable groups. The Coalition feels that Maclean’s has a history of publishing offensive materials. Among its complaints are an article about corruption in Quebec, and articles that the Coalition deemed “Islamophobic.”
Janet Lumb, a panelist at the discussion and director of Accès Asie – a Montreal Asian heritage festival spoke to The Daily. “They don’t say that about Harper, they don’t say that about Michael Ignatieff, they don’t make these proclamations with the more established,” she said. “Maclean’s is supposed to be more representative of the Canadian population, but it’s picking on minority organizations and minorities…to provoke and sell.”
According to Sun, the federal government has set up a grant with funding guidelines that state that if a publication prints offensive materials, it will become ineligible for funding.
“We want to ensure that…the rules are being followed,” said Sun.
A spokesperson from Maclean’s declined to comment, saying Maclean’s sees the incident as “all in the past.”
Lee estimates that he has close to 150 signatures; 25 signatures are required for submission to an MP.
“We’re going to try to do it before the election,” said Lee. “If we are able to get at least 150 or more signatures, then we can send it before May 2 and perhaps write a little note attached to it that says that we’re also paying attention to the elections that are coming up. I think that it’s good timing.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Daily’s News team reflects on this year’s SSMU executive
The SSMU executive has been an adventure for the News editors this year. The team had a strong start, uniting against the closure of the Arch Café. Ultimately, however, a talented executive – readily available to student media – had difficulty overcoming internal divisions, which overshadowed a largely productive and groundbreaking year with dramatic and polarizing internal divisions.
President Zach Newburgh began his term by fending off allegations from the McGill chapter of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights in a Judicial Board case, and is ending it amidst threats of a second case leveled by fellow executive Myriam Zaidi. Newburgh has been a visible President all year, and brought the issue of the Arch Café closure to Senate, trying determinedly but unsuccessfully to engage the administration. Reforming the General Assembly was a yearlong goal of Newburgh’s, but his introduction of a motion to abolish the process entirely – and failing to inform three of his fellow executives – was cause for concern (although it has led to attempts at reform), and splintered the executive. The revelation that Newburgh had been working in confidence with internet startup jobbook.com irreparably split the executive, and alienated multiple Councillors. SSMU’s newfound focus on transparency, as well as campus-wide debate about structures of policies and procedures, will help future executives avoid the mistakes that plagued Newburgh’s term.
VP University Affairs Josh Abaki may have been one of the strongest executives this year. Abaki started out the year by helping to form the Student Consultation and Communication Working Group during the Arch Café aftermath, followed through on his campaign promise to extend library opening hours, and, just last week, succeeded in extending 2011-2012 Winter break to January 9. Additionally, he was as unequivocal in his opinion on the Jobbook controversy as any executive. Abaki could have worked to educate students better on the SRI, and questioned McGill’s ad hoc decision to accept pro bono work from two McKinsey and Co. consultants more rigorously, but overall Abaki has been a tireless and effective VP University Affairs.
With his main initiatives being the organization of events like Homecoming and two Four Floors parties, VP Internal Tom Fabian has spent much of the year under The Daily’s radar. Fabian has overseen a complete revamp of frosh activities for next year, changing Frosh to Orientation Week, with a greater focus on leadership and introduction to McGill rather than drinking. Fabian’s engagement with SSMU Council was minimal at best, but he contributed to the division on SSMU Council later in the year, through his defense of Newburgh and his support of the motion to abolish the GA.
In his campaign for VP Finance and Operations, Nick Drew highlighted three main priorities: to streamline the SSMU budget and increase its transparency, negotiate the expiring lease agreementsfor the Shatner Building, and continue ethical investing. Two major campus initiatives under Drew’s purview are Gerts and SSMU Mini Courses, both of which were managed successfully, with the help of a professional marketing consultant. Though a revitalized Faculty Olympics suffered a loss of about $2,000, the event was reported to be money well-spent, and Drew has capably maintained SSMU’s financial security.
VP External Myriam Zaidi has struggled against both student apathy and the stonewalling Quebec government and McGill administration this year, but has enjoyed a great deal of success nonetheless. Her victories include organizing a strong McGill presence at the two biggest tuition hike protests of the year – the December 6 rally in Quebec City and the March 12 rally downtown – and the launch of info-site tuitiontruth.ca. While Zaidi has been open with the student press all year, she could have made a greater effort to engage with students who are less informed on the issues in her portfolio, and gone to greater lengths to explain why students should protest, instead of just stressing that they should.
With campaign promises focusing on student service and improving student space on campus, VP Clubs and Services Anushay Khan has delivered. In the wake of the Arch Café, Khan was proactive in helping Midnight Kitchen create an ad hoc student lounge and study space in the Shatner ballroom. The portfolio is one that tends to lend itself to concrete results being achieved on alternating years, but Khan has overseen the renovation of the student lounge and the break-out room in Shatner, as well as retrofitting the lighting in the cafeteria to improve its sustainability. She is currently working on a plan to install student-accessible computers within the building, and has worked to protect the McGill name for student clubs and services. Despite a minor hiccup with Midnight Kitchen, when provincial license misunderstandings caused it to be closed for a day, Khan has managed what is possibly the hardest portfolio with the least concern.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Who you are actually voting for
PAPINEAU
Justin Trudeau, Liberal Party
The current MP for the Papineau riding, Justin Trudeau believes that the economy and democracy will be the two major issues of this campaign. Locally he hopes to gain support by making it a priority to be knowledgeable of the issues and accessible.
As the Liberal Youth critic, Trudeau says that he is pushing very hard for the development of a national youth policy. For him, a strong step toward that is the announcement of the Liberal’s Canadian Learning Passport, an initiative that offers Canadian university, college, or CEGEP students a thousand dollars annually over four years.
Trudeau says that he will also continue prioritizing fighting youth apathy in his politics.
“Young people are idealists and we need to reach out to that idealism in order to bring them into the political conversations and strengthen our capacity to actually address the big problems,” he said.

Vivian Barbot, Bloc Québécois
Barbot was elected the MP of Papineau riding in 2006. She served in various capacities for the party until elections in 2008, when Liberal Justin Trudeau won the riding. Barbot later became Vice President of the Bloc in 2009.
Apart from Bloc politics, Barbot has served as the general director for the la Fédération des femmes du Québec and as president of Fédération des enseignantes et enseignants de cégeps. Barbot worked as a language teacher; she is fluent in French, English, Haitian Creole and Spanish.
“We see the enthusiasm of people,” Barbot said after campaigning with Bloc leader Gilles Duceppe at Jean Talon market recently. “It’s a long time that we’ve had enough with the government of fear and I think that it is really necessary to do something.”
Barbot was born in Haiti and has worked closely with large Haitian community in Montreal. She is the first Haitian woman to be elected to Canadian Parliament.
 
Shama Chopra, Conservative
Chopra has been working in the public sector with various community organizations for thirty years.
“Prime Minister Harper has shown a lot of confidence in cultural communities. The Conservative Party and Mr. Harper asked me to run for this riding and I took the challenge,” Chopra said, explaining how she became a candidate for the Conservatives.
She noted that she had not always been a supporter of the Conservatives.
“For the last 17 years I’ve been supporting the Liberals but they haven’t given us anything. They never offer us anything,” she said.
“There are great people in this riding [and] they need a lot of help. They need a worker and I really want to work for them,” Chopra said.
One of her plans if elected include giving 25 per cent of her salary towards causes such as providing basic items to new immigrants. Other issues Chopra plans to address include language learning and the plight of small businesses.
She described voter sentiment as being “energized,” and expressed her desire to use her candidacy to inspire women in the Indo-Canadian community.
“We need the women and the youth to come out and participate in politics, so here I am inspiring them and telling them to come out and vote this time,” she said.
 
MOUNT ROYAL
Jeff Itcush, NDP
Mount Royal is one of the youngest ridings in Quebec. As a result, Jeff Itcush – the NDP candidate for the riding – is prioritizing the needs of young Canadians.
“I’m taking a lot of my orders from young people, and enjoying it immensely because they are on the cutting edge,” he said.
However, as well as being a youth driven riding, Itcush emphasized that Mount Royal is also a very pluralistic community, home to many new Canadians. As a result, the integration of cultural communities into the job market and the streamlining of a more humane immigration system are all high on Itcush’s list of priorities.
For Itcush, one of the biggest issues facing young people is the decreasing accessibility to education as a result of tuition hikes. Itcush and the NDP are proposing the reinstatement of federal transfer payments, cut under the Chrétien government, as a solution to this problem.
“The shortfall in revenues for the universities is coming as a result in part, and to a large part in the reduction of those transfer payments,” he said.
“You also have to keep in mind that the NDP has really campaigned for the reduction of tuition fees,” he added.
 
Irwin Cotler, Liberal
Cotler, an internationally known human rights lawyer and former McGill Law Professor, was first elected in Mont Royal in 1999, and served as Canada’s Minister of Justice and Attorney General between 2003 and 2006.
Cotler said his priorities reflected those of his riding. He explained his practice of holding “open mic nights” to consult his constituents and garner their feedback on issues.
Cotler explained the objectives of the new Liberal Canadian Learning Passport.
“We want to reduce barriers. The overall objective is to build the best-educated and most highly skilled work force in world. It’s part of a larger strategy,” he said.
Cotler also said that taxes would not be levied as a result.
“When you’ve got $15 billion going to mega prisons, or you’ve got $30 billion going for untendered Stealth 130 fighters, the $1 billion is very easy to find,” he added.
Cotler said he was disappointed by the lack of accountability on the part of the Conservatives. He plans to “help restore integrity to Parliament.”
“We would bring better ethics and governance.”
 
WESTMOUNT – VILLE-MARIE
Marc Garneau, Liberal
Marc Garneau, the Liberal critic for Industry, Science and Technology, is running for re-election in the Westmount–Ville-Marie riding.
Nationally, Garneau wants to focus social programs with an emphasis on education and environmental sustainability.
“The Canada of tomorrow has to be as educated as possible,” he said. “I have a commitment that Canada should take its responsibility…I’m a committed environmentalist.”
Garneau highlighted the importance of having healthy infrastructure in the Westmount–Ville-Marie riding. Although he acknowledged that infrastructure is largely a municipal responsibility, he emphasized the need for proper federal funding in this area.
Locally, the emphasis is also on preserving the unique aspects of the riding, including its universities, research hospital and cultural community.
“It’s a vibrant cultural community,” he said. “Whether it’s painting and sculpture, or writers, or dance or music … we have to support our arts.”
 
Joanne Corbeil, NDP
In an email to The Daily, Corbeil explained the NDP’s platform as “a financial ease on everyone’s wallet” and an increase in “front line health care.” She pointed specifically to students, families, and small businesses as being the main beneficiaries of the platform.
“I want to support local initiatives and find ways for local groups to take full advantage of federal programs, which are not always known, understood or easy to find.”
Speaking to student tuition increases, she stated, “Education is key to ensure the future of our country. If students must deal with financial problems over and above spending over 12 hours a day studying, our future is seriously jeopardized.”
Corbeil said she plans to keep her constituents up-to-date on all her campaign activities, giving them as much face-time as possible.
Regarding the opposition, Corbeil addressed Prime Minister Harper and Liberal candidate for Westmount–Ville-Marie, Marc Garneau, in turn.
“Our country needs a unifying leader, not a leader who divides the country with fear. Also, the motion of non-confidence clearly shows that [Harper] doesn’t have much respect for our democratic institutions.”
Referencing a Globe and Mail article from March 7, Corbeil pointed out, “Among the top ten MPs from Quebec who missed the most votes in the House of Commons, you find… PLC’s Marc Garneau!”
Andrew Carkner, Green Party
Carkner attributed more serious sentiments toward voting to recent events in the Middle East, but said he does not think this will have a big impact on the election process.
“People come out, they vote, they use their voice and then, when the dust is settled, the government is exactly the same,” said Carkner.
Carkner pointed out several structural flaws in the voting system that were implemented by Harper in the last five years, including heightened secrecy laws. He explained the “true democracy” plank of the Party platform and reforms that are aiming to “bring back more democracy.”
The Green Party campaign has changed its campaign strategy since the 2008 elections, when Carkner says the strategy was to spread resources across the country.
This election the plan is to focus resources and have different party wings organize themselves independently. According to Carkner, the Green Party has “traditionally” been a phenomenon in English Canada and had trouble rendering their message to a French Canadian demographic.v
“Now that we have Quebeckers…running their own campaigns on issues that Quebeckers care about, we’re seeing much more understanding and much more support of the Green Party,” he said.
 
Véronique Roy, Bloc Québécois
Roy is a teacher representing the Bloc.
In regards to the toppling of the Harper government, Roy said, “To stay in power without the support of other parties – it makes no sense. … It’s not a question of the budget. It’s really a question of what has happened with the elected government.”
Regarding tuition hikes, Roy stated that the provincial issue was outside the jurisdiction of the federal Bloc.
However, she added that “the Bloc would like there to be financing of the education network and would also like the government to stop intervening in the jurisdictions that are not their own.”
Roy noted that the Bloc’s platform has facets that are applicable to any voter.
She highlighted immigration and refugee policies as examples of this, but did not dilute the sovereignist nature of the party.
“The Bloc is really the only party to defend Quebec’s interests at the federal level,” she said.
 
OUTREMONT
François Pilon, Green Party
The Green Party platform is consistent with the platform that the party ran with in the 2008 election. Pilon said that the ideas are not new in themselves, but pointed  to their consistency as in line with what he believes is the need for a long-term philosophy to emerge within government.
“Every time there is an election the government itself is on stop for elections – and in the past four or five years it’s been three elections, so there isn’t much time to decide what is the best for the future and the future generation,” he said.
Pilon also emphasized the importance of getting young people involved in politics especially because it is young people who will end up paying for the consequences of decisions made now.
“What I would like to have is one or two candidates from the Green Party elected to be able to change a little bit the behaviour that is happening in the House of Commons,” he said.
 
Thomas Mulcair, NDP
Mulcair served as the Quebec Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks from 2003 to 2006 and was a Liberal representative to the Quebec National Assembly for 13 years. He has sat as the MP for the riding of Outremont since 2007.
Speaking to the problem of low voter turnout among a younger generation, Mulcair said that it is the “number one problem” with over 60 per cent of 18-25 year olds who did not vote in the 2008 elections. Though he noted that “the discourse of the NDP around sustainable development is something that connects a lot with younger people.”
Mulcair stated that pursuing the NDP’s agenda within the context of Quebec means engaging with issues traditionally associated with the Bloc.
“Our approach is that we want to create winning conditions for Canada within Quebec,” he said.
In response to the Liberals’ Canadian Student Passport, Mulcair was skeptical.
“The Liberals are not in a position to speak with any credibility with what they’ll do on post-secondary education,” he said. “They settled their budgetary problems on the backs of students across Canada. That’s the reality of the Liberal record.”
 
Martin Cauchon, Liberal Party
Martin Cauchon has returned to run as the Liberal candidate in the Outremont riding because he feels the Harper government is leading Canada in the wrong direction.
“We need to protect our country, our values, our social safety net. I believe that the government has a role to play in our nation,” he said. “The way they [the Conservatives] look at government is not the way that most Canadians look at government.”
Cauchon reiterated that the Liberal party was not interested in forming a coalition, and instead highlighted their ability as a centre party to balance the interests of a wide range of Canadians.
“If you want to stop Harper, I believe you should vote for the Liberal party. You should vote for the alternative. During this campaign our leader and our party will show that we are ready to go back in power,” he said.
Cauchon insisted that there is no one issue that defines the Outremont riding, but pointed to immigration as one overarching theme. Cauchon spoke of his desire to address the needs of students, seniors and individuals of all occupations.
 
Rodolphe Husny, Conservative
For Husny, education, infrastructure and the economy are top priorities for this election. As the Conservative Candidate for the Outremont riding since 2009, Husny is a strong advocate for youth engagement and social inclusion within Montreal.
According to Husny, a good example of the Conservative Party’s commitment to both the economy and education is Canada’s Action Plan, which has invested millions of dollars in upgrading infrastructure across university campuses.
“It’s really giving good infrastructure and good technology so that those students can have the skills to be as innovative as possible, so that when they join the workforce they are as efficient as possible,” he said.
While Husny sees this as an “unnecessary” election, he also feels that it’s a good opportunity for the Conservative’s to achieve a majority government.
“We shouldn’t be in election right now. We should be working, the ministers should be in Ottawa working to make sure that we continue this fragile recovery,” he said.
“I’ve been a candidate for nearly 19 months and people are fed up with an election…it’s time that we do what we think is best. I’ve been told by the people that is to focus on the economy, and that’s what the government wants to do,” he added.
 
 
The following candidates were contacted, but were not available for comment:
– Élise Daoust, Bloc Québecois, Outremont
– Garbriel Dumais, Bloc Québecois, Mont Royal
– Brian Sarwer-Foner, Green Party, Mont Royal
– Saulie Zajdel, Conservative, Mont Royal
– Marcos Tejada, NDP, Papineau
– Danny Polifroni, Green Party, Papineau
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Nobel Prize nominee speaks to McGill about law and literature
Carlos Fuentes spoke at the McGill Law Journal Annual Conference last Wednesday.
“I told my father I wanted to become a writer,” said the 82-year-old writer in French. “He told me, ‘You’ll die of hunger.’”
One of Mexico’s foremost literary figures, Fuentes is the author of two-dozen novels and numerous short stories, essays, and plays. He has been suggested as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature several times in the past few years. He is also a journalist, a political commentator, and has held diplomatic posts with the Mexican government.
Fuentes spoke to current Law students Wednesday as a former Law student himself. In English, French, and his native Spanish, he spoke of his education – of teachers, formative experiences, and books. He entertained the crowd, reciting a bawdy monologue about love and lust from the perspective of Niccolò Machiavelli.
A diplomat’s son, Fuentes talked of studying the internationalist tradition in Geneva at twenty, discussing matters such as “the tension between the equality of states and the hegemony of big powers,” and working as a junior member of the Mexican delegation of the International Labour Association. He ended his time in Geneva as secretary to the Mexican member of the international law commission of the United Nations, continuing his internationalist education.
Fuentes returned to literary pursuits while writing about issues of will in his law thesis. “The heart of the country was calling me and saying ‘Please, write for me,’” he explained.
Asked what makes a good writer, Fuentes responded, “Dilligence. I get up at 6:30 or seven, and start writing at eight. I work from eight to twelve, read all afternoon, then go to the movies. … I don’t wait for inspiration from the heavens.”
Law and literature, he says, are similar in that they are both “part of the civilizing process,” in contrast to events like the “tremendous violence” of the Mexican Revolution, which were part of the “de-civilizing” process.
On the subject of the drug-related violence that is plaguing many areas of Mexico, he said that “forbidding drugs and fighting the cartels violently will not solve the problems. We’re not offering alternatives to drug consumption. It is more than a criminal act. We need to start thinking of new policies and go forward with small steps.”
Concerning Mexican migration, he attested that, “It is the problem of Mexico, of Latin America, to retain our workers. … Some people leave, but most people stay. Latin America is moving, it is not an empty continent. ”
Fuentes called for a “reformed” United Nations to better equip us for the realities of the 21st century. “What can we say about the future, knowing that it is changing so quickly?” he asked the audience. “We’re going to see a lot of things we have never thought about before.”
“I ignored completely what was going to happen in Northern Africa,” he added. “This came as an enormous surprise…we had no inkling! The fact that there are societies that are forming themselves in order to act democratically – this is going to be a major factor in building this century’s politics.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Election campaigning begins with action-packed first week
The first week of the federal campaign proved to be tumultuous for all five of the major parties. Liberal Michael Ignatieff, Bloc Québécois Gilles Duceppe and Conservative Stephen Harper all visited Montreal last week to kick off the six-week campaign period leading up to the May 2 vote. Following three consecutive minority governments, this will be the fourth federal election in seven years.
Harper held a rally Wednesday afternoon, amidst sudden media scrutiny of two of his party’s Montreal-region candidates. Agop Evereklian, the Conservative candidate in Pierrefonds-Dollard riding, replaced his campaign manager Giulio Maturi after Le Devoir made public Maturi’s work in Benoît Labonté’s 2009 mayoral campaign in Montreal. Labonté dropped out of the race for accepting kickbacks from local construction entrepreneur Tony Accurso. The same day, Larry Smith, the Tory candidate in Lac-Saint-Louis riding, also caused a stir when he said to Le Devoir, “What is important is the world, not the protection of French in Quebec. That’s a thing of the past.”
Also on Wednesday, the broadcast consortium organizing the leaders’ debates announced that Green Party leader Elizabeth May will not be included in the debates scheduled for April 12 in English and April 14 in French. May’s exclusion is the result of the Green Party not currently holding a seat in the House of Commons.
On Thursday, Duceppe faced backlash against the Bloc when exiting Bloc MP for Northern Quebec, Yvon Lévesque, commented on the Cree background of the riding’s new NDP candidate Romeo Saganash. Lévesque said in an interview to Rue Frontenac that “certain voters will not vote for the NDP now that they have an Aboriginal candidate.” The NDP is now pushing for Lévesque to leave the party for his “very startling comments,” as NDP MP Thomas Mulcair said.
“They are in full flight, not a position [the Bloc] is used to,” Mulcair added.
Meanwhile, Harper continued to denounce Ignatieff’s plans for a “reckless,” “illegitimate,” and “dangerous” coalition with opposition leaders despite Ignatieff’s repeated statements he has absolutely no interest in forming a coalition.
NDP Thomas Mulcair, who has been an MP in Outremont since 2007, embraced the idea of a coalition of opposition parties.
“Jack is the one who proposed the coalition back in 2008 and for us it’s a constant in our political activity,” he said.
“This is not any ordinary election we are facing right now. We’ve got to get rid of Harper, we’ve got to be smart about it. That’s why our signs say ‘Work together,’” Mulcair added.
Harper’s biggest policy announcement came last Thursday when he announced that if re-elected, the Conservative government would seek to complete negotiations on a free trade agreement with the European Union by 2012 and India by 2013. Reaffirming his party’s commitment to the economy, Harper went on to criticize the Liberals’ economic policy.
“The choice is clear,” said Harper.  “Canadians can choose between a stable national government with a low-tax plan that will create jobs by expanding trade, and Michael Ignatieff’s high-tax agenda that will put our businesses and workers at a severe disadvantage relative to our international competitors.”
Subsequently, Michael Ignatieff has been campaigning hard to convince Canadians that his party will focus on “the things that really matter to Canadian families.” He says this includes issues such as education, health care and job creation, but not billion dollar fighter jets.
One of the most ambitious promises so far is the Liberal party’s Canadian Learning Passport.
“The Canadian Learning Passport is taking a billion dollars and investing it in a registered education savings plan so that every Canadian student that chooses to go to university, college or CEGEP will get a thousand dollars a year over four years, over $1,500 a year for low-income families,” explained Liberal Youth Critic and MP for Papineau Justin Trudeau. “It’s money upfront, it’s not a tax credit, it’s not reimbursable, it’s $1,000 cash per year towards education.”
The plan would do little to address rising tuition fees, however. Other opposition parties, including the NDP, were skeptical of the Liberals’ proposal.
“Tuition fees increased four times faster than inflation during the 13 years of Liberal governments,” said Joanne Corbeil, NDP candidate for Westmount-Ville Marie.
Liberal candidate for Outremont, Martin Cauchon, defended his party’s platform.
“You have to be able to strike the right balance. That’s why I like the Liberal party. We’re not far, far left, we’re not far, far right. We’re in the middle and when needed we go left in order to keep the balance in our society,” said Cauchon. “You can’t have unity among the opposition parties because our standing point is so different.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Adrian Lomaga says Quebec blood bank’s deferral policy regarding homosexuals is discriminatory
Six years after initiating a lawsuit against Héma-Quebec, McGill alumnus Adrian Lomaga will meet the provincial bloodbank in court today over what he describes as a “moral injury.” This injury is the result of the lifetime deferral from blood donation Lomaga received after admitting that he had had sex with a man at a Héma-Québec blood drive in 2004.
Moral injury is defined in Quebec law as injury to one’s dignity. Lomaga filed his suit for $1,500 in Quebec small claims court under this definition.
“At that time I wasn’t really comfortable with my sexual orientation. I thought that the denial of allowing me the opportunity to give blood was an affront to my dignity, I felt like a second class citizen,” said Lomaga. “I felt even worse thinking, ‘I may be gay, this is how I’m going to be treated in society.’”
Anyone wishing to donate blood in Canada has to fill out a questionnaire. One of the questions asks: “Male donors, have you had sex even once with another man since 1977?” If donors answer that they have, they are subject to a lifetime deferral from blood donation due to potential risks of infections such as HIV, Hepatitis A, B and C, and syphilis.
Heterosexual donors, meanwhile, are subject to a six-month deferral if they’ve had sex with someone whose sexual background they are unsure of. Deferrals are imposed to prevent people who may have contracted dangerous infections recently enough that the infections would pass undetected through biological screening from donating blood.
Marc Germain, Vice President (Medical Affairs) for Héma-Québec, would not comment on Lomaga’s suit since it is currently in court. However, he did comment on the reasons behind Héma-Québec’s deferral policy.
“In the case of a man who had sex with men, it’s well-recognized, there’s a very wide consensus – not only consensus, but it’s actually a fact – that this particular population is at higher risk, at much higher risk for certain infections that can be transmitted through transfusion, in particular, of course, HIV,” said Germain.
Héma-Québec categorizes incidents like Lomaga’s as an “MSM deferral.” MSM is an acronym for “men who have sex with men.”
“We’re using that term because, basically, that is the activity at risk. It’s not the fact that someone is gay or not,” added Germain. “In fact, we do not have similar selection criteria for gay women simply because the sexual activities related to women having sex with women do not entail a risk such as exist with men who have sex with men.”
Lomaga argued, however, that improved screening technology has eliminated the need for a lifetime deferral for MSM donors.
“The problem is that the tests used to pick up those diseases are no more accurate or no less accurate than when applied to gays or heterosexuals,” said Lomaga. “These tests will pick up the diseases, and if you’re comfortable with a six month deferral period for heterosexuals, well, why isn’t it the same case for gays?”
According to Germain, Héma-Québec tried to reduce the length of the MSM deferral to five years in 2009, but the Héma-Québec vigilance committee voted the proposal down.
“If a man did not have sexual relationship with another man in the last five years he would become eligible for blood donation,” said Germain. “We think that it would be just as safe for the recipients if we were to go in that direction.”
Lomaga questioned the impartiality of the Héma vigilance committee.
“My understanding is that the Héma vigilance committee is composed of stakeholders – such as the Hemophiliacs Society, and other individuals who are more prone to require blood donations, blood transfusions rather – and they just weren’t comfortable with any possibility of increasing risk into the blood supply,” said Lomaga.
Germain also noted that Héma-Québec had to consider the concerns of transfusion recipients.
“The system as it is is extremely safe, and any change to a less-safe selection criterion could be detrimental to the recipients, and for those reasons they don’t agree,” he said.
“They’re the ones that run the risk, maybe a very small risk, but they’re the ones who risk this. And why should they accept that there is even a very small increase in risk? And I think we have to listen to those arguments.”
Lomaga maintained, however, that there is“no scientific explanation to justify the 33 year deferral period.”
“What it boils down to is imposing a standard of perfection on gay and bisexual men, when a much lower standard is applied to heterosexual donors,” he said.
Lomaga majored in History and Political Science as an undergraduate at McGill. In 2007, he received a Masters Degree in Law. He has been in contact with organizations in Montreal’s queer community – including Queer McGill – to try and drum up support for his cause.
Lomaga said part of this approach would involve trying to determine whether a “reasonable” gay person would find the current ban on MSM donations discriminatory.
“Héma-Québec can succeed in winning their case if they can portray me as a super sensitive guy, who is just kind of an oddball activist out there,” he said.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students allege that campaign violations were ignored, campus media was vandalized	
Lex Gill led her slate, Your Concordia, to victory in the Concordia Student Union (CSU) elections for the 2011-12 school year amidst allegations of campaign violations and targeted vandalism by the opposing slate.
Gill won by a margin of 350 votes. Your Concordia won the majority of seats on council, and the student seat on the Board of Governors. The opposing slate, Action, took all six seats from the John Molson School of Business. Precise numbers are not yet available, but Concordia’s The Link reported that voter turnout was on pace to set record-high voting levels.
However, since voting closed some students have come forward stating that they received multiple ballots when voting.
The Link published an email sent to them by student Mihai Cristea on Thursday, explaining how she had been supplied with multiple ballots. Unlike McGill, the CSU conducts elections with physical ballots and in-person voting Cristea also sent the email to the CSU’s Chief Electoral Officer Oliver Cohen, the presidential candidates for Your Concordia and Action, and other campus media outlets.
“When I voted [on Wednesday], after having signed in, I was given ten ballots–one for Arts and Science Senate candidates, one for Arts and Science Council candidates, [but] two for Board of Governors candidates, two for CSU executive slates, two for the first set of referendum questions, and two for the second set of referendum questions,” wrote Cristea.
In the days leading up to the vote, the election grew increasingly controversial. In fact, the final day of campaigning was cut six hours short amidst allegations of voter intimidation, campaign violations, and vandalism against campus media.
“Up until about a week ago the campaigning was competitive but not malicious, and those things changed very quickly,” said Gill. “I think that when the other team realized there was a chance of us winning, tactics got a lot dirtier. There were rumors being spread that were patently untrue, accusations about me getting arrested. Never was, never been arrested.”
There were reports from students who claimed they saw members of Action campaigning within twenty feet of polling stations – a practice that is a campaign violation.
Campus media have also been the target of vandalism during the campaign. Concordia University Television (CUTV) had two televisions damaged – one when a magnet destroyed the screen, and the other when a wire was torn out and frayed.
CUTV station manager Laura Kneale believes the vandalism was politically motivated.
“A lot of people have come to talk to us about these things, and a lot of them have alluded to a link with the political situation, and we definitely think there would be a link between these two things just because of how hostile the elections have been. But in terms of a specific person I really couldn’t say,” she said.
Gill believes that The Link was targeted specifically because she is in a relationship with former editor-in-chief Justin Giovannetti. While she acknowledged that it was unfortunate that the newspaper was targeted, she maintained that Giovannetti has never been involved with any of the newspaper’s coverage of her campaign.
“I guarantee that if I weren’t a women nothing like that would have ever happened. But there is this assumption that the only reason that I could possibly be politically influential is because I am sleeping with a journalist, and not because I have political ideas of my own,” she said.
Before the vote was counted Thursday, Cohen said he was not overly concerned with any of the conflicts, attributing them to the nature of the political arena.
“I can assure you that there are no electoral violations, everything is being managed accordingly. Whatever issues do come up between the parties, obviously we deal with that between those parties and make sure that whatever that issue is, is resolved,” he said.
“In regards to the safekeeping of the ballot and the ballot boxes, we take the highest security measures probably in North America,” he added.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A local health advocacy group is stepping up its campaign for a safe injection site in Montreal.
On March 21, members and allies of the group l’Association pour la Défense des Droits et l’Inclusion des personnes qui Consomment des drogues du Québec (ADDICQ) marched through eastern downtown and Old Montreal, demanding that the city government and police respect the rights and dignity of drug addicts in the streets.
The protest took place on the heels of a pending decision from Quebec Health Minister Yves Bolduc about whether he will allow downtown needle exchange site Cactus to open a safe injection program this summer.
The march concluded at a city council meeting, where members asked about safe injection sites and were refused concrete answers.
“It’s not a moral question, it’s a health question,” said ADDICQ spokesperson Kevin Dion. “63 to 72 per cent of users have Hep C and between 15 and 20 per cent have HIV. … Why don’t we arm them better for health?”
Bolduc has said that he will postpone his decision about safe injection sites in Quebec until May, when a federal ruling concerning the existence of Insite – a safe injection site in Vancouver – will likely be made. This could both put a delay on Cactus’s plans to go forward with the site this June, and determine the legality of their operation in the future.
“It has been proven…that it will at least stabilize the [rate of infection],” said Dion. “In several countries – Switzerland, Germany, even Vancouver – they’ve had a lot of positive outcomes. Were talking about 200 overdoses, 2,000 overdoses that should have been fatal if they hadn’t been supervised.”
Jean-Francois Mary, director of Community Organization and Outreach at Cactus, said he was uneasy about Bolduc basing his future decision on the federal verdict.
“It’s a question of morality for Mr. Bolduc. It’s not a question of expertise,” said Mary. “The Ministry of Health should be concerned about the health of its population, and the experts say that this is a critical improvement for the health of the most marginalized.”
So far the Institut national de santé publique du Québec and the AIDS advocacy group COQC-Sida have both come out in favour of safe injection sites, emphasizing their effectiveness in decreasing health threats to IV-drug users.
He emphasized, however, that a rejection from Bolduc would not stop Cactus from opening the site without his permission.
“Cactus has been around for 22 years. The Ministry of Health’s budget has been in place for two years,” said Mary. “Bolduc’s term is going to be short anyway. We’re going to last longer than he does.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Groupe MAMAN staged a symbolic birthing strike March 25 at UQAM, demanding better working conditions for midwives in Quebec.
Groupe MAMAN (Mouvement pour l’Autonomie dans la Maternité et pour l’Accouchement Naturel) is an organization which supports the interests of practising midwives and women who choose to make use of their services.
In 2008, Quebec Minister of Health Yves Bolduc promised to open 13 new birthing centres across the province by 2018. As of now, no new birthing centres have been opened, angering midwives across the province.
Lysane Grégoire, President of Groupe MAMAN, identified two major obstacles to opening new birthing centres: insufficient provincial funding, and opposition from doctors.
“They have no confidence in us, they think it’s unsafe for women to give birth outside of the hospital with a midwife,” said Grégoire. “There’s not enough money for birthing centres and we think it’s because he doesn’t want to upset the doctors. He says, ‘Yes, we want to have 13 new birth centres in the next ten years,’ but he never says he will put in the money. We can’t make miracles.”
A press attache for Yves Bolduc said the Ministry of Health was working on opening birthing centres in collaboration with midwife agencies, whom they are asking to pay half of the cost of the new centres.
“It’s important to us that there be midwives throughout the province,” said the attache.
Members of Groupe MAMAN doubt that the province will follow through on these promises. Adding to their concern is the fact that students graduate from the midwifery programs will have difficulty finding jobs. According to Groupe MAMAN, only one in five applicants in Montreal are given work each year.
“The others are put on waiting lists and may never get placed,” said Grégoire. “It’s kind of crazy. There’s an enormous demand for jobs in Montreal.”
A petition to Bolduc from midwives across Quebec is currently circulating, and will be submitted May 5.
“We’re going to demand a meeting with [Bolduc],” said Grégoire. “We want to meet with him so that he can see the citizens impacted by these projects in Quebec.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
PGSS elections closed this Friday, and resulted in the appointment of a seasoned executive committee and the approval of all referendum questions. The strength of next year’s PGSS executive committee will likely come from their previous experience working for the Society.
Next year’s president Roland Nassim has been involved with PGSS for over seven years, and has already served as VP External and VP Academic.
Nassim talked about his many plans for next year, which include creating stronger ties between the PGSS and their members.
“We have a problem now where our members don’t feel associated with the PGSS, and that creates apathy and lower participation rates,” he said. “I want to start building this appreciation for the PGSS as a community for graduate students.”
Marieve Isabel, elected VP External, said she has high hopes for the executive committee next year.
“I think next year we’re going to have a quick start,” she said. “We’ll be able to build on everyone’s experience, so it should be a very short transition period.”
Daily columnist Adrian Kaats was re-elected for the position of VP Finance, with former PGSS President Daniel Simeone the new VP Internal and Lily Han the new VP Academic.
Both the Post Graduate Student Life Fund – a fund to repace fee levies that Graduate Student Associations are no longer allowed to apply – and the Mental Health referendum question, increasing the Mental Health service fee by $7.50 for full-time students, were approved. The Health Plan referendum question was renewed with the coverage changes recommended by the PGSS Health and Wellness Committee.
This year’s elections also saw an increase in voter turnout, according to PGSS elections commissioner Tarek Hamade.
“Last year we had nine per cent of the graduate population come out to vote, and this year that number went up to 13 per cent,” he said.
Hamade credited the increased numbers to a more aggressive advertising campaign launched this year, and hopes to see it continue to climb in years to come.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Israeli blockade and fears of weapons trafficking hindering relief efforts
The Canadian Boat to Gaza initiative is in the midst of fundraising for its contingent in the Freedom Flotilla II, a multinational humanitarian fleet with boats from Greece, the U.S., and Denmark dedicated to breaking the blockade on the Gaza Strip.
Thus far, the Canadian Boat to Gaza has raised $240,000, with a goal of $300,000. The fleet is set to depart in mid-May.
Ehab Lotayeff, an organizer for Canadian Boat to Gaza, spoke of the necessity of such an endeavor.
“The blockade is unjustified; it’s a punishment towards the people and that’s why we see that sending a boat to Gaza is very important, and challenging the blockade is very important,” said Lotayeff.
“Our number one goal is to challenge the status quo here [in Canada] that the blockade in Gaza is legitimate…another goal is humanitarian aid and moral support. Even though we might not deliver enough aid, [the people in Gaza] need to know that the world is not leaving them alone,” he continued.
Operation Cast Lead, the December 2008 to January 2009 conflict in Gaza, left numerous hospitals, libraries, and schools destroyed. Since the war’s end, Israel has maintained a blockade in the region, only allowing a minimal amount of goods to enter. The blockade was ruled illegal under international law by the 2009 UN Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict. According to the UN report, the blockade violates the Fourth Geneva Convention that governs the protection of civilians in a war zone.
The Israel Defense Force (IDF) has previously stopped or attacked Gaza-bound flotillas. One of the most violent incidents occurred in May 2010, when the IDF attacked and killed nine activists.
Glyn Secker, an executive member of the Jews for Justice for Palestinians, spoke on March 25 at an event organized by the McGill chapter of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights. He described an incident in September 2010, when he was the captain of a boat to Gaza, where the IDF surrounded the boat, tasered one of the crewmembers, and forced the boat to dock in the Israeli port of Ashdod.
Some pro-Israel organizations, including campus groups, fear the security threat from Gaza and do not support ships coming to the strip without being inspected by the IDF.
“There’s a difference between delivering aid into the Gaza Strip and deliberately trying to break a military blockade and endanger Israeli security,” said Zach Paikin, VP External of the McGill Friends of Israel.
Rex Brynen, a McGill Political Science professor who travelled to Gaza in January 2010, said the Israeli restrictions on economic goods were in fact making it easier to get weapons into Gaza.
“I say that because there didn’t use to be so many tunnels,” said Brynen. “The reason there were so many tunnels from Egypt is because Israeli restrictions on imports meant that goods had to be smuggled from tunnels.”
Paikin defended the blockade, saying he believed aid can be sent to Gaza through Israel.
“If [humanitarian organizations] want to bring aid into the Gaza strip they are welcome to do so, yet they just only have to do so through the appropriate crossings…they should not go directly to the Gaza strip because that’s how weapons are transported,” Paikin said.
Brynen, however, described how non-military goods, such as construction materials, were being held up.
“There’s multiple cases where it’s clear that construction materials will be in the custody of the UN and Israel has not allowed it in…if it’s a UN reconstruction program, there’s no risk that those goods somehow leak into paramilitary use,” Brynen said.
“There’s no humanitarian crisis in Gaza,” Paikin said. “If you go to the Gaza strip, there are nice beaches, five-star restaurants and hotels, and new shopping malls.”
Lotayeff has visited Gaza twice since Operation Cast Lead in 2009.
“Schools and farms are destroyed to no recognition, there’s lots of damage in Gaza city and more so in refugee camps,” said Lotayeff. “Because of the blockade, the people of Gaza cannot build anything.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Thousands march for accessible education in ASSÉ led demo; police confirm five arrests, investigate two injuries
Over 2,000 CEGEP and university students marched through downtown Montreal last Thursday to protest the Charest government’s education policy in a demonstration that ended in a police clampdown and five arrests.
The same day, student and student -faculty associations at 11 Quebec post-secondary institutions joined a one-day strike for a provincial day of action. The day was organized by the Association pour un Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ) – with support from the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) and the Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec (FECQ) – in protest of Quebec Minister of Finance Raymond Bachand’s St. Patrick’s Day budget.
The tabled budget provides for a 25 per cent increase in funding for university operating revenues, to be mainly financed by a 75 per cent hike in tuition. This hike will see students paying almost $3,800 in basic Quebec tuition by 2017.
Alex Trahan, a theatre student at UQAM, spoke to The Daily as he sat in front of riot police guarding Charest’s office on McGill College, where protestors had symbolically cut through wads of yellow caution tape.
“Today is just a warning strike. We considered a longer strike, but it probably wouldn’t be effective until the fall,” he said.
As part of the day of action, around seventy students organized a sit-in at the Montreal offices of the Conférence des recteurs et des principaux des universités du Québec (CREPUQ) housed in the Loto-Quebec building at 500 Sherbrooke O. Thirty to forty students made it past security; the remainder sat in the lobby.
One receptionist fractured her wrist while trying to block the doors during a student rush, according to embedded Rue Frontenac reporters.
A UQAM student who only wanted to be known as “Frank,” was part of the occupation and said that it was intended as a political action against CREPUQ’s stance, and that there was no intention to harm employees. He added that the occupants received no formal eviction notice but left the CREPUQ offices after an hour.
Hundreds gathered at the entrance of 500 Sherbrooke O, chanting “liberez nos camarades” at the riot squad guarding the doors while occupants and employees looked on from the glass windows.
After asking those assembled outside the CREPUQ office to disperse, police charged at demonstrators, journalists, and photographers with batons, bottlenecking them against police cars parked immediately below the building steps.
The riot squad fired stun grenades and pepper spray at unarmed protestors – most of whom fled east along Sherbrooke and south on City Councillors. A handful of protestors were tackled to the ground and one man was packed into a police car.
ASSE coordinator Élise Carrier-Martin felt the use of force was disproportionate. “It was completely unnecessary to do that because we were already leaving,” she said in French.
Eyewitness reports confirm that similar arrests happened earlier during the march.
Police spokesperson Raphael Bergeron declined to comment on the method of arrests, but said that three warnings were given during the altercation at 500 Sherbrooke O.
Five people were arrested on charges of mischief, contempt of police officers, and breaking municipal bylaws. Four were released Thursday night on promises to appear in court.
One man went to court Friday on charges of mischief.
CTV reported that police are investigating an officer who knocked down an elderly woman during the earlier part of the demonstration.
CREPUQ agreed on a pro-tuition hike stance last fall, arguing that funding for Quebec universities falls short by $620 million in comparison to other Canadian universities. McGill Principal and CREPUQ member Heather Munroe-Blum has said that the organisation’s position has been increasing tuition rates “while maintaining a strong commitment to accessibility.”
Carrier-Martin disagreed.
“The system of loans and scholarships is inadequate, and will not be adequately increased to ensure genuine equality in access. Although the government might claim they are expanding financial aid, there are a lot of barriers to admission,” she said.
Although Education Minister Line Beauchamp was unavailable for comment, a government spokesperson said that her position was not going to change as a result of Thursday’s actions.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Research employees struggling to contact members, begin negotiations
McGill’s newest union, the Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE) is gearing up to initiate collective bargaining with the University in the coming months.
They will be holding an information assembly on April 7 at Moot Court to discuss effects of their recent unionization and to consult with members on demands for collective bargaining with McGill.
The information assembly will be the first time that all members of the union – both research associates and research assistants – will be meeting.
Matthew Annis, president of AMURE, stated in an email to The Daily that the research employees have had “common grievances and concerns, including salaries and working conditions, for a very long time.”
Negotiations for AMURE’s first collective agreement with the University are due to begin in the next few months. Both sides hope to begin negotiating in June.
Lynne Gervais, McGill associate vice-president (Human Resources), stated that until a date is set McGill will not be able to release its collective agreement proposal to AMURE or the members that will be on the committee. AMURE will be sending out questionnaires to all research employees to ascertain their demands.
The administration is also currently involved in collective agreement negotiations with the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) and the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA).
Prior to unionization, research employees dealt with issues either directly with their supervisors, or with the McGill administration. While there are options to have disputes mediated by Advocacy McGill or the McGill Ombudsperson, not all staff and students were made aware of these options.
McGill initially opposed the union of these two groups. AMURE was accredited July 15, 2010 for research associates. Research assistants were included following a referendum December 20, 2010. The two will comprise separate units within the union, with separate collective agreements. With the inclusion of the research assistants, AMURE now represents approximately 1,100 members.
McGill’s dedication to fostering research makes the unionization of the RAs especially significant. McGill receives more than $432 million annually in research funding.
The campaign to unionize was initiated in June 2008 in collaboration with the Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC).  PSAC has been involved with research employee unions at the Univeristé de Montréal and Concordia. Annis stated that the experience with the Syndicat des employé(e)s de la recherche de l’Université de Montréal – the research employee union at Université de Montréal formed last year – proved that unionization of research employees was possible and provided a precedent for AMURE.
AMURE has had difficulties contacting all research employees to inform them of the union since McGill has not yet provided a comprehensive list of employees.  AGSEM and AMUSE have also encountered this difficulty.
Gervais explained in an email to The Daily, that they “provide all unions with monthly membership report…but we can only give them what we have in our system. It is the employee responsibility to keep his/her personal information up-to-date.”
Annis explained the future role of AMURE as to “represent the interests of its members with a united voice to McGill.”
According to Annis, the union will also function as “a forum to deal with grievances, fight for gender parity with respect to wages, job security, and build relationships with similar university unions across Quebec.”
Since AMURE’s certification, members have already come forward with a number of grievances, which are taken up by union staff.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
