The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
An interview with Haroun Bouazzi
Haroun Bouazzi is a member of the group Collectif de solidarité au Canada avec les luttes sociales en Tunisie, and helped organize the thousands-strong rally January 14 in support of the recent revolution in Tunisia, which overthrew five-term President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali. The Daily interviewed him last Tuesday about the ongoing turmoil in his home country.
The McGill Daily: Mohamed Bouazzi set himself on fire in Tunisia in December, an act which helped spark the protests leading to the downfall of President Ben Ali. In the past week self-immolation tactics have spread to Cairo, Algeria, and Mauritania. In your opinion how does this tactic fit into Muslim beliefs and society?
Haroun Bouazzi: It is really interesting because suicide is totally against Muslim culture. It is clearly prohibited in Islam and really represents how desperate the people are. You know we have to remember that these people that died are human beings that, you know, committed suicide. Now, what happened in Tunisia is showing the way to a lot of people that feel this oppression and feel that the lack of freedom, and the lack of justice, social justice. And we will see more and more of that in all of the Arab world.
MD: Do you think this is an indication of a more widespread influence of the “Jasmine Revolution” throughout the Muslim world?
HB: Oh yes, you know the Arab world has almost exactly the same history for the past 13 centuries. So we have the Ottomans, the Umayyad, the Turkish, and the occupation by the English and the French, and then the English and the French left and we have dictatorships everywhere. And all these events happened at the same time with a couple of years of difference for the past 13 centuries. So if democracy, and we’re not yet there, but if democracy will work in Tunisia through this revolution, this might actually lead the entire Arab world to go on that path.
MD: Some claim the revolution is another example of the influence of WikiLeaks on state politics, while others disagree. What is your view?
HB: I don’t think WikiLeaks played a big role in that. Though it is very useful to know that, you know, the American intelligence knew that Tunisia was boiling and was going to explode at any time. But, for sure, this revolution was made by Tunisian people and just because of a struggle for justice, and it is not because of WikiLeaks.
MD: What role do you think Tunisians living outside of Tunisia have played in the revolution, and what is your next move?
HB: So, the role actually was big because of the fact that we entered the media here was very important – you know Ben Ali maybe wanted to kill Tunisians in the streets, but because the Canadian media, the French media, was watching him closely, he only – if I may use that word, killed 72 persons – which is already, of course, too much. Our next move right now is very hard to tell because the situation in Tunisia is changing every six hours. You know we had two presidents in sixty years and now we had two in 48 hours. People are withdrawing from the government, new faces are coming into the government, and people are still in the streets and we have a new thing, we did this revolution alone. The Tunisian people had no help from any outside power whatsoever, but now there are a lot of powers, especially in the Arab world, dictatorships in the Arab world, that don’t want this experience to succeed. So now we’ll have new things to deal with, which is that intelligence services are going to try to destroy the experience.
MD: How do you feel about the Democratic Constitutional Rally (RCD) still holding 161 of the 214 seats in the legislative assembly? Do you trust Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi’s government to implement change?
HB: The promises of Mr. Ghannouchi are very promising, though we have to be very careful and the pressure has to still be there in the street, in the national movements, so that he actually does what he has said. You know he said that he was going to create an independent institution for the next election under international supervision, which means basically good steps towards democracy. He said he was going to recognize every political party that hasn’t been recognized so far, which is a good step towards democracy. Now we have to be very careful and pressure has to remain so that we actually have real elections and we get rid of anyone that the people of Tunisia don’t want in the parliament.
-—Compiled by Nic van Beek
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Dispute arises with local union
The Mohawk Council of Kahnawake passed a directive on Monday, January 10 to implement the Kahnawake Trades Qualifications Program, which will ensure that ironworkers from the reservation are the first to be picked to work on the construction of the Honoré Mercier bridge.
When the bridge was built between the Mohawk Nation of Kahnawake and the Montreal borough of LaSalle in 1932, legislation was put in place to ensure that work on the bridge would be undertaken primarily by Mohawk workers. However, both the Commission de la construction du Québec (CCQ) and the local chapter of the iron-workers union, Local 711, have contested this in the past.
Local 711 has tried to kick Mohawk workers off the bridge project if they didn’t have CCQ cards identifying union membership.
Joe Delaronde, Kahnawake political press attaché, told The Daily “the first phase of construction was done extremely well. However, not all the workers have Quebec union qualifications.”
Chief Rhonda Kirby, who sits on the Mohawk Council of Kahnawake (MCK), explained, “Almost ninety per cent of the workers in Kahnawake are unionized ironworkers, but most of them have their qualifications from the United States.”
The Trades Qualification agreement will be a pact between the MCK and the provincial government, and will institute a committee of three people that will declare if workers are qualified. The committee will be composed of two qualified trades workers with over ten years of experience, and one community member from Kahnawake.
According to Kirby, this agreement will also allow Mohawk health and safety inspectors to carry out inspections in place of the CCQ.
In 2009, soon after the $67-million contract was awarded to the Kahnawake-based Mohawk Bridge Consortium (MBC), Local 711 started making allegations about the working conditions on the bridge, while arguing that MBC workers were not recognized under CCQ. They even went as far as threatening some Mohawk union members with the loss of their union books.
At a 2009 press conference held at the Palais de Justice de Montréal, Jacques Dubois, spokesperson for Local 711, was asked whether the union was looking for a portion of the contract which is the largest of its kind in Canada.
“It’s not [wanting] a piece of the pie, the contracts in the past were either chipping the concrete or painting. Local 711 represents its local members of the International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental, Reinforcing Ironworkers. Our trade jurisdiction was not involved in the past in the work that’s been done there,” said Dubois.
The two-phase construction project to replace the entire deck of the Mercier bridge for the first time since its construction in 1934, is slated to prolong the bridge’s life for 75 years. The second phase of construction was contracted out to Pomerleau, a private company from Saint-Georges, Quebec which must honour the Trades Qualification Program.
“I heard some grumblings from the union about this agreement,” Kirby told The Daily. “Any contractor is now required to work with qualified Kahnawake workers.”
Delaronde added, “This program will help provide future contractors with a pool of highly qualified workers. … We are trying to create an atmosphere of trust.”
The bridge is a crucial transport artery to and from the south shore – 29.5 million vehicles use the bridge every year – and has recently been showing signs of age. In July a two-by-three foot portion of the road fell into the river, requiring multiple lane closures and re-routing of traffic. In December, there were worries that the guard rails which prevent vehicles from falling into the river were not strong enough.
The construction work has employed between thirty and 120 workers from Kahnawake. When asked whether this new program would put Mohawk iron-workers currently employed on the bridge out of work, Kirby said it was out of the question.
“This is what these people do. We have some very experienced workers who work on these bridges,” she said.
MBC Chairman Wayne Rice and Local 711 spokesperson Jacques Dubois could not be reached for comment specifically for the Daily at publication time.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
In the wake of the surprise resignation of Concordia’s President Judith Woodsworth last month, the University’s senate passed a unanimous motion Friday calling for the resignation of the chair of the university’s Board of Governors (BoG), Peter Kruyt.
The motion came on the heels of a BoG decision earlier that morning to re-appoint Frederick Lowy as interim President while the university attempts to sort out a governance crisis that has sent the campus into turmoil in recent weeks.
Though she initially claimed she was stepping down for “personal reasons,” the circumstances of Woodsworth’s resignation remain shrouded in mystery and conjecture. She later confirmed that she was discreetly forced to resign by the BoG itself. The board’s motivations may remain unclear, and students and faculty alike are incensed by the administration’s lack of transparency in this matter.
The past two weeks have seen a spate of resolutions from the union’s faculty departments, student groups, and employee unions – all roundly criticizing the BoG’s silence on the matter of Woodsworth’s resignation.
Another serious concern has been the severance packages the university has doled out to the numerous high-level administrators who have resigned in recent months. Woodsworth herself will receive a payout to the tune of $703,500 – the equivalent of two years’ pay – stipulated in her contract. Her predecessor in the university’s presidency resigned under similarly opaque circumstances in 2007, and received over $1 million as part of his severance package.
Concordia’s VP Advancement and Alumni Relations Kathy Assayag, and VP Services Michael Di Grappa have also resigned this year – McGill has since hired Di Grappa as its new VP (Administration and Finance).
Maria Peluso, the president of the university’s part-time faculty association, has stated that, as a “conservative” estimate, the university has shelled out $10 million in severance packages and early retirement payouts in the past decade.
This number remains subject to speculation, however, given the confidential nature of the contracts the university has signed with its upper-level administrators.
“They seem to be signing non-disclosure contracts, leaving everyone in the dark,” said Erik Chevrier, one of the graduate students on senate. “This is extremely problematic to university governance, especially given that the university is a public institution and they seem to be giving out all these golden parachutes.”
When pressed for details on Woodsworth’s resignation, Kruyt has emphasized that her contract with the university demands a certain degree of confidentiality, and that those stipulations should be respected.
Many of the statements issued by faculty groups call for a full independent audit of “all extra payments made to former senior administrators as well as others still working in the senior administration.”
In addition to the motion urging Kruyt’s resignation, the senate – composed of 27 faculty members and 16 students – passed two other motions Friday afternoon demanding reform at the BoG level. All three passed unanimously. One called for the establishment of a Special Governance Commission to investigate the details of Woodsworth’s resignation and make recommendations accordingly.
The other demanded that the university strike a hiring committee composed in equal parts of senate members and BoG members to oversee the future appointment of board members chosen to represent the community at large – a task that has hitherto been undertaken by the board itself.
“It’s problematic if they’re appointing themselves, and we’ve seen the results of that,” said Chevrier.
Concordia Student Union (CSU) president Heather Lucas acknowledged that several students feel a serious “disconnect” with the BoG, and said she hopes that Friday’s senate meeting will have some sort of meaningful impact on the Board’s operations
“It’s a good start for clarifying governance at Concordia,” she said. “This is not a problem that’s going to get solved overnight. … It takes a whole collective effort to move forward.”
Half of the BoG’s 46 members represent the “community-at-large,” meaning they are not on the university’s payroll. The vast majority of these members hold executive positions at large Montreal-based businesses.
Many of the public statements made by the faculty departments in recent weeks also express concern that these BoG members intend to further reduce faculty representation on the Board.
“We are concerned that the community-at-large members should represent the community-at-large, and not just elite business members,” said Chevrier.
He added that none of these members attended the Senate meeting in the afternoon, where they could have addressed the concerns being raised by students and faculty. “I think that’s extremely troubling. It seems this is a situation that was made by them, but they’re unwilling to explain anything.”
The development speaks to a growing distrust among students and faculty of the external members of the BoG. Many have seen their terms expire, but remain on the BoG. A motion passed by CSU on January 12 called for the immediate resignation of all of these members “as per their own by-laws.”
Despite the turmoil and widespread distrust of the BoG, Lucas is confident that Lowy, the incoming interim president, will help solve the crisis of confidence the university’s governance structures seem to be facing.
“He seems very genuine about meeting everyone at the table – students, faculty, and staff. All the professors he met with couldn’t say anything negative…so this is a sign of hope for us to get us back on track. … We need to move forward and learn from our mistakes and make sure this never happens again.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
VP Abaki optimistic about increasing student consultation; Mendelson absent
Common themes of mistrust and anger over the McGill administration’s lack of transparency and student consultation in decision-making processes and committees surfaced at the open forum hosted by the Student Consultation and Communication Work Group in the McConnell Engineering building last Friday.
The lack of student consultation on controversial issues such as the closure of the Architecture Café was likely one of the main motivations for the Work Group. It was created by Deputy Provost Student Life and Learning Morton Mendelson – who was conspicuously absent from the meeting – with a mandate “to broadly consider, and make recommendations about, the methods used to consult and communicate with students.”
Engineering Senator Andrew Doyle commented on the nature of existing consultation committees.
“Committees deal much more with the how than the what. It is very difficult for a student representative to actually add an agenda item to a committee, and I think part of the frustration of students is that we’re always talking about what the administration wants to talk about, and not what we want to talk about.”
The open forum was organized to allow students to contribute ideas and suggestions to the committee, which will submit its recommendations to Mendelson in February. The atmosphere of the forum remained largely respectful and constructive, though frustration was palpable over what one student referred to as the “kids vs. grownups attitude” with which the administration deals with students in regards to decision making processes.
Students repeatedly stressed the difference between consultation and being involved in consensus building. Forum moderator Finn Upham – a graduate student and committee member – said the difference came to whether “students want to be customers or community members in terms of decision making.”
Many students referred to the current decision-making process as a system that weighted the power away from students in a way unacceptable for a university.
“The University and administration takes pride in the fact that we have some of the smartest students from across the country at this university. We are very capable of taking matters seriously and contributing to the process,” said Arts Senator Tyler Lawson.
The audience was quick to accede that it was clear that students and administration would not always agree. However, many saw this as irrelevant to the fundamental need to be consulted and have clear access to information about campus issues.
In his closing remarks, the chair of the Committee, Physics professor Paul Wiseman, said that he was “incredibly impressed in terms of the constructive atmosphere.”
Joshua Abaki, SSMU VP University Affairs, and the student representative for the committee, thought the forum was effective.
“I felt that this meeting was very, very helpful. We got a lot of really, really good comments, especially on where things have gone wrong. I am looking forward to the next meeting, and looking at how we can integrate the solutions that were suggested,” said Abaki.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New enrolment plan set to change recruitment priorities, deregulate international tuition rates
An unprecedented plan to manage McGill’s student enrolment for the next decade is currently circulating through the various forums that create University policy, and will be presented to Senate for approval March 23.
The Strategic Enrolment Management (SEM) plan outlines a broad tactical approach to enrolment management for the University – including increased recruitment of graduate and international students – from now up until 2016.
Morton Mendelson, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning), described the plan as something that “aligns our broad objectives with respect to enrolment at McGill, and our goals under each of those objectives.”
“An Enrolment Management plan is something that many universities have. We’ve had objectives defined, but not in as much detail and not as coherently as will appear in this plan. So that’s one of the things that was missing,” said Mendelson.
Strategically targeting empty seats
One of the “fundamental goals” targeted in the consultation draft of the SEM plan includes “increases targeted in specific programs,” yet Mendelson emphasized that the SEM plan does not strictly focus on enrolment numbers. When asked which programs were targeted for increases in enrolment, Mendelson answered, “It’s not that kind of a plan.”
“It’s not just about numbers. Enrolment management is essentially about the students’ experience, and it’s about the University’s transaction with students from the time they first visit our website to explore the idea of applying to McGill, through…their transactions with the University when they’re here, and then beyond when they’re alumni,” he said.
Mendelson identified programs in the Faculty of Engineering – such as the Department of Mining and Materials – and those at Macdonald Campus as programs that could be targeted for increases.
“This kind of thinking is very specific to specific programs here and there across the University,” said Mendelson.
Another program that could see increased enrolment is the School of Computer Science. When asked whether Computer Science was targeted for enrolment increases, Gregory Dudek, Director of the School, answered that “it looks like it.” Dudek, however, attributed such forecast increases to exterior influences, as opposed to a specific McGill agenda.
Dudek said the dot-com crash around the year 2000 led to a sharp decrease in Computer Science enrolment, so that now, as a result, the department has more room to accommodate increases.
“Threats”
The SEM plan identifies various “threats” to McGill’s enrolment aspirations, including escalating competition and McGill’s “Research Profile.” Mendelson described these threats as possible competition from other universities, and that of McGill not fulfilling its own high standards.
The SEM plan reads that “we must be mindful of threats to our reputation.”
“McGill was the most research-intensive university in Canada, but that’s no longer the case. So that’s a threat to our reputation,” said Mendelson.
“We are striving to be as student-centred as possible, but we’re not there yet, obviously,” continued Mendelson. “The degree to which students evaluate the University – as not providing as positive an undergraduate experience as they would like, for example – is a threat to our reputation.”
Mendelson also pointed out that McGill has been putting less effort into the recruitment of American high school students in recent years, saying that “complacency” with this constituted yet another threat to McGill’s reputation.
“In a recent survey – recent market research in the U.S. – we’ve learned that most U.S. high school students haven’t heard about McGill,” said Mendelson. “So the quality of the reputation, and just having McGill front-of-mind, is something that we can’t be complacent about. We can’t assume that that’s the case,” he continued.
In order to neutralize some of these threats, the draft consultation SEM plan prescribed various solutions, including shifting the University’s recruitment focus to the southern and western United States – where the university-aged population is expected to grow – and to Colorado, where the SEM plan says “the nation’s best students (approximated by SAT scores)” are, as well as developing relations with “the strongest students” by grade ten.
Deregulating diversity

A central goal of the SEM plan is increased international student enrolment, particularly from countries like India and China. The consultation draft of the SEM plan describes McGill’s desire to increase the overall international student body to approximately 22 per cent of all McGill students by 2016, possibly to offset an anticipated decline in Quebec student enrolment.
According to the consultation draft, “Statistics Canada data suggest that there will be a peak in enrolment in postsecondary institutions in Quebec in 2009-10, which should then be maintained for the following four years, prior to a steep decline, bottoming out in 2025-26.”
Total McGill enrolment is projected to decline 6.9 per cent from 2013 to 2022, while enrolment in all Quebec universities is projected to decline 9.2 per cent over roughly the same period.
The SEM draft notes that competition for students from these countries will increase due to the “improvement in the educational systems of former ‘sending countries’ (e.g. China).” The SEM plan projects that China and India alone will generate over half the global demand in international higher education by 2025.
In order to tap into this swelling reservoir of students, McGill has begun a number of international recruitment schemes. Mendelson said that McGill often participates in joint missions abroad with other Quebec universities as well as with the Quebec and federal governments.
“I myself, for example, was in India a number of years ago, on the Quebec mission,” said Mendelson.
McGill also carries its own independent missions abroad, according to Mendelson, including having faculty and graduate students pitch the University to potential students while they are either back in their home country or attending conferences.
“Our goals and our business is not one hundred per cent aligned necessarily with all the other universities. So it’s a mix of participating, lending our support to efforts that can benefit all universities in Quebec…and at the same time advancing our own interests,” said Mendelson.
In the same breath as it advocates for an increase in the international student population, the draft consultation SEM plan aims to “pursue the deregulation of tuition for international undergraduate students.”
When the Quebec government set international tuition, that revenue was taken by the government and redistributed throughout all Quebec universities.
“The money that international students paid for tuition to come to McGill did not stay in McGill,” said Mendelson.
In 2008, Quebec deregulated international tuition for six disciplines, of which McGill has four – Law, Engineering, Management, and Science – and allows McGill to keep all of that tuition money. According to Mendelson, thirty per cent of net revenue derived from tuition is going to student aid.
“That is important because it means that our students can get the benefit of the tuition they’re actually paying, and it’s important to the University because we end up having increased revenue,” said Mendelson.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
