The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec environmental groups concerned over health and environmental implications
A group of Quebec environmental organizations have filed a petition with the provincial government to introduce the obligatory labeling of genetically modified (GMO) foods in grocery stores.
The Réseau québécois contre les OGM (RQcOGM), a network of Quebec environmental groups, wants the government to adopt proposals it put forward in a 2004 report entitled “Food Safety: A challenge for society and responsibility of all the stakeholders in the food system.”
If the government adopts the proposal, it would be the first in Canada to do so.
Charles Tanguay, director of communications for Union des Consommateurs, a non-profit Quebec union defending the rights of consumers, told The Daily, “We want to be a leader, to convince the rest of Canada it’s time for GMO labeling. It is a basic right of consumers to know.”
Thibault Rehn, a volunteer with RQcOGM, explained that Canada is the fourth largest GMO producer in the world, after Argentina, Brazil, and the United States.
The Health Canada website states that “Every new GM food product must undergo a rigorous pre-market safety assessment before it is allowed to be sold in Canada… No GM food is allowed on the market in Canada unless Health Canada’s scientists are satisfied that the food is safe and nutritious.” In spite of this, Rehn said that it is possible for some foods to go undetected.
Although Canada produces mainly GMO corn, soy and canola, Rehn explained that GMO produce is also used to make products such as corn syrup, which is then used in multiple other products that the consumer is unaware of.
The proposal also calls for better inspection and regulation of GMO foods due to the unknown effects of growing and consuming such foods.
“There is more and more evidence that there could be consequences from GMOs that could be underestimated,” said Tanguay. He cited a study from Sherbrooke University Hospital that found Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) – a pesticide used to genetically modify corn, making it pest resistant – in women’s blood. The researchers also discovered that the toxin could be passed through fetal blood.
David Szanto, a Concordia PhD student who teaches a course on food systems, explained that “Since we have been domesticating plants and animals we have been genetically modifying them, but GMOs created in a laboratory are much more recent. Part of the fear and the risk is that we do not know the long term effects.”
The petition also raises concerns over the contamination of non-GMO crops and the subsequent threat to biodiversity.
“We feel there is a lack of regulation of GMO crops that can lead to contamination of non-GMO [crops],” said Rehn. “There is no liability when such contamination occurs.”
Szanto stated a similar concern over cross-contamination. “Unlike chemical or nuclear waste, which degrades over time, biological waste actually multiplies,” he said.
“GMOs go into the environment, cross pollinate with non-GMO foods and then reproduce,” he continued.
“This is really showing us that you can’t fool around with nature without a chain reaction that could get out of control,” said Tanguay. “It’s changing the nature of things and we are very worried.”
The petition calls for proposed changes to be adopted by the Quebec government by July 2012.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Internal letter from MUS president solicits feedback on governance changes
A revamp of the Management Undergraduate Society (MUS) organizational structure over the summer has inspired a faculty association-led inspection of SSMU governance.
A letter authored by MUS President Dave Fortin is being circulated among other faculty association presidents as a way of soliciting feedback on possible modification to SSMU’s organizational structure. Fortin said the letter is still in its early stages as a draft document.
“It takes a look at the different structures of SSMU, and it’s really an analysis. So, it says what is in place, why it’s in place, how it came to be, what are some of the negatives, what are some of the positives, where is there room for improvement, and how could we strive to improve some of those things,” said Fortin.
“Because there are definitely areas where there is room for improvement,” he continued.
Josh Redel, president of the Engineering Undergraduate Society, said he was interested in how the document compares SSMU to other universities.
“I haven’t had too much time to go through it,” he said, “[but] it’s an interesting look at how SSMU works and how it serves students.”
Redel also noted how changes proposed in the document could affect SSMU’s dual roles as a student service and a political body.
Fortin said the genesis of the letter came amidst MUS’ own reorganization over the summer, when the Society created a Board of Directors with academic area representatives and cut down the number of executives, giving them a more operational than governing role.
“We began the process of looking at the other things that we could potentially change. So we began to look at the money that our students pay to us, and the money that students pay to SSMU, and we realized that we wanted to make sure that SSMU was held accountable to students as well,” said Fortin.
Fortin didn’t discuss specific flaws he had found in the SSMU organization structure – saying he thought it was a process that’s “better done internally” – but emphasized that he thought the SSMU executive had been doing “a fantastic job” this year.
“What we want to look at was more the decision-making bodies of SSMU and whether they were appropriate,” he said. “There’s always room for improvement in any type of situation where you’re representing students.”
SSMU President Maggie Knight said Fortin had informed her of the letter last week.
“I’d heard sort of mutterings about it from various people during the summer,” said Knight.
“I haven’t seen any of the tangible documents at this point, but he’s assured me that they want to come forward with some ideas that are well thought-out. And so they’re kind of in the process of doing that,” she continued.
Knight said she wasn’t aware of any specific changes proposed in the letter, but that she’d heard they could include changes to the structure of Council and the SSMU Board of Directors, as well as changes to the election process.
“We might all agree on those things, and we might have different ideas about exactly how [the changes] could be enhanced. But I haven’t seen their ideas, so their ideas could be amazing, or I could think they’re awful. I don’t know yet,” she said.
According to Knight, any proposals that would involve changing the SSMU Constitution would have to go to referendum, while smaller proposals to change by-laws or policy could go through Legislative Council.
As for right now, Fortin believes the document is a long way from proposing specific changes.
“Everyone who I spoke to about it, I clearly wrote ‘Draft’ on it, and I said, ‘This is a working document, and this is really intended to garner your feedback, rather than to make any type of decision upon,” he said.
Knight noted that the relationship between faculty associations and SSMU isn’t well-defined, but continued by saying that “they have a good perspective.”
“Obviously faculty associations are different than SSMU, so not everything that works at one level would work at the other,” she said.
“For me, the more people that are interested in making SSMU better, the better. So if they’re interested in spending some of their time thinking about this then I’m happy to look at what they produce.”
While he said the letter has been receiving positive feedback, Fortin declined sending The Daily a copy, explaining that he was still focused on keeping the document an internal collaboration. He added that if he can get a lot of associations on board and provide a “document that [they’re] really proud of,” he will publicize the document and bring it to SSMU.
“We want to make sure that everyone is board – or at least most people are on board – with coming up with solutions that everyone can agree to and agree are beneficial,” Fortin said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Participants hold politicians accountable for current state of social housing
Article updated – Sunday, Oct 9
To commemorate World Habitat Day, a long-standing activist group is set to launch a week-long caravan campaign to raise awareness and demand government investment in social housing.
The Montreal-based coalition of 138 activist groups in Canada, known as le Front d’action populaire en réaménagement urbain (FRAPRU), will begin a caravan campaign around Quebec on October 3. The FRAPRU caravan will stop in various towns and communities to hold demonstrations calling for federal and provincial politicians to take action on the issues of social housing and poverty.
“We’re taking our message to the streets all over Quebec, because we see the same problem in every region,” said FRAPRU organizer Marie-Josée Corriveau. She said she expected around 80 participants in the caravan.
The caravan will consist of two convoys. One departs from Quebec City, and the other from Ottawa; both will end up in Montreal on October 9, the same day FRAPRU is planning a demonstration. Corriveau explained that the convoys’ routes would include stops at the offices of various politicians – among them Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand and Minister of Municipal Affairs Laurent Lessard.
According to Corriveau, 160,000 people in Quebec have serious housing needs.
“What we’re asking is that the [federal and provincial governments] agree to investments that will provide for 50,000 new units over five years, if only to deal with the most urgent cases.”
Stéphan Corriveau, who works as a coordinator for a low-income housing advocacy group called the Fédération des locataires d’habitations à loyer modique du Québec (FLHLMQ), spoke to the large demand for social housing.
“There are currently 45,000 households – not people, households – on waiting lists, and, of those, 22,000 are in Montreal. Many more think the list is so long, they won’t even try to put themselves on it,” he said.
There are over 100,000 social housing units in Quebec, with low-income housing making up the largest part of the public housing system. According to Corriveau, the mortgages on many of the buildings are due to expire soon. As they do, the federal government will be free from certain funding responsibilities, which Corriveau predicts will lead to higher rents, a reduction in the quality of services, or the neglect of necessary maintenance projects.
According to Corriveau, maintenance on existing social housing units also has a long history of being underfunded and deferred.
“These buildings are 31 years old on average, and they were often made with inferior materials – they need significant upgrades,” he said.
Maude Ménard Dunn is a community organizer for Montreal-based homeless advocacy group le Réseau d’aide aux personnes seules et itinérantes de Montréal (RAPSIM). She stated that much-needed maintenance to housing units will result in rent hikes to cover the expenses.
“[Housing co-operatives] simply can’t afford to take responsibility for the subsidies because of mounting renovation costs,” she explained.
Dunn predicted a sharp increase in homelessness as a result of the funding shortfalls, something that could cripple Montreal’s already overcrowded shelters.
“Homelessness is a multi-faceted problem, one of the causes is, by definition, the need for social housing; the situation in Montreal has exploded,” she said.
Marie-Josée Corriveau also spoke to the effects of a decrease in government subsidies for rent in low-income housing and other units, such as cooperatives and non-profit housing organizations.
“These people could then be subject to rent increases of two, three, four, even five hundred dollars a month,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council votes to support TAs and worker’s struggles
SSMU President Maggie Knight reported at Legislative Council last Thursday that former president Zach Newburgh has requested a membership list of all SSMU members. The list would provide Newburgh with the names, physical addresses, and occupations of every individual who pays dues to SSMU.
The request is covered under the Quebec Companies Act, which gives all members of companies – SSMU is technically a corporation –  the right to request a list of all members.
“The member in question was interested in obtaining information that was more than the names, as in the report that I’m able to access, that has all names, emails et cetera, of all student members, which this member is obviously aware of since he had access to this list last year,” said Knight to councillors.
Knight explained that SSMU would only be providing what is legally binding. “However, I did clarify that we have no legal obligation to provide anymore than names, addresses and occupations,” she added.
When asked by Knight for his specific purpose in obtaining the list, Newburgh refused to give a response. “I asked him to tell me and he told me it wasn’t relevant,” Knight told The Daily.
According to Knight, the information released can be used for purposes such as knowing who SSMU members are and calling  meetings of all members. Newburgh has assured SSMU that he will use the information for purposes as outlined by law.
Knight maintained that SSMU “reserve[s] the right to take any necessary legal action to prevent any unauthorized distribution of the list…as we would with any person who wanted the list.”
Councillors expressed concern about the privacy of their constituents, and repeatedly asked about options for dissuading Newburgh’s request.
“Is there any way to convince the member who asked for the list to get just the names, and not other personal information, and tell him this is done in the interest of the entire 20,000 students of McGill?” Clubs and Services Representative Sahil Chaini asked Council.
“People have been very concerned about privacy…however, my understanding is that privacy concerns [are] not usually considered to be a justifiable reason for withholding access to that list under the [Quebec] Companies Act,” Knight explained to The Daily.
When speaking to Council, Knight referenced a series of emails between herself and Newburgh, but told The Daily that she is unable to release them due to issues of confidentiality. Newburgh did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Motions pass to support campus workers
Also debated was official support for the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), which is in the process of collective bargaining with the McGill administration. The resolution passed by Council seeks to support AGSEM in the process of obtaining their bargaining priorities. These priorities include, but are not limited to, lowering the student-to-TA ratio, obtaining training provided by the University for first-time TAs, and ensuring that course supervisors and TAs meet regularly.
Jonathan Mooney, a member of AGSEM’s bargaining committee, believes that supporting AGSEM is in the best interest of SSMU members.
“So many of our key demands have to do with improving the quality of education at McGill and the student body is a huge stakeholder in this process,” Mooney said.
“My understanding is that some TA hours have been cut due to budget cuts…so that has obviously reduced the amount of time TAs have to support students. More TA hours hypothetically means more support for students especially around exam prep,” he continued.
“I have been in classes where the TA has maxed out their allowable hours by early November and they are not there to help with exams,” Knight said to The Daily.
The motion in support of AGSEM coincided with a vote to support workers’ struggles. The motion was referred to Council after passing in consultative forum when the General Assembly lost quorum last week.
The resolution, which will expire in one year, urges SSMU executives and councillors to support unions that are in negotiations with the McGill administration.
“What was lacking before [the current strike of McGill non-academic workers] was that it took a long time for people to actually know what was going on, so next time there is a collective bargaining, in that period then people can become aware of what is going now…it will create a more conscious student body,” said Arts Representative Micha Stettin, one of the authors of the original motion.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
