The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Despite the ongoing MUNACA strike, negotiations have continued between the University and other campus unions
Despite the ongoing strike by the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), negotiations have continued between the University and other campus unions.
Previous to the strike, the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) held negotiations with the University in the McGill Human Resources offices at 688 Sherbrooke.
Since MUNACA commenced striking, AMUSE has decided to change their negotiation locations.
AMUSE Labour Relations Officer Dave Howden explained that, “Unions outside of the University sector usually negotiate in a more neutral setting, like a hotel,” rather than at one of the parties’ offices.
“As members of unions, we won’t cross picket lines; that has always been and will always be our policy,” said Howden.
“It was unclear whether 688 Sherbrooke would be picketed, and we asked McGill to move to other premises for that reason and they seemed to think it wasn’t an issue. On the day of bargaining there was a picket line, and we didn’t cross,” Howden continued.
The next date set for AMUSE negotiations is September 20; they will be held at a law firm that McGill keeps on retainer at 1000 De La Gauchetière Ouest. The two sides have been negotiating the union’s first ever collective agreement since March.
The Association for Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) has two bargaining units – teaching assistants (TAs) and invigilators – currently negotiating with the University.
“Invigilators’ [negotiations] happen off-campus, TAs’ happen on-campus, at 688 Sherbrooke,” said AGSEM president Lerona Lewis.
Lewis said that AGSEM consulted with MUNACA as to whether the union would rather that AGSEM find an alternate location, but found that MUNACA had no objections.
However, AGSEM has decided to hold their general meetings off-campus while MUNACA is on strike.
“The course lecturers’ general assembly will be at [l’Université du Québec à Montréal] next week, out of respect, because [MUNACA] said they would prefer if we didn’t have them on campus,” Lewis said.
According to VP External Joël Pedneault, when SSMU negotiates their Memorandum of Agreement with McGill, they negotiate either in SSMU offices or in James Administration.
Pedneault said that the location of negotiations had not been an issue, and that SSMU has never had to cross picket lines to reach their negotiations.
AMUSE and AGSEM, with MUNACA, are three members of the McGill Inter-union Council. AGSEM representatives said that the Council meets off-campus, currently at MUNACA’s temporary offices on Drummond and de Maisonneuve.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
How the strike threatens professors’ salaries, casual workers and course lecturers
Correction appended – Wednesday, Sep 21
As the McGill non-academic employees strike enters its third week, battle lines have been drawn and the two sides have dug in. Recent developments have seen professors and student workers caught in the “crossfire,” in the words of one union official.
After the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) began its strike at 6 a.m. on the first day of classes, Michelle Hartman, an associate professor in the Department of Islamic Studies, spent the days before her first class deciding what to do.
“I did not want to cross the picket line for reasons of moral conscious and political solidarity. But I also feel a really strong moral conscience to teach my students,” she said.
Hartman decided to teach the class off-campus. She taught two seminars off-campus – one at a cafe, and one at her home. The decision was a “compromise,” she said, between two separate duties: to worker solidarity, and to her students.
Christopher Manfredi, Dean of Arts, contacted Hartman soon afterwards through the chair of the Islamic Studies department. After Hartman confirmed that she was teaching off-campus, Manfredi sent a message saying that the practice would not be tolerated, and that, if she continued, Hartman’s salary would be in question.
In an email to The Daily, Manfredi cited a McGill policy document saying that, during a strike, McGill academic staff who do not perform their academic “duties” will not be paid.
Manfredi said that his office had received complaints about students having to take a bus to class, and missing other classes because of the commute.
“If the dictates of a professor’s conscience are so compelling that they cannot cross a picket line, then he or she should be willing to make the same sacrifice as non-academic staff members in the same situation,” Manfredi wrote. Non-academic staff who refuse to cross picket lines are not paid for work that they miss by respecting the line.
Calvin Normore, a professor in the Philosophy department, said that of the ten universities he has taught at, McGill is the first place where the act of “holding your classes off-campus has been regarded as…dereliction of duty.’”
Derek Nystrom – a professor in the English department and member of the McGill Faculty Labour Action Group – wrote in an email to The Daily, “This isn’t about ensuring that classes happen on campus because that is in the best interest of students; it is instead an effort to enforce an imagined ‘business as usual’ environment on a campus where it is not business as usual, where it cannot be business as usual, because essential members of the University community are not at work, because the administration refuses to recognize their true worth to the University.”
In the wake of Manfredi’s directive last week, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson has retracted a statement published in the Daily on September 8, in which he said that professors who opted to teach off-campus would be tolerated. Mendelson apologized, and said that he “spoke out of turn.”
Allegations of scab labour
Government inspectors have been investigating MUNACA’s complaints of scab labor on both the downtown and Macdonald campuses, according to a report in the Montreal Gazette.
According to a McGill Residences employee, who asked not to be named, casual student employees have been used to do the work of striking MUNACA members throughout McGill’s residence system, which would be illegal under the Quebec Labour Code.
The University denied the use of scab labour in a Thursday, September 15th email to students, saying that the Labour Code allows for “certain managers” to do the work of strikers.
Farid Attar, president of the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE), the union that represents casual workers at McGill, encouraged his members to report scab labour to the union, which is forwarding such complaints to MUNACA leadership.
Jaime Maclean, vice-president of AMUSE and a casual employee at Carrefour Sherbrooke, said that she was asked to fill in for a striking worker. She declined. Management has since denied her hours, she said.
“Since I told them that I wasn’t comfortable working for a MUNACA employee, I haven’t gotten my regular shifts that I normally would be working,” Maclean claimed.
Attar added that sometimes the union doesn’t have a clear legal basis for defining scab work. Casual workers often lack job descriptions, so the administration can get around the legal definition of scabs when they use AMUSE members to fill in for strikers. “Because of the divisive way which McGill has arranged labour… they could be molded to whatever the administration wants,” Attar said.
Furthermore, Attar said that many of the demands MUNACA is making are similar to those of AMUSE, which is currently in bargaining sessions with McGill after being certified last year.
Course lecturer contract ended
Angela Ngaira, a MUNACA member and former course lecturer, had her teaching contract terminated because of the strike.
Ngaira worked in the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies as a thesis and graduation administrator, and was slated to teach a 400-level Swahili course in the African Studies department this fall.
After considering legal action, Ngaira reached an agreement with McGill that will see her paid 20 per cent of what her salary would have been for teaching the class. McGill also sent her a letter apologizing for her “last-minute termination.”
In terminating Ngaira’s contract, McGill cited an area of the Quebec Labour Code, which states that employers cannot utilize “the services of an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit then on strike.”
Officials from the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill, the union that represents course lecturers, teaching assistants, and invigilators, said that the area of the Labour Code is intended to prevent the use of strike breakers, and that McGill is the only employer they know of to use such an interpretation.
Ngaira is still on the picket line for MUNACA, but says that the issue of her course lecturer contract was “handled well” by the administration.
– with files from Henry Gass
Due to an editorial error, the printed version of this article (News, Sep 19, pg. 5) stated that Hartman cancelled her first class; rather, her first class was not scheduled until the week following the first day of the Fall semester.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstration on McGill College attracts Quebec politicians
Last Friday around 50 McGill students and faculty joined a rally of hundreds of unionized Quebec workers on McGill College, a few feet from Roddick Gates.
Some of the students staged a walkout from classes before gathering in front of the Shatner building and marching across campus, through the Leacock and Arts buildings, and down through Roddick Gates to join the rally. The walk out and campus march were organized by McGill’s Mobilization Committee (Mob Squad).
The rally, marked by speeches from representatives from various McGill and provincial unions, was held in support of the ongoing strike of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA). The union represents more than 1,700 workers, including library staff, lab technicians, and registration staff.
MUNACA president Kevin Whittaker said he was “amazed” by the show of support.
“I’m overwhelmed; very happy to see the people out here [and] the support that we’re receiving. It has been a great day,” he said.
McGill has been negotiating with the union since January, and MUNACA has not budged on demands for what they consider to be working conditions comparable to those at other Quebec universities.
“We are not going anywhere until this university understands that they need us. We deserve better. We deserve what all the other universities have, and we will be here until we get that,” said Whittaker addressing the crowd at the rally.
To date, negotiations are scheduled to continue until October 26.
Ann Jack, who has been working at McGill for 21 years – the last six as an undergraduate secretary for the School of Computer Science – is part of MUNACA. She said she felt “rejuvenated” by the rally.
“I feel like there’s hope. Everyone’s here,” Jack said. “I was a little naive. I thought [the strike] wouldn’t go beyond a week. We’re now two weeks and I don’t know if we’re further ahead. We’re tired; physically tired, spiritually tired, but once you get here and you start that picket line, you sort of get motivated again,” she continued.
 
Federal and provincial politicians show solidarity
The rally was punctuated by speeches from senior Quebec politicians Thomas Mulcair, NDP MP for Outremont, and Amir Khadir, Quebec Solidaire (QS) member of the National Assembly of Quebec for Mercier riding, addressed the crowd with QS spokesperson Francoise David.
Mulcair, who graduated from McGill in 1977 with degrees in common and civil law is scheduled to deliver the closing address at a conference at McGill on September 23. He told The Daily he plans to inform the University he will not cross picket lines to attend the conference.
“As a McGill Grad, it’s important for people to understand that this is a large employer in the Montreal area. To have this job action is an indication that there is something wrong,” he said in an interview with The Daily.
“I did my two degrees at McGill. I know how important the workers are to our student life. They deserve to be treated fairly,” he continued.
Khadir and David addressed the crowd together. In his speech, Khadir referred to last week’s lockout of Couche-Tard workers – in response to pressure tactics from workers as they negotiate their first-ever collective agreement with the company – in his criticisms of McGill’s negotiating strategies.
“We’re in a particular context where corporate business everywhere attacks union rights,” he said in an interview with The Daily. “I hope that the university will realize that it has also a social responsibility. The university is not big corporate business so their attitude towards their employees has to reflect that social responsibility.”
“I implore the direction of the University to treat their employees with respect with good faith and go back to the table of negotiations and consider the fact that the services to the students are given by these [workers],” Khadir continued. “They have to be respected; they have to have a dignified job.”
 
McGill unions unite in common struggle
Other campus unions are currently negotiating collective agreements with McGill: the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) and Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM). The Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE) are preparing to enter their first bargaining process. All three workers’ unions have released statements supporting MUNACA.
AGSEM President Lerona Lewis spoke at the rally before joining the TA bargaining committee to meet with McGill concerning the ongoing negotiations for the TAs’ new contract that afternoon.
As Lewis left the rally she spoke to The Daily about her take on the rally.
“I think it’s really impressive and it shows that the McGill community really cares about what workers are getting from the administration,” she said. “It’s about one McGill.”
Lewis noted that the rally and solidarity action has significance for AGSEM.
“It’s not just for MUNACA, but it’s also for us. Our demands are serious, and they are not unrealistic,” she said. “We hope McGill will treat us fairly in the negotiations, and we hope that they will see that the unions on campus are a force to be reckoned with and that they have to take us seriously at the bargaining table.”
When The Daily went to press, AGSEM released an update from Friday’s meeting with McGill saying that the TA bargaining committee is “cautiously optimistic that progress continues to be made.”
Farid Attar, president of AMUSE, walked out of class before attending the rally.
“We’re going to plan an action every single week. We have to let them know that they’re not alone, and that people in the McGill community are supporting them,” he said. “I think we owe them this because [MUNACA workers] are the front-line service. We meet them every day. They deserve better from McGill.”
Matthew Annis, president of the Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE), affirmed his union’s support of the strike, saying MUNACA and AMURE workers face many of the same problems.
“Many of our employees are researching assistants and associates – they work hand-in-hand with MUNACA members every day,” he said. “We miss them. We want them to come back to work. We want McGill to negotiate a fair contract with them so they will come back to work.”
 
Campus connections
Both SSMU and the McGill Post-Graduate Student Society (PGSS) have passed motions supporting the union.
A group of McGill Law students also attested to the effect the strike was having on University operations. Amanda Gibeault, a U2 Law student, said many of their faculty’s services were dependent on direct contact with MUNACA workers.
“Students are having trouble registering for courses, having trouble turning assignments in, receiving assignments,” she said.
“It’s been putting a lot of people in the very difficult position of not being able to meet the academic expectations of professors.”
The same day as the rally, the University posted an announcement titled: “MUNACA strike and impact on Faculty of Law activities.” The announcement states that, despite the strike, classes and other Faculty events are proceeding as scheduled.
“However, the strike will have an impact on the Faculty’s services, as a number of employees are members of MUNACA,” the announcement continues. The announcement then gives pertinent contact information for both current and prospective students.
The rally was also the first to feature the vocal support of the new McGill Faculty Labour Association Group (MFLAG). English professor Alanna Thain and East Asian Studies assistant professor Adrienne Hurely spoke at the rally.
“Every day the cracks in the university are getting larger. Every day we arrive to notices of more services cut,” said Thain.
“A gradual but steady erosion of staff benefits and pensions concern us all. The burden of what we’re repeatedly told is a financial deficit must not be placed on the shoulders of those least able to bear it,” she continued.
East Asian Studies professor Thomas Lamarre gave a personal example of how the strike has affected his courses. He described enrollment issues with his Introduction to Manga course, describing it as a “rollercoaster enrollment.”
“Students from sciences ended up banned pretty much. Like, only a handful of them could get into Art History classes because there’s caps on numbers from other faculties, and we would have switched it but we weren’t able,” he said.
Some students were underwhelmed by the student presence at the rally, however. Lauren Pearce, a U3 Religious Studies student, said she “did expect it to be bigger, but I’m happy we’re here.”
Bianca Giulione and Sinead Petrasek, both U3 Art History students who walked out of the same Feminism in Art and Art History class with several other students.
“More students should be aware and should support the MUNACA strike,” said Petrasek.
“They deserve to be treated just as well as [Principal] Heather Munroe-Blum is treated. Like, I think, she could take a little bit of a cut from her $350,000 a year salary, and stop renovating stupid conference rooms,” Giulione said, referring to the controversial $2.1 million renovation on the third floor of the James Administration building.
SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault, who organized the action with Mob Squad, said future actions would focus more on outreach.
“I think definitely we need to reach out to the people who aren’t here today,” he said. “At this rate there are going to be more actions if McGill doesn’t back down.”
Matthew Crawford, a student Arts Senator who walked out of his Philosophy 375 class to attend the rally, said student senators were planning on posing a question about the impact of the strike on student services at the first Senate meeting this Thursday.
– With files from Erin Hudson and Michael Lee-Murphy
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
VP Finance Patel announces the search for new tenants in the SSMU cafeteria
The largest undergraduate student decision-making body at McGill, the SSMU Legislative Council, met officially for the first time last Thursday night, September 15th.
The Council’s first heavily-debated motion of the night was a resolution to support workers of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association  (MUNACA). Authored by Education representative and former Daily Design and Production Editor Kady Paterson and Arts representative Jamie Burnett, the Council considered several amendments that brought into question the degree to which SSMU would explicitly favour MUNACA over the McGill administration.
The motion was passed with a large majority – with two dissenting votes, and one abstention – with the spirit of the original resolution remaining in tact. The resolution states that “SSMU supports a speedy resolution to the current labour dispute between MUNACA and the McGill administration insofar as it favours MUNACA.”
An announcement from SSMU VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel made public that, after the current contract expires in May 31, 2012, new tenants would be occupying the second floor cafeteria of the SSMU building.
Currently, the space in the second floor cafeteria is occupied by subtenants of franchiser MTY Group, Cultures, Tiki-Ming, and Franx Supreme. The subtenants have no role in defining or negotiating the contract between SSMU and MTY. In his announcement, Patel spoke to the process of negotiating with MTY.
“We will not be working with this group, because in the negotiations with the group there was communications where the MTY group was not responsive,” he said.  “Our [SSMU’s] general manager tried very hard to communicate, negotiate, and compromise, but they were not as receptive.”
Negotiations broke off over the summer when MTY failed to continue contact with SSMU or SSMU’s lawyer. SSMU is contractually obliged to negotiate exclusively with MTY.
“It is unfortunate that [the subtenants] are going to go through it this way,” stated Patel. The subtenants will vacate the space as soon as SSMU’s contract with MTY expires on next spring.
During the summer, the SSMU executive conducted a non-binding call for businesses interested in occupying the space. In reference to the negotiation process with new prospective tenants, Patel said, “We want to make it as public as possible.” He called for students to speak with him personally or attend the second Legislative Council to learn more about the process of selecting tenants.
He also noted that SSMU plans to work with the new tenants to encourage hiring student workers. Patel announced some of the groups that had expressed interest in working with SSMU to occupy the space over the summer.
“The groups that we contacted include but are not limited to: Burritoville, Lola Rosa, the Green Panther, Crudessence, and La TribuTerre,” he said.
Patel added that SSMU is trying to reach out to small businesses that are student-oriented. “[SSMU wants] to introduce things that we care for, like sustainability, local purchasing and equity,” he said.
The negotiations will be conducted independently with each individual business on the basis of one contract for each tenant.
Guest speakers included Jonathan Mooney, PhD Chemistry student and representative from the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM). Mooney addressed the Council on the subject of AGSEM’s on-going negotiations with McGill and the nature of their demands.
“Our two priorities are to increase the number of TA hours and ensure that TAs receive proper training,” said Mooney. He added that “undergraduates complain that they don’t get enough attention from their TAs, and we believe that is a great concern for the quality of education here at McGill.”
AGSEM is also seeking to obtain a 3 per cent wage increase, and for the University to commit to provide paid training to first-time TAs.
Additional motions included the name change of the former McGill First Aid Service and ratifying a three-year agreement to include PGSS members in the operations of SSMU.  In exchange for comprehensive inclusion in all of SSMU’s operations, PGSS will pay annual fees to SSMU.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
