The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Bill C-21 opens up complaint processes against federal and First Nations governments
Corrections appended on September 15, 2011. 
Since its application in 1977, the Canadian Human Rights Act has pledged to uphold the principle that “all individuals should have an opportunity equal with other individuals without being hindered in or prevented from doing so by discriminatory practices.” Until last June, however, the Act included a special provision, Section 67, which restricted the right to file claims of discrimination from First Nations peoples.
“For thirty-five years, people living under the Indian Act were not able to avail themselves of recourse to justice when they felt themselves to be victims of discrimination in many matters of their daily lives,” said David Gollob, communications director for the Canadian Human Rights Commission, in an interview with The Daily.
The Indian Act is a broad piece of legislation that affords First Nations communities the right to a certain level of autonomy on their lands, and determines the relationship between Aboriginal citizens living on reservations and the federal government. First drafted in 1876, it has broad implications in Aboriginal law. According to then-Justice Minister Ron Bassford, Section 67 was included in the Human Rights Act in order to avoid potential conflict between the two pieces of legislation. Its implication was that anyone living or working on an Indian Reservation was not legally able to pursue discrimination claims against First Nations governments under the Human Rights Act if the discrimination was related to the Indian Act. It also prevented complaints of discrimination against the Indian Act itself.
“This was recognized by successive governments as an anomaly that needed to be rectified,” said Gollob. “The [Commission] has been calling for the repeal of Section 67 for many years, and the United Nations also echoed this need to end what has been a historical injustice of not giving all people living in Canada the same human rights protections.”
The House of Commons passed Bill C-21 in 2008, allowing First Nations communities immediate access to the complaints process against the federal government, and affording First Nations governments a three year transitional period to allow for possible complaints against them. The Bill did not come into full effect until this past June, when the transition period ended.
Post-repeal, the Commission – through its National Aboriginal Initiative – had been working to “understand all the implications of the act as it regards First Nations people” said Gollob.
Sherri Helgason, director of the Initiative, said that the role of the commission “is to accept complaints where complaints are filed.”
“We also have an education role, a role in expanding knowledge and identifying policy or systemic issues that could be problematic, with the goal of reducing, or eradicating, discrimination,” she continued.
Helgason explained that the application of Bill C-21 on First Nations reserves has the potential to address issues of inequality, including the division of matrimonial property.
“From a human rights perspective, we did identify that the absence of regimes or laws that would allow for equitable distribution of marital assets was a problem,” said Helgason.
Already, cases have been brought to court challenging certain aspects of the Indian Act that some individuals living under it perceive to be discriminatory.
Gollob described one case in particular which “could have a very significant impact on the quality of life and quality of services” on First Nations reserves.
A joint complaint brought forth by the First Nations Child and Family Caring Society of Canada and the Society of First Nations, currently working its way through the court system, reveals the amount of state funding available to First Nations children in need of intervention by child welfare services is less than what is available to services for children living off-reserve.
“This is a discriminatory practice,” Gollob asserts. “It’s going to be a very important case in that it will help shape the impact of the inclusion of First Peoples under the Canadian Human Rights Act.”
Attempts to contact representatives of First Nations governments for comment, including the Assembly of First Nations and the Grand Council of the Crees, could not be reached at the time of press.
A previous version article stated that Sherri Helgason is the Director of Communications for the National Aboriginal Initiative. She is in fact the Director. The article subhead incorrectly described the changes to the complaint processes under Bill C-21. The subhead has been altered to accurately describe the processes. The Daily regrets the errors. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Administration delays reimbursing residents for sublet pool 
Last year’s Solin Hall residents are still waiting on remuneration from McGill after entering the University’s summer subletting pool.
Students at Solin sign leases  from August 21 to July 31, and students who move out before the lease expires have the option of entering a subletting pool run by McGill. Some students who entered last year’s pool are lodging complaints in response to the delay, and to the lack of information from the school regarding the delay.
Aidan Marchildon, a U1 Physics and Computer Science student, said he had been told that the credit would be assessed on his September e-bill.
“We [were] all expecting money in September on the e-bill, but it didn’t come,” said Marchildon.
“I don’t know how it affects other people. I was expecting to have the money to buy textbooks and groceries, and I have to wait. I have to wait until my next paycheck comes. It’s really frustrating,” he continued.
Students in the pool don’t find out how much money they will receive until the credit is added to their e-bill, but Marchildon said he’d heard it had been a fairly busy summer, and that students might be getting between $200 and $250 per month.
Rosetta Vannelli, accommodations manager for McGill Residence Administration, clarified that the Solin Hall Services Coordinator – Howard Zinman – calculates all summer sublet revenue and divides it among the students who joined the pool.
Zinman is a member of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), and is currently on strike.
Zinman says that delays are all “part and parcel of the strike,” as it is MUNACA workers that calculate, process, and credit the money to students.
“This year, unfortunately, we were [sic] faced with a MUNACA strike which has left no employees at Solin except for summer students who have shown interest in maintaining some office hours,” wrote Vannelli in an email to The Daily.
Michael Porritt, executive director of Residences and Student Housing, claimed that “[the students’] typical shift would be covering lunches or covering break times, covering openings and things like that, and also working on the weekends.”
“We’re not allowed to just hire a bunch of students to cover the desk while the strike is going on, but students would always have covered lunch hours and worked weekends,” he added.
Marchildon said he had received an email in August from Zinman, saying students would receive their compensation in September. After receiving his September e-bill and noticing that the credit from the sublet pool had not been assessed, he called Solin Hall to pursue the matter.
“[Solin said], ‘Go to Service Point.’ They tell me to go to Student Housing. I go to Student Housing, they tell me to go to Service Point,” said Marchildon. “Everyone says there’s nothing they can do for me, until I sit in someone’s office and complain and threaten legal action. It’s only then that I get an answer.”
Marchildon said he threatened legal action in a conversation with Residence Admissions Coordinator Teresa Anania, and that her response was “to pick up the phone and call someone.”
Anania gave Marchildon the number for Mavis Smith, supervisor for accounts payable. Marchildon said he and his friends had called the number, but had yet to hear back.
Smith said she thought she’d had “one or two students call,” but would not comment further on her conversations with the students.
Porritt said he expected to process and divide the summer revenue among the students in the pool in two weeks, but that he couldn’t predict when the students would actually receive the credit on their e-bill.
“We don’t actually put the credit up, because then it goes over to the accounting area of the campus, and that’s also being impacted by the strike,” said Porritt.
“We’ll ask for it to be prioritized, and they have been pretty good about prioritizing things when we’ve asked,” he continued, “but since we’re not the one who actually puts it on the account I can’t say exactly when it will be on the account. I can only say we intend to get it done within two weeks.”
However, Zinman thought that it was unlikely for the administration to meet this deadline if MUNACA workers continue to strike.
Porritt confirmed that business at Solin over the summer had been “fairly busy, relative to other years,” but that he couldn’t give an exact figure on how much students would be receiving.
For the most part, students seem willing to wait for the University to process the funds. Alex Grant, a U1 Chemical Engineering student and Solin resident last year, said he had also been told he would receive the credit in his September e-bill – and that it “was a little surprising” when it didn’t come – but that most students in the sublet pool “were quite wealthy, and they don’t really care what they get paid or when they get paid.”
“I’m not in a huge rush to get my money, unlike other people. I don’t need it that badly, but it’s a little annoying,” said Grant.
“I haven’t actually done anything,” he continued. “I guess as soon as Howard [Zinman] is done striking he’ll get right on that.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill continues to negotiate use of university name 
The McGill First Aid Service (MFAS) has reached an agreement with the McGill administration in regard to the use of the McGill name after nearly a year of negotiation. 
The group is now renaming itself the McGill Student Emergency Response Team (M-SERT). 
Liz Pollen, director of M-SERT, explained that the change was not directly imposed on the service, but was a decision made within the group.  Pollen elaborated that, after months of discussions with the administration, campus security and residence services, “It got to the point where we decided that this is what we do, so if all we need to do is to change our name to keep providing our service, then we will do it.”
Along with the name change came other major changes in the group’s relationship to McGill. M-SERT services are now dispatched through McGill Security, giving students a 24-hour emergency line to call for first aid needs.
Services in residence have also expanded.  Whereas M-SERT previously serviced the upper residences only, they now have nightly shifts at all residences from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.  
“The executive director of residences is very keen to have them expand their services,” said Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson.
For M-SERT, the negotiations were about realizing mutual gains. By finalizing an agreement on their name, the group was able to expand without losing  their autonomy from the University.
“I think it’s nice that [the service is] coming from students.  There’s also a trust that comes from students helping students.  It’s almost a camaraderie,” Pollen said.
The use of the McGill name and logo has been an ongoing issue since SSMU’s Memorandum of Agreement and lease expired on May 31, 2011.
“McGill’s made it very clear that the McGill name issue is a very critical one,” said SSMU President Maggie Knight.  “We’re not going to be able to win anything from a legal standpoint; McGill has the copyright and we have no legal claim to it.”
Mendelson explained the goal of the negotiations as an attempt to avoid ambiguity about who provides a given service. 
“The University is responsible for safeguarding the name [of McGill], and what we wanted to do is to create a framework within which the groups could use the name in a way that would not create ambiguities,” Mendelson said.
He added that McGill has a need to protect the value of its name. “In protecting the name, which is essentially protecting the brand, we’re protecting something for students,” he said, supporting his belief that “a McGill diploma should mean something.”
The tone of negotiations seems to have strongly shifted since the issue arose last year.
“People weren’t very yielding [last year], which I really admired,” said SSMU VP Clubs & Services Carol Fraser.  
“We’re still coming at it from a very strong stance, but we’ve realized negotiating means there has to be some compromise on both sides,” she added. “I’d say that it’s been tough on one level, but there’s been a lot of talk and consultation with student groups on the name change issue as opposed to just an ideological stance.”
Knight and Fraser hope that once these agreements are made, there will be a framework in place for student groups to use the McGill name in the future. 
Although M-SERT is the only group that has reached a formal agreement with McGill, other clubs continue to consult with SSMU. Additionally, TVMcGill will now be known as “TVM: Student Television at McGill” after informal negotiations with the administration.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill representatives absent at Council debate
McGill University Post Graduate Student Society (PGSS) councillors voted yesterday at their first council meeting this year in favour of a motion to support striking non-academic workers’ negotiations with McGill.
The motion stated that PGSS “support the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) in their ongoing negotiations with McGill for fair and equitable working conditions and parity with the working conditions in other Quebec universities.”
The motion was passed with 20 councillors for, 11 against, and 4 abstentions.
Before the vote, MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker opened discussion with a brief overview of negotiations leading up to and following the union’s declaration of strike on September 1. Whittaker reiterated MUNACA’s four main demands toward McGill, which include recognition of seniority during the hiring process, and the reinstatement of benefits that union members held before changes were made in January 2010.
Debate over the motion persisted for nearly an hour between the speaking gallery, PGSS councillors and Whittaker. Discussion centered around whether supporting MUNACA was in the best interest of the graduate students PGSS represents.
Mechanical Engineering Councillor Timotei Centea was the first to voice concerns.
“I would think the interest of PGSS as a representative of the students is to make sure the strike ends as soon as possible and not to support either side. What I’m asking is, what is the rationale of us entering a labour debate?”
PGSS President Roland Nassim defended the motion, stating, “We are not necessarily entering a labour dispute by taking one side or the other – that is why the motion does not specifically say what in MUNACA’s demands we support and we don’t. We want them to continue negotiating until they reach an agreement.”
“When McGill says, ‘We also want fair and equitable working conditions, then we would add McGill on there,” he continued.
VP University and Academic Affairs Lily Han also expressed support of the motion, stating that it was not only in support of McGill’s workers, but also the students.
“Yes, it is about MUNACA, but it is also about us students as employees of McGill. Many of us are TAs, many of us are course lecturers, and right now the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) is at the bargaining table, course lecturers are going to the bargaining table, and I think that this is setting a trend. So for us to support this kind of bargaining and push for fair conditions for all employees at McGill is supporting all students at McGill,” Han said.
The executive’s statements were met with disagreement from some council members. Postdoctoral studies councilor Hatem Dokainish voiced his opposition to the motion.
“I think that is the wrong direction for us to be going in. I think it is fair to say we support a quick resolution that is fair to both parties. That in itself is a fair enough statement. To take sides – I don’t think that is our position,” he said.
VP Administration and Finance Michael Di Grappa declined PGSS executives’ request that an administration representative be present at Council. The University is directing the public to their website for further information on the strike.
McGill wants to retain the right to select the best candidate for a position regardless of seniority. The university maintains that MUNACA is only one group out of many that are covered by the benefits plan, though there is an offer to administer MUNACA’s group benefits as a defined contribution model, separate from the all-employee coverage plan.
Before the council meeting, PGSS had not issued an official statement on the strike because their pre-existing policy regarding union support covers only AGSEM, which is also currently in negotiation with McGill.
Lerona Lewis, president of AGSEM, was present during Council to give an update on the union’s different bargaining units across campus. She explained that AGSEM’s demands include minimum hours for teaching assistants and a 3 per cent increase in pay for AGSEM workers.
“AGSEM will only go on strike if the membership gives the mandate to go on strike,” Lewis explained. “We as the executive cannot say we are going on strike.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Israeli Apartheid Week cited as major concern
On July 7, the Canadian Parliamentary Coalition to Combat Antisemitism (CPCCA) issued its report regarding the presence of anti-semitism in Canada. The coalition was formed in 2009 out of a conference organized by the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism (IPCCAS). The coalition’s website states that the July report aims to “confront and combat” anti-Semitism. 
Amongst some of the recommendations in the report is the call for politicians to condemn Israeli Apartheid Week (IAW) events on Canadian university campuses. 
The report states that, “While this phenomenon [anti-Semitism] takes many forms, including traditional expressions of anti-Semitism, it is increasingly manifesting itself in terms of anti-Israel discourse that denies the Jewish people the right to self determination.”
Certain student groups, like Hillel McGill, believe that events like IAW do not seek to foster academic discourse. Arielle Segal, co-President of Hillel McGill, said, “events like that are a failure and only seek to divide campus community as well as delegitimize, through inflammatory rhetoric and bully tactics, the only democracy in the region [Israel].”
Concerns of the report’s implications for free speech on campus have been raised by some student organizations. Anna Malla, internal coordinator at QPIRG McGill said, “this is clearly an affront to freedom of speech on campus, and labels an event [IAW] – designed to investigate injustices perpetrated against the Palestinian people by the Israeli state – as ‘anti-Semitic,’ when, in fact, this event has nothing to do with hatred toward any religious or ethnic group.”
The Inquiry Panel in the CPCCA report states that, in the interest of free speech, they do not think it appropriate for university administrators to ban the event from taking place.
Tadamon!, a Montreal collective of social justice activists associated with the planning of Israeli Apartheid Week, sees the report as misleading in the ways it represents anti-Semitic behaviour.
“Anti-Semitism should not be confused as criticism of the Israeli state,” stated Claire Hurtig, a representative of Tadamon!
Malla questioned the intentions of the report. 
 “It would be amazing if our government had designed this committee to actually fight against anti-Semitism,” she added. 
Segal pointed to other reasons students may not want IAW events on campus. “For the most part students have simply tuned out. Students are simply tired of obsessive hate fests.”
In 2009, the Inquiry Panel invited the presidents of 25 Canadian universities to give testimony. Frederick Lowy, then-president emeritus of Concordia University, was one of the few who accepted.
In Lowy’s testimony, he stated that he believed that “by and large … most Canadian universities are safe.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
