The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec construction workers ally with MUNACA
McGill has secured a second injunction against the striking McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), restricting the union’s ability to picket outside of senior administrators’ homes.
The union, which has been on strike since September 1, has been picketing outside the homes of Principal Heather Munroe-Blum, Provost Anthony Masi, and Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa.
The newest injunction limits picketers to groups of three people, and the group must keep a minimum distance of 25 metres from the residences.
The University secured its first injunction against MUNACA on September 23, which limited the union to picketing in groups of no more than 15 people, and kept groups four metres from various McGill properties. This injunction was recently extended to January 21, 2012.
“Effectively we really can’t picket there anymore,” said MUNACA VP Finance David Kalant. “We look at it as still another way of shutting down our freedom of speech.”
Di Grappa said 10 to 15 MUNACA members picketed outside his house last Tuesday.
“I think it’s very unpleasant when they picket private homes, and this does absolutely nothing to advance the discussions at the table,” he said.
When asked if he considered it appropriate to picket outside private homes, Kalant replied: “In this case, yes.”
“We were not making excessive noise. We were not impeding them in any way from getting in and out of their houses. We were not insulting them, we were not acting in any aggressive way. We were saying, you know, ‘We’re here, and you can’t ignore us,’” he said.
Kalant added that MUNACA picketers also dropped explanatory flyers in the mailboxes of neighbouring homes.
Thursday’s second injunction also sets limits on picketing at the workplaces of members of the McGill Board of Governors (BoG). According to Kalant, picketers have to stay ten metres away from the workplaces of BoG members. He noted that the impact of these restrictions vary depending on the particular workplace.
“If [they’ve] got an office on the 25th floor, we can certainly be picketing outside the building because we’re well outside ten metres from their workplace,” explained Kalant.
Also on Thursday, at least 300 MUNACA members formed a picket line at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Glen Campus construction site. Workers at the site, members of the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ) – Quebec’s largest labour federation – refused to cross picket lines, effectively shutting down work at the site, which is one of the largest work sites in Montreal.
In an email to all McGill staff and students that day, Di Grappa called the picket an “unnecessary, provocative action.”
“This doesn’t accelerate in any way the rhythm of the discussions, which, anyway, is set by the conciliator in conjunction with the parties,” Di Grappa said to The Daily.
“This is something that has absolutely nothing to do with people outside of McGill, and we would encourage the union to focus their energies on the discussions at the table,” he added.
Kalant said MUNACA contacted the FTQ before picketing at the site.
“They were all in support of us and our cause,” said Kalant. “Again, it was to show McGill that we’re here, they can’t shut us up, and we want them to come to the negotiating table and start talking about the serious issues.”
When asked on Friday morning whether the University was seeking an injunction for the MUHC site, Di Grappa replied that McGill was “not responsible” for the MUHC site.
“The MUHC is a separate legal entity. You would have to ask them about what they intend to do for their site,” said Di Grappa.
Kalant, however, told The Daily on Friday afternoon that McGill applied for an injunction regarding the MUHC site late last week, noting that “we haven’t heard what the specifics are or what the final ruling is.”
MUNACA rally draws big names
Brian Topp, a candidate for NDP leadership and McGill alumnus, spoke at a MUNACA rally on Friday at the intersection of McGill College and Sherbrooke.
Topp spoke about both the picketing at the MUHC site and outside senior administrator’s homes.
“I think it’s a sign that it’s time to get a settlement, it’s a sign that it’s time to bring this dispute to an end. It’s time to get back to the table and find a reasonable settlement,” he said.
“People have the right to demonstrate in public spaces, and other people have the right to decide whether or not to cross picket lines. And, so, a one-day protest at that work settlement [MUHC] didn’t harm anybody, it sent a strong message to McGill,” he continued.
Topp was joined at the rally by Maude Barlow, chairperson for the Council of Canadians, and Michel Arsenault, president of the FTQ.
“Your fight is our fight, and I deeply thank you very, very much for having the courage to stay with this. I know it’s tough to do this for eight weeks,” Barlow said in her speech.
In his speech, Arsenault reiterated the FTQ’s continued support for MUNACA.
“Starting yesterday…you will not be alone in this battle,” he said. “We are going to last a day longer than McGill, a day longer and win this battle.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students told they violated two sections of Code of Student Conduct
Corrections appended – Monday, Sep 24
Last Thursday, two undergraduate students began a disciplinary hearing for alleged involvement in a Mobilization Squad (Mob Squad) demonstration in solidarity with the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA). The demonstration took place on October 11 at the Y-intersection.
The students, Arts Representative to SSMU Micha Stettin and SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault, were informed on October 14 that they would be presented with evidence supporting a case of a breach of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures.
The notice came a day after Stettin confronted Provost Anthony Masi at SSMU Council about the administration’s “systematic intimidation” of students and professors supporting MUNACA.
On October 20 the students were presented with a report which included evidence of their alleged breach of the Code of Student Conduct. Associate Dean of Arts Andre Costopoulos is the disciplinarian for the case, and a private interview with the students will take place this Friday.
According to Stettin, the evidence included “a security report filed by McGill head of security, saying that there were a group of students who were on campus at the Y [intersection] and were chanting calmly, and that we were causing a disruption and disturbing traffic.”
The report included a third student whose name had been crossed off of the document, and whom neither Stettin nor Pedneault identified. The third student was not present at the interview on Thursday.
The McGill Student Handbook of Rights and Responsibilities states that  “nothing in this article or code shall be construed to prohibit peaceful assemblies and demonstrations, lawful picketing, or to inhibit freedom of speech.”
Stettin explained that the report cited he and Pedneault as being in violation of sections 5a and 6 of the Code of Student Conduct.
These sections state that, “No student shall, by action, threat, or otherwise, knowingly obstruct University activities,” and, “No student shall, contrary to express instructions or with intent to damage, destroy or steal University property or without just cause knowingly enter or remain in any University building, facility, room, or office.”
Stettin confirmed his presence at the demonstration but denied that it had been disruptive or damaging to the University.
Pedneault, however, explained that he had been in a SSMU Executive Committee meeting at the time of the demonstration.
“I wasn’t even there,” Pedneault said. “So I think it’s interesting that we’re basically guilty by association through our involvement with Mob Squad.”
“I think [the case] is definitely pretty arbitrary,” he added.
Although Stettin and Pedneault are both administrators on the Mob Squad Facebook group, Stettin explained that there exists no system of hierarchy within Mob Squad.
“The [McGill administration] can go after any three people in Mob Squad, and the entire Mob Squad is going to be affected,” he said. “We don’t operate based on leadership structure. They picked out three people who they thought could be seen as leaders, and they tried to make them leaders and entrench a hierarchy, but there is no hierarchy.”
Stettin explained that, “There have been many encounters in the past with Mob Squad and the administration. This is part of a process of intimidation. The other parts of the process didn’t work, and this surely won’t either.”
“We will continue to express ourselves, continue to struggle for the things we believe in,” he said. “Their intimidation tactics just fuel that.”
In an interview with The Daily, SSMU President Maggie Knight explained that the case wasn’t entirely without precedent, though “it is the first time I’ve heard of it in the specific context of the strike.”
When asked whether the case breached student rights, Knight explained that, “I think we’ll have to see what the outcome is and how exactly it is brought forward. In the case where students feel as though they will be pursued in this manner if they speak out against something the University has done, I don’t think that’s really creating the kind of culture we want to see at McGill.”
“We want to encourage students to think critically about everything that happens on campus, everything they encounter,” she continued, “whether it’s McGill decisions or SSMU decisions.”
Stettin and Pedneault were uncertain as to what action would be taken following the meeting with Costopoulos, and have sought counsel from Student Advocacy at the Legal Information Clinic at McGill.
Costopoulos was not available for comment at press time.
In the printed version of this article it is incorrectly stated that the students had a private interview last Thursday. In fact the students were allowed to look at the security report for the case last Thursday. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Petitioners “disappointed” in University response 
Two graduate students in the Faculty of Medicine faced threats from McGill Human Resources after writing a petition in support of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) strike. The students – who wish to remain anonymous in the press – began the petition in late September in response to McGill’s first injunction against MUNACA picketers.
The students, who work in the McIntyre Medical building, said that they found the injunction to be an “overreaction” on the part of McGill, and that they had never been denied access to their building or experienced any sort of harassment or violence from MUNACA picketers.
The petition is addressed to Principal Heather Munroe-Blum and Provost Anthony Masi. “We are writing this petition to show our concern with recent measures taken by McGill University to restrain the freedom of expression of its valuable MUNACA/PSAC [Public Service Alliance of Canada] employees,” the letter begins, and stresses the peaceful nature of the MUNACA strikers.
“Basically, the petition complains more about trying to prevent them to strike and trying to humiliate them and take away their dignity as workers and as citizens,” explained one of the authors in an interview with The Daily.
After creating the petition, the students hung posters to encourage people to add their signatures.
“Someone from Human Resources called a lady from our department and told her, ‘Look, if the people continue with this, not only they will have troubles, but also their supervisor will have problems. So, I advise them to take the posters off, and they cannot collect signatures inside the building,’” explained one of the authors of the petition.
The students asked for clarification of the complaint, and asked for a document or regulation that states that signatures cannot be collected within a University building or on University property.
According to the students, the Human Resources department changed their position upon questioning, and stated only that the students would need permission from the building director for posters.
The building director denied the request.
“He told us, ‘No, because this is for MUNACA; you are MUNACA, you are on strike,’” said one of the students. The students are not represented by any union, and had no correspondence with MUNACA in the writing of the petition.
The text of the petition was posted on the Facebook page of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), despite the fact that the union represents neither of the students involved in writing the petition.
AGSEM President Lerona Lewis said that the union felt it was “really inspiring that [the students] didn’t need an organized group to champion their cause. They decided to do it on their own, which is why we posted it.”
Lewis said that she was not surprised by the response from McGill, citing similar problems with the course lecturers’ unionization drive last year, when Masi ordered posters to be taken down. The orders prompted an open letter from professors, who denounced the administration’s actions.
“It’s the same kind of desire to stifle free speech,” Lewis said. “It’s not really a good trend at a university,” she added.
The authors of the petition are continuing to collect signatures and still plan to send the document to senior administration.
“When I arrived at McGill, I felt really comfortable. I felt [it] was a good place, a good environment for knowledge,” said one of the authors. “I don’t have the same type of feeling that I had when I started here, because I don’t feel safe.”
“Sometimes, I feel like this is not a university, it’s a corporation,” added the second student.
“For sure, we are super disappointed, and we feel really hurt,” they added.
Personnel from Human Resources or from the McIntyre Medical building were not available for comment at the time of press.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
