The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Newly implemented Strategic Summits aim to facilitate discussion within campus community
SSMU’s third Strategic Summit took place last Friday, with  discussion focusing on how to promote equity and diversity within the McGill community.
The Strategic Summits are an initiative implemented this year by SSMU with the goal of facilitating discussion on various topics relevant to the McGill student body. Previous summits have focused on tuition hikes and student consultation.
SSMU’s Equity Committee moderated Friday’s summit. The committee’s mandate, as outlined on their website, is “to confront historical and current inequities at McGill through active engagement and public education.”
According to SSMU Equity Outreach Coordinator Ryan Thom, “the strategic summits are an effort on the part of SSMU to really gauge what the spectrum of opinions and ideas and, perhaps frustrations, are from the student body.”
SSMU VP University Affairs Emily Clare and former Equity Commissioner, added that, “strategic summits are a platform for students to get together and talk comprehensively about one issue.”
The summit lasted for five hours, during which students, members of the administration, and representatives from other SSMU committees discussed issues surrounding equal opportunities for those of various races, genders, abilities, and socioeconomic statuses. Issues were discussed on a global scale, as well as in the context of the local community, particularly concerning the inclusivity of McGill’s current policies and possible amendments to them.
According to Janina Grabs, a U3 Political Science student, “in a rather intimate setting, [the summit] gives you the opportunity to talk to a lot of people very directly that normally you don’t get the opportunity to [talk to].”
The most recent challenge for the Equity Committee presented itself at SSMU’s 4Floors Halloween party on October 27, where certain ethnic costumes – such as Indian princesses and people taping their eyes to appear East Asian – created an environment that offended members of McGill’s student body.
Before Halloween, the Equity Committee circulated posters depicting people of various ethnicities and corresponding stereotypical costumes, which read, “We are a culture, not a costume.” Despite this campaign, there remained a noticeable number of ethnically offensive and stereotypical costumes at the event this year.
One of the main goals of Friday’s summit was to discuss possible solutions to this problem, and to increase dialogue on issues of equity and diversity in general.
Among proposed solutions was the inclusion of a statement in class syllabi to promote mutual respect among McGill’s diverse student body – a project that the Equity Committee is currently working on with the administration.
According to Thom, “Policy itself is always a work in progress. We have different ideas, but there are always going to be points of contention.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Privacy Commissioner of Canada concerned
The Privacy Commissioner of Canada, Jennifer Stoddart, has publically criticized plans to bring back legislation that would expand the legal tools of the state to conduct online surveillance.
The Canadian Government originally proposed the Lawful Access package consisting of Bills C-50, C-51, and C-52, during the last session of Parliament in March, but the legislation died when the federal election was called for May 2. Since then, no new legislation has been presented.
However, according to Michael Patton, a representative of the office of Public Safety Minister Vic Toews, their office will be proposing similar legislation to the original Lawful Access package shortly.
The original package would have enabled state authorities to demand individuals’ basic personal information from Internet Service Providers (ISPs) without a warrant. The legislation would also have required ISPs to upgrade their networks to permit real-time surveillance of their customers’ activities.
In anticipation of the potential proposed legislation, Stoddart wrote an open letter to Toews urging caution.
In the letter, Stoddart outlines her concerns that the previous bills would have expanded “the legal tools of the state to conduct surveillance and access private information,” while simultaneously reducing “the depth of judicial scrutiny” required to access such information.
Stoddart noted that such legislation goes “far beyond simply maintaining investigate capacity or modernising search powers,” because it adds “significant new capabilities for investigators to track, and search and seize digital information about individuals.”
“In the case of access to subscriber data, there is not even a requirement for the commission of a crime to justify access to personal information – real names, home address, unlisted numbers, email addresses, IP addresses, and much more – without a warrant,” her letter continued.
Patton, however, explained that the Office of Public Safety’s approach “strikes an appropriate balance between the investigative powers used to protect public safety, and the necessity to safeguard the privacy of Canadians.”
“As technology evolves,” said Patton, “Many criminal activities – such as the distribution of child pornography – become much easier.”
“We are proposing measures to bring Canada’s laws into the 21st century and provide police with the tools they need to do their job,” he said.
In her letter, Stoddart acknowledged that “rapid developments in communication technologies are creating new challenges for law enforcement and national security authorities.” She went on to state that the Internet cannot be a lawless zone.
Scott Hutchinson, a representative of the Privacy Commissioner’s Office, explained that, despite repeated calls, “no systematic case has yet been made to justify the extent of the new investigative capabilities that would have been created by the bills.”
“When contemplating changes that would have such an important impact on fundamental rights and freedoms, the government needs to demonstrate the necessity, legal proportionality, and practical effectiveness of these new powers,” he explained.
According to her letter, Stoddart is worried that “Canadians have not been given sufficient justification for the new powers when other, less intrusive alternatives could be explored.”
Stoddart concluded by stating that “a focused, tailored approach is vital” if the new legislation is not to weaken the “long-standing legal principles that uphold Canadians’ fundamental freedoms.”
Hutchinson noted that other jurisdictions have explored options regarding checks and balances.  He noted several options, such as  “annual reports on the use of powers being tabled in the legislature, external audits on the use of powers, and administrative or even criminal sanctions for the misuse of surveillance tactics.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Motions include a one-day student strike, support for MUNACA and QPIRG
Correction appended November 7
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) will hold a General Assembly (GA) for its constituents at 5 p.m. tomorrow in the SSMU cafeteria.
Motions to be debated regard a one-day student strike, AUS support of striking union McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), and support for the McGill chapter of the QPIRG, among others.
Several members of AUS Council said that they were not aware of when, if ever, the last faculty-wide GA had been held.
The AUS Constitution includes one article on a faculty-wide GA, and outlines basic logistics for organizing the event. However, the five sections of the article do not provide detailed instructions for the procedure of a GA, and there are no by-laws on the matter.
Arts Representative to SSMU Jamie Burnett spoke to the content of the article.
“It’s not clear at all. According to the Constitution, you wouldn’t even know that General Assemblies were something where motions were submitted – so there’s literally no procedure,” he explained.
AUS President Jade Calver said in an email to The Daily that by-laws would be necessary for the organization of future GAs. “I think a working group or another form of consultative body to assess the successes and the shortcomings of our GA will be necessary to help us determine the shape of the AUS GA by-laws,” she wrote.
Calver added that “the AUS is actually required by law to hold a General Assembly, so I think this a great start to institutionalizing the GA in the Faculty of Arts.”
She later clarified that the “Act Regarding the Accreditation and Financing of Student Associations actually only states that we pass fees through a student vote – the AUS has regularly held referendum periods to both renew as well as approve any fees paid by Arts Students. It doesn’t make reference to General Assemblies.”
According to Article 17 of the AUS Constitution, a GA can be convened “at the request of eight councilors or by a request signed by at least 200 members of the AUS.” Burnett said that, although some Arts councilors were involved in organizing the GA, the call for convening a GA came from a motion signed by over 300 students.
AUS represents 7,515 McGill students. Quorum for the GA is set at 150 Arts students. SSMU GAs have quorum of 100 students; the SSMU Constitution stipulates a quorum of 500 students for strike votes. No such clause exists in the AUS Constitution.
Motions were due last Thursday, five days before the GA. Despite a notice on the Facebook event stating that motions would be released Friday, AUS Speaker Ben Lerer told The Daily that the eight motions would be published on AUS’ website over the weekend.
Amber Gross, U2 Arts, is one of the authors of the motion for a one-day student strike.
She explained that the motion is to “address the tuition hikes that are coming, and [it’s] sort of in line with all the other student unions across Quebec who have also voted to strike on November 10 to attend the demonstration that’s going to happen in Montreal.”
“So far, there’s 110,000 students who are in associations that have voted to strike and there will definitely be more to come, so the idea is just a one-day student strike that Arts students will be attending,” Gross added.
Concordia Arts and Science undergraduates voted last week for a student strike on November 10. At the time of press, the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ) reported that associations representing over 130,000 Quebec students have strike mandates for November 10.
Sheehan Moore, a bargaining member for the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) and former Daily Design and Production editor, submitted a motion regarding AUS support of MUNACA. The motion calls for AUS to officially support MUNACA during its strike and for the AUS Executive to be mandated to encourage members to support the union.
Moore spoke about a similar motion that was recently voted down by AUS Council.
“I was disappointed with the position AUS took at Council in September, particularly the number of ‘no’ votes that were entirely based on people claiming they weren’t informed about the strike – even though they knew the motion was coming, they didn’t bother to inform themselves,” he said.
“It’s now important that we, as students, do something about it, and I think it’s great that the GA will now give that motion another chance.”
A motion to support the ongoing existence referendum of QPIRG was submitted by Arts Representative to SSMU Micha Stettin.
“The AUS should be supporting initiatives that take student organizations back under student control,” Stettin said.
He added that the referendum question, which includes a change to the opt-out system, will “put QPIRG back in student hands, where QPIRG will be able to control the refund process, and students as a whole will be able to control the refund process through QPIRG’s democratic processes.”
According to Calver, AUS sent a message to Arts students over its listserv, and social media has been used to promote the GA. Postering and additional listserv promotion will begin November 7.
Burnett spoke to the importance of the GA. “With everything that’s been going on on-campus this semester, in terms of MUNACA, in terms of tuition hikes, in terms of all these conversations about student consultation… I think it’s really important that we have that sort of a forum within the AUS to talk about these things and make real, meaningful decisions,” he said.
A previous version of this article quoted Calver only as saying that AUS is required by law to hold General Assemblies. She clarified via email that the Act Regarding the Accreditation and Financing of Student Associations does not make reference to General Assemblies, however, this clarification was made after The Daily went to press.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizations’ campus opposition served notice for illegal ‘no’ campaigning
Voting opened last Friday on the existence referenda for campus-community radio station CKUT 90.3FM and QPIRG-McGill. The two organizations are calling for the renewal of their student fee and a move from online to in-person opt-outs.
Both organizations have tied their referenda questions, which ask for a renewal of student fees ($3.75 per semester for QPIRG and $4 per semester for CKUT), to a question asking to replace the online opt-out system with an internally-run alternative. The questions must pass – proving continued student support for their existence – in order to begin MoA negotiations with McGill.
MoA negotiations include lease renewals, which concern QPIRG and CKUT’s shared space, a building on the corner of University and Pins.
Adam Wheeler, co-chair of the QPIRG ‘yes’ committee, said that online opt-outs in recent years have had such a severe impact on the organization that they felt compelled to include it in the fee renewal question.
“We are actually at a point where the existence of opt-outs, the way that they’re happening – as opposed to the student-run refund system that we had previously – is undermining our ability to fulfill the student mandate,” he said.
“Opt-outs present both obviously a financial burden on our organization, but [also] a huge human resources burden. It’s incredibly taxing on our board and staff to essentially, every semester, run a referendum existence campaign against the opt-out campaign,” he continued.
Both referenda questions ask that fees be “not opt-outable on the Minerva online opt-out system but [are] instead fully refundable directly through” the organizations.
McGill instituted the current online opt-out system in 2007, the same year that both CKUT and QPIRG faced their last existence referenda. Previously, opt-outs were run by the organizations themselves, requiring students to opt out in person. In the fall 2007 SSMU General Assembly, students passed a motion to reinstitute the former system, as well as a referendum question the following semester mandating SSMU to lobby for an end to the online opt-out system. The administration ignored both decisions.
Co-chair of the CKUT ‘yes’ committee (and former SSMU VP University Affairs) Rae Dooley is a current news intern at the station.
According to Dooley, about 40 per cent of CKUT’s annual budget is derived from McGill student fees. The remainder is drawn from CKUT’s annual funding drive, which usually averages about $50,000, as well as grants and ad revenue from community groups.
“We’re just seeing a system that wasn’t really informing students about what they were doing. We’ve had students come to us after the opt-out period saying, ‘Can I pay you a fee? I didn’t know what I was opting out of.’ We think that part of that is because CKUT has no power over the administration of our fee system anymore, because it was taken under the control of the [McGill] administration.”
According to Dooley, CKUT is the only campus-community radio station in the country that does not control the administration of their fees.
In an email to The Daily, McGill Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson said that the online opt-out system “was implemented to serve students in the first place.”
“The previous opt-out system was so cumbersome that students were not reasonably able to exercise their right to opt out,” wrote Mendelson. “Decisions about how the University collects fees are administrative matters that can’t, of course, be unilaterally determined by student referenda.”
According to Wheeler, another result of the 2008 referendum was communication from the administration emphasizing they would only consider a referendum decision to change the opt-out system if it was included in a student-approved existence question. This would ensure that students provide a clear mandate for the organization to exist under a new opt-out system.
“There are very specific legal requirements to the question,” said Wheeler. “Students need to mandate that our fee is renewed in a certain way… Its administration is also part of the same question according to McGill’s interpretation, and so the question has to be combined.”
Wheeler said QPIRG has been doing its “due diligence” in terms of presenting the clearest question possible to students.
Mendelson, however, said clarity is “clearly one of the problems” with the current question.
“Frankly, I find [it] to be put in a convoluted, confusing way, and it would, therefore, not meet the definition of a clear question,” said Mendelson.
“When questions cannot be implemented because they are not clear, they aren’t implemented – until the group gets a result from a clear question,” he continued. “Organizations are encouraged to submit their questions beforehand to avoid such problems. Many groups do, but some, unfortunately, don’t.”
There is not an established ‘no’ committee for either CKUT or QPIRG’s referendum. However, Elections McGill has served notice of illegal ‘no’ campaigning, notifying students on the online referendum ballot that the campaigning was not subject to by-laws governing postering, campaign funding, and sanctions.
“As a result, any information that was disseminated was not verified as correct nor could Elections McGill ensure that a spirit of fair campaigning was upheld,” reads Election McGill’s statement on the online ballot.
Wheeler confirmed that a Facebook group – named “Vote No to CKUT and QPIRG” – had existed, but has been taken down. Wheeler added that there had not been illegal postering or flyering, and that he had noticed a recent decline in illegal ‘no’ campaigning.
“[We’ve] noticed that, again, [it’s] consistent with other trends that we’ve seen about opt-out campaigning. It’s being done by a faceless group of students that is not even making efforts to make itself accountable, or accessible to the same students that it’s trying to win over,” Wheeler said.
Quorum for the referendum period is 4,000 students, or 15 per cent of SSMU membership. If the vote does not reach quorum, the questions could be passed to the spring referendum period.
Voting will take place online until Thursday, November 10 at 6 p.m. Polling stations are located in rotating locations throughout the week: in Leacock today, Bronfman on Tuesday, and the lobby of the Shatner building on Wednesday and Thursday.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
132 student clubs to undergo name changes at request of McGill administration
SSMU Legislative Council voted in favour of signing SSMU’s Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with McGill last Thursday. Council voted not to sign the proposed lease agreement with McGill.
The MoA outlines SSMU’s and McGill’s legal rights and responsibilities to each other. SSMU had been renegotiating the document for over a year, as well as their lease for the Shatner building.
McGill has been seeking to change the names of over 100 student groups on campus, which has been a point of contention in MoA negotiations.
“It has been a long struggle with McGill to get them to accept that students, who go to this University and play a role in student life on campus, should be allowed to use the McGill name,” stated a November 3 memo from SSMU.
During last week’s Council, McGill students in the gallery gathered to express their opposition against signing the MoA.
President of the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) Josh Redel urged Council not to sign the MoA and asked SSMU to stand strong in their bargaining position.
“It is really unfortunate that [the McGill administration] wants to protect their brand, but we are their brand, and I think that it is important that we don’t give in to their disgusting pressure tactics of not willing to sign a lease of a building that is an integral part of the campus,” said Redel.
The Monday before SSMU Council met, EUS held a confidential in-camera session to decide whether to launch a campaign against the administration’s proposed changes to student groups’ names.
Redel authored the motion, and said he wanted it discussed in-camera so the campaign could be “a controlled leak.”
“[We wanted] to make sure that the first thing was this mobilization at [SSMU] Council,” he said on Thursday night.
Redel added that he also wanted authorization from EUS Council before launching the campaign, which started with the lobbying effort at SSMU Council last Thursday.
“There was no discussion against; it was just non-stop discussion of solidarity with [the campaign],” continued Redel.
The campaign – dubbed “We are all McGill” after the subject line of an email that Principal Heather Munroe-Blum sent to students and staff regarding the strike of McGill’s non-academic workers – will feature a letter authored by EUS, as well as letter-writing and petition campaigns.
“We’re looking to get the students to voice their concerns in an easy way – petitions and letter templates – to pull them together and send them to McGill, show them we’re not happy,” said Redel last Thursday night.
After more than four hours of in-camera debate, SSMU Council voted to sign the MoA and accept McGill’s conditions. According to SSMU President Maggie Knight, the decision was not an easy one.
“It was certainly not a unanimous decision… Nobody felt like we had any good options,” said Knight.
“Having spent the last five months trying to get this to be as good as possible, I am not sure how or if we would have been able to achieve anything better by going back to negotiation, which is a very sad thing,” she added.
The day after Council’s vote, Redel said he felt “disappointed” and “disheartened” by the decision, especially given the widespread support the EUS’ campaign received during the discussion of the MoA.
“You’re sitting there and you’re listening to everyone applauding, everything that everybody said, and then it’s 3:15 in the morning and they’ve decided that, ‘Oh, we’re just going to do the opposite.’ I’m really intrigued as to what possibly could have, you know, been more moving,” he said.
“It’s lost,” he added. “Instead of there being 133 names on this campaign – this movement to be able to associate with our University – now it’s one. It’s EUS, and the others are kind of gone.”
According to Redel, EUS had a “refocusing meeting” on Friday morning to alter the “We are all McGill” campaign. Redel said the campaign would now be “a bit more silent.”
“It’s not that we don’t have the power, but we don’t have the voice anymore – and that’s what I tried to say at SSMU Council yesterday, is ‘Once you sign this, you’re not just signing away SSMU clubs. And you’re not signing away SSMU, you’re signing away 132 clubs,’” he said.
Facing their own struggle with the administration over the use of the McGill name in the EUS logo – EUS’ MoA with the University expires next year – Redel said that the SSMU Council vote would affect EUS negotiations with McGill.
“There’s no precedent for not changing the logo now. I’m done, I have so much less bargaining power,” he said.
Redel was also critical of SSMU’s mobilization efforts around the issue, specifically the SSMU Executive’s explanation that it was difficult to mobilize students during negotiations.
“I’m sorry. We’re two months into school. You had two months, and now it’s done, and there’s no excuse for September [and] October.”
He was also disappointed in SSMU’s promotion of the discussion on the vote itself.
“I didn’t know. Nobody knew it was going to SSMU Council,” he said. “Why do you think the only people in the gallery were engineers? It’s because I emailed them, because I found out from a councillor that it’s going to be on the agenda. No one knew. Clubs didn’t even know.”
McGill informed EUS at the beginning of the year about the issue with the use of the McGill name in their logo – instigating the “We are all McGill” campaign – and Redel admitted that he thought they waited too long to mobilize around the larger McGill name issue.
“It was something that could’ve been worked on earlier, and I am a bit disappointed that we didn’t do something sooner or bigger,” he said. “We had always intended to do something as EUS, and I knew that clubs were undergoing changes, but what I was told is it was ten or twenty [clubs].”
“To just kind of give fifteen minutes with a possibility of a five-minute extension to a discussion about something that directly affects 132 groups and sets a precedent across campus is a bit of a sham,” he continued.
“The reason we have a body like SSMU is for this kind of cause, this kind of purpose… Their job isn’t to back down,” he concluded.
The memo from SSMU, distributed to members of the gallery, noted that McGill will be providing $25,000 in financial assistance to clubs and services to assist in the cost of altering names, including new website domain names and rebranding merchandise. However, according to the memo, the financial assistance was contingent on the expense being incurred before November 15.
Though voting to sign the MoA, SSMU Council voted against adopting the lease of the Shatner building, and decided to wait for more information from the administration.
“There was a concern that SSMU had perhaps not received full data on the state of the building that would be necessary, because the new structure would require us to take over the responsibilities of utilities, and there was a concern that it would have ended up being extremely expensive,” Knight said.
 
SSMU VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser prepared a nine-page memo describing the nature of the changes mandated for SSMU clubs in the renegotiated MoA. The memo also provided a brief history of negotiations and the University’s rationale behind demanding the name changes – including liability and reputation – concluding that “this statement is only the beginning…of a process of making students’ voices heard during the MoA negotiations.”
Fraser said SSMU is currently in the process of contacting all affected groups about their name changes, adding that all groups who must change their names will be contacted by November 10. 
“This entire situation has been difficult for everyone involved,” wrote Fraser. “I myself ran on a campaign position of fighting to retain the use of the McGill name for student groups, and it is something I have kept near to my heart.”
These are the new styles of group names – effective June 1 –approved by the administration, including recent notable examples of name changes:
• McGill Students [insert]
• McGill [insert] Students’ Society
• SSMU [insert]
• [insert] – SSMU
• McGill Students for [insert]
• McGill Students Supporting [insert]
• McGill Students Chapter of [insert]
• [insert] @ McGill
 
• TVMcGill now TVM: Student Television at McGill
• McGill Walksafe now SSMU Walksafe
• McGill Nightline now (McGill Students) Nightline
• Elections McGill now Elections SSMU
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
