The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Environment, corruption, traffic among activists’ concerns
There is one thing everyone agrees on: the Turcot Interchange is crumbling, and in desperate need of repair. The Interchange is a massive three-level highway that cuts through St. Henri. Since 2007, the city has been in a struggle with architects, activists, and engineers over its reconstruction.
The history of the Turcot Interchange is littered with social movements, class struggle, and politics. The Interchange was rushed to completion in time for the 1967 World Expo as part of a larger international movement towards developing superhighways, even amid popular dissidence and social mobilization against its construction.
The Ville-Marie Expressway, which connects to the Turcot and has been included in its reconstruction plans, was built in 1970. Its construction involved raising about 2,000 homes.
This displacement was part of a series of construction and demolition projects in the name of modernization in Montreal. Altogether, these projects caused the displacement of as many as 20,000 people and fully eliminated three lower-income neighborhoods, including the former red light district.
In many ways, the current situation mirrors that of the original construction in the sixties.
Shannon Franssen is the spokesperson for Mobilization Turcot, a citizen’s group with the goal of constructing “a better Turcot” and informing Montrealers about the reconstruction project.
“There are a lot of parallels between the original construction and its reconstruction, but what’s especially clear is that the current project is as focused on a vision of urban transport centered around the car as it was in the sixties,” Franssen told The Daily. “Nowadays, we see that as a very dated vision of urban transport.”
In October, Mobilization Turcot endorsed the Cure Minceur, a reconstruction plan developed by architect Pierre Brisset and Concordia Urban Planning professor Pierre Gauthier in 2010. Previously, Mobilization Turcot supported Turcot 375, another alternative plan that put a strong emphasis on public transport.
However, Franssen explained that because Turcot 375 was never formally considered by the Liberal government and renovation of the Interchange has become urgent, Mobilization Turcot decided to adopt the Cure Minceur.
“What we’re proposing right now is that they simplify the project and don’t make the highway bigger or increase the capacity, saving money and time,” said Franssen. “With the money that’s saved, we can invest in public transit infrastructure, so that we can start really solving some of these congestion problems in a sustainable way.”
The city of Montreal commissioned the Ministère des transports du Québec (MTQ) to oversee the reconstruction of the Interchange. [The MTQ’s] proposal involves renovation of the Ville-Marie as part of the Turcot reconstruction, which Brisset argues isn’t yet necessary.
“The Ville-Marie has a survival of another ten years, because it was built six years after [the Turcot Interchange], and under different conditions,” he told The Daily. “There are alternative solutions to recuperate it. Between now and 2022, let’s look at real alternatives.”
However, the MTQ firmly holds the position that the Ville-Marie needs to be reconstructed just as urgently as does the Turcot. Caroline Larose is the ministry spokesperson.
“The Turcot Interchange and the Ville-Marie are both at the end of their lives,” MTQ Spokesperson Caroline Larose told The Daily in French. “The reconstruction of each is equally as urgent.”
The city’s plan has evolved over the years, responding to some of the complaints of its opponents. Central to this discourse has been traffic volume – in particular, its environmental impact and implications for the residents of St. Henri.
Larose emphasized that the MTQ’s plan “strictly maintains the current capacity of the Interchange, and would in no way increase traffic volume.”
However, according to Franssen, under the MTQ’s plan, the highways’ vehicle capacities would increase, increasing the environmental impact on surrounding neighborhoods and possibly worsening highway congestion.
“Although [the MTQ] says that their plan wouldn’t significantly increase the capacity of the two highways that meet at the Interchange, it’s not true. There will be lanes added to the Ville-Marie, and by their own estimates, it will increase the capacity by at least 30,000 vehicles per day.”
Cure Minceur – which translates roughly to “diet plan” – refers both to trimming down the Turcot itself and to the scope of its reconstruction. In the MTQ’s current proposal, a branch of the highway loops around to permit access to the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC), a feature that is excluded from the Cure Minceur plan.
“[MUHC] somehow managed to convince Transport Québec to start building special ramps for them,” said Brisset.
Larose argued that constructing special access to the hospital was a “good citizen” act that would be universally beneficial.
“[MUHC] is already close to the Interchange, and the ramp will be maintained by the hospital and therefore won’t add extra costs to the city’s plans. It will reduce traffic going to the hospital in residential neighbourhoods. I don’t understand why people are making a problem out of this.”
Franssen challenged the notion that the planned route to the hospital would reduce traffic through residential areas.
“The way that the access road is designed would reroute traffic through St. Henri. So this idea that it won’t go through residential neighbourhoods – well, it won’t go through Westmount,” she said. “Does St. Henri not matter because the medium income is a whole lot lower there and the people have a lot less political influence?”
Franssen, among others, has struggled to understand the inconsistencies in the MTQ’s plan and the government’s resistance to adopting an alternative plan like the Cure Minceur.
“There are lots of people who propose theories that the government’s plans to make the highway bigger and keep transport car-centered come from their connections with the construction industry, [connections that] we’re learning more about every day,” said Franssen.
“It’s an interesting theory, because it’s pretty clear that what they’ve proposed is not in the public interest, so who’s interest is it in? Well, somebody’s going to be making $3 billion off of it.”
Another difference between the two proposals is the degree of demolition that they would require. While the MTQ’s plan would displace somewhere between 90 and 130 residents of St. Henri and Westmount, this number has been greatly reduced from the thousands who would have been uprooted from their homes under the original 2007 plan. The Cure Minceur requires no demolition.
Victor Arroyo is a filmmaker working in Concordia’s department of Film Studies. His video installation project, Turcot 2.0, illustrates the displacement that occurs as a result of the demolition required by the original construction of the highways, as well as by their reconstruction. The installation is currently on display at the Canadian Centre for Architecture in Montreal.
“You have to ask the question: why is [St. Henri] being affected and not Westmount? I call it annihilation; you’re just cleaning,” Arroyo told The Daily. “It was even acknowledged by the government when it was done the first time [in the construction of the Ville-Marie] – it’s just a little bit of cleaning.”
Arroyo drew a contrast between Brisset and Gauthier’s motivation in developing their plan and that of the MTQ in their proposal.
“[Brisset and Gauthier] are architects by profession, but they also have a social perspective, so they have a social concern. They have the social perspective that no displacement is necessary.”
It seems that the new provincial government may be more open to reviewing the plan than its predecessors. The MTQ is currently holding an online public forum about the Turcot project, although the project already went through the requisite public audience process in 2009.
Franssen said she remains cautiously optimistic that the government will take another look at the concerns highlighted by Mobilization Turcot and revise the reconstruction plans. The organization has put out a letter to the Minister of Transport about the Cure Minceur, which supporters can sign online at turcot.info/en/letter.
“The sense that we’re getting is that Pauline Marois’s government is much more focused on doing things in the public interest than their Liberal predecessors. That being said, we don’t really know what their final decision will be,” said Franssen.
Larose confirmed that the MTQ has received the Cure Minceur proposal, but refused to comment on whether it would be incorporated into the final plan and emphasized the urgency of renovation of the Interchange.
“The Minister is looking at how to improve the plan, but I’m not in a position to say what those improvements will be. You must understand, we can’t allow delays in reconstructing the Interchange.”
But according to Brisset, adopting the Cure Minceur would allow construction to start in early 2013 as planned, and there is still time to alter the renovation plan.
“It’s happened before with construction plans in Montreal, even after they’d passed public audience and been ratified,” Brisset told The Daily.
The city of Montreal declined to comment for this story, citing the fact that the Turcot project is still under review by the provincial government.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
November 10 commemorated in Community Square
Last Friday, around sixty students gathered in Community Square in front of the James Administration building to celebrate International Students’ Day. The event featured a series of student and faculty speakers who discussed the diversity of struggles at McGill, in Quebec, and around the world.
The event also commemorated the events of November 10, 2011, when riot police were present on campus following an occupation of James Administration. Last year, students also organized an initiative in response to November 10 – also in Community Square – called “We Are All McGill.”
The “Community Square Lunch” this year was co-organized by SSMU and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), with their respective external executives spearheading the effort. The student unions provided free food to attendees with the help of the student-run food collective Midnight Kitchen.
SSMU VP External Robin Reid-Fraser told The Daily that the event was meant to be a “remembrance and a celebration.”
“It was a time to reflect on the year since November 10 from last year, but also a celebration of the International Students’ Day,” said Reid-Fraser.
PGSS External Affairs Officer Errol Salamon also mentioned that the goal was to address some of the ongoing issues that haven’t been resolved.
“The tuition fee for international students hasn’t been reimbursed yet and then there’s still some disciplinary charges as a result of the student strike that hasn’t been resolved yet,” said Salamon.
He pointed out that the McGill Summit on Higher Education,  organized by PGSS and slated for December 3, would address these issues as well.
The event featured short presentations focusing on a several topics including gender, LGBTQ, international students, unions, and faculty struggles.
Justin Marleau, the Vice-President (Teaching Assistants) of the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill, talked about the struggle his union has historically faced.
“We have been fighting with this administration for over twenty years for basic rights, like having an actual contract,” said Marleau. “The administration likes to treat us like children because we’re students, and we all know better. But we’re not just students; a lot of us are also workers and we have rights to be treated with respect, treated with dignity, and not to be discriminated against because maybe you are from a foreign country and because we don’t really understand the technicalities that McGill brings in to the contracts, and they take advantage of that.”
East Asian Studies associate professor Thomas Lamarre characterized the faculty struggle at McGill as a struggle against anti-progressive politics.
“[The administration at] McGill is always giving an image that the form that our struggle can take is democracy, that we are supposed to sit in meetings and deliberate and pass bills and vote on things, but the truth is, a university is not structured like a democracy. So when we are told that if we behave and it will become democratic, it’s simply a lie, it simply misdirects all the energy from the actual struggle,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec student federation representation also discussed
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held its Thursday bi-monthly Legislative Council meeting at Burnside 511, as part of the Roaming Council initiative that seeks to increase SSMU Councillors’ understanding of the greater McGill community.
After the adoption of the Report of the Steering Committee, Council moved its agenda to attend to a note from President Josh Redel, who commented on The Daily’s recent editorial, “SSMU Council illogical and misguided,” (November 8, page 19) and Compendium! article, “SSMU Council does nothing,” (November 8, page 20) both of which criticized the effectiveness of the SSMU Legislative Council.
In a casual commentary addressed to the councillors, Redel outlined his grievances regarding the pieces and expressed the importance of working past the criticism to create a stronger Legislative Council body. “I’ll be completely honest and tell you that I took it quite personally. I never viewed myself as your superior, and never will. But I do feel like Council is a family whose well-being I am responsible for. As such you can imagine how I felt when that family was criticized,” he said.
Redel further urged members of Council to look beyond the initial frustration to appreciate the criticisms made in the pieces. As members of a transparent body, Redel suggested that this exposure to open assessment be used as a tool to strengthen the dialogue within and between the arguments made in Council.
“On the other hand, when certain pieces decide that childish name-calling is an effective means of communicating a point, you need to laugh it off exactly as that: childish,” he added.
President Redel closed his commentary by reflecting on the Council dynamic in the November 1 session that drew the criticisms – which saw intense debate over a CKUT endorsement that ultimately failed – asking the councillors to acknowledge the purpose of Council as a team.
“You cannot and should not categorically…mistrust other councillors because they hail from a certain faculty,” Redel continued. “If you find yourself discounting someone’s comments and arguments because they are a rogue, radical, moderate, or whatever else you can think of, you need to take a few minutes to revaluate your thought process.”
He concluded, “The power of a body like Council lies in the collective action of people with different thought processes…. Hating or discounting someone because they think differently than you is a slippery slope, and I discourage all from going down that path, though I do not think that you have done that thus far.”
Council then moved into the discussion of McGill’s representation within the Table de concertation étudiante du Quebec (TaCEQ), a federation of Québec student unions of which SSMU is a member.
Led by VP External Robin Reid-Fraser, Council debated the issue of electing delegates to attend TaCEQ meetings on behalf of SSMU and the McGill community in general.
“We technically have four voting seats at these [TaCEQ] meetings, but we very rarely actually use all four of them because rarely are there four SSMU representatives there…these [positions] do not need to be people who are already elected members, if we can run an election next semester just for people who want to take on this role,” Reid-Fraser explained.
Speaking on importance of campus representation in TaCEQ, Faculty of Music Councillor Katie Larson asked, “Should they be representatives from campus, or should they be representatives from the [SSMU] Council, as a whole… to represent the undergraduates strategically?”
After the short consultative discussion on McGill’s representatives to TaCEQ, the agenda moved to a closed members’ feedback session in which the SSMU executives temporarily left the session to allow open debate from the general councillors.
Press was asked to leave Council for the matters of confidentiality.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
