The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Unclear whether McGill administration will accept ruling
The SSMU Judicial Board (J-Board) ruled Tuesday to invalidate the fall 2011 referendum question regarding the existence of QPIRG on the grounds that the question “deals with two issues, instead of one as required by the [SSMU] Constitution.”
The text of QPIRG’s question – which was voted on from November 4 to 10, 2011 – read, “Do you support QPIRG continuing as a recognized student activity supported by a fee of $3.75 per semester for undergraduate students, which is not opt-outable on the Minerva online opt-out system but is instead fully refundable directly through QPIRG,” with the understanding that a vote of ‘no’ would terminate student funding of the organization.
The J-Board case, filed by students Zach Newburgh and Brendan Steven, was heard last week in the Lev Bukhman room.
QPIRG board member Kira Page said that the organization is “dismayed and disturbed” by the results, and is deciding how to proceed. Page said that an official statement from QPIRG will be issued by the end of the week.
J-Board’s decision was released two days after the end of the #6party occupation of the James Administration building, which demanded that the administration recognize the results of both QPIRG and CKUT’s referendum questions.
The McGill administration and QPIRG have been in discussion regarding the organization’s Memorandum of Agreement and fall 2011 referendum question. It is unclear how the J-Board ruling may affect discussions between McGill and QPIRG. Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson announced in January that the administration had decided to invalidate the results of the fall 2011 referendum.
The second part of the petition, which challenged the actions of Elections SSMU Chief Electoral Officer Rebecca Tacoma during the campaign, was dismissed.
“Based on all of the evidence before us, including the written and oral arguments, as well as the testimonies, the respondent’s decisions seemed justified, transparent and intelligible,” the ruling read.
The ruling requires a ratification vote by the SSMU Board of Directors (BoD). BoD will not meet until after the February reading week, and would require 4/5 of the Board to reject the ruling in order for it to be overturned.
SSMU President Maggie Knight said that SSMU is not planning on releasing a statement, but that information about the ruling is available on SSMU’s website.
In terms of an appeals process for BoD, Knight said that SSMU is in “a little bit of a legal gap.”
“We will let people know that we are going to be discussing it at the Board of Directors meeting, and we will invite anyone who is particularly concerned and think there has been some sort of egregious miscarriage of justice to come forward with their concerns,” Knight said.
There will be a referendum question regarding the structure of the BoD and setting up an appeals process, but voting on winter referendum questions will not take place until March.
Steven and Newburgh released a statement on Tuesday afternoon. “We are satisfied with the Judicial Board’s ruling to invalidate the result of the Fall 2011 QPIRG Existence Referendum,” it stated.
“We call on the Board to respect the principles of natural justice and due process by affirming the decision outlined in the verdict. The integrity of the SSMU’s referendum process demands it. The SSMU cannot set a precedent, which allows referendum questions to stand when they do not provide members of the SSMU with a clear choice when voting,” it continued.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
300 demonstrators march on campus in opposition of tuition hikes 
The debut action of the unlimited general student strike marched onto McGill campus this afternoon.
Shortly before 4:30 p.m., about 300 demonstrators – many of whom were students from l’Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) – marched up McGill College and congregated outside of the James Administration building.
Demonstrators chanted, “UQAM, McGill, same struggle.”
Six security agents stood by the front entrance of the building.
In front of the building, one demonstrator with a megaphone addressed the crowd.
“No matter where you go – UQAM, McGill – the police always come to clamp down on those who demonstrate for their rights,” he said in French, referring to the events of November 10, which included a 30,000-person march against tuition hikes and an occupation of the James Administration building, which prompted a demonstration that was ended by riot police.
Demonstrators entered the McConnell Engineering building and marched through the building until exiting by the Schulich Library of Science and Engineering. Demonstrators marched off campus at 4:40 p.m.
Associate Vice-Principal (University Services) Jim Nicell sent out two emails to the McGill community, one at 4:25 p.m. and one at 5:06 p.m., informing staff and students of the demonstration’s presence on campus and subsequent exit.
No police officers or vehicles were seen on campus. 11 police vehicles were seen along Sherbrooke and McGill-College trailing the demonstration.
McGill Security Operations Manager Christopher Carson, who was present at the scene, declined to comment regarding the action. Nine McGill Security employees were gathered at the Y intersection by 4:45 p.m. when demonstrators moved off campus.
Frank Lévesque-Nicol, a sociology student at UQAM who participated in the action, said demonstrators initially met at Café Campus on Prince Arthur for a General Assembly. According to him, the demonstration was the debut action for the first wave of the student general strike.
As of Tuesday morning, 11,000 students at UQAM and Université Laval were on strike as part of the first wave of the unlimited student strike organized by the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE). CLASSE currently represents 70,000 students in Quebec CEGEPs and universities. McGill’s Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) recently voted to alter the AUS Constitution so that the General Assembly is the highest governing body of the Society, as per requirements to be a member of CLASSE.
“We went out on strike this week to serve as a springboard for the mobilization of CEGEPs and universities. In the next week, we will be driving up and down in Quebec so as to help [student] associations holding strike votes this week,” said Camille Toffoli, spokesperson for the UQAM student associations on strike, in a press release.
The UQAM student associations currently on strike are the faculties of Political Science and Law, Humanities, and Fine Arts.
“[We] all voted for the strike and started the strike today, so we’re doing what we call a strike-commencing march or demonstration. We’re very happy about what’s going on, we’re showing people that we’re on strike, and we’re also rallying McGill with it,” said Lévesque-Nicol.
He explained that demonstrators had marched through UQAM’s Complexe des sciences Pierre-Dansereau, located just north of the Place-des-Arts metro station, before marching to McGill.
Though she said she had not been aware of the action prior to demonstrators marching on campus, McGill graduate student Sunci Avlijas participated in the action.
“I joined in because these are students from another university in Quebec that are fighting for free tuition, or at least to oppose the hikes,” she said.
In March 2011, the Quebec government announced a tuition increase of a total of $1,625 over the next five years. The increases in tuition will begin as of September 2012, at the rate of $325 per year until 2017.
“I think that is something that affects McGill students a lot, and a lot of McGill students aren’t aware of the implications of the tuition fees, or whether those increases are even necessary,” Avlijas continued.
“I think it’s a great way to at least get people talking about the tuition hikes at McGill,” she added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
