The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Strike continues though numbers dwindle
The student strike once again became the center of attention on Tuesday as police confronted students at the Université de Montréal (UdeM). The clash triggered renewed tensions between the government and students as more CEGEPs and universities voted to end their strikes.
According to the Fédération des Associations Étudiantes du Campus de l’Université de Montréal (FAÉCUM), the police department deployed 20 patrol vehicles, several public transportation buses, and anti-riot vehicles to deal with the roughly 50 students who were protesting inside the university.
Mathieu Filion, a spokesperson for the university, told La Presse that the decision to call police had been “a difficult one.”
“We had to do it to ensure the safety of our students,” he said in French. “It’s difficult to tell whether or not the intervention has brought calm back to the university, but what we want is to see the students back in class.”
After riot police entered the campus, the executive committee of FAÉCUM worked with the university administration to reach a compromise. The university then suspended the classes that are subject to the strike until provincial elections take place.
FAÉCUM General Secretary Mireille Mercier-Roy said that there had been threats of cancelling the entire semester.
“We’re asking the administration to suspend classes until after the General Assemblies are concluded before acting,” she told The Daily in French.
Police told The Daily that 11 people were arrested on Tuesday for assault against police officers and security guards.
The general assemblies for striking departments at UdeM are scheduled for the fifth and sixth of September. Approximately 1,628 student students in Art History, Anthropology, Film Studies, East Asian Studies, and Comparative Literature are still on strike.
UQAM
At l’Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM), students within the Association facultaire étudiante des sciences humaines (AFESH) voted on Wednesday during a special General Assembly to end the strike.
According to the AFESH website, 51.9 per cent of those in attendance – nearly half of the association’s members – voted against the continuation of the strike.
Students voted in favour of the strike last week, but a petition of around 70 individuals led to another General Assembly.
Around 4,552 students in three different student associations remain on strike at UQAM.
Administrators filed an official complaint earlier this week to the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) after protesting students disrupted classes. The SPVM confirmed with The Daily that an investigation was underway.
A member of the executive committee of AFESH told The Daily that the university should act in an “intelligent manner” and “recognize the right to strike.”
“UQAM should take position and come out against the tuition hikes. If UQAM calls the police, the social chaos will be worse than at UdeM,” he said referring to the events of Tuesday at the Université de Montréal.
McGill
According to SSMU VP External Robin Reid-Fraser, some departments at McGill are still “technically” on strike.
Reid-Fraser explained that the Gender, Sexual Diversity, and Feminist Studies Student Association (GSDFSSA) is still on strike because “in the last couple of weeks of classes, they weren’t able to meet quorum in the General Assemblies and weren’t able to come to a decision as to what to do over the summer.”
However, with McGill’s largest undergraduate student associations – such as Arts and Science – excluded from the student strike, the University has thus far remained relatively unaffected.
—with files from Juan Camilo Velásquez and Nicolas Quiazua
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Most expensive residence to date opens its doors
For the fourth time in eight years, McGill has opened the doors to a new residence for incoming first years. With La Citadelle, formerly a Courtyard Marriott Hotel, accommodating an additional 286 new students, McGill will have avoided the problem of residence overflow which has plagued incoming students in years past.
McGill has seen a roughly 12 per cent increase in undergraduate enrolment since 2006.
Last year, 74 students and two floor fellows lived on two floors of the Quality Hotel at Parc and Sherbrooke when numbers of incoming first-years exceeded the capacity of the campus housing system. In 2008, an estimated 100 students were sent to 515 Ste-Catherine, a privately-administered apartment building.
Executive Director of Residences and Student Housing Michael Porritt told The Daily in an email that not having overflow is “not necessarily a good thing – I’d rather be slightly overbooked because some students, for a variety of reasons, do not show up. In past years, we were too overbooked, hence the need for new residence spaces.”
Some student residents have complained about ongoing construction, which Porritt said is wrapping up with “some finishing touches to go.”
Rent at La Citadelle will be McGill’s most expensive: a double room will cost students $1,059 per month, and a single room will cost $1,194.25 per month.
With the residence also comes the launch of the Food Living-Learning Community (FLLC), a group of first-year students who come together to get involved with food politics, cooking, and other food-related activities.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Coalition Avenir Québec 
The Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) is the most conservative political party in the National Assembly. Mainly centered around François Legault, a former member of the Parti Québecois, CAQ was formed in 2011. The party later merged with the Action Democratique du Québec, a slightly older political party that was generally seen as centre-right.
CAQ sees the Quebec government as inefficient, bloated, and highly indebted. Its main campaign promise is to increase efficiency in the public sector by slashing thousands of government jobs, fighting corruption, and cutting wasteful spending. It plans to simultaneously reduce taxes on businesses and most individuals while reducing the debt.
On the student strike, CAQ believes that the Liberal government of Jean Charest has proven to be incapable of solving the crisis. Legault has said that he would implement a hike, albeit a slightly lower one than that proposed by the current government.
The party remains ambivalent to its separatist roots, claiming to be neither for nor against the independence of Quebec, and says that the province should solve its economic problems before considering separatism. However, it still portrays itself as a nationalist party that will continue to defend Quebec’s language bills.
—Laurent Bastien Corbeil
Parti Libéral du Québec
The Quebec Liberal Party’s (PLQ) 2003 defeat of the incumbent Parti Québecois (PQ) signaled a marked change in Quebec policy priority. The PLQ, self-described as “the party of the economy”, has consistently sought to raise revenue in order to address Quebec’s massive debt, which currently stands at $183.8 billion, or 55 per cent of GDP.
While these initiatives have remained the party’s proudest talking points, they have also catalyzed massive social unrest in the province, earning Jean Charest the lowest approval rating of any Canadian premier. The Charest administration’s proposal to raise university tuition by 75 per cent in seven years has sparked some of largest protest marches in North American history.
In an attempt to quell protests, the administration passed emergency legislation. Bill 78 has been publicly denounced by the Canadian Civil Liberties Association and the head of the Quebec Bar Association, among others.
The administration’s project to develop northern Quebec would, according to the Liberal government’s calculations, eventually bring in $14 billion for the province and create 20,000 new jobs a year. The plan has been heavily criticized on environmental grounds, however, and has been accused of neglecting to properly tax the foreign companies involved in the project.
Charest is one of the longest serving Quebec premiers in recent history.
—Lola Duffort
Parti Québecois
The Parti Québecois (PQ) was born in 1968 with the merger of René Lévesque’s Mouvement souveraineté-association (MSA) and the Ralliement national (RN). The PQ’s primary goal was Quebec sovereignty.
Pauline Marois became leader of the PQ in 2007. While the PQ allegedly remains dedicated to sovereignty, Marois has been unable to provide a precise timetable or course of action regarding a potential referendum, and a recent poll has reported that only one in five Quebecers believe that a PQ government would mean sovereignty.
Regarding the student conflict, the party has promised to restore the tuition freeze until the end of 2012 and hold a summit on the matter. The PQ recruited  former Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec president Léo Bureau-Blouin, and has vowed to repeal the controversial Bill 78.
Economically, the PQ intends to reach a zero deficit by raising taxes on the rich and halving exemptions on capital gains, using the resulting revenue to reduce debt. According to the Montreal Gazette, Marois has claimed that she would continue with the current Liberal government’s Plan Nord project to develop the resources sector in northern Quebec, but would establish a minimum royalty of five per cent, pointing out that minerals are a non-renewable resource.
—Annie Shiel
Québec Solidaire
By far the most progressive political party in the National Assembly, Québec Solidaire (QS) is a separatist party that first came into the media spotlight after Amir Khadir was elected in the Mercier riding during the 2008 elections. Since then, QS has advocated for free education, a reduction in the size of the private sector in healthcare, and stronger social programs. The party is unique in the sense that its leadership is shared by two spokespersons, Amir Khadir and Françoise David.
In the 2012 elections, QS has promised to raise pension benefits for retirees in Quebec, increase taxes on the extraction of mineral resources, and invest significantly in public transport. During the student strike, the party aligned itself strongly with the student movement. QS candidates could often be seen wearing the symbolic red square in opposition to the tuition hikes.
Regarding the environment, QS has promised to launch “Le Plan Vert” – a reference to the Liberal Party’s Plan Nord – to stimulate the economy and reduce Quebec’s carbon footprint. Under the program, more than $400 million would be invested in public transport.
The party is quick to differentiate itself from the Parti Québecois – Quebec’s most popular separatist party – often portraying itself as more friendly toward immigrants and more accommodating of languages other than French.
—Laurent Bastien Corbeil
Fringe parties
The four parties profiled to the left are not the only ones duking it out: here are the other thirteen officially registered provincial parties running candidates in this election.
Parti unité nationale
12 candidates
Formerly the Parti democratie chrétienne du Québec, this party was founded in 2000 by radical social conservative Gilles Noël with fellow Centre d’information nationale Robert Rumilly members. How radically conservative? One of the information centre’s members, Robert Dufour, argued in front of the Quebec National Assembly in 2002 that legalizing homosexual adoption would make adopted children more vulnerable to molestation.
Parti marxiste-léniniste du Québec 
25 candidates
This communist party has run candidates in Quebec sporadically since the 1970s under several names – this particular incarnation was officially registered in 1989.
Parti de la classe moyenne du Québec
7 candidates
Founded in July, this provincial party aims to empower the middle class by – most notably – limiting political donations to $100 per donor (the cap currently stands at $1000), increasing the minimum wage and putting a ten-year moratorium on all public administration bonuses in order to better finance post-secondary education.
Bloc pot
2 candidates
Founded in 1998, the Bloc pot’s political platform is primarily focused on the legalization of marijuana, although their website insists that their promotion of hemp derivatives as an alternative to fossil fuels, as well as their electoral reform advocacy, make them much more than a “single-issue party.”
Équipe autonomiste
17 candidates
This party was formed earlier this year by Action Démocratique Québec (ADQ) former riding association president Éric Barnabé in response to the ADQ’s merger with Francois Legault’s CAQ, which many former ADQ supporters and leaders reportedly found to not be right-wing enough.
Parti nul
10 candidates
Formed in 2009, this party subscribes to no ideology, and their platform consists entirely of giving voters a way to voice their dissatisfaction. Their website states in French that voting for Parti Nul is better than simply not voting or destroying one’s ballot since “no media attention is granted to destroyed votes.”
Québec – Révolution démocratique 
1 candidate
This party has no website, but it does have a Facebook page with 448 friends, and refuses to publish its platform until a sufficient number of militants are recruited. According to Elections Quebec, they were registered in May of 2011, and had $1,192 in net assets in 2011.
Parti conservateur du Québec 
27 candidates
Over 100 years ago, the conservative party commanded nearly fifty per cent of the vote in Quebec. The party hasn’t held a seat in the national assembly since 1935, when it was replaced by the autonomist Union Nationale party, which held power sporadically from the 1930s to the 1960s. Its leader, Luc Harvey, reregistered the party in 2009.
Coalition pour la constituante
29 candidates
Formed in June 2012 on the heels of the student strike and worldwide social justice movements, this party’s name means “coalition for the constituency,” and they seek to give voters an avenue by which to voice their dissatisfaction with the current political establishment. Elected candidates would be mandated to create a constituent assembly charged with writing a new constitution for Quebec with redefined political institutions.
Option nationale
120 candidates
Founded in 2011 by former Parti Quebécois (PQ) MNA Jean-Martin Aussant, the ON’s first mandate would be to declare Quebec independent before a referendum. Although currently polling at about two per cent, the party has recently received former PQ premier Jacques Parizeau’s endorsement, which could split the leftist sovereignty vote currently carried by Pauline Marois’ PQ.
Parti vert du Québec
7 candidates
According to a rabble.ca interview with party leader Claude Sabourin, the Greens’ three main priorities are the environment, education, and health. Despite their anti-tuition-hike stance, they accidentally ran a pro-hike candidate in Outremont; admitting to the gaffe, Sabourin told rabble.ca that “Obviously we should have researched her better, done a Google search on her name, and we didn’t do that.” She was taken off the ballot.
Parti indépendantiste
10 candidates
This party, led by long-time sovereigntist Michel Lepage, promises to separate the province from the rest of Canada as soon as it assumes power. It courted Jean-Martin Aussant in 2011, who instead decided to form his own party. Lepage has said that immigration and multiculturalism threaten Quebec identity. Aussant, on the other hand, is pro-immigration and has explicitly reached out to Anglo voters.
Union citoyenne du Québec
20 candidates
This party has been billed as the provincial version of the NDP – several of its members hail from the ranks of the national NDP, and it shares a platform similarly centered on environmental controls, a reformed health system, pro-immigrant policies, and a diversified economy. It has no official ties to the federal NDP, however, and very few funds, according to their spokesperson Maxine Guérin.
—compiled by Lola Duffort
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Gerts, the SSMU-run campus bar, was under renovation this summer in order to update the physical bar space and introduce food services as well as a new selection of beers.
The food services will be entirely run by SSMU staff, with a student staff member acting as food services manager.
“We’re going to have full lunch menu specials on different days and wait staff so you can sit at a table and get served food,” said SSMU President Josh Redel.
The funding for the project came from SSMU’s working budget and its capital expenditure reserve fund.
The building’s second floor will also have new concessions tenants this year, following the departure of the MTY group and its franchises. The new tenants are Lola Rosa Xpress, Bocadillo and Bamboo Bowl.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Lease negotiations still underway
The financial situation of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) has become more complicated after the McGill administration announced that they would stop paying the entirety of the utility charges for the Shatner building.
After two years of negotiations and two terms of SSMU executives, McGill and SSMU have not yet reached an agreement on the lease for the Shatner building. The students’ society has been the building’s tenant for the last 47 years, but negotiations concerning the lease’s renewal have stalled since it expired a year ago.
During negotiations, the administration expressed that it will no longer continue to pay for one hundred per cent of the building’s utilities.
Although SSMU would begin to pay for utilities according to a sliding scale, SSMU President Josh Redel emphasized that this was a “huge, huge hit to [SSMU’s] budget.”
“Frankly, what it means is that we’ll have to increase our student fees,” he said.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson commented on the administration’s decision in an email to The Daily, stating that “the utility charges of hundreds of thousands of dollars is an amount the University can no longer afford to subsidize.”
“SSMU executives understood this and have been willing to take on their share of the costs with the understanding that this will help promote energy conservation,” said Mendelson.
SSMU will start sharing the cost of utilities this financial year, although an agreement has not yet been reached as to the percentage amount each party will pay. Utility charges for the building amounted to roughly half a million dollars last year.
The executive committee does not yet know by how much student fees will have to increase, and any fee increase would have to be approved by the student body in a referendum.
According to Redel, such a referendum may take place in the winter semester, after SSMU can conduct research and determine final costs once the lease is signed. He also stated that SSMU is looking into other “creative solutions” to the problem but could not yet disclose what these might entail.
McGill and past SSMU executives reached an agreement on the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) in November 2011. However, the lease was not among the terms of the agreement.
Mendelson said that the lack of agreement on a lease came as a surprise to the University, although he is “optimistic that we will conclude a new lease with the current SSMU leadership in a short time.”
Redel also told The Daily that the student union used to pay one dollar for rent as a symbolic agreement between the student society and the University. One dollar “symbolic leases” are common to universities across Canada. SSMU paid $127,000 in rent to McGill last year, a number which is expected to increase this year.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New orientation includes à la carte events and revamped leader training
Since late September 2011, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), faculty student associations, the First-Year Office, and Student Services have been planning a reformed version of the University’s annual orientation week for new students, commonly known as Frosh week.
According to SSMU President Josh Redel, reforms were ultimately aimed at “changing the culture of Frosh as a whole to make it less of a binge-drinking festival and more of a welcome week, and truly an orientation week.”
Seeking to improve the orientation week, working groups looked at students’ past experiences during Frosh week in order to learn from past mistakes – asking, for example, whether it was “just turning into Frosh leaders making a party for themselves and having froshies alongside,”  Redel explained.
Insufficient programming for students not yet old enough to drink was another one of the major issues identified in last year’s orientation week, according to AUS VP Events Josh Greenberg.
To correct this, several working groups redesigned Frosh programming over the course of the summer to ensure that a non-drinking event would be available every night of the week.
“This year we identified early on that there were two key values we wanted to emphasize: inclusivity and building community,” said Greenberg. “I genuinely think we have done so much more for the under-eighteen -year-olds than ever before.”
Improved leader training
Redel said that SSMU has been working closely with faculties to provide better leader training.
According to Greenberg, feedback from last year’s orientation week reported that leader training – given mainly by student facilitators on subjects such as first aid and sexual assault – “apparently wasn’t very effective.”
As a result, this year’s leader training was broken down into big group sessions with content experts – such as McGill’s Social Equity and Diversity Committee (SEDE), which ran a session on inclusivity – as well as smaller group sessions for situational role-playing on conflict resolution and safe space, run by student facilitators.
SSMU has also been meeting with members of the Milton-Parc community hoping to curb the “bad PR,” according to Redel, created by Frosh in the neighbourhoods surrounding campus. This year,  “street teams” of community members and students will go out during the week’s big party nights to provide food and water, remind students to keep quiet in the neighborhood, and make sure they get home safely.
Coordination between groups
This year also marks the first time that the different groups involved in planning Frosh have come together to create programming, a marked change from previous years, when, as Redel explained, there was “almost no communication” between organizers.
“We used to operate in independent silos and never really communicated with each other,” he said. “Now we have almost every unit at McGill and SSMU and the different faculty associations involved in orientation week working together at the same table.”
À la carte events
After students’ move-in to residences over the weekend, orientation events began with “Rez Fest” on Monday, followed by a SSMU-hosted concert on Tuesday, and a series of university–run events on Wednesday to introduce students to McGill and its services.
Beginning Thursday, the traditional faculty froshes are joined by a burgeoning number of non-faculty options, including Outdoors Frosh, Rad Frosh, Fish Frosh, Muslim Students Association Frosh, and the new Gefilte Frosh.
In addition, the week features a number of à la carte events, which students can register for individually. According to the orientation week website, these include over 100 events, run by over 70 different McGill services and clubs. Events include a nutritious cooking workshop hosted by Fit@McGill, a bike tour of Montreal’s green spaces hosted by the Outdoors Club, and a sex workshop by the Shag Shop and McGill Health, among others.
As Redel explained, the new events “provide a really awesome opportunity for new students to get involved in something more than street fest, where it’s just a five-minute interaction.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
