The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill University Health Centre target of corruption investigation
As the Charbonneau Commission – tasked with unearthing corruption in the construction sector – enters its second week of inquiry today, Quebec’s construction industry continues to be a source of scandal. So far, nearly fifty firms have been embroiled in allegations of fraud, corruption, and collusion.
Lino Zambito, the former vice-president of the construction company Infrabec, told the Commission last week that around ten companies share municipal contracts for the city of Montreal.
According to Zambito, firms overcharge the city by setting their prices at an artificially high rate through a system of collusion. Similar schemes exist throughout the province, he said.
However, the Quebec construction industry often overcharges without resorting to collusion. In January, La Presse reported that the city of Laval had hired six firms to renovate three water-processing plants, costing $187 million. The city said that the project has gone 60 per cent over budget.
Documents obtained by The Daily and Le Délit reveal that one of the firms that won the Laval contract, Kingston-Byers Inc., is currently working on a $6.8 million project to reconstruct the pedestrian roof terraces of McGill’s McLennan and Redpath Libraries.
In 2010, the company reportedly demanded an additional $2 million from the city of Granby for a $13.6 million contract to complete a sports centre.
According to La Presse, the firm cited “changing circumstances” as reasoning for the additional invoice.
The office of Marlène Painchaud, a legal clerk for the city of Granby, told The Daily and Le Délit that the firm was now the subject of litigation.
The raid
On September 18, officers from the Unité permanente anticorruption Québec (UPAC) – known as the “hammer squad” – raided the offices of the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC). In a statement released on its website, MUHC administration said that UPAC was requesting “information related to the awarding of the contract for the Glen site public-private partnership.”
UPAC spokesperson Anne-Frédérick Laurence told The Daily and Le Délit that the documents obtained in the raid would be kept secret for the remainder of the investigation.
“All I can tell you is that a search was made and people were met [by the investigators],” she said in French.
While no arrest has been made, UPAC’s raid suggests wrongdoing or evidence that could warrant another investigation, according to financial crimes expert Michel Picard.
“A search warrant can only be obtained when there is evidence that something illegal has been done,” Picard told The Daily and Le Délit in French.
Public-private partnerships
The MUHC is a $1.3 billion project being built under a public-private partnership (PPP) model, allowing private companies to have a stake in the construction and operation of public works.
Before construction, the PPP model was criticized by the president of the Ordre des architectes du Québec (OAQ), André Bourassa, who described the project as a “waste of time and money,” according to Le Devoir.
Hubert Forcier, spokesperson for the Confédération des Syndicats Nationaux (CSN) – one of the largest trade unions in Quebec – told The Daily and Le Délit in French, “When we go toward the private for budgetary reasons, we let go of public expertise.”
“We are no longer able to determine the monetary value of projects and see what is legal and what is not,” he added.
For these reasons, the CSN was “not surprised” by the UPAC raid.
Other governments have also expressed doubts over the supposed benefits of PPP schemes. A 2006 report commissioned by the New Zealand government read, “There is little reliable empirical evidence about the cost and benefits of PPPs,” and “the advantages of PPPs must be weighed against the contractual complexities and rigidities they entail.”
Proponents of PPP maintain that such partnerships are an efficient way of building infrastructure.
In an interview with The Daily and Le Délit, Roger Légaré, the General Director of the Institute for Public and Private Partnership, said in French, “Every project, whether it’s the 25 highway, the 30 [highway], or the Maison Symphonique, were done in time or before [the deadline] at a reduced cost.”
Lack of transparency
The government body Infra-structure Québec is responsible for planning, realizing, and following all major public infrastructure projects in the province over $40 million, including PPPs.
Once a project has been approved for construction, Infrastructure Québec chooses the type of project: traditional, construction management, PPP, or turnkey. When the private sector has a high stake in the project, such as is the case in the PPP and turnkey methods, Infrastructure Québec coordinates the selection of the private firm.
“There are disadvantages to each mode. [Infrastructure Québec] does not put any mode above another,” a spokesperson for Infrastructure Québec told The Daily and Le Délit.
The CSN denounced Infra-structure Québec last week over the lack of transparency in its decision making process.
“Even recently, Infrastructure Québec has refused to give us access to information allowing us to know the conditions for future maintenance of institutions, where it is easier to negotiate lucrative contracts to private interests,” a statement on its website said in French.
Moreover, “part of the contract between [Infrastructure Québec] and the private firms has not been rendered public,” Forcier said.
Despite the criticism, Infrastructure Québec stated that no link can be made between PPPs and corruption.
As for UPAC’s raid at the MUHC, Infrastructure Québec said that it would wait for the investigation before blaming the alleged economic corruption on the method of construction.
“It’s going to depend on what UPAC will find,” the spokesperson said.
The service industry
While most of the PPPs in Quebec are awarded to construction firms, other forms of PPPs exist in the service industry.
The Centre d’hébergement et de soins de longue durée (CHSLD) at St-Lambert sur le Golf is the first hospice to have been built and managed under a PPP scheme.
Luc Pearson, vice president of the Fédération de la santé et des services sociaux (FSSS) for the Quebec region of Montérégie, told The Daily and Le Délit in French that Infrastructure Québec focuses on the financial aspect and “does not account for the reality of the Quebec healthcare system and the shortage of labour.”
When Infrastructure Québec presented the CHSLD project under a PPP scheme, it forecasted savings of up to a $100 million.
Pearson said the FSSS commissioned a study on the scheme shortly after.
“The results showed that the savings are made on the backs of workers […] the $100 million in savings are made in decreased wages for employees,” he said.
The study results, compiled by a financial advisory firm, state that given the shortage of labour and the below-market wages, the PPP model could lead to a disruption in continuous care and a higher turnover rate.
Infrastructure Québec sees the competitive nature of the private sector industry as an advantage of the PPP model. But according to Pearson, competition has no place in the healthcare system.
“Health is not for sale. The private entrepreneur is there to make profits,” he said.
McGill could not be reached by press time.
(A French version of this article is available here)
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Last Thursday, McGill’s highest governing body, the Board of Governor’s (BoG), convened for its first session of the academic year.
The BoG is led by Principal Heather Munroe-Blum and Chancellor Arnold Steinberg and is composed of 25 voting members and two observers.
Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) President Josh Redel and Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney are included in the voting members as student body representatives.
Issues on the agenda for the open session included principal’s remarks and an overview of the BoG’s handbook for 2012.
In her opening remarks, Munroe-Blum described the Strategic Enrolment Management Plan, which has been in the works since 2007, as “one of the priorities of this year.”
McGill’s student body now includes 38,185 students, including both undergraduate and graduate students. Graduate and PhD research students make up 25 per cent of McGill’s student body, which Munroe-Blum said was a “real strength.”
Also discussed at the meeting was Munroe-Blum’s wish to continue to focus on “maintaining the quality of students” while attracting students to other areas of the University – such as Macdonald Campus – through the enrolment initiative.
She also addressed the ongoing disciplinary hearings from the events of last year, stating that the hearings are being “handled one by one by a disciplinary officer to ensure fairness and consistency.”
Later in the meeting, Dean Ellen Aitken of the Faculty of Religious Studies presented to the BoG, focusing in particular on McGill’s participation in the Tony Blair Faith Foundation’s Faith and Globalization Initiative. McGill‘s Faculty of Religious studies has been a part of the initiative for three years and was recently asked to become the lead university in the network.
The Faculty of Religious Studies is McGill’s smallest faculty, with 14 professors and one faculty lecturer.
“In order to be an educated leader in this world you have to be savvy about the world’s religions,” Dean Aitken told the Board.
The next BoG meeting will be held on Thursday, December 13.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Aboriginal Awareness Week highlights land, resource issues
Last week, the Aboriginal Sustainability Project hosted McGill’s second annual Aboriginal Awareness Week (AAW) in collaboration with the McGill First Peoples’ House and the Native Friendship Centre of Montreal (NFCM) – an organization that nearly closed last spring due to funding issues within its governance structure.
One of many Friendship Centres across Canada, the NFCM provides a variety of health and social services for Montreal’s native community.
According to NFCM Director Brett Pineau, funding for Friendship Centres is provided by the Department of Canadian Heritage and administered by the National Association of Friendship Centres (NAFC) with assistance from provincial and territorial associations such as the Regroupement des centres d’amitié autochtones du Québec (RCAAQ).
Pineau explained that the NAFC and RCAAQ, who allocate federal funding to the Centre, had not been following the criteria outlined in the Aboriginal Friendship Centre Program (AFCP) guidelines.
In April 2011, the Centre requested a dispute resolution process to deal with these issues, but the provincial association refused to provide a representative, Pineau told The Daily.
“There is a serious structural flaw within the program itself, within the administration of this program,” he said. “In our opinion, the more layers that are involved in the administration of these federal programs, the higher the increased potential for…program irregularities or management inconsistencies with the established norms.”
In mid-September, after the NFCM had “exhausted most avenues of diplomacy within the provincial and national associations,” it alerted federal funding authorities of the program’s irregularities, according to Pineau.
Because of the Centre’s decision to notify the Department of Canadian Heritage, the RCAAQ “elected to suspend [the NFCM’s] provincial membership and then recommend to the national association suspension of all core funding for that year and all years beyond,” Pineau told The Daily.
According to the RCAAQ’s website, however, the termination of membership was “the consequence of a decision by the NFCM to move away from the mission of a Friendship Centre to become a first-line services centre for the homeless clientele.”
“Their story keeps changing. It changed three times already,” Pineau responded. “First of all, they said that we terminated a special agreement…which expired in 2010. According to us, that was legally impossible to cancel an agreement that already expired on paper.”
Regarding the RCAAQ’s accusation that the NFCM was no longer providing services for the entire native community – and thus not fulfilling its role as a Friendship Centre, Pineau said that there are many different native organizations in Montreal that administer specialized services, such as the First Nations Human Resources Development Commission.
“There are 120 Friendship Centres across Canada, each grounded in communities of varying sizes, with varying social characteristics…and each Centre adapts to its particular set of circumstances and context. The definition of a Friendship Centre is deliberately broad-based in order for this adaption to occur,” he added.
Pineau told The Daily that an unnamed member of the RCAAQ’s Board of Directors – which is composed of unelected representatives from various Friendship Centers in Quebec – told him that the directors redistributed the funding that would have gone to the NFCM themselves, leaving a portion to start up a new Friendship Centre in the city.
“There is certainly a perceived conflict of interest, in terms of a board of directors making a decision to reallocate funding to themselves,” said Pineau.
NFCM representatives will meet with the NAFC Board of Directors in October.
“This will be our last effort within the [Friendship Centre] movement itself,” said Pineau.
Access to land and resources
The NFCM is not the only Aboriginal group struggling to meet its needs.
In his keynote speech last Monday, Regional Chief of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador Ghislain Picard, highlighted the key issues of land and resources.
Picard explained that the land reserved for First Nations is limited, and that the First Nations often lack a fair share of natural resources. If access to land and resources were improved, First Nations would be better equipped to achieve economic prosperity.
Picard said that over twenty chiefs from various Nations in Quebec planned to hold a summit with the provincial government in August within one hundred days of the provincial elections to discuss land and resources issues.
“The next government will have thirty days to respond […] the clock is ticking,” Picard said.
“It’s going to be up to us to determine what will happen after that.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Environmentalists and Aboriginal activists join forces
Demonstrations were held in front of the Hyatt Regency Montreal last Thursday and Friday in response to Plan Nord conferences taking place inside the building. Another protest also took place on Friday in front of Hydro-Québec’s downtown headquarters.
Thursday’s demonstration began at 11:30 a.m. when roughly 200 protestors – mostly students, locals, and Aboriginal activists – gathered at Square Phillips at the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Union.
An hour later, the protest marched east on René-Lévesque until it reached the Hyatt, where about half of the demonstrators entered the adjacent Complexe Desjardins shopping centre.
Riot police blocked demonstrators as they attempted to climb stairs inside the complex, which connected to the Hyatt. Protesters and police stood in a tense standstill for about 15 minutes before police finally began advancing toward the demonstrators, who immediately retreated outside of the building, booing the police.
The police reported no arrests or injuries and issued no fines.
Plan Nord, the resource extraction and economic development project for northern Quebec initiated by Jean Charest’s Liberal government, was dubbed the “project of a generation” by the party and presented as a way to deal with Quebec’s massive debt.
According to the Liberal government’s calculations, Plan Nord would eventually bring in $14 billion for the province and generate 20,000 jobs every year.
Criticisms of the project have been widespread but scattered: environmental groups have said that the project does not make solid enough promises about conservation; labour unions have pointed out that a project of this scale has been designed with little public consultation; and Aboriginal groups say that the plan reappropriates Aboriginal land without properly compensating their communities.
“It’s easy to think of Plan Nord as an abstract problem…with a wide variety of issues. We’re hoping that we can make the Romaine River project a central issue that people will care about,” Alliance-Romaine spokesperson Christopher Scott told The Daily at Friday’s demonstration.
Alliance-Romaine, who joined forces with Rivières Libres for the protests organized in front of Hydro-Québec’s downtown headquarters, is dedicated to blocking the Romaine hydroelectric project – an $8.5 billion four-dam mega-complex on the Romaine river which would flood 279 square kilometers of territory, dry up salmon beds, and drastically reduce the oxygen content of the water.
While criticisms of Plan Nord were important talking points for the Parti Québécois during their campaign, they generally focused on the weak royalties the Liberal party had planned on charging private mining companies for extracted minerals.
“Since their election, the PQ hasn’t really clarified their position on Plan Nord,” said Scott. “We’re hoping to engage them, and to hear from Martine Ouellet, the Minister for Natural Resources, and Daniel Breton, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks.”
Friday’s demonstration in front of the Hyatt, organized online as “Defending the Land: Indigenous Women’s resistance to Plan Nord and community violence,” featured Élyse Vollant and Denise Jourdain from the North Shore Innu community of Uashat mak Mani-utenam.
Vollant and Jourdain were imprisoned in March for blockading Highway 138 to prevent Hydro-Québec from building a high-power transmission line across their territory. Hydro-Québec offered the community $125 million in compensation, $80 million of which was a cash payment to the 4,000 Innu members to be paid out over fifty years.
According to the Globe and Mail, Hydro-Québec’s initial offer was $2 million. The Innus demanded $300 million.
Speaking at a conference organized by Concordia’s 2110 Centre for Gender Advocacy later that day, Jourdain explained that this compensation package had been subject to two referenda within the community. The first referendum returned a verdict of 59 per cent against, and the second with 54 per cent against. Hydro-Québec ignored the results and continued construction.
Jourdain said of the process, “the justice system is a carousel, and negotiations lead nowhere,” adding that, according to her calculations, Hydro-Québec was paying each member of the community $1.25 a day for the next fifty years to “allow them to destroy our rivers and pollute the air.”
During the conference’s question and answer period, Geneviève Beaudet, a member of Québec Solidaire’s (QS) political commission, asked what actions the two elected members of the QS could undertake at the National Assembly.
Vollant thanked QS for their support in presenting their petition to the National Assembly before moving on to other questions.
In general, the evening did not address concrete political action; rather, it focused on raising awareness about the disparity in rights between Aboriginals and Canadian citizens.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill’s Rez Project used as a model
The 2110 Centre for Gender Advocacy, an independent organization at Concordia University, is hoping to bring workshops to Concordia’s residences later this year to facilitate discussion on sexual assault, gender, and sexuality.
The workshops will be modeled after McGill’s Rez Project, a series of two- to three-hour long mandatory workshops for all first-year students in residence.
Julie Michaud, the Administrative Coordinator at the 2110 Centre, is leading the effort at Concordia.
“It’s part of a broader campaign that includes calling on the University to create a sexual assault centre and revise its policy on sexual assault…making the University a safer place for everybody,” Michaud said.
She emphasized the general lack of awareness surrounding sexual assault. “There is less information in popular culture about consent and what it looks like and what it doesn’t look like and why it’s important to get a person’s consent,” Michaud explained.
The workshops are still in their planning phase, and the 2110 Centre is currently in talks with Concordia’s Residence Life.
The 2110 Centre has obtained resources from Rez Project for workshop content, and Michaud participated in training for McGill Rez Project facilitators this past summer.
Unlike Rez Project, however, the workshops at Concordia will not be mandatory for all students in residence. Instead, Residence Assistants will be able to decide individually whether to allow students under their charge to receive the workshops.
Concordia Director of Residence Life D’Arcy Ryan told The Daily, “I don’t like to make things mandatory for students, because once you make things mandatory for students, there’s going to be backlash.”
Michaud says the situation is “not ideal” but that she remains optimistic. “We would hope that in the future it would be a mandatory program as it is at McGill,” she said.
At McGill, members of the Sexual Assault Centre of McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) collaborated with other student organizations to pilot Rez Project in Gardner Hall in 2004. The workshops expanded to the rest of the University’s residences and became mandatory in 2006.
McGill’s Residence Life Advisor Adam Harris Levine has been involved with Rez Project for several years.
“It makes a very big statement when a department as big as Residences says that this is something we stand behind so much that we are going to require it from the residences. It is one of the frameworks we use for creating a safer space in residences,” said Levine.
He added, “I can see why institutions would be anxious about supporting something like this, because people can get upset when you talk about these topics [that] are often silenced…but if we shy away from talking about this they’ll remain silenced. And I think that would be a disaster.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
