The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Midnight Kitchen hosts anti-capitalism and environmental organizing workshop
On Monday, the non-profit student-run food collective Midnight Kitchen hosted a workshop entitled “Anti-Capitalism and Environmental Organizing,” which described the importance of food and environmental justice as well as the manner in which capitalism has co-opted radical green and anti-colonial movements.
Brad Vaughan, a member of the Midnight Kitchen collective, began the discussion with a brief history of capitalism. He chose not to focus on its ideological dimension, but rather looked at it through the manner in which it has been manifested across the world.
“This isn’t about Adam Smith or Milton Friedman. This is about the accumulation of wealth within the hands of a few,” said Vaughan, reminding the audience of the divide capitalism has created between capital and labour and the manner in which every field of our lives is controlled by that dynamic of working and owning.
It was argued that this consequence of capitalism has perpetuated itself in food. One example given was that of genetically modified organisms (GMOs), which presenters argued may be great for commodity output, but at the expense of plant life.
Eric, another member of the collective, explained that “global warming is not a ‘thing’ which fits into the market” and is therefore ignored.
Shon Wi Jin, a member of CKUT, disagreed, citing the corn drought in the United States as an example: “It will make its way into the market once it affects the market.”
In the third part of the presentation, Cera Yiu, Midnight Kitchen’s Outreach Coordinator, explained that the Plan Nord – the Quebec government’s development strategy to develop the natural resources extraction sector in the north – represents yet another clear example of capitalism’s exploitation of land and mining.
According to Yiu, the plan operates “under the pretence that it will create 200,000 new jobs as well as $80 billion in public money, all the meanwhile having dire environmental impacts.”
One member of the audience, who chose to remain anonymous, attempted to explain the reasoning behind Plan Nord, saying that “it is a marketing campaign to get international investment and bring more respect to the Quebec government globally” and fails to factor in environmental concerns.
The talk ended with a debate on alternatives to capitalism. Although no consensus was reached, most agreed that support for capitalism in its current form is not progressive. Disagreements occurred, however, on whether this brings about the need  to totally overthrow the capitalist system or rather to make an adjustment within it.
From Midnight Kitchen’s perspective, they believe that capitalism creates high amounts of wasted food – a good that they say should not be part of capitalism since it is a fundamental human right.
Others, including Wi Jin, disagreed.
“Privatization makes food production more efficient,” said Wi Jin. With the huge population boom, “GMOs and capitalism are the only means of feeding the entire world.”
Others also pointed out that Midnight Kitchen does use food produced from GMO crops, and still others suggested that GMOs and capitalism may not be the most important focus. As one member from the audience explained, “We have so much food, yet people in Africa don’t. That’s the area we need to work on.”
Midnight Kitchen stuck by the argument that food production and distribution are part of a larger system of oppression, and that we must reclaim control over the distribution of food in the community in order to pursue social and environmental justice. It was largely agreed upon that people need to be more informed on the current problems surrounding capitalism and consumption, that more community meals and meetings from the grassroots need to take place, and that we must continue to question corporations and government in order to maintain our real freedom, not the freedom based on capital. More open discussions, such as these, they said, should take place.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
More than 100 people attended a panel last Friday at Moot Court, Chancellor Day Hall, presented by the Human Rights Working Group (HRWG) at McGill to discuss the civil war in Syria. Panellists included two political science professors and a Syrian-Canadian imprisoned and tortured for two years under the Assad regime.
The International Justice portfolio of the HRWG, the largest student organization in the Faculty of Law, spearheaded the panel. Deep Kamlakanthamurugan, a second year law student and moderator, said that the panel was meant to address the conflict’s international and regional ramifications.
“How does [the Syrian conflict] modify international norms? That’s what I hope will be explored during the panel,” Kamlakanthamurugan said.
The final panellist was Abdullah Almalki, the Syrian-Canadian engineer jailed in Syria from May 2002 to March 2004 on false information provided to the Syrian government by Canada. Almalki spoke about his personal experiences and detailed the conditions he faced while imprisoned as well as the different methods of torture used on him by Syrian authorities.
He described being whipped repeatedly on the soles of his feet and the rest of his body on many occasions. He also recounted being forced to squeeze his body into a car tire – a form of torture that left him temporarily paralyzed from the waist-down.
“I know where to go and I know where to stop…What I said only scratched the surface of what happened to me,” he told The Daily.
Almalki also addressed the role of the Canadian government and the importance of respecting human rights.
“I think it’s very important for us here in this country to know what our country is involved in and that it’s complicit in torture… and partnering with torture regimes,” Almalki said.
The first panellist was Political Science professor and Middle East expert Rex Brynen. He presented a series of possible future scenarios for Syria, dismissing the possibility of outside intervention, mediated negotiations, sudden internal collapse, and regime recovery as highly unlikely outcomes.
Brynen suggested that a gradual opposition victory was the most likely outcome. He stressed that the timeline for victory would depend on the unity and coordination of the opposition, and that Syrians would need to focus on “[getting] the governance part right.”
“[The Assad regime has] condemned Syria to a bloody civil war and a difficult transition out of which I believe the Syrians will eventually build a more modern participatory state,” Brynen told The Daily. “I think they can do that but it’s not going to be an easy route.”
The second panelist was Houchang Hassan Yari, Comparative Politics and International Relations professor at the Royal Military College of Canada, who addressed the regional implications of the conflict. Hassan Yari spoke about Turkey and Saudi Arabia’s respective strategies, and then considered the role of Iran as the only state actively supporting the Assad regime.
Yari concluded that the demise of the Syrian regime would reinforce the position of the West in the region. He emphasized the U.S.
Frances Maychak, a U2 History and Gender Studies student who was at the panel, told The Daily that she appreciated hearing about Iran’s role from an expert, but that she would have liked to see the role of gender addressed on the panel.
“If there were a female panellist with experience in Syria…maybe that side would be brought more to the floor,” Maychak said.
Another attendee who wished to stay anonymous said that they appreciated Almalki’s presentation because it demonstrated the “more human side” of the conflict.
“If there was a bigger focus in the media on the human suffering, more than [on] statistics and numbers, then maybe there would be enough public opinion pressure on people to do something about the conflict,” they said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Survives government bombing and witnesses massacre in Binnish
A month ago, Yaman Marwah was studying law and economics at Carleton University in Ottawa. But between October 25 and November 3, he was an embedded journalist and activist in Binnish, Syria with the Free Syrian Army (FSA), the main armed opposition group.
The Daily spoke to Marwah over the course of ten days while he was in Syria and Turkey.
The 18-year-old is president of the Syrian Student Association in Ottawa (SSAO). His father, Hisham Marwah, originally from Damascus, is the head of the legal division of the Syrian National Council (SNC).
The SNC has recently come under domestic and international attack for not being representative of activists on the ground. Hisham Marwah was not available for comment at press time.
“I started being involved in activism for Syria at the beginning of the revolution. I was never involved in activism before,” Yaman Marwah told The Daily in a Skype interview. A close friend of his father arranged for him to enter Syria.
“It was an opportunity for me to fight back, to go back to my country. My dad and him have been friends since 35 years; he trusted his friend so it was easy for him to accept [the] idea I was going to Syria,” Marwah explained.
Marwah went to Syria with his friend Faris Al Shawaf. Al Shawaf is also a Syrian-Canadian student and is on the Board of Directors for the Syrian Canadian Council (SCC).
“We were going on a media mission, we were trying to send the pictures of what is happening in Syria to the people in Canada,” Marwah said. The students were also on a humanitarian mission to deliver donations – including $5,000 and toys – that they had collected in Canada.
“I wanted to make sure they were going to the right people by delivering them in person,” Marwah said of the donations.
Arriving in Syria
Marwah and Al Shawaf entered Syria through the Turkish border, which is presently under FSA control.
“We walked to the Turkish borders, got the stamp outside, and walked for around two kilometres until we reached the Syrian border, and we just walked in,” Marwah told The Daily. “A friend of mine was waiting for us there, picked us up, and kept going.”
Marwah arrived late in the night on October 25 in Binnish. “On Friday morning, there was the Islamic celebration of Eid al-Adha. There was a big rally in Binnish that we were part of, then we visited some of the FSA, had some interviews with them, and then they did accompany us to Taftanaz, one of the most damaged cities in Syria right now.”
Marwah explained that 90 per cent of buildings in Taftanaz have been destroyed by the Syrian army’s air raids. “There were always [Syrian army] planes flying above us, heading to Taftanaz,” he said. “We can hear the bombing, we can hear the planes, we can hear everything. It is very freaky, they might hit us any single moment.”
Binnish is part of the Idlib Governorate in northwestern Syria. The city of Idlib is currently a site of open struggle between the FSA and the Syrian army. The rest of the province, including Binnish, is mostly under FSA control, according to Marwah.
“Although the FSA has taken control of Binnish, Taftanaz and other cities, the Syrian army is doing their bombing from war planes and helicopters. The army is using air strikes so that all they have to lose is ammunition. The FSA does not yet have the antiaircraft missiles to stop the regime’s forces from advancing,” he told The Daily in Arabic.
Most of the FSA’s machine guns are captured from the Syrian army or bought inside Syria.
According to Marwah, “The FSA has not been able to smuggle any heavy arms. They can only smuggle light arms.”
“Syrian army soldiers who are desperate for money are selling their machine guns for 85,000 Syrian pounds,” he said.
According to current conversion rates, this would amount to roughly $1,200.
He also explained that the black market price of the machine gun has doubled over the last few months.
Marwah and Al Shawaf publicly posted photos of themselves carrying guns inside Syria on Facebook.  Marwah said that once in Syria, the FSA trained him to use a gun for self-defense.
The FSA accompanied Marwah and Al Shawaf everywhere they went in Syria.
Marwah believes FSA units work in coordination across Syria. “I witnessed coordination between the FSA in Binnish and the FSA in Taftanaz, when they communicated with each other to make sure there were no government war planes in Taftanaz before taking me there. The coordination is how we managed to travel between two different cities,” he explained.
Qatmeh Refugee Camp
On October 27, Marwah and Al Shawaf were accompanied by the FSA to Qatmeh, a refugee camp inside Syria. They distributed food in the camp, as well as toys for the children there.
Marwah said that he thinks donations and humanitarian aid should be directed more toward camps inside Syria. He explained that governmental and non-governmental aid agencies and the media usually focus on the refugee camps outside Syria, which have mainly formed in Turkey, Jordan, and Lebanon.
“When we went to Qatmeh, they said the last time they got bread was ten days ago. The situation is really bad in refugee camps inside Syria,” said Marwah. He and Al Shawaf used the $5,000 collected in Canada to buy the food they distributed.
Marwah wrote on Facebook that he was raising money to start a bakery in the camp to help the refugees produce their own bread.
Massacre in Binnish
On November 3, the Syrian army hit Binnish. “The planes hit just two hundred metres from where I was,” Marwah said. “When I heard the plane, I ran to the door to see what was happening. When I ran to the door, along with my friend who came from Canada, we were thrown away from the door by the force of the bomb. I got my leg injured.”
Several people lost their lives in the November 3 attack, according to Marwah. “There were at least twenty rockets that hit Binnish,” he recalled. “I witnessed a massacre.”
Reuters reported that government fighter jets had bombed Binnish that day following an FSA attack on a military airbase near Aleppo. A video uploaded to YouTube by activists showed residents fleeing the main square, as well as dead or injured civilians.
Marwah photographed an old woman whose face had been burned during the attack. He also witnessed a six-year-old girl being dug up from under the ruins of a building that had been hit by a rocket.
“Every time I hear a bomb, the only thing I think is, ‘this bomb might have hit me and that it could be me under those damaged rocks and buildings,’” he said.
Marwah’s older brother, Anas Marwah lives in Ottawa, is involved with the SSAO, and is on the media committee of the SNC. He told The Daily that “the day the bombarding happened on Binnish, we had no way to reach [Yaman] and it was very stressful here for me and my mother.”
“All we hear in the news is that Binnish is being bombarded but we have no clue where Yaman is, and what is he doing,” he continued.
After the massacre, the FSA escorted Marwah and Al Shawaf back to Turkey.
Since the Hafez al-Assad military coup in 1970, the government has prohibited soldiers from serving in their own cities, according to Marwah.
“The soldiers from Damascus are serving in Aleppo, and people from Daraa are sent to Idlib. The government posts people in cities different from their own so that the soldiers don’t feel as if they are killing their own people,” Marwah said in Arabic. “If you tell a guy from Daraa, ‘fire at Hama,’ he will fire.”
“The government posts people in cities different from their own so that the soldiers don’t feel as if they are killing their own people. If you tell a guy from Daraa, ‘fire at Hama,’ he will fire.”
“Government soldiers desert whenever they have the chance. It is very difficult for them to do so, because if they run away they will be killed. The only time they can desert is when they get permission to go visit their families,” Marwah explained.
“This is a revolution of the countryside and the peripheries, and I can guarantee you the rebels I met were all from Syria. They are all fighting for one goal, which is freeing Syria,” Marwah added in Arabic. “I see the revolution lasting at least another year.”
On the politics of naming the uprising, Anas Marwah said, “people are calling it a revolution, people are calling it a civil war, people are calling it a genocide. In this case, there is an oppressive regime killing its own people to stay in power, and they do not care how many civilians die.”
Anas rejects a sectarian interpretation of the war. According to him, the militias supporting the regime are composed of foreigners and Syrians who are being paid important sums by the government.
Marwah’s Return
Marwah spoke to The Daily again on November 4 from his aunt’s house in Antakya, Turkey.  She left Syria at the beginning of the revolution because her house was bombed. Her husband was captured by the Syrian army and remains imprisoned.
His aunt initially stayed in a refugee camp in Turkey, but was able to buy a house in Antakya after receiving monetary aid from family abroad and in Turkey.
Marwah has friends and family still living in Latakia and in Damascus, with whom he communicates regularly.
He said he is not worried about retaliations from the Syrian government following media exposure. “The Syrian government knows I’m an activist, they know my dad, and members of my family in Syria are all protesting against the regime, they are all standing against the regime and calling for their freedom.”
At press time, Yaman Marwah had arrived back in Ottawa without incident.
[flickr id=”72157631958355789″]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Disagreements arise over when to sign statement on accessible education
The Philosophy Students’ Association (PSA) held its weekly general meeting yesterday. The association unanimously decided to endorse CKUT 90.3 FM in its fee-increase referendum. However, the most contentious item on the agenda regarded the International Student Movement and its Global Education Strike from November 14 to 22. There were 18 people present at peak attendance.
The PSA will be holding a day-long event in Gert’s on November 15 from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. as a space for alternative education and forum for discussion on the student movement and educational accessibility. The event will be open to students and faculty from all departments. The PSA stressed, however, that it would not be going on strike.
The majority of the meeting consisted of a heated debate regarding the signing of the International Student Movement Joint Statement, which calls for “free and emancipatory education as a human right.” The PSA’s mandate includes supporting accessible education and opposing tuition hikes, but does not go so far as to call for free education.
Although members seemed to be unanimous in their intent to sign the statement, they were strongly divided on when to sign it.
About half of those in attendance felt that the statement should be signed at the PSA’s next general meeting on Tuesday, November 13, before the event at Gerts, citing the importance of demonstrating solidarity as soon as possible to those who will be fighting for accessible education around the world next week.
“To enter into the letter is to enter into a global community,” said PSA member Ethan Feldman. “By doing this we are entering into the global movement. So if we don’t sign the letter, what are we doing? We’re big fat phonies.”
He and others also stressed the timing of the signing, emphasizing the importance of officially entering the movement at the beginning of the week in solidarity with those who would also be fighting for accessibility at that time.
“The time is now to show some solidarity to other student movements that are actively struggling like Quebec was,” said another member.
Others felt strongly that the statement should be held after the event at Gert’s – at their general meeting on November 21, at the end of the Global Education Strike – both to foster discussion on the issue before signing and to engage a wider number of Philosophy students in the decision.
“I think it’s very worthwhile to get more feedback, more input from people that aren’t here now,” said one member. “It would be great if they would be interested before [the event at Gert’s], but that’s just not realistic.”
Another member stressed that the signing would be much more meaningful the more people that are involved in the decision.
After a long and heated debate, Feldman put forth the proposal to table the decision and have members print out copies of the statement and get as many signatures from Philosophy students as possible, in the hopes of signing the statement as a body at the PSA’s next general meeting on Tuesday.
“Any decision except [voting on Tuesday] makes me want to puke,” said Feldman.
This remark was followed by an intense back-and-forth in which a number of insults were exchanged.
In the end, the Association voted on whether to vote to sign the joint statement on November 14 or 21.
The result was a tie with six for the 14th and six for the 21st.
Feldman abstained, calling the vote “a sham.”
The statement will be distributed to Philosophy students and added to the agenda for Tuesday’s general meeting.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“Except for a little blip after World War II until approximately now, universities have been institutions that at least maintain, if not accentuate, inequality in society.” 
Student radical? Nope. 
McGill Daily editorial? Not that either. 
It’s a statement that would make sense coming out of the mouth of self-identified anarchist, but the newly appointed Dean of Students? André Costopoulos is both.
The statement is surprising, and  André Costopoulos, whose term starts next week, is a surprising choice for the administrator in charge of crafting disciplinary policy, among other duties.
Costopoulos, an anthropologist by training, applied for the job in early summer, just before spending a summer with archaeology students in James Bay. He admits to being sympathetic with some student concerns – such as accessibility to education – but also says that students don’t understand the constraints that administrators must understand.
“Bridges between faculty, students, administration, staff – some of those bridges definitely need maintenance right now. They need to be strengthened, expanded,” said Costopoulos in an interview with The Daily.
So will he be an ally for student demands in the wake of growing student activism in Quebec and elsewhere? Or will he be, as one McGill activist familiar with both Costopoulos and the University’s disciplinary procedure put it, the “biggest ‘good cop’ in the world”?
Costopoulos will be one of the main voices at the table when it comes to the upcoming review of the Provisional Protocol Regarding Demonstrations, Protests, and Occupations on McGill University Campuses, as well as the ‘Green Book,’ that outlines student rights and responsibilities at the University.
“I will definitely be worrying about how the protocol, once it becomes more firm, will be interacting with what’s in the Green Book,” he said, also citing problems in the vagueness of the language.
Costopoulos comes to the position after four years as the Associate Dean of Arts, where he was the faculty’s disciplinary officer and was responsible for the banning of four students from campus last spring under article 21(a) of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedure.
One of the banned students, former SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault, told The Daily last March that “there was no confrontational atmosphere” at the event – a gathering of Université de Quebec à  Montréal students in a McGill classroom – for which he received a five-day ban.
The incoming dean said he would like to see article 21(a) revised, to include what he called an “oversight control mechanism” that would “check against the worst possible abuse” of the policy by the administration.
Anarchism and Discipline
For Costopoulos, it is a delicate balancing act to be both an anarchist and the administrator formerly in charge of executing disciplinary measures, and now in charge of crafting disciplinary policy.
“One of the things I always say is that ‘as an anarchist, it’s my responsibility to be in administration,’” he said, jokingly admitting that this might get him in trouble with both the administration and with fellow anarchists.
Both Costopoulos’ conception of discipline and anarchism revolve around his understanding of personal discipline, and thus the incoming Dean of Students has crafted a philosophy of discipline that involves the prioritizing of student rights.
“Because of this concept of personal responsibility, there’s no direct contradiction between hierarchy and anarchy, as long as the hierarchy is participatory,” he said.
“Usually, a violation of one of the articles of the Code of Student Conduct can be defined as a violation of a right guaranteed in the charter,” he said.
“One approach to discipline, and this has been my approach, is to cast it in terms of rights. Not your rights, but the rights of others.”
Last year, several students who participated in the #6party occupation of the James Administration Building had their punishments mitigated after making a case that there was an “undue burden” placed on the students.
In Costopoulos’ view, most disagreements at the University are disagreements about means to what are, he said, fairly universal ends.
As a McGill undergraduate from 1988 to 1992, Costopoulos said he was active in the Arts Undergraduate Society, sitting on curriculum and hiring committees. He added that it is incumbent upon student anarchists to enter student politics.
Was last year his most difficult as an administrator?
“Sure it was,” he said. “But at the same time, it’s a moment that a lot of interesting stuff can happen as a result of this. It put people’s attention on a bunch of problems that were there and were not necessarily addressed.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Recent legislation is progress, but not enough
On October, Ontario became the first province to allow trans* people to change the sex on their birth certificate with a letter from a physician or a psychologist.
These new rules stemmed from a ruling passed by the Ontario Human Rights Tribunal in April. The tribunal ruled that the previous practice of requiring people to undergo sexual reassignment surgery to change the legal sex on official documents was discriminatory.
While much of the trans* community praised the Tribunal’s ruling for its progress in furthering trans* rights and abolishing the need for invasive surgery, others were very vocal in claiming that the law didn’t go far enough.
The Daily spoke to Micah Grzywnowicz, a European human rights expert and trans* activist, about the impact of Ontario’s new law and the broader issue of widespread discrimination against the trans* community.
Grzywnowicz outlined several aspects of Ontario’s new law that still exclude a large portion of the trans* community. “[People] can still only choose F [female] or M [male], which obviously is problematic for people who don’t want to identify with either of them,” zie† said.
The law still presents a complicated process, with medical and financial demands. Those who wish to obtain a new birth certificate from ServiceOntario have to pay a $97 fee and provide confirmation from a doctor supporting their claim that they suffer from Gender Identity Disorder.
These often present insurmountable obstacles for many who wish to have the possibility of changing their legally documented sex.
“Limiting one human right, like legal recognition or access to healthcare, has consequences for many, many other [human rights],” Grzywnowicz said. “If [an] identity card doesn’t match with who [someone] is, it affects […] things that are basic for our well-being.”
Ontario’s law makes it the first province to abolish the requirement for proof of sexual reassignment surgery. Quebec still requires that trans* people wishing to change official documents undergo sexual reassignment surgery as well as a psychological assessment.
According to Gryzwnowicz, progress in the rest of the provinces likely hinges on whether other trans* people take their cases to court.
“By going to court, you expose yourself so much, and the process is usually really long,” zie said. “[…] On a personal level, it is not always nice or healthy to expose [yourself].”
To many in the trans* community fighting for these basic human rights, Ontario’s new law – while a welcome step forward – does not address the societal discrimination that trans* people face on a day-to-day basis.
“People need to understand that when a trans* person is, for instance, beaten up on the street, or thrown away from the [bathroom], it’s not about their biological sex, which is claimed. It’s because these people look different, and because others assume [they are not] a ‘real woman’ or ‘real man,’” Grzywnowicz told The Daily. “Our societal obsession with gender, and how it should be, how women should be, how men should be, is really hurtful. And I always ask – who actually fits [these] norms?”
Initiatives in the past few years on both the federal and provincial levels have sought to enshrine the rights of the trans* community in legal code in the hopes of lessening this pervasive discrimination.
In June, Ontario became the first major jurisdiction in North America to specifically protect the human rights of trans* people. The Ontario legislature passed Toby’s Act, the pet initiative of NDP MPP Cheri DiNovo, which amended the Ontario Human Rights Code to include protection for “gender identity” and “gender expression.”
A similar bill at the federal level, Bill C-279, passed into its second reading this year in the federal legislature. It seeks to add “gender identity” and “gender expression” to the groups included in the hate crimes section of Canada’s Criminal Code. The bill also aims to protect these individuals under the Canadian Human Rights Act.
Conservative MP Rob Anders, a prominent critic of Bill C-279, has dubbed it the “Bathroom Bill.” A petition posted on Anders’ website claims that the bill aims to “give transgendered men access to women’s public washroom facilities.”
Trans* advocate Jan Buterman told the CBC that this claim was “ludicrous.”
For Grzywnowicz, the so-called “Bathroom Bill” has different connotations. Zie told The Daily that bathrooms are “mission impossible, almost” for trans* people such as hirself.† An activity that is taken for granted by almost all people as a basic bodily right, zie explained, becomes a stressful struggle for many in the trans* community, and can even lead to blatant harassment.
To reduce this stress, the Toronto District School Board recently implemented a policy that recognizes the right of “transgender and non-conforming gender students and staff” to use whichever bathroom they feel “best conforms to their gender identity.”
In the end, Grzywnowicz said, “trans* rights are not any special rights. […] They are just basically demanding recognition of the rights that are [already] there.”
†Zie, hir, and hirself are gender-neutral pronouns. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
