The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The McGill Students for UN Women Canada National Committee hosted a panel discussion last Wednesday titled “Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment in the New Development Agenda.”
The panel included UN Women Deputy Executive Director Lakshmi Puri, UN Women Canada National Committee President Almas Jiwani, McGill Law professor and human rights lawyer Pearl Eliadis, and other UN, non-profit, and government representatives.
Panel members discussed issues that developing and developed countries face in achieving the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) concerned with promoting gender equality. MDGs are international benchmarks set by the UN with the goal of alleviating extreme poverty by 2015. The panel also discussed goals that ought to be set post-2015.
McGill Students for UN Women Canada National Committee member Jassie Badion said she hopes that the event will raise awareness of inequalities abroad, as well as in Canada.
While the panel discussed the issue of women’s empowerment in developing countries, it highlighted that developed nations also face many problems with gender parity.
According to Puri, “Countries forget this is a struggle, [and that] nowhere is the battle totally won.”
The World Economic Forum ranked Canada 20th in its 2010 Global Gender Gap Report, placing it behind Sri Lanka and Lesotho.
According to Jiwani, “Canadian women continue to experience a wage discrepancy for comparable employment…and are over-represented in low-skill, low-wage sectors.”
Canada was also ranked 45th in the world for parliamentary representation of women by the Inter-Parliamentary Union, behind Iraq and Lesotho.
According to Eliadis, Canadians see the MDGs “as things for other countries.”
She also claimed that the greatest threat to women’s empowerment and gender equality in Canada comes from the U.S., where women’s right to birth control and abortion are currently under debate.
The discussion also addressed the codependent relationship between gender equality and other objectives of sustainable development.
As an example of this, Puri cited  the statistic that women in developing countries spend forty billion hours each year fetching water. If drinkable water were more accessible, she said, these women might be more able to reach their economic, intellectual, and political potentials.
Puri said she hopes that the post-2015 goals will focus on the “unleashing of exponential potential of women…. the most untapped resource.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Municipal party calls for action
After 25 years, the Montreal Biosphere is slated to close its doors because of a federal government budget decision.
The Biosphere is run by Environment Canada, and according to its website, is the only environmental museum in North America.
Featuring exhibits on climate change, ecosystems, and urban transportation, the Biosphere also presents a series of popular daily activities. Over 100,000 people visit the museum each year.
The Biosphere – a spectacular geodesic dome designed by Buckminster Fuller – is housed in the former American Pavilion, built in 1967 for the Montreal Expo. It was repurposed in 1990 to become an environmental museum for the next twenty-five years.
Environment Canada signed a $17.5 million agreement with the City of Montreal to occupy the building and maintain it as a cultural facility. It is currently unclear whether the federal government will allow Environment Canada to fulfill its agreement with Montreal, which extends to 2015.
In June, all 25 Biosphere staff members were informed that their positions might be terminated in a round of federal layoffs that will affect some 5,000 public service jobs.
Quebec spokesperson for Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC) Patrick Leblanc told The Daily that it is Mayor Gérald Tremblay’s responsibility to keep the Biosphere open.
“Everything depends on the mayor,” Leblanc said, because “the biosphere is still the property of the city.”
Rather than maintaining the Biosphere as a public facility, Leblanc said that “[the federal government] wants to do something more private with the Biosphere,” and that it will likely end up as a private Environment Canada facility.
The West End Times has reported that it is to be transformed into a weather station.
Two months later, Vision Montréal – the official municipal opposition party – published a petition online that calls on Mayor Tremblay to protect the Biosphere from the budget cuts. The petition currently has 878 signatures.
The David Suzuki Foundation, PSAC, and l’Association des communicateurs scientifiques du Québec have also joined Vision Montréal in its quest to defend the Biosphere from closure.
Louise Harel, current leader of Vision Montréal and councilor for the borough of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, said in a press release that Tremblay’s lack of action to protect the Biosphere is “unacceptable.”
The press release also called for Tremblay to pressure the federal government to respect the 25-year lease and argued that the dome should remain open to the public as part of Montreal’s cultural heritage.
Leblanc said that the PSAC has little idea of when the Biosphere will be closed, noting that “it could be years, or it could be months.”
Tremblay’s decision to allow the government to close the Biosphere, he said, “doesn’t respect the contract signed 20 years ago.”
Mayor Tremblay’s office could not be reached for comment at press time.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Administration expects $90 million loss
Quebec premier-elect Pauline Marois announced Wednesday morning that her government will abolish tuition hikes by decree and abrogate Bill 78, introduced last spring by Jean Charest’s Liberal government.
The announcement came the day after her party, Parti Québecois (PQ), won a plurality of seats in the National Assembly of Quebec.
The decision will affect McGill’s funding directly, as the budget for the 2013 fiscal year – approved earlier this summer – relies on increased revenue from the tuition hike. The University forecasted a financial deficit of $7 million for 2013 and a $400,000 surplus for the 2012 fiscal year. Based on these projections, the accumulated deficit for McGill would stand at $281.9 million for 2013.
The budget, prepared by Provost Anthony Masi, also projected cumulative tuition increases for the next five years and planned to tackle McGill’s financial deficit in large part with revenue generated from tuition hikes.
“Issuing a decree to roll back the increases to previous levels means that our previously announced deficit of $7 million will increase to $13 million for the 2013 fiscal year. But remember, the increases over five years were to have been cumulative,” Masi told The Daily in an email.
Assuming that the current student population remains stable, this means an expected budget shortfall of $6 million in 2013, $12 million in 2014, $18 million in 2016, $24 million in 2017, and $30 million in 2018, according to  Masi.
By 2018, the total expected loss in revenue would amount to $90 million.
Masi told The Daily that the University is currently waiting for an official decision from the government of Quebec.
“While we are studying several unpleasant scenarios, until we actually see the alternatives that the new government of Quebec will put on the table for providing additional revenues to Quebec’s already cash-strapped university system, I am not in a position to indicate the magnitude of cuts that we at McGill will have to endure,” he wrote.
In late August, the PQ told students to delay paying their tuition bills until after elections, as the party planned to abolish the hike.
In response to PQ’s statement, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson told the CBC in late August that he was “amused” by the proposal.
“I think it’s premature. We have a government in place; we have a ministry in place. The ministry has given us directives. We have our bills already sent out; our students at McGill are expected to pay their tuition bill by August 31, and we’re expecting them to pay,” he told the CBC.
The decision to reinstate a tuition freeze was received positively by many of the student associations that had been active during the strike earlier this year. In an interview with The Daily, Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec  (FECQ) President Élaine Laberge said that the announcement from the PQ signified a victory for the student strike.
“If the tuition hikes are abolished, then our objective has been achieved,” she said in French.
FECQ is confident that Marois’ promise will be fulfilled.
“When you call your first press conference as a premier, not in a period for [campaign] promises, but in a period to fulfill promises, then you’re bound to respect that decision,” she added.
Whether or not a new tuition freeze would be instated is still unclear. While Marois has called for a forum to discuss the future of higher education in Quebec, FECQ has not yet been provided with details regarding the panel’s programs or organization.
 – with files from Laurent Bastien Corbeil
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Montreal police predict higher crime rates
Quebec may be forced to completely dismantle its long-gun registry in the next few months in accordance with the controversial federal Bill C-19, an act that Montreal police officials say will be detrimental to crime prevention in the city.
Passed on April 5 by the Harper government, Bill C-19, or the Act to Amend the Criminal Code and the Firearms Act, would lift the registration requirement for long guns and destroy all records from the Canadian Firearms Registry’s existing database.
The bill only applies to non-restricted firearms – such as rifles, shotguns, and other long guns – and will not affect registries or licensing practices for firearms classified as restricted or prohibited.
Quebec currently has an injunction against the destruction of the registry data, and can continue to add data to the registry while the injunction is in place.
Public Safety Minister Vic Toews told the CBC, “the data registry will be destroyed as soon as feasible.” He added, “As soon as the legislation is passed, there is a requirement to destroy the data.”
The legal debate continues, and Royal Canadian Mounted Police official Julie Gagnon told the CBC on August 31 that the dismantling process is “well underway,” though no actual records have been destroyed.
The Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) told The Daily that Bill C-19 means the loss of an important tool for crime prevention, investigation, and public protection.
In an email to The Daily, SPVM Commanding Officer François Bleau said in French, “In the absence of long-gun registry, it will be impossible to identify their owners. In this context, criminals could use them without the risk that the authorities can locate them.”
Long-gun crime rates are generally lower than those related to restricted firearms, with only one out of 35 homicides being long-gun related in 2011 and three out of 37 in 2010, according to Bleau.
However, the majority of firearms in the registry are non-restricted firearms. According to the CBC, there are an estimated 7.8 million firearms registered, 90 per cent of which are non-restricted firearms.
Bleau said that the SPVM uses the registry not only to trace the origin of a weapon and bring charges against offenders, but also to advise on intervention strategies prior to the search of a residence, thereby protecting police officers. It is also a useful tool in crime prevention, he said, citing as an example the removal of weapons from homes where domestic disputes occur.
Quebec Justice Minister Jean-Marc Fournier told the CBC, “In 2010, we [seized] 2,500 guns from people who owned those guns, because they were dangerous [to] themselves or other people.”
Bleau said that the destruction of the registry might see a rise in long-gun related crime.
“Impunity, the wide availability of these weapons, and the low purchase price are factors that might favour their use,” he told The Daily.
“We may see poorer criminals, such as [those in street gangs], use long guns,” he continued. “Once the barrel has been cut to length, they have a portable, cheap, and anonymous weapon in the absence of the registry.”
Anti-registry groups, however, cite the cost of the registry and its alleged ineffectiveness as a justification for its destruction.
According to the CBC, Toews has described the registry as a “billion-dollar boondoggle,” arguing that money should be spent on more effective means of cracking down on gun crime.
The Canadian Firearms Program was investigated by Auditor General Sheila Fraser in 2002, who concluded that it was over-budget and would cost taxpayers over $1 billion – 500 times more than the original $2 million estimate.
Opposition groups such as the National Firearms Association (NFA) also argue that the registry represents a violation of personal freedoms.
“As long as the Liberal Firearms Act remains law, the freedoms, rights, and property of all Canadians remains at risk,” the NFA says on its website.
“The ending of long gun registration lays good ground work and is a positive first step in much needed and long overdue firearms law reform in Canada,” states the website.
Tuesday’s shooting at Metropolis during the Parti Québécois’ election rally has renewed public concern over gun deregulation.
Footage from the rally showed a pistol and a rifle – a long gun – at the scene. The police seized a total of 22 guns from suspect Richard Bain, including a pistol, semiautomatic, rifle, revolver, and a hunting or sport rifle.
All but one were registered.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
