The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Senate discusses the merit of professors’ “service” to McGill
In last Wednesday’s Senate meeting, Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures and Equity) Lydia White presented a draft of revisions to the University’s Regulations Relating to the Employment of Academic Staff. White described the current regulations as an “organizational nightmare.” The regulations would mostly apply to tenure track professors.
According to White, most of the proposed changes are organizational. However, a proposed change to Section 5.10 of the original regulations was the focus of Senate’s discussion on White’s revision.
Section 5.10 stated that for academic staff to be granted tenure, “superior performance” in two of three categories is necessary. A “reasonable performance” in the third category is a minimum requirement.
The categories break down into teaching, research (professional and scholarly activities), and “other contributions to the University and scholarly communities.” White referred to the third category as “service.”
To be granted tenure under the revised set of regulations would mean earning a “superior performance” in the categories of teaching and research, and in the category of “service” professors could receive, at minimum, a “reasonable performance.”
After the meeting, White spoke to The Daily about the message behind the revision of the section.
“It’s more the message we are conveying about our expectations,” she explained.“McGill is a research-intensive, teaching-oriented University, and perhaps it’s not sending the right message to say that we would accept less than superior in those two important categories.”
Senators raised concerns regarding the section’s revision. In Senate, Medicine senator Edith Zorychta said the revision “devalues the collegial [service].”
Zorychta, a Pharmacology professor involved with the McGill Association of University Teachers (MAUT), said that a group within MAUT had examined the revision and, according to her, had “very serious concerns.” According to the Senate report, White had previously consulted with MAUT, Deans, and Teaching and Learning Services.
“It’s a major change and it has ramifications throughout the academic community,” said Zorychta. “It could send the message that since it’s no longer one of the three equally valid factors, it can easily be interpreted, and I think would be interpreted by many people, to mean that [service] is of lesser importance.”
Music senator Kyoko Hashimoto explained that, for Music, the category of research means performance, but she noted that many musicians later in their careers are unable to perform due to injuries. She gave the example of tendonitis among pianists.
“I’m afraid that if we change in this direction, that means it might be difficult to get the superior [level],” she said. She added that it could potentially amount to ageism in that context.
Several senators agreed with Arts senator John Galaty’s question: “Are we trying to fix something that’s not broken?”
White responded in Senate to his question, saying, “This is a consideration.”
She said that the number of current academic staff who have “reasonable performance” were “almost certainly lower than 10 per cent of the tenure cohort in each year,” and added that most tenured professors are superior in all three categories.
Speaking to The Daily after Senate, White said that the revision does not mean professors applying for tenure would not be expected to do service.
“I think it’s unfortunate that what people are interpreting this proposal as meaning that service is going to denigrate – that’s not the intention,” she said.
“It’s rather to enhance that we consider ourselves a top University in research and in teaching, and so why, in that case, shouldn’t we make that the expectation for junior professors?” she continued.
Post Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) VP Academic Lily Han described the revision as “contradictory,” referring to a discussion earlier in the meeting regarding recognizing student extracurricular activities in the admissions process.
“I think that if we want to promote students to get involved, and promote volunteerism, promote service to the University, it should be the same with faculty,” she said.
The revisions are to be brought back to Senate in April for the body’s approval. White stated she would incorporate the comments made in Senate into the revision process.
However, Arts senator Brendan Gillon expressed “misgivings” in Senate that, due to the time of the academic year, adequate reflection on the revision could occur before the next Senate. “I’d like to hear more arguments and more discussion,” he said after the meeting adjourned.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
700 kilometre march culminates in demonstration on March 22  
Quito, Ecuador — Over 25,000 people flooded Quito, Ecuador’s capital, on March 22 in the culmination of a two week march that began in the country’s Southern Amazon region and spanned roughly 700 kilometres.
The march, translated from Spanish to mean the “Plurinational March for Water, Life, and Dignity of the People,” was led by the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) in collaboration with other indigenous, environmental, student, worker, and women’s groups.
The movement was born out of a rejection of the constitutional violations and extractive environmental policies of President Rafael Correa’s national government, which is lead by the Alianza Pais party (“Proud and Sovereign Fatherland Alliance”).
Thousands left Ecuador’s Southern Amazonian province of Zamora-Chinchipe on March 8 – International Women’s Day – to begin their journey to Quito. They arrived on March 22, World Water Day.
The starting point was symbolically chosen to denounce the large-scale, open pit copper mining project initiated in Zamora’s Condor Cordillera following a contract signed at the beginning of the month with the Chinese transnational mining corporation, Ecuacorriente (ECSA).
ECSA is an international subsidiary of the Canadian natural mineral resource company, Corriente Resources Inc., based in Vancouver, BC.
The project is the largest scale mining development in the Ecuador’s history, and is contracted to last 25 years, with a $1.4-billion investment in the Southern Amazonian region by ECSA within the first five years.
Provincial coordinating committees sent roughly 5,000 to 6,000 people from each province to participate in the march, joining the movement as it moved northward from Zamora toward the capital. Together these bodies made 19 demands on issues including labour, environmental justice, and reproductive rights.
They declared three of these demands to be nonnegotiable: the elimination of large scale mining, decriminalization of social protest, and the reinstatement of employment of 5,600 public workers who had been laid off in Fall 2011 by a constitutional decree which instituted “mandatory resignation.”
On March 22, 20,000 demonstrators travelled the final stretch through Quito, arriving from the south to gather downtown at Parque del Arbolito. Another 5,000 arrived from the north. They carried with them large banners, flags, graffiti, and drums, chanting as they made their way through the city.
Though the protesters marched in unity, they represented a wide variety of issues.
“I am here because I believe in protest. I believe it is one of the greatest achievements of the people, and I join this struggle for two reasons; because water is a right for all, and because I am against the large scale mining project in Zamora,” said Pablo Torres, a demonstrator from Quito.
Another demonstrator, Marco Montagua from Pastaza in the South Eastern Amazon stated, “I am here in the spirit of solidarity between indigenous peoples and nationalities. Each people, each sector, has their own reason for being here. We, the Sapara Nation, are here to resist oil extraction on our land.”
Riot cops and military lined the march and police helicopters flew overhead. While the protest remained mostly peaceful, altercations broke out between riot police, police on horseback, and the demonstrators around 6:00 p.m.
The government had banned the contracting of interprovincial buses throughout March, which constrained the number of protesters present in the demonstration.
Despite this, Soledad Vogliano, Natural Resource and Legal worker for CONAIE, explained that the march has already yielded some positive results.
“The government has announced that they will begin a process of dialogue to evaluate how the nonnegotiable demands can be implemented,” said Vogliano. “This period will last six months, by the end of which, if there is no action, the organizations involved in the march have announced that there will be uprising.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Election period marked by ‘no’ campaigns 
The Post Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) election results were announced last Friday night. Jonathan Mooney, who ran uncontested, will be PGSS President for the 2012-13 year.
Mooney will be working with Pooja Tyagi, who won the position of VP Finance, and Errol Salamon, who will be the new VP External. Michael Krause will take the position of VP Internal, and Adam Bouchard will hold the position of VP Academic.
“What I heard from all the candidates were coherent platforms, people who clearly want to work for the best interest of the PGSS, who have a very good vision for what’s going to happen next year, and I’m looking forward to working with all of them,” said Mooney.
Current PGSS President Roland Nassim explained, “The challenge next year is really not from the executive, but from the membership.”
“We’ve been put through a lot of tests this year, from the MUNACA strikes to the [James Administration building] occupations, to the demonstration that happened [on March 22], and I think we do have a divisive membership, and the challenge is to try to bring it back together. In order to do that, they need to make sure that they don’t create challenges on the inside.”
When asked about challenges involved with the election process this year, Nassim explained that “we had groups of people that, let’s just put it simply, were likeminded, on both sides of the campaigns.”
“Something we have to deal with next year is trying to put the elections back in a way that they reflect the reality of what’s going on in our membership. I think our members are becoming more politically active, and those are driving some of the elections and some of the candidates, and I think a healthy debate and more freedom to say things should be allowed,” he continued.
Nassim was critical of PGSS policy regarding ‘no’ campaigns, which included a vocal campaign opposing Mooney’s election.
“Unfortunately there are ‘no’ campaigns, and that’s fine, but if we’re going to run ‘no’ campaigns we should allow the [opposing] candidates to respond,” Nassim said. “I think that luxury was not provided to many of the candidates that were running this year. They heard there were ‘no’ campaigns running against them, but they couldn’t do anything about it.”
“Simply, our rules say you can’t talk during campaign period. So again, archaic rules in 21st century politics don’t work,” Nassim added.
When asked about the campaign period, Mooney explained, “I don’t like to see any negative campaigning.”
“I think that the candidates ran a very positive, very passionate campaign… Stuff that happens outside of that, I trust the judgement of the elections commissioner; I trust the process we have at PGSS to try to deal with that in the best way possible.”
When asked about his plans for next year, Mooney said “it’s going to be in large part following up on the foundation that [the current executive] laid.”
“I’ve been around for three years in the PGSS now, and I think we had a very capable, very competent executive team from last year,” he said.
Current VP External Mariève Isabel said she thinks next year’s executive “is going to be very different.”
Among challenges for next year’s executive, Isabel listed working with a new constitution, working with the structural changes that have been made in the Society staff, and continuing to mobilize against tuition increases.
The Health and Dental Plan Referendum question passed, meaning the Plan will be renewed for the 2012-13 year.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Renewal of strike votes to begin as ModPAC challenges constitutionality 
Many at last Thursday’s demonstration promised that the record-breaking action was “just the beginning” of student resistance to tuition hikes scheduled to begin in September. At McGill, this remains to be seen.
Strike activity at McGill last week culminated in nine student associations – representing almost 13,000 students – declaring a strike for the March 22 provincial day of action against tuition hikes. Many of those strikes, however, were held on a limited basis. The morning of March 23, that number dropped by almost 11,000 students.
Members of McGill’s Moderate Political Action Committee (ModPAC) are inquiring into the legitimacy and constitutionality of many of the strike votes held at departmental General Assemblies (GAs) in advance of the March 22 demonstration.
Brendan Steven, ModPAC organizer, said the group was inquiring as to whether the SSMU Judicial Board could “clarify the constitutional status of departmental GAs.”
A ModPAC press release attributed to Steven calls Arts departmental strike GAs “illegitimate, unconstitutional shams,” citing the March 13 Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) GA as the legitimate strike vote. The AUS GA voted against a motion declaring an unlimited strike 609 to 495, with 16 abstentions.
The press release quotes Article 8.7 of the AUS Constitution: “Departmental Associations shall recognize the supremacy of the AUS Constitution, the AUS General Assembly, By-Laws, and Council.”
Steven’s press release added that ModPAC would soon be sending a letter to the administration “calling on them to take action.”
The departments respond
A March 16 email sent from AUS VP Internal Casey McDermott to the Society’s departmental associations asserted that “after consultation with students, departments are free to encourage or discourage participation in protests pertaining to the tuition hikes in Quebec.”
Later in her email, McDermott sought “to clarify the difference between a strike and a boycott, as Concordia and other Quebec universities are only acting under the latter.”
“Unlike a strike, a boycott can be initiated on an individual basis. I would encourage all associations to inform themselves of the opinions of their constituents, and to represent those opinions accordingly,” read McDermott’s email.
The Department of English Student Association (DESA), the largest McGill student association currently on strike with over 1,000 members, claims it has the constitutional authority to hold a strike GA. DESA voted to strike last week, and will hold a GA to continue the strike tonight.
Article 2 of its constitution states that DESA “shall have jurisdiction and final authority over all its activities” and that it “shall not be regulated or subordinated by any other constitution or council” other than its own.
DESA President Zoe Erwin-Longstaff said, “because of those clauses, we were perfectly within our rights to hold the Town Hall and to take this sort of vote.”
The Gender, Sexual Diversity, and Feminist Studies Student Association (GSDFSSA), along with the School of Social Work, are the other two McGill student associations still on strike. Both will also have renewal votes this week. GSDFSSA President Molly Swain spoke to concern about the legitimacy of the departmental GAs.
“The students of the department [came] to us with a request to hold this General Assembly, and then students overwhelmingly voted to do it. So we are mandated to do it,” said Swain.
“We simply exist for our students and our student body. I think that’s all the legitimacy that we need,” she continued.
Quorum legitimacy
Steven’s press release also contends that departmental associations have no procedures in their constitutions for GAs. As such, quorums for the GAs “are being invented on a whim.”
Erwin-Longstaff said quorum for last week’s DESA GA had been set at 75, roughly 7.5 per cent of their membership, “which is very high quorum as things go at McGill.” She noted that quorum for the March 13 AUS GA had been 150 students, roughly 2.5 per cent of membership.
The Art History and Communications Studies Student Association (AHCSSA) will be holding a strike vote tonight at its “Town Hall,” after discussing other possible voting procedures, including making a ballot box available all day. AHCSSA co-President and former Daily Health & Education editor Joseph Henry said the Town Hall will also serve as a “space for people to discuss how legitimate [the Town Hall] is in terms of representationality.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
