The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU issues apology for violation of safe space
Photos of students wearing blackface at the Students’ Society of McGill’s (SSMU) 4Floors party last Thursday, published on the Bull & Bear’s Facebook page, sparked controversy on social media sites and prompted SSMU to issue an official apology for failing to establish “sufficient preventative, anti-oppressive measures.”
In the statement released yesterday SSMU said that the incident, along with other depictions of various racial groups, was an “act of microaggression that cannot be justified as creativity.”
“Dressing up as people of colour or indigenous persons perpetuates discrimination towards groups that are historically and culturally disadvantaged on the basis of their personal characteristics. […] It is disappointing to see that there are individuals who lack the necessary understanding or respect,” the statement read.
In an email to The Daily, Johann Annisette, the political coordinator for the Black Students’ Network (BSN), called the incident “completely inexcusable” and said that the BSN was “firm in their stance that the costume is insulting, both toward McGill and Montreal’s black community.”
“I do believe that it is SSMU’s number one responsibility to make sure that they provide a safe and comfortable environment for all. It was a huge oversight on their part to allow these students to enter,” he said.
Annisette called on SSMU to implement “more racially educational programs” and added that it was “unacceptable” for students to be “incapable of seeing the hugely offensive nature of this costume.”
According to former SSMU VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser, last year’s executive took several steps to uphold the society’s Equity Policy during last year’s 4Floors event.
“We ended up putting posters around SSMU beforehand, and also on our listserv. And then the night [of 4Floors], I was monitoring the door and we were checking out people’s costumes,” she told The Daily.
“We talked about it before the event. We approached people, not to confront them, but to talk to them.”
SSMU VP University Affairs Haley Dinel told The Daily that this year there was “no substantive talk” on the issue, and that the current executive team felt “uncomfortable” monitoring the door.
Dinel added that specific complaints could be filed to the Equity Commissioners.
SSMU’s Equity Policy calls for the student society to create a “safe haven for all of our members,” and Section 6.4 labels “harassment or discrimination of disadvantaged groups ” as “serious offences.”
The policy applies to all staff and elected representatives, as well as “all activities and events hosted, funded, and promoted by the Society.”
The Bull & Bear has since removed the controversial blackface photos. In an email to The Daily and the McGill Tribune, its editorial board said that the image was removed so as to not “inadvertently perpetuate a potentially abusive representation of the Black community.”
Other controversial photos – including stereotypical depictions of indigenous and Mexican cultures – remain on the page.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Stalled negotiations leave members paying “ridiculous amounts” in student fees
Correction appended November 3, 2012.
In an attempt to diminish the high student fees paid by its members, the Macdonald Campus Graduate Student Society (MCGSS) is currently negotiating a separation from the Macdonald Campus Students’ Society (MCSS), from which it currently receives a large portion of its funding.
At present, MCGSS is a part of both MCSS and the Post Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), the graduate student society for McGill’s downtown campus. MCSS provides MCGSS with Macdonald campus-related services – such as access to the campus bar Ceilidh – while PGSS provides graduate student services downtown, including daycare, grants and bursaries, car services through Communauto, and access to events.
According to MCGSS President Lucy Lu, the movement to separate from MCSS began last year when former MCGSS president Alyssa MacLeod found that MCGSS members were paying higher student fees than most other McGill students because of its dues to both MCSS and PGSS.
“Different solutions were considered, including working with MCSS and PGSS to lower the fees that we pay to either,” wrote Lu in an email to The Daily. “In the end, we decided that separating from MCSS would give the most benefit to MCGSS.”
The proposed separation from MCSS is thus “more of a reorganization to make student society relations and fees more efficient,” she wrote.
Lu explained that with the separation, MCGSS would receive guaranteed annual funding from PGSS in an increase of approximately $5,000, or about 50 per cent more in funding. Breaking away from MCSS would also decrease members’ student fees by $50, which would have gone to MCSS. PGSS would also pay MCSS a certain amount to allow MCGSS to continue receiving the same Macdonald campus services.
According to Lu, the details are currently under review by both parties.
“With the additional funds, we can offer more benefits to our members, such as more travel grants and in larger monetary amounts, as well as improvements to graduate student life through renovations of our student lounge and more MCGSS-sponsored events,” wrote Lu.
MCGSS will hold a referendum regarding separation from MCSS from November 5 to 9. They will also be holding a discussion session on the issue tomorrow, November 2, from 2 to 3 p.m. in the Macdonald campus faculty lounge.
According to PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney, a survey of Mac campus graduate students – which had a 27 per cent response rate – showed that 94 per cent of respondents wished to split from MCSS.
When asked about student reactions, Lu cited strong concerns that the proposed changes were not happening quickly enough – particularly in light of the recent PGSS student fee increase.
Mooney explained that PGSS received a letter from MCGSS on May 24 requesting to pay the full PGSS fee and terminate its membership to MCSS, which PGSS forwarded to the Deputy Provost. As a result, PGSS increased its fees for Macdonald campus graduate students to the full amount and requested that the Deputy Provost’s office terminate all MCSS fees.
“…This is where things get a bit unclear,” wrote Mooney. “At some point the University requested an acknowledgment of the split in the form of a letter from the MCSS. Due to problems of internal communication within the MCSS and concerns about the contract for services, the MCSS refused to sign this letter acknowledging the split, and the Deputy Provost’s office refused to terminate the fee collected by MCSS on graduate students.”
As a result, MCGSS students faced a fee increase rather than the planned decrease – a “ridiculous amount in student fees” that amounts to approximately $120 and is more than double other student society fees, according to Lu.
“We expected to finalize the changes before the start of this semester so that the implementation of the new PGSS fee structure (which resulted in an increase in PGSS fees) would have been offset by the removal of MCSS fees,” she wrote.
Mooney said that PGSS and MCSS met again in July and came to an agreement that MCSS would ask the University to cancel the Fall 2012 fees in return for a payment from PGSS.
“However, many people in the McGill administration were on vacation at this time, so it proved impossible to cancel the fee,” wrote Mooney.
MCSS sent another request to cancel or refund the fee on August 17. The University responded on August 23 saying that “they could not cancel the fee because they had been told that the request was not made in accordance with MCSS regulations governing fee changes,” Mooney wrote.
He added that PGSS found this “very strange and frustrating,” but that negotiations have gone well since then and progress has been made toward an agreement.
According to MCSS President Kerry Blake-Savery, MCSS and PGSS are currently in negotiations regarding the continuation of MCSS-provided services to MCGSS students through a fee paid by PGSS to MCSS.
“These include use of space, access to clubs, help planning events/selling tickets for events, accounting, and other administrative,” wrote Blake-Savery.
Mooney wrote that these negotiations have “proceeded nearly to completion,” and a letter of intent was signed by MCSS to enter in the agreement and present a final version in their next quorate council meeting.
Both PGSS and MCSS have also signed an agreement to recognize the results of the referendum “if more than 10 per cent of students vote and more students vote ‘Yes’ to leave than ‘No’ by sending a letter to the Deputy Provost’s office telling them to stop collecting fees and renouncing any claim that graduate students are members,” Mooney wrote.
“I think it was very responsible of MCSS President Kerry Blake-Savery and VP Finance Nicolas Chatel-Launay to sign this agreement, as it recognized the principle of freedom of association for graduate students within the MCSS,” Mooney added.
Lu said she is currently working with PGSS and MCSS to reach a formal agreement on the issue by November 20, the deadline to make changes to student fees for Winter 2013.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Parliament limits debate to five days
On Thursday, October 18, the Conservative government tabled the second part of the 2012 budget bill, which runs a total of 457 pages. The bill’s official name is The Jobs and Growth Act 2012, or Bill C-45.
The budget bill follows omnibus budget bill C-38, which was introduced in March and led to much debate and filibustering from the NDP and Liberal Party opposition.
Bill C-45 is one of the largest budget bills in recent history, second only to the 900-page Bill C-9, tabled in 2010 at Royal Assent.
Much like its predecessor, the bill covers a number of amendments in a variety of categories and changes a total of 74 pieces of legislation.
These include amendments to the Hazardous Materials Information Review, the Employment Insurance Act, the Navigable Waters Act, and the Customs Act, among others.
When asked about the length of the bill, Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said in an email to The Daily, “Even though the opposition likes to suggest otherwise, it has been common practice to include various measures in a budget – and the subsequent budget implementation bill.”
“This is nothing new or groundbreaking. This simply reflects the central role of a budget to a Government’s agenda. As the challenges Canada’s economy faces are neither small nor one-dimensional, neither is our plan,” Flaherty wrote.
Another act in the bill, The Bridge to Strengthen Trade Act (Division 5), concerns the creation of a bridge that would connect Ontario to Michigan over the Detroit River. The bridge would be exempt from any environmental laws.
While Conservatives oppose the bill from being split up, they did allow one piece of the bill to be passed separately the day after it was introduced – the part of the bill concernimg Members of Parliament’s pensions.
Last Thursday, the Conservative government also allowed ten House Committees to be assigned to better scrutinize parts of the bill. Committees will be charged with studying health, fisheries and oceans, justice and human rights, as well as citizenship and immigration.
According to Flaherty, “We want an open, public, and timely study and debate. As always, there will be detailed Committee studies in the House and Senate.”
“We really hope the opposition will give their support at second reading if they genuinely want these committees to study the legislation – instead of shutting down debate and playing political games.”
The same day, however, Conservatives brought a motion to limit debate to five days.  The motion passed, limiting the second reading of the bill to begin late last week.
On the opposition side of the House, there has been much talk about the massive bill being undemocratic.
The Daily spoke with McGill Political Science professor Christa Scholtz about the bill.
“There is a theory that the legislature has to hold the cabinet accountable. The Prime Minister and the cabinet have to hold the confidence of the house,” Scholtz said.
“The problem with an omnibus bill,” Scholtz continued, “is it is completely unreasonable for the government to be held accountable. They don’t have enough time for a detailed examination of the bill, especially it is a problem when the cabinet and Prime Minister invokes a limit on debate.”
The second reading of the bill is currently underway in the House of Commons.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Some feel feminism diluted by initiative
This week on campus, feminism was in the air. A group of McGill students decided to launch their own version of the Who Needs Feminism? movement, which began at Duke University in North Carolina last spring.
According to the Duke campaign’s Facebook page, the movement was originally conceived in response to the organizers’ concern over “what we perceive to be an overwhelmingly widespread belief that today’s society no longer needs feminism.”
At McGill, Who Needs Feminism? consisted of a series of photo shoots across campus and in residences of people holding signs explaining why they need feminism. There was a series of small discussions about feminism in residences throughout the week, and a larger group discussion on Tuesday in the Shatner building.
U2 International Development Studies student Brooke Nancekivell played a central role in bringing the movement to McGill.
“This project has been a really accessible way for everyone who has any opinions about feminism, or wants to learn more, or knows a ton, to express one piece of their thoughts on feminism,” she told The Daily.
Like Duke, McGill has its own Who Needs Feminism? Tumblr to  host pictures from the photo shoots and those that people have sent in on their own.
“I think that the photos are a good way to hold people accountable,” said Annie Rose, a McGill student who has been involved in Who Needs Feminism? at McGill. “Ascribing accountability in these situations is important, because it’s really easy to talk the talk and a lot harder to walk the walk.”
On Tuesday, about twenty people filtered in and out of the SSMU Ballroom throughout the two-hour discussion culminating the week. Participants began by talking about what the campaign had accomplished and would accomplish in the future, but the topic soon turned to its limitations.
Adam Finley, a U1 Psychology student who works at Rez Life and helped to organize the week, acknowledged that some of the criticism of it was legitimate.
“Some radical feminists have said they don’t want to participate because it doesn’t do enough or encourages older ideas about feminism, and we understand that, but I think we’ve done a good job of trying to incorporate those critiques into improving the project,” he said.
Isabella Mancini is a U3 Women’s Studies and Sociology student who wrote an op-ed for The Daily about the flaws of a movement like Who Needs Feminism? At the discussion on Tuesday, she spoke about the problems with defining feminism individualistically.
“This idea that anything can be feminism if you want it to be is problematic; feminism is diverse, but not everything’s feminism. Misogyny isn’t feminism,” she said.
U3 Sociology and Cultural Studies student Lily Hoffman had a similar criticism. Citing the example of signs that read something to the effect of “I need feminism because my mom is great,” she said, “[The image] just ends up perpetuating patriarchy, and the movement becomes more about peoples’ own definitions of feminism, which sometimes, honestly, weren’t feminism.”
U2 Sociology student Courtney Ayukawa helped with the campus-wide photo shoots throughout the week. At the discussion, she spoke about the role that the photo shoots played in the overall event.
“There were some signs that strongly critiqued radical feminism for being ‘extreme,’ and then there was another from a radical feminist that kind of discounted these signs, which was an interesting contradiction within the project. But I think that those contradictions led to discussion, which is good.”
The McGill Who Needs Feminism? Tumblr posted more than 400 pictures over the course of the week, with more people sending in pictures every day.
“I think it’s been super successful,” said Finley. “My dad sent in a picture from small-town Ontario. I didn’t think he’d ever say he was a feminist, so if you think about it, that’s pretty damn cool.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
