The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Week of economic disruptions blog
This week students across Montreal will be engaging in daily actions targeting Quebec’s economic sector, the details of which are being kept confidential. Not all actions have been organized by CLASSE, most are organized by autonomous organizations which CLASSE has invited its members to attend. Check back regularly for updates.
 
Friday 2 p.m.| 300 protesters march on Westmount
Count: +/- 300 students
McGill presence: Unknown
Risk level: Not rated
Time: 2 p.m.
A crowd of roughly 300 protesters marched in Westmount today as part of the week of economic disruption. The demonstration began at Cabot Square near the Atwater metro station and ended two hours later outside of Quebec Premier Jean Charest’s home. While police initially blocked protesters from physically delivering a letter to the Premier’s mailbox, they allowed it to be delivered to his bodyguards.
— Laurent Bastien Corbeil

Thursday, 12 p.m. | Four simultaneous student marches downtown
Count: +/- 1,500 students
McGill presence: Unknown, due to masks and costumes
Risk level: Not rated
When: 12 p.m.
This afternoon an autonomously organized student demonstration in Phillips Square splintered into four separate marches through downtown Montreal. The police had been notified of the marches and their routes in advance, and the marches continued peacefully for several hours before reuniting in Place des Arts. The demonstration in Place des Arts had broken up by 3 p.m.
The marches were colour-coded green, blue, yellow, and orange, each with their own stated cause. The green march called for free education, the blue march prosted student federations, the yellow march protested strikebreaking student unions, and the orange march protested the “ultraviolence” of the provincial government.
Click here to read the full story.
 
Wednesday, March 28 | Students blockade Port, driven away by police
Count: +/- 750 students
McGill presence: 25 students
Risk level: Yellow
When: 9:40 a.m.
After almost two hours, a student blockade of the Port of Montreal was broken up by the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM). According to the CBC, the police used pepper spray and sound grenades to disperse the students.
The protest began with almost 600 students gathering in front of the Cégep de Maisonneuve. The action was organized by the Société générale des étudiantes et étudiants du Collège de Maisonneuve.
Two delivery trucks were unable to exit Lantic’s driveway due to the student blockage. Richard Choquette, driving a Lantic Sugar tanker, was one. He said the blockade was “not a problem.”
“It’s true that in those times we had less money when we were student,” he said. “Today’s students are going to become the taxpayers of tomorrow.”
 Read the full story here.
Wednesday, March 28 | The day begins with brief blockage near Concordia
Count: 50 students
McGill presence: 10 students
Risk level: Green/Orange
When: 7:30 a.m.
The group of students started the action at 7: 55 a.m. by breaking up into groups of two, one march south, one west from the initial meeting spot in Bethune Square. Both groups reconvened at the intersection of St. Mathieu and René-Lévesque.
At 8:06 a.m., the group of 50 blocked the entrance from St-Marc street onto René-Lévesque for about five minutes with banners and a line in front of the traffic.
At least ten police vehicles were positioned around the area, four vehicles had been following the march since the square.  Police announced over an amplified device that said if students did not move they would be arrested was just sent to us.
Ten foot-police approached the demonstration to disperse the crowd. Students left the bridge entrance collectively and marched back to Guy metro station, where students dispersed into the metro. Some students hopped the metro turnstiles.
Two police officers investigated on the platform of the station, however  students previously demonstrating boarded the next subway car to travel eastbound to the morning’s next demonstration.
 
Tuesday, March 27 | Students block the office of the SAQ
Count: 200 students
McGill presence: unknown
Risk level: Yellow
When: 7:30 a.m.
Students blocked the entrances to the office of the Société des alcools du Québec (SAQ), located near the intersection Avenue de Lorimier and René-Levesque Est.
The four entrances to the building are blocked, and picnic tables were placed at entrances to the parking lot to block vehicles from entering. As of 9:10 a.m. La Cyberpresse reported there had been no police intervention.
The initial meeting spot for the action was Papineau metro station several blocks away. Students were told the action was coded yellow, indicating medium risk, and that the action was “autonomously organized.”
Around 11 a.m. the Montreal Gazette reported riot police had dispersed students blocking the building’s entrances using a “chemical dispersant.” The police also made arrests, according to the Gazette.
 
Monday, March 26 | Students occupy Fédération des cégeps building
Count: 300 students
McGill presence: 3 students
Risk level: Green
When: 11 a.m.
 
The first action of the week was organized by the Société générale des étudiantes et étudiants du Collège de Maisonneuve, and most students arrived at the designated place and time without knowing what the action would be.
“To make sure that these demonstrations aren’t broken up before they occur, for example, it’s important to have some level of secrecy about what they are so that they can actually take place,” said Karel, a McGill student who wished to be identified by her first name.
The students began marching through surrounding streets with one police car in front, one following. When the march reached the intersection of Crémazie and St. Denis, students began running.
They ran towards the Fédération des cégeps building located at the corner of Crémazie and Berri. Students blocked the four entrances to the building, and initially a reported dozen students occupied the building.
Click here to read the full story.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Action ends with tear gas in Jarry metro
In the park outside Centre Henri-Julien in Ahuntsic, students gathered for the first action of the week of economic disruptions called for by the Coalition large de l’association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE).
The first action was organized by the Société générale des étudiantes et étudiants du Collège de Maisonneuve, and most students arrived at the designated place and time without knowing what the action would be.
“To make sure that these demonstrations aren’t broken up before they occur, for example, it’s important to have some level of secrecy about what they are so that they can actually take place,” said Karel, a McGill student who wished to be identified by her first name.
She said that the reason she felt the strategy was working was due to the speech made by CLASSE spokesperson Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois at last Thursday’s provincial day of action.
“He made it clear that even though 200,000 people showed up at the demonstration, what the Ministry of Education is counting on is that the movement falls apart after that…but what we’re trying to show is that was not the end of the movement, that we’re going to continue,” she explained.
McGill students were told that the action was coded “green,” meaning it was a low-risk action – though noting the action was not “completely free of risk.”
Karel said she felt the coding system was important. “When you have [over 190,000] students on strike there’s a variety of opinions on what people feel comfortable doing, and it’s a way of involving everyone,” she said.
Police were present from the start. An officer asked students to tell police where they were going, offering to have police escort the action.
The students began marching through surrounding streets with one police car in front, one following. When the march reached the intersection of Crémazie and St. Denis, students began running.
They ran towards the Fédération des cégeps building located at the corner of Crémazie and Berri. Students blocked the four entrances to the building, and initially a reported dozen students occupied the building.
Flyers stating the students’ demands were handed out. “We are occupying the Fédération des cégeps – the organization in charge of the direction of Quebec CEGEPs – to protest the budgetary reductions in the college network,” the flyer read in French.
“Today, we ask that the Fédération des cégeps oppose the cuts in action and manage them in the interest of students and employees of the college network,” continued the flyer.
Two police officers approached one entrance to obtain confirmation that the occupants of the building were safe. The officers then returned to parked cars around the building perimeter.
Later, doors were opened and larger numbers of students entered and exited the building freely.
Students occupied one half of the third floor of the building. Sticky notes and red squares were posted on the office walls, and the elevator doors were blocked. One note beside a drinking fountain read in French: “We’re thirsty for justice.”
Four Fédération employees blocked the doors to the other half of the third floor. Students and the employees were discussing the reasons behind the occupation. The employees declined The Daily’s request for an interview.
Many students occupying the building ran out at 1:15 p.m. after hearing reports of an imminent police intervention. A security agent stationed near the stairwell students accessed throughout the course of the occupation pushed a student out of the door. Amid shouts about ten students then re-entered the building.
Outside the building the number of students ebbed to about 150 by 1:30 p.m. Four paddy wagons drove by the building without stopping.
Jean-Pierre Lacoste and Laurent Lévesque, who work in the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ) building across the street, walked over to shake hands with students.
“We think that, more than just the students’ demands, [there]’s a question of social justice,” said Lacoste.
At 3:00 p.m. police tear gassed students as they ran into the nearby Jarry metro station.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
