The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Provisional guidelines to remain in effect “until further notice”
The McGill administration issued a provisional protocol on Sunday strictly outlining students’ rights to demonstrate on campus.
The announcement came the same day that the 118-hour occupation of Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson’s office in the James Administration building ended – the second occupation of the building this academic year.
The first occupation occurred in Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s office on November 10. It ended with Montreal riot police driving demonstrators outside the building off campus using pepper spray and tear gas. A report on the events of November 10 by Dean of Law Daniel Jutras recommended that the University clarify ways in which freedom of speech, expression, and peaceful assembly can be protected as a means of protest and dissent on campus.
According to the Jutras Report, McGill’s current Emergency Management Plan lacks directives or frameworks addressing “protests on campus, other than in reference to ‘Animal Rights Events.'”
In a statement accompanying the protocol, Provost Anthony Masi and VP (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa wrote, “The events of the last few days clearly indicate the need to issue an interim set of guidelines” regarding campus protests.
“The occupation of the sixth floor offices of the Deputy Provost by a small group of students, even though it came to a peaceful end, is not the way in which we would like to see differences of opinion expressed on our campuses,” the statement continued.
SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault said the provisional protocol does not introduce radically new positions regarding demonstrations and protests on campus, with the exception of what he called a “concerning drift towards authoritarianism” with regard to when police can be called onto campus.
“They’ve chosen [a] repressive path” in response to this week’s occupation, said Pedneault, adding that the protocol was broad with respect to when the police can be called.
“Anything disrupting University processes seems fair game,” he said.
The protocol states that occupations of private offices or spaces, laboratories, libraries, or other restricted areas “will not be tolerated.”
“If any type of occupation occurs, and the occupiers refuse to leave when requested to do so, civil authorities will be called,” the protocol states.
The protocol adds that, if a demonstration or protest takes place, McGill Security will monitor the situation.
“If demonstrators or protesters refuse to comply with instructions from Security Services personnel, appropriate actions will be taken, including calling civil authorities, if necessary,” states the protocol.
Police were called to evict occupiers from Mendelson’s office, but no criminal charges were pressed against the students.
Demonstrations and protests may occur on campus unless they violate certain rules outlined in the protocol, including compromising the University’s ability to “maintain a safe and secure environment” on campus, “impede the conduct of University activities,” obstruct access to buildings generally open to the University community, and “continue beyond the normal operating hours of the University facilities in which they occur.”
The protocol continues to add that demonstrators, protesters, and occupiers are “responsible for their actions,” and that action contravening the protocol may lead to disciplinary measures under McGill regulations and policies or under civil or criminal law.
With student actions against tuition increases likely to ramp up in the coming weeks, Pedneault said he didn’t think demonstrations would stop at McGill.
“If anything, it’s going to create a more confrontational atmosphere on campus,” he said. “I don’t think it will make things any better.”
In their statement, Masi and Di Grappa said that “the administration does not intend to short-circuit the important consultative process under way about the expression of fundamental rights and freedoms and the responsibilities and obligations that accompany them,” adding that they look forward to input during upcoming University-wide consultations on the issue.
Pedneault said the administration has already begun consulting with student leaders about the process, but added that it is unlikely to resonate with students who have lost faith in the consultation process.
“If anything, the occupation of last week showed that [students] are fed up with these kinds of things,” said Pedneault.
“[The administration] will take things they think are interesting from the consultation, but the University will be as democratic as before,” he continued. “They’re basically going to do the same thing, only with a little dose of police repression.”
In their statement, Masi and Di Grappa said the provisional protocol will remain in effect “until further notice.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Police evict students from the sixth floor
Nine students, who had occupied Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson’s office since Tuesday, were peacefully evicted Sunday morning.
At 8:57 a.m., one of the occupiers yelled from the sixth floor window to three students sleeping outside the James Administration building that police were going to evict the students.
23 students originally entered Mendelson’s office, but left at various points during the week. The last student to leave before the eviction exited the building at 4 a.m. on Sunday morning.
In an email sent to all McGill students and staff shortly after the eviction, Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa stated that the occupiers were read a formal eviction notice. Occupiers were informed that police could charge them with resisting arrest if they had to be physically removed.
According to Di Grappa’s email, the students were given five minutes to gather all belongings and leave the building.
As to why Sunday morning was chosen for the eviction, Di Grappa wrote, “It became unfeasible to enter another week without use of the building to conduct the work of the University. Members of the senior administration decided that activities at the James Building should resume Monday morning, and that a full day would be needed to clean the building in preparation for McGill employees to return to work.”
Seven police vans entered campus during the eviction. According to one police officer on the scene, two police divisions were present – one to conduct the eviction, and the other to secure the exterior.
The officer said about six officers from the Post de quartier 20, Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal’s (SPVM) neighbourhood police division, carried out the eviction.
The students who were sleeping outside packed up a tent and supplies that had been amassed there since Tuesday. McGill security agents and police remained on the scene until all of the students had left, at about 10 a.m.
One officer on the scene said that the SPVM were aware of the occupation for several days. “It was this morning that McGill decided to end it, at 8:30 a.m.,” he said.
Di Grappa’s email states that occupiers were offered first aid, food, and contact for counseling services. He also noted that upon the students’ exit from the James building, students presented security agents with a letter of apology.
The occupiers, collectively known as #6party, issued a brief statement in response to Di Grappa.
“We will prepare a longer statement after we have a warm meal, but we do want to respond quickly to DiGrappa’s MRO [email]; we were not offered food or counselling services. Our friends partying downstairs, however, have arranged for both,” it read.
None of the sixth floor students are yet available for comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
