The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
No arrests, no injuries, no violence
Thursday’s anti-tuition hike march, which was the largest student protest in Quebec to date, drew a crowd of over 200,000 peaceful demonstrators. At one point, organizers reported that the march stretched from the intersection of Sherbrooke and St. Denis to its initial meeting point, at Place du Canada on Peel and Rene-Levesque. The Montreal Gazette reported that the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) rerouted trains in order to accommodate an additional 100,000 commuters.
Over 500 McGill students attended the march as part of the McGill contingent.
Incoming SSMU VP External Robin Reid-Fraser expressed excitement that McGill students turned out for the demonstration.
“It’s exciting that an Anglophone university with international students joins this cause,” she said.
After gathering at the Roddick Gates at noon, the McGill contingent made its way to Place du Canada, where it met with other protesters – including CEGEP and university students, professors, and allied social justice organizations, unions, and opposition party representatives from across Quebec. Several Quebec MPs were also present among the demonstrators.
Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois attended the demonstration and explained what she believes are  favourable alternatives to the provincial government’s upcoming tuition hikes.
“Ideally, education should be free, but that’s too difficult right now,” she told The Daily in French. “We suggest the creation of a forum to discuss other ways of financing higher education. We are in the process of selling our natural resources for nothing. If we were to get more royalties from [them], then we could better support our universities.”

After a series of speeches by organizers, demonstrators marched north on Peel to Sherbrooke, east to St-Denis, north to Cherrier, east to Berri and then south to Rue de la Commune. The march ended at Place Jacques-Cartier.
Charlie Brenchley, a volunteer with the Concordia Student Union, which worked with the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) to provide security and first aid, described the march as going off without a hitch until its end, when demonstrators bottle-necked at Place Jacques-Cartier.
It is unclear who blocked the demonstrators from filling out the street south of Place Jacques-Cartier. However, representatives from FEUQ and the Association pour une Solidarite Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ) cited disagreements between the two groups over the organization of the protest as the reason for the blockage. FEUQ actively cooperated with the police – they gave them the march’s route ahead of time – which was a major point of contention with ASSÉ.
Marc St-Cyr, an inspector with the Services de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM), credited FEUQ with helping to keep the protest peaceful. “We had very good cooperation with [them] – from the media too. Most people wanted things to go this way – a lot of people, but no trouble.”
—with files from Jordan Venton-Rublee and Juan Camilo Velásquez

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Confidential meeting called by the Deputy Provost for follow-up
Updated on March 24, 2012. 
Over Reading Week, SSMU VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser received a call from Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson concerning a demonstration of vaginal fisting that had occurred a week before, as part of Queer McGill’s Rad Sex Week.
“He asked me who organized the event and I said, ‘It’s Queer McGill, but I don’t really know anything more than that,’” Fraser told The Daily. Fraser said she was aware of the fisting demonstration occurring, but added that the event “didn’t seem out of the ordinary to me.”
The live fisting demonstration is a regular part of Queer McGill’s (QM) Rad Sex Week, an annual week that started three years ago, and occurred the week of February 13 this year.
The first event of the week was a workshop called “Take Five: The Pleasures of Fisting” and was presented by Andrea Zanin, a sex blogger and kink historian. The workshop discusses the practice of vaginal fisting and, according to her website, covered anatomy, techniques, and safety tips.
The workshop Zanin gave at McGill included a live demonstration. The live demonstration was included in QM’s publicity of the workshop on Facebook.
In an interview with The Daily, Mendelson said that McGill’s Media Relations office picked up on the event via Google Alert, a web monitoring service that emails updates on relevant and recent Google search results based on a specified query.
“They [Media Relations] are alerted to articles that identify McGill,” he explained. The article identifying McGill in relation to the live fisting demonstration was published on Vice, a global youth media company that publishes print, event, music, online, television, and feature films.
“It involved a student group, so that’s why I heard about it,” he added.
According to Fraser, a meeting was set up between Mendelson, QM organizers of Rad Sex Week, SSMU President Maggie Knight, and herself.
Mendelson spoke to why he set up the meeting. “Sometimes when I read something in the media I like to speak to people who were involved just to find out what was going on,” he said. “It’s not unusual for me to follow up on events.”
Fraser said the content of the meeting had been agreed on by all parties present to be kept confidential, however, she confirmed that a part of the meeting’s discussion touched upon the live fisting demonstration.
“I think it was more McGill just wanting to know what happened,” she said. “Last year the event took place in the SSMU building, this year it took place in Leacock [232], and McGill just wanted to ask organizers some questions.”
This is the first time the fisting demonstration was held in a McGill administered building, though, other events during Rad Sex Week have been held in McGill-administered buildings in the past. For the last two years, the fisting demonstration has occurred in the Shatner building.
One of the founding coordinators of the first Rad Sex Week in 2009, Adam Wheeler, said consideration of where to hold events – in the Shatner building administered by SSMU or campus buildings administered by McGill – was something he and the other organizers had “kept in mind.”
Wheeler highlighted the greater autonomy around room bookings, security needs and financial costs available in the Shatner building.
“There’s presumably more latitude in what goes on in SSMU, in [Shatner], because [Shatner] is controlled by SSMU, so they may have less constraints on what sort of activities they would deem appropriate,” said Mendelson, regarding the University and SSMU’s response to the live fisting demonstration.
“On the other hand, there have been talks that we’ve had in University space that the SSMU has deemed inappropriate for its space, so it works in both directions,” he added in reference to a 2009 Choose Life event, also hosted in Leacock 232.
QM Social Coordinator Lindsey Clark said that the week was scheduled to occur in campus buildings due to increased accessibility for booking event space, and to make it easier for students to attend those events.
“It was a mixture of consciousness and also just ease of event,” she said. “It partly was conscious that we were having it within the school environment because we feel it is an educational series, that it is important that that be a part of the ‘McGill education,’ but I think it was never fully a conscious choice.”
Wheeler did not recall issues with McGill during the week’s first year. Current QM co-administrator Francesca Buxton stated that, since its creation, Rad Sex Week has been a “fairly accepted thing” on campus.
Current QM executives involved in organizing Rad Sex Week refused to comment on the confidential meeting with Mendelson, however, Clark spoke to The Daily.
“We at Queer McGill feel that Rad Sex Week is very important for education and awareness of sex issues, and we really appreciate the support [the] McGill administration has given us in allowing us to have these kinds of events in University spaces,” she said.
Mendelson said he was unaware of the week’s history of the live fisting demonstration. “Just because something happens at the University doesn’t mean that everyone is fully aware of it,” he said.
When asked whether the live fisting demonstration would be handled differently by McGill in future, Mendelson said, “I can’t comment on a hypothetical [situation].”
Fraser spoke to her reaction coming out of the confidential meeting. “There was no conclusion to the conversation, but, no matter what happens, I’m going to continue to support students providing those kinds of services to other students,” she said, describing the live demonstration as “necessary” and an “education.”
“It’s really more about the relationship that we have with McGill, keeping things open, and asserting that students can, and should, have those kinds of events for students,” Fraser added, referring to live sex demonstrations.
Clark said that three of Rad Sex Week’s events included live demonstrations.
“It’s a lot easier to learn something, and learn how to do something in the safest way possible if someone is giving you a full education from what it is that’s happening, and the easiest way to learn a lot of the things that we’ve demonstrated, is to see them happen,” she said. 
She added that live demonstrations could add to de-stigmatizing acts like vaginal fisting; firstly by holding the demonstration at all and secondly by showing it an open forum like a workshop.
Buxton added that “we [QM] think that it’s really important because sex – especially queer or kinky sex – is treated as dirty in the media, and so to create an environment where a lot of the stigma is taken out of it is really important to us.”
 
In an earlier version of this article Lindsey Clark was identified as QM’s Political Action Coordinator. She is in fact one of the social coordinators. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students react to Tuesday’s picket line tension
After a tense day of strike activity Tuesday, picket lines are taking a softer approach across campus.
Outside Wilson Hall Wednesday morning, picketing students from the Social Work Student Association (SWSA) held a “strike the fear” picket. Students suspended a “blob” of “fear” from the scaffolding in front of the entrance to the building, with some students hitting it with rolled-up newspaper.
Jade Mathieu, SWSA internal coordinator, said some picket activities on Monday and Tuesday “made tensions arise.”
According to Mathieu, the hard picket line yesterday in front of Wilson Hall was led by striking Nursing graduate students. The School of Social Work shares Wilson Hall with the School of Nursing.
“I really respect the diversity of tactics…[but] we for now are not going to use harder tactics, and we’re going to try to get more support in peaceful ways,” said Mathieu.
Mathieu added the SWSA wanted to “change the atmosphere” around Wilson Hall.
“We wanted to address the different fears that students could have – so fear of admin repression, or the fear of just being in the picket, any kind of fear that students could have – to address it and recognize it,” she said.
Mathieu said SWSA voted at their strike General Assembly last week to use soft tactics.
“We’re just trying to raise awareness of the importance of not crossing the picket line and to try to get people to join us. We’re trying to be positive and to get more and more support for the strike,” said Mathieu.
DESA
The Department of English Student Association (DESA) executive sent an email to all DESA members last night in response to concerns regarding yesterday’s strike actions. The email included a message from the DESA strike committee.
The strike committee opened their message by noting that to their knowledge, yesterday was the first day of an enforced student strike in McGill campus history. They added that they realize “some people felt that [yesterday’s] event and tactics are disrespectful.”
Striking DESA members picketed a number of classes yesterday, including blocking student access to some classes. The DESA strike committee’s message stated that “disrespect is not a tactic in our strike action.”
“We hope to move forward with a friendlier and more cooperative approach to our tactics. We are committed to fostering a positive and respectful picketing environment for the duration of the strike, one that we hope everyone will feel empowered to engage in,” the message read.
“Tensions and varying opinions will inevitably continue to exist, we hope that all members of the DESA community will act respectfully at all times,” the message continued.
DESA voted to join the unlimited student strike – joining over 196,000 students on unlimited strike across Quebec – on Monday.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
