The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Nearly a year of negotiations concludes with first ever collective agreement 
After nearly a year of negotiations, McGill has reached a tentative agreement on its first collective agreement with the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) on Wednesday.
If ratified, the agreement will last for three years. The union was formed over two years ago, and represents roughly 1,500 part-time and casual employees at McGill.
The agreement came after four meetings with a conciliator appointed by the Quebec Commission des normes du travail. AMUSE President Jaime Maclean described the end of the negotiation process as “a huge relief.”
“[The agreement] means that we’ll be able to make a real change and to really, really help our members in a way that we can’t when we don’t have a collective agreement,” said Maclean.
“It’s the beginning of us moving forward as a strong labour union,” she continued.
Both the union and McGill have agreed to not release any details of the agreement until after the union’s ratification vote. Maclean said she expects the vote to be held within the next few weeks.
Farid Attar Rifai, member of the AMUSE bargaining team and former union president, said in a statement released yesterday that all the union’s bargaining priorities have been met.
“A first agreement is always a long process, and we’re pleased to have achieved all six of our bargaining priorities through bargaining. However, it’s up to the membership to decide whether it’s a satisfactory deal,” reads the statement.
Associate Vice-Principal (Human Resources) Lynne Gervais also commented on the agreement in a statement released yesterday.
“The University is satisfied that a deal was reached with AMUSE without having to revert to arbitration,” said Gervais in the statement.
The agreement is the third that the University has reached with campus unions this academic year. McGill settled new collective agreements with teaching assistants in November, as well as non-academic workers after a semester-long strike.
McGill has also been in negotiations with invigilators for almost a year. The bargaining unit representing invigilators is awaiting word from the provincial mediator to start arbitration hearings. The two parties last met January 30, and invigilators almost held a strike vote before exams last December.
AMUSE’s agreement comes as students across Quebec mobilize against five years of tuition increases scheduled to begin this September. Many of the union’s members are students with part-time jobs at McGill.
44 associations, representing over 53,000 students, are currently on strike.
Maclean said AMUSE has yet to take an official position regarding the strike.
“It’s normal for labour unions to be involved in movements like this,” said Maclean.
“I know that the [Public Service Alliance of Canada], who is our parent union, often puts out statements of support,” she continued. “It’s definitely in our mandate to know what’s going on with the movement, and then to take a decision on how involved we’ll get.”
—with files from Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec students begin general unlimited strike
In a day of action, thousands of students gathered in Philips Square and marched through downtown Montreal Thursday afternoon to protest tuition increases set to begin this September. The demonstration marks the start of the Quebec student movement’s general unlimited strike.
In honour of the day of action, 47 student associations, representing about 68,400 students, were on strike for the day. 44 associations, representing about 53,750 students, are currently on strike, and 16 associations, representing about 11,500 students, have a strike mandate but have not yet gone on strike.
The march at times numbered up to 15,000 students. The Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE) organized the demonstration, and spokesperson Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois said he was “totally surprised” by the turnout.
“I think we were waiting for a few thousand people and we’ve got thousands and thousands of people,” said Nadeau-Dubois.”
As of 2:45 p.m. the demonstration was trailed by between 17 to 20 police vehicles, including a van of riot police, an ambulance and a van labeled “Support logistique.”
At Berri-UQAM metro station the demonstration splintered down to about 1,500 demonstrators who continued marching towards Jacques Cartier Bridge.
“The protest technically ended at Berri-UQAM station,” said a student who wished to remain anonymous. The student said that some demonstrators wanted to continue the march.
Those demonstrators who continued reportedly marched towards the bridge – though most did not reach the bridge, according to the student.
Many of those taking part in the splinter demonstration encountered riot police near Papineau metro station.
“We weren’t fully kettled,” said the student, who was also present during the splinter demonstration. Most demonstrators marched away from the riot police. “We just came to the conclusion that there was no point in getting pepper sprayed,” said the student.
According to the student, approximately 50 to 75 riot police surrounded the remaining demonstrators leading them into Place Émilie-Gamelin beside Berri-UQAM metro. Between 5 and 5:30 p.m. the number of demonstrators had “fizzled” to 500, the student added.
“They started banging their shields,” however, the student added that the demonstration was “really peaceful.”
However, some reports state that some demonstrators blocked access to the Jacques Cartier Bridge just before rush hour at around 4 p.m. After a standoff, police dispersed the blockade with shields and pepper spray.
“They [demonstrators] were asked to leave, and were then removed by the riot squad,” said Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) spokesperson Anie Lemieux.
According to Lemieux, the blockade ended at 5 p.m. Lemieux said there were no injuries and one arrest for disturbing the peace, although it is unclear if the arrest was related to the blockade.
Demonstrators present when riot police intervened at Jacques Cartier Bridge were not available to comment on the intervention.
The Quebec government announced in March 2011 tuition hikes of $325 a year for five years starting this September. The increase will raise base Quebec tuition to $3,793 by 2017, still among the lowest in Canada. Nadeau-Dubois estimate there were now around 55,000 students on strike in protest of the hikes.
“We’ll be more and more thousands on strike in the upcoming days and weeks. I think now this government has no choice, it has to listen to us, and it has to stop increasing tuition fees,” he said.
According to the CBC, a non-confidence motion on the proposed hikes will be debated in the Quebec National Assembly on Tuesday. Nadeau-Dubois said Premier Jean Charest and the provincial government had yet to engage in any kind of negotiations.
“I think if [Charest] wants to ignore us he can do it now, but from next week we’re going to be more and more thousands of people in the streets. Very soon there’s going to be a point from which he cannot stop us from protesting,” said Nadeau-Dubois. “He will have to negotiate with us; soon he won’t have the choice.”
Nadeau-Dubois said he hoped McGill students would soon join the strike.
“I think with the protest today we have the proof that everyone in Quebec can mobilize,” he said. “I think McGill is going to be taken by the wave soon.”
The McGill Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) voted in a special referendum last week to amend the referendum so the AUS could join CLASSE, and thus go on strike itself. Catherine Simard, a U2 Psychology student who attended the protest, said she hadn’t heard much about the strike at McGill.
“Someone came to talk to me about it last Friday, but that’s all I’ve heard,” said Simard.
“The province can afford to have lower tuition, it’s just that they don’t want to, because it’s easy to take money from students because they don’t have many ways to sway public opinion,” she continued. “[McGill is] as much a part of the province as any other university, and we should do our part.”
The AUS held two General Assemblies (GAs) last semester, and quorum was lost on both occasions. AUS now expects to hold another GA within the next few weeks to vote on whether or not to strike.
Jaime Maclean, a member of the AUS mobilization committee, presented a motion at the most recent AUS GA to form a strike committee. The motion did not pass due to a loss of quorum.
“I’m not sure exactly what the motions at that General Assembly are going to be, but hopefully it goes better than the last GA was, in terms of following a procedure that works, instead of the last GA where it was just prolonged and not organized very well, and not run very well,” said Maclean.
“In AUS we’re not used to having GAs, so it’s really tough even to hold a GA,” she continued. “The AUS executive, they’re not very good at that either, and it’s really slow going in that respect.”
Maclean also commented on the student strike.
“For us not to be involved is to forsake the rest of the Quebec student movement. These issues do affect every McGill student because tuition will be going up, and, in Quebec, student strikes do work – it’s the reason that Quebec’s tuition is lower than the rest of Canada, for now,” she said.
National Assembly member Jean-Martin Aussant filed a petition February 17 to call on the government to back down on tuition hikes after pressure from the Table de concertation étudiante du Québec (TaCEQ), a Quebec student lobby group of which SSMU is a founding member.
The petition is available until May 16, and had collected 19,049 signatures when this story went to press. With enough signatures, the petition can be brought up for debate in the National Assembly. Nadeau-Dubois was skeptical about the efficacy of the petition.
“At the point we are now, I think a petition is not what is going to convince this government, but maybe it can help, and if it can help we’re going to sign it,” he said.
– with files from Erin Hudson
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
