The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Petition faces “political stigma” and inactive committee
A group of students, Decorporatize McGill, recently launched a petition urging McGill to divest its holdings in fossil fuel companies and firms directly involved in the Plan Nord, the Quebec government’s controversial plan to develop the natural resources extraction sector in the north of the province. The petition will be presented to the Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR), a Board of Governors committee that last convened in April 2009.
McGill’s endowment totals $983 million, according to the December 2011 report on the Publicly Traded Equity Holdings of the University that was released after an Access to Information request filed by U3 Economics student Christopher Bangs.
The University invests in 14 companies that extract tar sands and an additional 13 that lobbied for Plan Nord, according to a statement released by Decorporatize.
McGill invests in 35 of the top 100 companies that the London-based Carbon Tracker Initiative have identified as having the largest carbon reserves in coal and the top 100 companies with the largest oil and gas reserves, according to the group.
The total amount of McGill’s endowment currently invested in fossil fuel companies and Plan Nord is not currently available – nor have smaller corporations involved with fossil fuels and Plan Nord, in which the University may also invest, been listed.
According to Curtis Murphy, a student involved in organizing the petition and the greater environmental initiative, the petition had just over 200 signatures as of noon last Wednesday and will be submitted before the end of the Fall 2012 semester. Their tentative deadline is December 16.
CAMSR will only review petitions supported by 300 signatures with a fully documented brief identifying the social injury that is effected by the investment. A company will not be deemed to cause social injury, however, if it merely does business with companies that do.
The petition is “not about forcing McGill to divest, but [presenting] an opportunity to do something positive and also live up to the values of a research institution that is interested in science and the environment,” Murphy told The Daily.
The petition is part of a greater campaign across North America, where students at 33 other universities have also begun to take action.
Murphy explained that this doesn’t have to be a choice between the environment and the economy.
“We need to question the political stigma that says we need the tar sands to power our economy,” he said.
However, political stigma may not be the only obstacle to the campaign – CAMSR’s inactivity will also likely pose a problem.
In the last five years, CAMSR has met twice: once in 2007 to consider a petition for McGill to divest from tobacco investments – which resulted in a recommendation made to the Board to divest from tobacco which was ultimately approved – and once in 2009 to consider a petition for McGill to divest from holdings in Sudan, which did not result in a recommendation.
Current CAMSR student member and Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney told The Daily he has “been communicating with the Secretariat to try to move forward with the terms of reference review, but there have been some challenges in terms of scheduling.”
Last year’s CAMSR student member and former SSMU President Maggie Knight faced similar scheduling conflicts.
“The way [CAMSR] is currently structured, it is entirely reactive and has no proactive mandate,” Knight told The Daily. “Realistically, reforming this committee is unlikely to be a priority for the administration.”
However, Mooney said he is confident that the committee will meet “if the petition has met the requirements in the regulations.”
Similar motions to petition McGill to divest holdings from tar sands and Plan Nord have been submitted to SSMU and AUS during General Assemblies this year. Both passed, but only with consultative bodies since quorum was not met.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Campus unions condemn the drafted versions of the proposal 
Preliminary consultations between student, staff, and faculty unions and the administration concerning revisions to the University’s Provisional Protocol Regarding Demonstrations, Protests and Occupations on McGill University Campuses have elicited strong responses.
A provisional version of the Protocol was released in mid-February by Provost Anthony Masi to the McGill community immediately following the conclusion of the five-day occupation of Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson’s sixth-floor office in the James Administration building.
In an email sent to the McGill community last Friday, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum stated that work was “under way on adapting the Provisional Protocol into a permanent protocol,” and that an updated draft would be released on November 30 to solicit feedback from McGill staff and students.
McGill’s non-academic workers’ union (MUNACA), its teaching union (AGSEM), and its support employee union (AMUSE) have all signed a statement, published in the Commentary section of this issue of The Daily, stating that it “condemns in the strongest possible terms the proposed [protocol] that was released to campus unions on November 9.”
It goes on to say that the proposed protocol “contravenes the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, which explicitly protects the freedom of all citizens to engage in principled, nonviolent protest,” and concludes that they are particularly worried that the proposed protocol could be manipulated to “criminalize the activities of labour union members and their supporters, whose right to participate in campus demonstrations, rallies, and lawful picketing is clearly violated by these terms.”
An updated version of the Protocol – dated October 30, though still in draft form – released to student unions and obtained by The Daily includes several passages not included in the original Protocol.
One of them is the stipulation that, “The more intense (in terms of degree of inconvenience to normal university activities, number of participants, level of noise, tone of discourse, level of anger expressed, etc.), and/or the more deliberately disruptive, and/or the longer (in terms of duration of inconvenience) and/or the more confined the space in which it takes place, the greater the liklihood [sic] that the assembly, protest or demonstration will be deemed not to be peaceful.”
It is this passage that AGSEM–McGill’s Teaching Union president Lilian Radovac takes particular issue with.
“How do you quantify the level of anger expressed? And more to the point, who judges? The tone of discourse? That’s even more vague,” she said. “The University says this will mean that a demonstration will be deemed to not be peaceful, which is the pretext by which they can take measures under civil and criminal law.”
When solicited for feedback on the updated draft of the Protocol, Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) executives also responded to this passage in their communications with Michael Di Grappa, Vice-Principal (Administration & Finance).
“The current criteria are more subjective and could be misused to stop people from demonstrating or protesting.  For example, using a metric like ‘number of participants’ or ‘duration’ or degree to which the space is ‘confined’ to determine whether an assembly is peaceful is absurd on the face of it,” they wrote.
Their response also stated that the Protocol “seem[ed] to make more of an issue of ‘disruption’ by threatening students with increased penalty based on ‘intensity’ and ‘duration’ of protests as ‘disruptions’ rather than as ‘nonviolent acts,’” and argued that “there is a contradiction in working to protect students’ rights to protest and then simultaneously stating that protests are forbidden if they become inconvenient to some people.”
Executives from AGSEM, AMUSE, and MUNACA all told The Daily that they did not understand the need for a Protocol on demonstrations at McGill in the first place, given already-established provincial and federal laws on the subject.
“There are already government laws and regulations that govern how we would form protests and demonstrations and McGill does not need to go above and beyond the law,” MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker told The Daily.
Reached at 5 p.m. on Friday, Director of Internal Communications Doug Sweet said that the administration did not have time to prepare a comment, but referred The Daily to the consultation process outlined in Munroe-Blum’s Friday email to McGill community members.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Robots partly built at McGill set for deployment in Afghanistan
Military research at McGill has a long history.
Beginning in 1984, the campaign “Demilitarize McGill” advocated for the crafting of a policy and the prohibition of military research at the University. That same year, journalists from The Daily discovered research into Fuel Air Explosives at McGill funded by the Canadian Department of Defense. In 1986, Senate – the University’s highest academic governing body – implemented the Regulations on Research Policy, a set of ethical policies that included guidelines for animal and human research.
Military research, however, was not mentioned.
Two years later, research into Fuel Air Explosives once again became an issue at McGill.
In 2001, mechanical engineering professor David Frost began working on thermobaric bombs, an explosive device that can produce blast waves for a much longer duration than those found in conventional explosives.
In March 2010, Senate passed new Regulations on Conduct of Research Policy that ommitted the ethical regulations proposed by a new Demilitarize McGill, revived after a lull of nearly twenty years.
Senate’s decision came a year after Associate Provost (Policies & Procedures) William Foster presented a draft of the policy to Demilitarize McGill.
The draft, which was also showed to then SSMU VP (University Affairs) Nadya   Wilkinson, contained a passage which explicitly called for the creation of a formal system of approval which would give the senior administration oversight for research with harmful potential.
The section was erased at the first reading of the policy.
“The policy is ready to be adopted right now, and every month that goes by without having a document like this is dangerous [and] is not good for the University. We need this to come in force as soon as possible,” then-Vice-Principal (Research & International Relations) Denis Thérien said in a 2010 article in The Daily.
At the Senate session where the Policy was discussed, Senator Darin Barney noted that the “previous section on research funded by military sources did not assume that all research from those sources was harmful, but instead was based on the premise that research funded by military sources was more liekly to have harmful applications than other granting agencies.”
Student Senator Ivan Neilson said “that the amendment does not mention military research, but instread restricts itself to harmful applications. He agreed that what constitutes harmful research is subjective and that is why the responsibility is placed on the researcher.”
A number of professors at McGill are currently involved in scientific research whose results often have military applications. Financed by large defense firms, the research is conducted on campus or, in some cases, at private firms.
In 2003, after a 12-year tenure at McGill, robotics professor Martin Buehler brought two robots from the McGill Centre for Intelligent Machines (CIM) to Boston Dynamics, a U.S. engineering company.
RHex, one of the robots brought to Boston Dynamics, was partially built at McGill and was financed by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), an agency responsible for the development of new technologies for the U.S. military. RHex is equipped with a built-in camera and was designed to provide unmanned reconnaissance for soldiers in battle.
According to the Army Times, a weekly newspaper that caters to U.S. soldiers, several RHex robots were deployed for testing to Afghanistan in May.
Buehler later led a $12-million project in 2005, called “Big Dog,” to construct a robotic mule capable of transporting equipment to soldiers over rough terrain. The program received an additional $32 million grant in 2009 for the development of an upgraded version.
Another robot, AQUA, derived from the original RHex architecture and capable of functioning underwater, is currently being developed at CIM under the supervision of computer science professor Gregory Dudek. Despite its resemblance to RHex, Meyer Nahon – a professor linked to the project – insists that AQUA is designed to “assess marine habitats and biodiversity on coral reefs.”
However, Nahon said that  “some researchers are working much more directly with military applications” and that there was “clearly” an issue with funding from defense firms.
According to Nahon, professors conducting applied research with direct military funds are not devoid of responsibility; the ethical burden, however, should not be solely placed on them.
“Maybe the University should have a policy on this,” he added.
But for more theoretical research, the problem is not in the research itself, Nahon said. “The place where control has to be made is where it is going to be used.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec lacks complaint procedure
Indian Status Cards have recently been refused by major Montreal stores, according to several sources. The cards, issued by Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada under the Indian Act, provide federal tax exemptions to Status Indians. While the majority of major department stores recognize the cards, Walmart and Zellers reportedly only offer tax exemptions to Aboriginal people from Kahnawake, and recent reports indicate instances of stores in downtown Montreal also refusing the Status Cards.
Céline, a Saint-Constant Walmart employee who declined to provide her last name, confirmed that the store previously only accepted cards from Kahnawake, but also cited a policy change in the past year to include all Status Indians, of which there are over 70,000 in Quebec.
Ken Williams, who lives on the Ontario Moose Deer Point Reserve, claims otherwise, reporting that his card was refused only a few weeks ago, on October 24. According to Williams, Walmart’s receipts intended for store records state that only Kahnawake cards are to be accepted. Williams was unable to obtain a copy of the receipt.
There is no consistent complaint procedure in Quebec for those whose Status Cards are refused, though such avenues exist in other provinces. The Assembly of First Nations is officially responsible as a resource for support, but has failed to respond to Williams’ complaints.
Larger Quebec bands, including the Cree, Algonquin, and Mohawk, choose to represent themselves independently of band associations. The lack of affiliation networks between Quebec bands means that negotiations are often done on a smaller scale, such as in Kahnawake’s recent agreement with the provincial government granting them an exemption from the Quebec Sales Tax (QST).
According to Williams, the refusal of Status Cards is evidence of a “lack of understanding of what the Indian Act is all about.”
In a 1986 conference of Native lawyers, the Indian Act was described as a recognition that “the government understands that they took our land without paying.”
Williams also said that a “lack of understanding” on the part of employees regarding the Indian Act and its requirements might explain the lack of consistency in the application of tax exemptions under the Act.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Problems surrounding the University’s lack of policy, complaint mechanisms
The following is the first part of a series examining equity at the university, specifically focused on faculty, staff, and policy at the university level.
Currently, 11 out of 25 senior administrators at McGill are women, and one out of these 25 is a person of colour. Out of 12 faculty and library deans, four are women and none is a person of colour. The issue of equity and diversity at McGill is one that is constantly raised and examined by students and members of the administration.
At October’s Senate meeting, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum presented an update to the administration’s response to the Principal’s Taskforce on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement.
The taskforce was launched in 2009 under the purview of Munroe-Blum with the goal of creating “a forum for new ideas, initiatives, and mechanisms to better achieve excellence in pursuing our academic mission.”
According to the final report released in 2011, there was a focus on the “strong links between excellence, diversity, and community engagement at McGill.” Diversity at the university level became one of most salient aspects the task force sought to address, and as such, the first recommendation of the report was to “demonstrate a firm commitment to the recruitment, retention, and professional development of diverse and excellent academic staff, administrative and support staff, and students…”
The report also led to the creation of the Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures & Equity), an expansion of the former position that did not specifically deal with equity. The position has only been held by Lydia White, who told The Daily that previously, the Associate Provost (Policies and Procedures) had some of the same responsibilities as the new position, but that it was more behind the scenes.
“It’s not that McGill did not have a commitment to equity – it did – but I think that it was certainly the case that people didn’t know where to bring equity issues. So it was an attempt to make it more transparent, where to go, and who is going to be overseeing equity issues,” said White.
One of the policies under White’s purview is the Employment Equity Policy. The latest report on employment equity shows that in 2011, 104 (18 per cent) of tenure-track professors identified as female, whereas 473 identified as male. Going down the academic positions, 32.5 per cent of tenure-track associate professors and 40.3 per cent of assistant professors identified as female.
In contrast, other staff groups have a stark overrepresentation of self-identified female workers: 90.1 per cent of clerical workers, 88.9 per cent of non-tenure track assistant librarians, and 71.7 per cent of library assistants identified themselves as female.
The report also shows that in 2011, 14.2 per cent of staff self-identified as a visible minority and 23.7 per cent as an ethnic minority. 1.5 per cent, or 77 people have a disability, and 0.3 per cent, or 17 staff members are Aboriginal.
White told The Daily that these statistics show how many people McGill employs from “designated groups.”
“The federal government has a smaller number of designated groups, the provincial government has one more and McGill has yet one more. So we feel we have a broader definition of diversity and consequently of equity,” said White.
White also explained that getting accurate data on membership to these groups is difficult. “It’s fairly straightforward to get data on males versus females, but for the other groups we rely on self-reporting, and a lot of people, often for good reasons, don’t want to self report and then what happens is…they count non-reports as being able-bodied white males.”
According to White, McGill is currently working on developing a new survey to address the shortcomings of the current model of self-identification. “McGill’s current survey that employees fill out is really quite inadequate,” she explained. “For example, it doesn’t allow you to say that you belong to more than one category. So you couldn’t be an Aboriginal person and disabled, you have to choose one and that doesn’t make sense.”
The current survey does not have a question regarding sexual orientation.
The Joint Board Senate Committee on Equity – tasked with reviewing recruitment and status of under-represented groups at McGill – includes subcommittees on women, persons with disabilities, First Peoples, race and ethnic relations, and queer people.
White explained that when she started, “it wasn’t sort of clear to the committee itself exactly what they were supposed to be doing. And some of these subcommittees were basically dysfunctional – they didn’t have chair or they didn’t have members. I think that in the last couple of years we’ve really got that together.”
In a 2010 report, the Equity Subcommittee on Race and Ethnic Relations raised some specific concerns and issued recommendations to the University, pointing out in particular an “overwhelming lack of equitable racial and ethnic diversity in all aspects of McGill University.”
Among the report’s recommendations is the creation of a Dean of Diversity to “investigate, make demands, and to expect results,” pointing to similar positions at Harvard University and the University of Virginia. The report also called for the creation of an Academic Personnel Diversity position, a Human Resources Diversity position, and a Faculty/Employee of Colour Health Advocate.
According to the report, McGill shows “an extreme lack of diversity of faculty; lack of awareness [and] commitment to diversity as more than catch phrase; [and a] lack of understanding opportunities and benefits of diversity.”
McGill shows “an extreme lack of diversity of faculty; lack of awareness [and] commitment to diversity as more than catch phrase; [and a] lack of understanding opportunities and benefits of diversity.”
To address these issues, the report recommends reformed tenure and promotion procedures to “reflect the needs of the current and desired people of colour faculty and to allow for the fact that the experiences of professors of colour are not the same as those of white professors.”
The Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) Office, another resource for equity at McGill, aims to “provide information, education, and training to all areas of the University in order to cultivate a respectful, diverse, and supportive campus.”
In an email to The Daily, SEDE manager Veronica Amberg explained that McGill could be more welcoming of disadvantaged groups by “weaving diversity initiatives throughout the University, including implementing Universal Design in curriculum and sharing other best practices of inclusive classrooms pedagogies, creating new academic programs such as an Indigenous Studies Program, reinforcing mentorship programs, specialized services and outreach and consultations with marginalized groups, [and] more intra groups opportunities for dialogues.”
The University does not currently have an overarching equity policy. Within the University, some student organizations – like SSMU and the Management Undergraduate Society – have such policies, and the Arts Undergraduate Society is in the process of developing one.
Last year, Student Senator Emil Briones brought forward a question to Senate regarding an overarching Equity Policy for McGill.
According to the Senate meeting minutes, former SSMU VP University Affairs and Student Senator Emily Yee Clare claimed that incidents of racism were an experienced reality at McGill and that there was a lack of dialogue about racism on campus. Clare also asked why McGill was the only high-ranking university in Canada without an Aboriginal Studies Program and without any Indigenous tenure-track faculty members.
White told The Daily that a university-wide equity policy is “certainly possible,” but that she is “not convinced what it would achieve because we’ve already got a commitment to equity in a number of different places in various policies.”
Instead, White explained that there have been suggestions for an overarching equity statement as part of McGill’s mission statement that can be referred to when dealing with other policies, rather than an equity policy parallel to that of SSMU.
“I think this solution, at least in the short term, is much more realistic. It’s something we can do fairly quickly,” she said.
Currently, there are no mechanisms specifically dedicated to equity grievances. But according to White, “there are mechanisms for general complaints and grievances, and then there are related policies, like the policy on harassment, sexual harassment, and discrimination prohibited by law.”
White told The Daily that future initiatives regarding equity include the creation of an equity award and encouraging faculty from designated groups to apply for promotions.
“The challenge is still to get the numbers up but McGill does not have a…positive discrimination policy,” said White. “I find this is one of the most frustrating things, that it takes so long, that even if you make corrections in the lower ranks it takes such a long time before that correction appears in the higher ranks.”
“I suppose one of the other challenges is awareness, to make people more aware,” she added. “You can do it by the University setting the example in various ways and I think that is already happening.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
