The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizers express need for awareness of Aboriginal issues in Montreal
McGill’s second annual Aboriginal Awareness Week, dedicated to increasing awareness at McGill about Aboriginal peoples in Canada and Montreal and organized by the Aboriginal Sustainability Project (ASP), kicked off last Friday and will continue through the week.
The ASP is expanding programming this year by partnering with external organizations the Native Friendship Centre of Montreal (NFCM), the Kahnawake Cultural Centre, and McGill’s First Peoples’ House.
According to Allan Vicaire, coordinator of the ASP, “The [week] provides an opportunity for the community to understand who First Nations people are, in terms of their history, their culture, and their past and current issues.”
He told The Daily that the event was well-received last year, generating participation from faculty and staff both within and outside the Aboriginal community.
Along with the ASP, these community partners will be providing more interactive evens than last year, including a feast hosted at the NFCM, a dreamcatcher-making workshop in the Arts building, and a “Living Library Tour” at McGill’s Redpath Museum, where Aboriginal participants will have a chance to share their personal histories.
Paige Isaac, coordinator of the First Peoples’ House, said she feels that collaboration with outside organizations will create a more dynamic week and increase community interest.
“I think this year [the week will be] bigger and better,” she told The Daily. “It’s just a cool way to break down some barriers and stereotypes and have a safe space to learn.”
Vicaire and Isaac both attributed the success and growth of Aboriginal Awareness Week to funds provided by the ASP.
“There was always a need for this on campus,” explained Vicaire. “[The Aboriginal Awareness Project] and our partners helped to institutionalize it.”
NFCM Outreach and Cultural Coordinator Alan Harrington said he hopes that partnering with the McGill community will increase interaction between Aboriginal people and the greater Montreal community.
Harrington also hopes the Centre’s presence on campus will help McGill students understand the struggles the Aboriginal community faces in Montreal, especially in light of recent funding cuts initiated by the province of Quebec.
The NFCM has itself suffered important cuts, and faced the possibility of closure last spring.
“Since I started at the Centre, I’ve seen awareness growing rapidly,” Harrington told The Daily.
He added that he hopes the event will reflect the ongoing presence of the Aboriginal community.
“We’re still here,” he said. “We’re not going anywhere anytime soon.”
Vicaire also urged the McGill community to become more aware of Montreal’s Aboriginal population.
In addition to Aboriginal Awareness Week, he is working to initiate new programs throughout the semester, including a tutoring program that sends McGill students to a school in Kahnawake to help students with homework.
“The programs continue to expand and provide more opportunities for shared experiences between McGill students and Aboriginal communities,” Vicaire said, adding that this year’s Aboriginal Awareness Week will be the first step in this interconnection.
“McGill has set the bar for Aboriginal community awareness in Montreal.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concerns raised about teaching and research
The McGill Senate met last Thursday for the first time this year to discuss the University’s new human resources plan to cut back on personnel expenses.
The Workforce Planning Initiative was introduced on May 1 by the McGill administration in response to Bill 100, which mandates that Quebec universities decrease administrative expenditures.
In a memo to the University community, Vice-Principal (Admin-istration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa explained that the initiative introduced a “2 for 1” attrition program under which two voluntary departures from administrative staff members will be replaced by only one person.
“When an employee leaves the University voluntarily, the unit for which that individual worked will retain only 50 per cent of the salary attached to the position,” wrote Di Grappa in May.
During the meeting, students and professors raised concerns about the effects of the workforce plan on student services and expertise in research and teaching.
Graham Bell, Faculty Senator and Biology professor, explained that the attrition initiative could obstruct research as it would become more complicated to hire people with certain research expertise.
Bell called for consultation at the grassroots level to make sure the changes are appropriate.
Di Grappa also responded to allegations that in past years the growth in administration positions was mainly at the upper level, stating that it had actually been concentrated in Student Services.
Additionally, Di Grappa stated that another 15 per cent of administrative growth was in central services units, as opposed to the 6 per cent growth in faculties.
When the Workforce Planning Initiative was first introduced, the University said that Student Services would not be affected by attrition.
According to PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney, “For positions that are funded through the university-wide budget, the money that is saved through the 2 for 1 attrition goes into saving in the budget, but in [Student Services]…the savings that will be realized will be used for special projects designed to streamline and increase efficiency.”
Arts Senator and Anthropology professor John Galaty told The Daily that the administration said the initiative would affect all units “from the Provost office right through the university.”
“If we take [the administration] at their word, it is not in particular going to affect just the lower units. Our fear is that, in fact, the way that they’re talking about re-organizing will take people from the departments and put them at the faculty level… that it will take expertise from places where it’s needed in the departments…where their level of expertise is most needed and [taking them] to another level,” said Galaty.
Galaty also said that Di Grappa had been in consultation with the McGill Association of University Teachers (MAUT) and other employee groups like the non-academic workers union, MUNACA.
“The processes at work have been going on for some time at a lower level, so we have seen things happen, we have made our views known. Ultimately, this is a centrally administered program that is being run out of the [Vice-Principal (Finance and Administrations)] office,” said Galaty.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Calver asked press to leave mid-hearing
A date is yet to be set for the Bangs v. Calver and Cheng Judicial Board (J-Board) hearing, a case that was filed in April 2012 to contest the legitimacy of two questions passed during the Arts Undergraduate Society’s (AUS) 2012 winter referenda.
Filed by Christopher Bangs, the Chair for the ‘No’ Committees for the two contested questions, the case pursues former AUS President Jade Calver and former Elections AUS Chief Returning Officer Victor Cheng.
The questions in contestation – which were announced to members of the Society on April 13 – include increasing the majority required to amend the AUS Constitution from a simple plurality to a two-thirds majority, and allowing for online ratification of decisions made by the AUS General Assembly after the assembly takes place.
The SSMU J-Board held a preliminary conference last Friday to address contentious issues, exhibits, amendments, and witnesses with regards to the case, as well as to set a date for the actual hearing.
No date was set, however – during the “contentious issues” section of the conference, Calver expressed concerns that although it had been announced that one of the two interveners being considered for the case had been selected, she was aware of a third candidate who had applied.
Joel Kwan, Chief Justice of the J-Board, stated that he was unaware of a third candidate. In an interview with The Daily, Kwan stated that proceedings would be delayed until the issue at hand was dealt with, but that a hearing would be scheduled as soon as the matter was resolved.
Although the J-Board pushed to have the case dealt with before the 2012-13 academic year began, procedures were delayed due to difficulties maintaining a full J-Board Council over the summer. J-Board members Charif El-Khouri and Rachel Tonelli-Zasarsky – both of whom were present at the preliminary conference – are set to preside over the hearing.
The Petition’s Declaration submitted by Bangs on April 17 stated, “The Petitioner alleges that repeated and systematic violations of the AUS bylaws by Elections AUS compromise the integrity of the elections, and asks that the Judicial Board of the Students’ Society of McGill University find that the conduct of the Respondents violated the bylaws of the AUS and declare null and void the referendum questions…”
Among Bangs’ concerns were the fact that no vote count was ever taken at Council, that the questions were ratified by Council in English only, and that no announcement was ever posted in a student publication.
Bangs explained that given his understanding of Judicial Board procedures, he was unable to file a case against the entire AUS, which is why he filed a position against Calver and Cheng specifically.
The Respondent’s Position, submitted by Calver and Cheng on May 6, stated, “The validity of the 2012 AUS Winter Referendum Period is justified. Proper procedures were followed, questions were properly submitted through Legislative Council. Furthermore, Elections feels as though the Referendum Period was properly announced in a way that did not compromise the integrity of the vote, evidenced by the high voter turnout in the referendum period.”
The Respondents further alleged that “the petitioner is ultimately biased in his presentation of this case, given previous communications with the respondents during AUS Elections in his position as Chair of the ‘No’ Committee.”
Ten minutes into the preliminary hearing, Calver requested that press not be present for the conference. After a five minute recess in order to discuss the validity of the question – in which press was not present – Judicial Board members heard arguments from Bangs and Calver.
Calver, who argued that the negotiations should not be restricted by presence of the media, was opposed by Bangs, who stated that he preferred the presence of media as this was a matter of public dispute, where parties present had acted in a public role.
Before accepting Calver’s request and asking press in attendance to leave, J-Board member Tonelli-Zasarsky referred to Articles 27 and 28 of the SSMU Judicial Board Procedures, which state that “Hearings are open to the public, limited only by […] the discretion of the Judicial Board” and “the Judicial Board has the power to remove anyone from the Hearing if they are disruptive, threatening or offensive.”
Kwan later told The Daily that although the J-Board has decided to accept Calver’s request for the preliminary hearing, doors to the actual hearing, once scheduled, would be open to the press.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
