The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Most passengers charged with unlawful assembly and riot
Last Friday, more than 50 buses filled with demonstrators drove to Victoriaville where the Parti libéral du Québec (PLQ) was holding its convention. The demonstration quickly turned into a riot with the Sûreté du Québec (SQ), the provincial police, arresting four demonstrators.
However, shortly after demonstrators dispersed, Jean Finet, a spokesperson for the SQ, said that the police was “in investigation mode, more arrests are to be expected. The Sûreté du Québec will spare no pains to identify the perpetrators of crimes committed here tonight.”
Around 6 p.m., 2,000 demonstrators converged on the hotel Victorin Friday afternoon where the PLQ convention was being held. Protesters quickly broke through the metal barricades and started throwing various projectiles at the police. The police responded with extensive use of tear gas and rubber bullets. The demonstrator was over after a few hours, and two students and one police officer were hospitalized with critical injuries. One of the students lost the use of his eye.
At 10 p.m., more than ten SQ vehicles pulled over the McGill-Concordia bus that was 30 minutes outside of Victoriaville and heading back to Montreal. An agent boarded the bus and announced that all passengers were under arrest for illegal assembly. The bus was escorted back to Victoriaville, where the SQ started processing the demonstrators.
The demonstrators were taken off the bus, into the SQ station to be questioned, and escorted back on the bus once they had signed a promise to appear in court at a later date. The bus left the SQ around 5:30 a.m., after nearly eight hours of detention.
At least three demonstrators were held overnight as they were scheduled to appear on the phone with a judge. They had been previously arrested for similar charges.
Stefan Christoff, a writer and activist who was among the demonstrators, said “We were told that we were not allowed to speak to each other [on the bus]. This is illegal.”
Demonstrators also reported that they were denied access to water and food and that it was “only after they begged several times” that they were allowed to use the bathroom.
Denis Poitras, a Montreal lawyer, has represented a number of demonstrators facing charges since the beginning of the student strike. He told The Daily in an interview that he was concerned about the detention conditions of the demonstrators who were held in the bus for more than seven hours, in what became a de facto jail cell.
“They were put in this cage in conditions that are not acceptable,” Poitras said in French. He said it is possible that the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedom was infringed.
Poitras further questioned the legality of the arrests. “You need reasonable motives to arrest someone. I don’t see how you can have reasonable motives to arrest an entire bus.”
Two journalists were also on board the bus: the editor-in-chief of Le Délit and a photographer for Concordia student newspaper the Link. Although they were arrested and detained for the same amount of time as the demonstrators, their charges were dropped after they were questioned.
Brian Myles, president of the Fédération professionnelle des journalistes du Québec (FPJQ), the province’s main journalist union, said in French that “the fact that the charges were dropped and that the SQ did not touch their equipment is positive.”

It is unclear why the McGill-Concordia bus was targeted. Among the 50 buses that drove to Victoriaville, only a handful were pulled over. McGill student Zoe Pepper-Cunningham said that “maybe that is because we were the last bus to leave.” In addition to the McGill-Concordia bus, two buses from the Cégep de Montmorency were stopped in Saint-Hyacinthe, and their passengers arrested.
The SQ announced on Saturday that 101 students were arrested on buses outside Victoriaville, in addition to nine during the protest.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Thousands throng the streets to reject latest government offer
New details have emerged over the 22 hour negotiation session between the Quebec government and members of the four student associations last weekend.
A document released online by Antoine Bouchard, a student who claims to have close ties to the Coaliation large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE), states that government representatives purposely created a “sentiment of urgency” to push through discussions and pressure students into signing a document they did not agree with.
Bouchard told The Daily that the document was obtained from Philippe Lapointe, the student negotiator for CLASSE. The author of the document is unknown, but Bouchard said that it was emailed to members of CLASSE last night.
“The final text was not exactly what we had discussed,” the document reads. “Several points were changed, and it appears that the Conférence des recteurs et des principaux des universités du Québec (CREPUQ) worked harder than the students during the final moments of negotiations.”
According to the document, government negotiators approached student representatives individually during breaks. At one point, Lapointe was allegedly brought back to the negotiating table alone to “speed up the process.”
Pierre Pilote acted as the government’s chief negotiator throughout the weekend’s negotiating process.
“By isolating the representative, the government could then easily bring him into a state of emotional fatigue,” the document reads. “During the final signing of the document…he was therefore much less aware and capable of critical thought.”
Representatives from the government, trade unions, and CREPUQ rejected a request from the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ), one of the four student associations participating in negotiations, to rest before the final signing of the agreement, the document says.
“After 22 hours of negotiations that were only broken up by short pauses, we should have demanded a suspension of talks,” the document continues. “The student movement has been on strike for 12 weeks; another day of strike would not have been catastrophic. The sentiment of urgency was created by the government because they were looking for an easy fix.”
After negotiations ended on Saturday, student representatives returned to Montreal to submit a document they thought was “bitterly disappointing,” states the document.
The offer maintains a $254 annual tuition fee hike over seven years, but would also form a 19-member provisional council tasked with finding cuts in university ancillary fees equal to the cost of the increase. For the fall 2012 semester the government will cover the cost of the tuition increase.
On Sunday, Martine Desjardins, the president of FEUQ, said that it was likely that students would not accept the new offer after a disagreement between Line Beauchamp, the Quebec education minister, and the student associations emerged.
Students associations have characterized the recent offer as a moratorium on fees while Beauchamp said that the offer was an “agreement.”
According to La Presse, Beauchamp said on Sunday that there was “no guarantees” that the amounts students pay would be lowered. Any reduction in tuition would depend on the work of the provisionary council, she said.
Later on Sunday night, roughly 2,000 students marched through downtown Montreal in protest the latest offer to student associations. The Facebook event for the demonstration was titled: “Demonstration against the government’s offer: freeze or strike.”
Students marched peacefully for four hours until their numbers dwindled down to around 100. Police pushed the remaining marchers off the road as they walked north on Berri from Maisonneuve. An officer on the scene later confirmed to The Daily that the demonstration was never illegal.
The CEGEP de Valleyfield is set to vote on the offer today. A member of CLASSE, they are the first student association to do so.
—with files from Henry Gass
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
