The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Passage of Bill 78 and municipal “anti-mask” bylaw could mean end of student strike
In the face of a series of government legislation cracking down on protest rights and threatening their 14-week student strike, several thousand demonstrators marched through downtown Montreal for almost seven hours Friday night.
This was the 25th consecutive night demonstration protesting planned tuition hikes which – after one short and violent clash with officers from the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) – became by the longest demonstration in what is now the longest student strike in Quebec history.
The demonstration began peacefully around 9 p.m., with thousands leaving Parc Émilie-Gamelin and marching through downtown Montreal.
Around 10 p.m., the arrest of one demonstrator triggered a clash between protestors and police near the entrance to Chinatown at St. Laurent and René Lévesque. Fellow demonstrators reacted by shouting for his release, with some throwing rocks and other projectiles at police, driving police north up St. Laurent towards René Lévesque.
One protestor threw a Molotov cocktail at police at René Lévesque. Police responded with pepper spray, smoke bombs, sound grenades, tear gas, and rubber bullets.
Police quickly declared the demonstration illegal, but the majority of protestors regrouped a few minutes later and resumed marching. The march continued through downtown for another six hours and ended around 4 a.m. Thursday morning near Parc Lafontaine.
There was one other incident of vandalism. Marching west on René Lévesque around 1 a.m., protesters passed a line of five police cars and a man standing in his doorway giving protestors the middle finger. Protestors smashed the man’s apartment window in a hail of projectiles, before smashing the back window of one of the police cruisers.
The SPVM reported four arrests and no injuries as a result of the demonstration early Thursday morning.
Bill 78
A frantic day in the municipal and provincial legislature precipitated Friday night’s demonstration.
Late Friday afternoon the Quebec National Assembly passed Bill 78 – a controversial bill proposed by Education Minister Michelle Courchesne – 68 votes to 48. The bill, titled “An Act to enable students to receive instruction from the post-secondary institutions they attend,” suspends the winter and summer semesters for the 11 universities and 14 CEGEPS still effected by the strike until August.
Organizers of the demonstrations of 50 people or more must also provide police with its route and duration at least eight hours before it begins. Police may require organizers to change the venue or route of the demonstration.
Fines for contravening Bill 78 provisions can reach $5,000 for individuals, $35,000 for a senior officer in a student association, and $125,000 for student associations. Fines will be doubled for any subsequent offenses.
The bill has been criticized by several civil rights groups, including the Quebec Bar Association, in part due to its ambiguity in some areas. Section 30, for example, states that anyone “who helps or induces a person to commit an offense” under the bill will also be subject to the fine.
The law went into effect Saturday morning.
Bill 78 (English)
The “anti-mask” bylaw
The Montreal city council passed a bylaw on Thursday banning the wearing of masks at demonstrations “without reasonable motive.” The bylaw, drafted following this year’s anti-police brutality march and scheduled to be voted on in mid-June, was fast-tracked in response to the now daily student protests against tuition hikes.
Both opposition parties in city hall, Vision Montréal and Projet Montréal, voted against the bylaw, but with Mayor Gérald Tremblay’s Union Montréal party holding a majority in the council the bylaw passed 33 to 25. The bylaw also went into effect Saturday morning.
Telling the council that the bylaw will be a tool that allows police to “isolate vandals and prevent acts of violence,” Tremblay declared, “It’s time to take back our streets.”
Montreal police chief Marc Parent attended the special council session, saying the bylaw will be used “with discretion, like all the other laws we can already apply to protests.
“When we think there’s a threat to safety it will be used. It’s preventative,” said Parent.
Parent noted that a few years ago only one to two per cent of demonstrations ended in violence, but lately nearly 35 per cent end in criminal acts.

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Bioengineering department also approved 
A bachelor’s degree in Liberal Arts will be introduced for the next academic term, after being approved Wednesday at the last Senate meeting of the year.
Senators also approved the creation of a department of bioengineering, pending approval from the Board of Governors (BoG).
The Liberal Arts program is set to replace the Humanistic Studies program, which was discontinued in 2009, as well as the Arts Legacy program eliminated in 2011.
According to an Academic Policy committee report presented to the Senate, the Faculty of Arts has addressed problems and deficiencies encountered in the Humanistic Studies and Arts Legacy programs.
Associate Dean of Arts (Research and Graduate Studies) Juliet Johnson told Senate the Liberal Arts program “builds on the best aspects of the first year Legacy program and the Humanistic Studies major.”
The report also states that the new program would also address “the need for a language requirement, other than English and French” by including a foreign language component.
Arts Senator John Galaty, however, expressed reservations during the meeting about the extent to which the Liberal Arts program, as presented to Senate, represented an improvement upon Humanistic Studies.
“Either change the term back to Humanistic Studies – [which] is more specific – or actually act on what was the aim a year ago and represent an overture of the Dean of Arts to the faculty, which is to include the social sciences in a judicious and conscious way, which in fact would enhance the program considerably,” he added.
Johnson stated that although they are not currently included, McGill plans to incorporate the social sciences in the future.
In an interview with The Daily, SSMU VP University Affairs Emily Clare spoke positively of the Liberal Arts program, but added that “it is important to consider if it will be serving the purposes that it needs to serve.”
“For example, Arts Legacy was extremely popular with many of the students, however it didn’t seem like it was viable for several reasons,” said Clare.
A Department of Bioengineering under the Faculty of Engineering, the first of its kind in Canada, was also created this week after successive approval votes from Senate on Wednesday and BoG yesterday.
In its proposal for a Bioengineering department, the Faculty of Engineering pointed to the “considerable commercial and societal value” of bioengineering as one of the fastest growing areas of studies within engineering.
According to Interim Dean of Engineering Andrew Kirk, the creation of a department was necessary to gain accreditation for the program. Kirk described the accreditation process as strenuous and almost impossible without a department.
Kirk also stated that the new department would offer different programs from the existing bioresource engineering and biomedical engineering programs offered at McGill.
“The department will be small, with eight professors in the first few years, and it would have thirty undergraduate students in the first year,” said Kirk.
The Chair of the Bioengineering program is expected to be appointed by August. The program will start admitting students by September 2014.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
