The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student senators call for overarching equity policy
In Senate yesterday, Provost Anthony Masi presented the preliminary administrative response to the Principal’s Task Force on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement.
The Task Force was convened in Fall 2009 and the final report was released on February 21, 2011.
According to the final report, the Task Force’s goal was to “assess our strengths and weaknesses in achieving excellence, inclusiveness and community contributions and to formulate concrete strategies for improvement.”
The Task Force made three recommendations in its final report. The first was for the University to make “a firm commitment to the recruitment, retention and professional development of a diverse and excellent [group of staff and students].”
Masi spoke to the possibility of expanding the office of Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures and Equity) Lydia White, as well as the creation of a University fact-base to respond to issues concerning equity. He said that collecting data was “part of the problem.”
“We don’t have a good statistical database – a lot relies on self-identification,” he said. “We don’t have good information about ourselves, and it’s difficult to get people to conform.”
SSMU President Maggie Knight addressed Masi’s point in an interview with The Daily after Senate.
“If people aren’t ready to self-identify, why is that? […] If that’s a problem, doesn’t that point to something systemic? Let’s be willing to acknowledge that we’re not perfect and that we need to do work,” she said.
The Task Force’s second recommendation was that the “definition of excellence at McGill shall be broadened” in order to reflect McGill’s “distinctive mission,” and indicators to measure progress. According to Masi, this has in part been accomplished by Senate. Prior to his presentation, Senate approved the creation of the McGill University Award for Equity & Community Building.
The award is a student-led initiative brought to Senate with the Joint Board Senate Committee on Equity’s unanimous endorsement. The award aims to “enhance McGill’s commitment to equity by recognizing outstanding achievements” on the part of staff and students. Senate unanimously approved the award’s creation.
The report’s final recommendation was for the University to affirm its historical “service to society” and expand its commitment to “positive engagement with – and impact on – external communities.”
Knight asked how the University would avoid the appearance of “tokenistic” engagement with external communities.
“I reject the hypothesis of your questions,” Masi responded. “We don’t have the intention of doing anything that won’t have a large impact.”
Music Senator Emil Briones asked whether an over-arching equity policy would be drafted as a result of the Task Force.
In response, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum spoke to a trend at McGill of creating policy and then forgetting it. “What this Task Force should really engage in is changing practice,” she said.
Currently, McGill’s policies pertaining to equity are found in the Charter of Students’ Rights and Responsibilities, Employment Equity Policy, and the Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment and Discrimination Prohibited by Law.
According to Knight, an overarching equity policy would serve to “[set] out the values” of the University. She pointed to the equity policies already in place within SSMU, PGSS and with some faculties such as Engineering, Music, and Management.
SSMU VP University Affairs Emily Clare, who has worked with three different versions of SSMU’s equity policy, spoke to the benefits of such a policy. “It is very beneficial because it really makes it clear that we have a clear stance on things. It clearly lays out informal and formal mechanisms,” she said.
“If you have good policy which is outlined with a clear set of values you can build a community of trust around that policy,” she continued.
In Senate, Clare read a statement she prepared on racism at McGill.
“To be perfectly frank, I have seen so many of [my] peers, colleagues, even staff and faculty, feeling so disempowered within McGill that they don’t feel they have anyone to go to, that they can’t speak up, that they’re silenced constantly,” she said in a later interview with The Daily.
PGSS VP (University & Academic Affairs) Lily Han called McGill’s lack of an office dedicated to equity issues a “glaring gap.” She pointed to equity offices at other Canadian universities such as the University of Western Ontario, the University of British Columbia, Queen’s University, and the University of Toronto.
“Right now, it seems to me that there’s a bit of a disconnect between what we hear from various students and what they’re experiencing – and to a lesser degree from staff – versus what the relevant people in the administration are aware of,” said Knight.
Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures and Equity) Lydia White said she would take the issues raised back to the Joint Board Senate Committee on Equity, and spend the next academic year working to address them.
The final response from the University administration to the Task Force will be presented in Fall 2012 and afterwards will be implemented.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Deputy Provost: “The semester will continue on schedule”
The McGill administration will not be accommodating the requests of striking students for extended deadlines, according to an email obtained by The Daily yesterday from Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson.
The email was sent to the Graduate Student Mobilization Group (GSMG). The email was in response to a letter delivered to Principal Heather Munroe-Blum by almost two dozen students last Friday requesting accommodation for striking students during McGill’s exam period.
“The University’s position has been stated early, repeatedly and clearly: the semester will continue on schedule,” Mendelson wrote in the email. “The consequences for incomplete or late academic assignments and missed examinations depend on individual, not collective, circumstances.”
Mendelson’s email added that professors may accommodate students regarding class requirements based on individual circumstances.
The letter – signed by 41 McGill students, professors, and employees, and endorsed by six campus student groups and unions – was originally addressed to Munroe-Blum and Provost Anthony Masi.
The letter requested that the administration push back the submission date for graduate theses by three working days in respect of the three-day graduate student strike, which lasted from March 19 to 22; that they push the extended deadline for grade submission back by one week across the University; and that they publically encourage professors and course lecturers in striking departments who have scheduled exams to work with departmental strike committees “to determine alternative ways of completing coursework.”
Mona Luxion, a PhD student in Urban Planning, Policy, and Design, and who helped deliver the letter last Friday, said in an interview with The Daily that the letter’s requests are “not unreasonable, or any sort of disruption to really all of students at this University.”
“We’re not asking for extensions for particular students, we’re asking for extensions across the board for professors to be able to hand in their grades later, so that they have some room to negotiate on an individual basis, as Professor Mendelson suggests,” said Luxion.
Luxion said the striking student associations will continue to bring the issue up in their meetings with the administration. There is also a rally scheduled for tomorrow afternoon in front of the James Administration building to reiterate the students’ request.
Over 500 students are currently on strike at McGill in protest of scheduled tuition increases of $1,625 over five years. There are approximately 170,000 CEGEP and university students on strike in Quebec in what is now the longest student strike in provincial history.
“There’s going to be ongoing discussion and negotiation to the extent that the University administration is open to it,” said Luxion.
“We’ve made it very clear that we’re happy to meet with them, and so the challenge of course is that their position is a fixed and unchanging one, so there isn’t really much negotiation to be done,” continued Luxion.
Mendelson wrote in his email that providing the extensions would create “undue burdens” on those involved in the evaluations, submission, and processing of grades. He added that it would be “unfair to the vast majority of students who have fulfilled their academic responsibilities and who have worked to meet the deadlines set out in the Calendar and in course outlines.”
“The overwhelming majority of McGill students have continued to attend classes, complete their assignments, and prepare for exams,” wrote Mendelson.
“A comparatively few students have boycotted classes and are now seeking extensions of academic deadlines and leniency regarding the completion of academic requirements,” he continued.
Luxion said all the students currently on strike “understand and accept that there are consequences to their actions.”
“People have gone into this knowing full well that there may be repercussions, and believing that the fight for accessible education is worth the risk that they’re taking. That doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t also – as members of the University community who support that fight – that we shouldn’t be arguing for some leniency and for some recognition of the fact that this is a legitimate form of political engagement,” said Luxion.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
