The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Camera operator charged with ‘hindrance’
During a mass arrest of 71 demonstrators Wednesday morning, CUTV camera operator Laith Marouf was surrounded by police and arrested for hindering Montreal police.
Concordia’s campus-community television station, CUTV, had a team of three journalists to live stream Wednesday’s demonstrations, beginning at 7:30 in the morning. CUTV has been broadcasting live from many demonstrations throughout the course of the unlimited general strike protesting tuition increases.
One of the CUTV reporters present on Wednesday morning, Sabine Friesinger, said that CUTV filmed the arrests due to actions on the part of police.
“[Police] were really beating people into a circle basically – so with clubs and batons, and the shields pushing on people – really brutalizing for no reason because, at that point, the crowd had already dispersed and so we were filming that kind of police action,” she said.
While demonstrators were being kettled, Marouf – program director and CUTV’s cameraperson for the live broadcast – was surrounded by police and his video equipment seized.
“They grabbed the equipment and they arrested him,” said Friesinger. She explained that, after she and CUTV’s tech person insisted, the equipment was returned, and the live stream recommenced. CUTV has released the footage leading up to Marouf’s arrest.

Marouf has been charged with hindering police action. He was held separately from other demonstrators who were arrested and, according to CUTV manager Laura Kneale, CUTV’s lawyer had difficulty getting in touch with him.
Friesinger felt that the police “clearly targeted” CUTV’s camera.
“I think they really today targeted the fact that we were showing images live of police actions, what kind of actions they were doing. They clearly knew because we were identified in the crowd, we have a sign up saying CUTV live, and they really, I think, wanted to shut that down,” she said.
Kneale said that no CUTV reporter has been arrested before today.
On Wednesday Kneale said CUTV would likely “put in a formal complaint with the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM)’s déontologie.” The Code of ethics of Quebec police officers is commonly referred to as the SPVM’s déontologie, meaning “professional ethics” in French.
The station is holding a press conference Thursday morning to formally announce what measures it will take.
Marouf was unavailable for comment.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
No evidence of research misconduct so far 
McGill announced the conclusion of its review into alleged asbestos research misconduct Wednesday morning, and will seek further guidance as to whether an official investigation should be launched.
Dean of Medicine and Vice-Principal (Health Affairs) David Eidelman wrote in a statement published Wednesday morning that, “Although the report does not identify evidence of research misconduct, it is my conclusion that the Faculty does not currently have all required records and data in hand to assess definitively in regard to research integrity.”
Almost two months ago, Eidelman appointed Rebecca Fuhrer, chair of McGill’s Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, to conduct a preliminary review of the research of John Corbett McDonald, an emeritus professor in the department.
Now, Eidelman said he is seeking further guidance from Abraham Fuks, McGill’s Research Integrity Officer (RIO).
McDonald retired from McGill in September 1988, after over two decades as a McGill epidemiology professor. According to a February episode of CBC’s The National, McDonald received at least $1 million between 1966 and 1972 for research into the health effects of chrysotile asbestos from the Quebec Asbestos Mining Association, which received a large portion of its funding from the asbestos mining giant Johns-Manville.
McDonald’s research concluded that chrysotile asbestos is less harmful than other forms of asbestos, and only deadly when a person is exposed to large quantities of it.
Kathleen Ruff, senior advisor on human rights for the Ottawa-based Rideau Institute, said that, “around the world McGill and professor McDonald’s work has been seen as an obstacle to making progress on protecting people from asbestos.”
In an interview with The Daily on Wednesday afternoon, Eidelman said he contacted Fuks last week with questions of how to proceed and “whether a full investigation was necessary or not.”
In his announcement, Eidelman added, “This is not a request to the RIO for an official investigation at this time.”
Eidelman said he is acting under Section 4.2 of McGill’s Regulations Concerning Investigation of Research Misconduct, which states that, “Where a person is unsure whether a suspected incident constitutes Research Misconduct, he or she should seek guidance from the RIO.”
Eidelman said that in order to assess if there has been a breach of research integrity, they would need access to original data, as well as “information about relationships between that person and industry.” According to Eidelman, Fuhrer’s review looked mostly at published works and externally-submitted information.
“Based on what we can see, we certainly do not see evidence of a breach of research integrity,” he continued.
There is no mention of a “preliminary review” into research misconduct in McGill’s Regulations Concerning Investigation of Research Misconduct, and Eidelman said the decision to conduct a preliminary review was “a choice that I made when I first was presented with the information.”
“Usually what we do is we try to put together a package before we send it to the [RIO], even when there’s a formal allegation,” he continued.
Eidelman said that the CBC documentary didn’t qualify as a “legitimate formal allegation of misconduct.”
“But it is something we take very seriously, which is why I immediately asked that we start putting together the information, even in the absence of an allegation,” he said.
The review was criticized by a group of academics and health professionals, who sent McGill a letter calling for an external review of the allegations against McDonald.
Fernand Turcotte, a lead signatory of the letter and professor emeritus of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Université Laval, said his first reaction is “to trust the honesty of all the mechanisms that are in place.”
“I am not surprised that Dr. Fuhrer hit the edge of the cliff without having access to all the information that she needed to be able to assume or to finish the mandate that was given to her. It seems to me that the Dean will have no choice but to refer the matter to the Research Integrity Officer of the University,” said Turcotte.
“I think it matters a hell of a lot that McGill University – which is an institution that belongs to all of us – gets rid of the smear that it happens to be the last major university adopting a denialist position on the asbestos question,” he continued.
Eidelman said that calling for an external review is not in McGill’s regulations.
“We don’t usually go directly to an external review. Instead, we try to decide whether, under the regulations, there’s a reason for the Research Integrity Officer to be involved,” said Eidelman.
This is not the first allegation levied against McDonald’s research at McGill. In 2002, David Egilman, a clinical associate professor at Brown University and co-signer of the February letter to McGill, wrote then-associate dean of graduate studies and research alleging that McDonald had manipulated data and cited supporting data that did not exist.
McGill responded 16 months later stating that his grievance was “unfounded.” In an interview with the Montreal Gazette after the launch of Fuhrer’s review, Eidelman addressed Egilman’s allegations, saying, “If you ask me, we are unlikely to find anything this time either.”
Eidelman defended his comments in his interview with The Daily.
“What I stand by is the comment that the investigation has been done in the past and that we would take this very seriously,” said Eidelman.
“I also said that we would start from scratch and not assume anything based on the previous review, which is what we’ve done,” he continued.
Ruff, also a co-signer of the February letter, said she hoped the RIO’s involvement would be “a step on the path to a proper investigation.”
“It is time for McGill to do the right thing, and until it does this cloud will certainly continue to hang over McGill,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Three people, including one McGill student injured 
Two demonstrations, which started at 7:30 a.m. and 8 a.m. respectively this morning, ended in 71 demonstrators being arrested, including a camera operator from Concordia’s campus-community television station CUTV.
Throughout the morning three people sustained injuries, one of which was a McGill student.
The McGill student, who wished to remain anonymous, was transported to Notre-Dame hospital and treated for a fractured right forearm. The student will undergo surgery tomorrow morning at 7 a.m. as a result of the injury.
“They have to do surgery, otherwise my elbow will lock up forever. It’s not the sort of fracture that can just be set,” he said. “They said I should be good after three months of physiotherapy.”
The student said he was hit by a police officer’s shield. “This officer threw me down onto the ground from my back […] and I used my arms and elbows to stop my face from hitting the ground,” he said.
“As I was on the ground, I couldn’t get up, so the riot police was kicking me in my back, thigh and my butt. I eventually found a way to roll myself over and get up, and I ran to join other students who were then kettled,” he continued. After twenty minutes in the kettle, he asked police to see a medic. Multiple sources confirmed that the process of arresting demonstrators took approximately two hours.
“They took my information, they told me I would receive in the mail a ticket for mischief, but I haven’t gotten that yet,” he said.
The student told The Daily that, after seeing his X-rays, the doctor treating him informed him that she would file a report for police brutality so “that report will be pulled up and used as evidence.”
“She, of her own volition, came in and gave me a big speech about how she’s going to file this thing, and she told me the process that I should go through so that I can hopefully get justice,” he said.
The student intends to file a grievance against the police under the Code of ethics of Québec police officers, commonly referred to as the SPVM’s déontologie, meaning “professional ethics” in French.
As a part of the ongoing call for economic disruptions by the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE), the temporary coalition formed by the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), students assembled for two actions.
One action had about 100 people, and gathered in Square Victoria at 7:30 a.m. Demonstrators from the 7:30 a.m. action entered the Fairmont Queen Elizabeth hotel for a brief period of time.  A second, smaller group gathered in Phillips Square at 8 a.m.
Police declared both demonstrations illegal around 8:30 this morning. The SPVM tweeted that two announcements for demonstrators to disperse had been given “after mischief occurred” in the Fairmont hotel.
Reports from demonstrators who gathered for the 8 a.m. action were unclear on the grounds for which police announced that the demonstration was illegal.
“We chanted two or three chants […] I have no idea why, I guess maybe they associated us with the other protest, because we hadn’t done anything yet. We blocked a street, but besides that nothing had happened,” said one McGill student who wished to remain anonymous and was present at the 8 a.m. action.
The McGill student who injured his arm had been part of the 8 a.m. action. He explained that the two demonstrations merged seemingly unintentionally.
“We were declared illegal, and we did not know why so we started turning around, we were very scared. There were a lot of police, and we see that there’s another huge march, and this was the other march [which met at 7:30 a.m.] that caused the damage in the hotel,” he said.
The 7:30 a.m. action had left Victoria Square marching north, and some demonstrators entered the Fairmont Queen Elizabeth hotel and disrupted a room reportedly set for an event.
According to reports from students who entered the hotel and police reports, tables were overturned, a vase was broken, and display cabinets were tampered with. The SPVM tweeted as demonstrators entered and exited the hotel between 8:16 a.m. and 8:22 a.m.
According to SPVM media relations agent Daniel Lacoursière, an altercation occurred in which two security agents sustained injuries. He said that one of the two security agents were transported to hospital. Further information concerning the altercation was unavailable from SPVM media relations as of Wednesday night. A representative from the hotel was unavailable to speak with The Daily. No other details are known to The Daily.
“Things got out of hand at the hotel, but we didn’t know that at the time,” said the McGill student who would later sustain an injury. “So we meet up at about McGill College and Ste. Cats, start walking up north, and at Maisonneuve we’re blocked off by riot police so we entered the Eaton Centre.”
Demonstrators entered the metro and took the green line to metro Saint-Laurent. Upon exiting the metro, demonstrators were kettled on the side streets Charlotte and de Bullion, just south of Ste. Catherine.
According to Lacoursière, each time police announced that the demonstration was illegal participants left. “In the end they arrested the few people that were still there,” he said.
The demonstrators were transported in three STM buses to a police centre located at 7700 boulevard Langelier. One McGill student who was arrested reported that the majority of demonstrators were part of the 8 a.m. demonstration.
Of those arrested 68 were adults, 3 were minors, and at least 5 were McGill students. Demonstrators were given tickets for “having participated or being present at an assembly, march or demonstration that shows danger to the peace, security or order of the public domain.”
The ticket amounts to a fine of $146, and the SPVM has stated in a public message that, depending on their involvement, demonstrators could face other charges.
“There are plans to contest any tickets that were given and to contest the charges,” said one of the McGill students who were arrested. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
