The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Discussing the question of how undergraduate students fit in at a research-intensive university
Last Tuesday, McGill’s second Undergraduate Education Forum took place, discussing the question of how undergraduate students fit in at a research-intensive university.
With roughly 35 students and faculty members in attendance, the forum sought to generate ideas on “undergraduate research at McGill, practicality in undergraduate research, intelligent use of study space on campus, class dynamics, and career services” through round-table discussions with participants.
The forum’s facilitator, Associate Director of Teaching and Learning Services Laura Winer, explained that 20 per cent of undergraduate students are engaged in research programs that are not part of their course requirements.
Although this number is higher than that of most post-secondary institutions across Canada and the United States, Winer explained that the majority of undergraduates are not exposed to the same opportunities and experiences of this privileged few.
“Research that starts in the first years [of McGill can] frame the rest of the way in which students approach further [studies]… Without these experiences, research is seen as this mythical thing that students become anxious about,” Winer said.
Winer continued to explain that many students find opportunities for research and non-credit related studies through public events and publications, and the benefits of internships and placement programs.
According to U4 student, current chair of the DPS Board, and former Daily Design and Production Editor Aaron Vansintjan – one of the students who participated in the forum – “there is some flexibility at McGill, you just have to find it.”
Vansintjan said  that while students are often unaware of opportunities to further their education, research is possible through unique methods.
Vansintjan is one of the student organizers of the Alternative University System at McGill, a collaborative student project that began earlier this semester, promoting flexible non-credit classes.
While this system, according to Vansintjan, is ideal, he is still left with the questions of how to ensure that the classes last, and that students will keep coming back.
By providing the necessary support through professors and abandoning the idea that “students are sponges,” Vansintjan stated that “[students] can become empowered.”
SSMU VP University Affairs Emily Clare  commented on whether the forum was a success.
Clare explained that, “We tried to replicate the format of consultation fairs because we thought it would be easier for students to interact for things.
“I think we still have to figure out exactly the format of the discussions,” she added.
According to Clare, one of the main issues of organizing the forum continues to be dealing with poor turnout.
Once completed, ideas that come from the Undergraduate Education Forum will be made available to the public through compiled reports on the SSMU website.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student demonstrators receive “lighter” of two sanctions
Over the last two weeks, students who attended the January 31 Board of Governors (BoG) meeting dressed in pirate regalia, and who and sang a rendition of “Barrett’s Privateers” at the meeting, have had disciplinary action taken against them by McGill.
On February 22, the students were made aware of the allegations against them in an email from Associate Dean (Student Affairs) and Disciplinary Officer (DO) for the Faculty of Arts, André Costopoulos.
In the email, Costopoulos asked students to attend a private interview to “inquire into a possible violation of Article 5(a)” of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures.
Article 5(a) states: “No student shall, by action, threat, or otherwise, knowingly obstruct University activities. University activities include but are not limited to, teaching, research, studying, administration, public service.”
Within the group of students who participated in the action, six have confirmed with The Daily that they were brought up on disciplinary charges. So far, five of the students have received an admonishment from the University.
The Code defines admonishment as the official note that a student’s alleged violation of the Code was “supported by clear, convincing, and reliable evidence.”
Costopoulos described admonishment as the “lighter of the two sanctions” that he could have give out. The second sanction is a reprimand. “The main difference between admonishment and reprimand is the permanent discipline record,” he explained. An admonishment will not result in a disciplinary record; a reprimand would.
According to Costopoulos, an admonishment does not set a precedent for future cases. However, if a student is already on conduct probation, the case is referred to the Committee on Student Discipline, a Senate standing committee empowered to, among other things, suspend or expel.
According to students summoned to an interview with Costopoulos regarding the January 31 meeting, three sources of evidence were shown to students – though evidence shown varied depending on the individual student.
Evidence included a letter from Secretary-General Stephen Strople, three security reports filed by Security Services Operations agents, and a brief video of the action.
Students were told they could consult the evidence basis of their respective allegations twice, until 24 hours before their interview with Costopoulos.
Several students told The Daily their name was written on the security reports, or they were identified as being in the video. Students said all other names, aside from their own, were whited out on the security reports.
It is unknown who filmed the video used as evidence in the disciplinary cases. Within the section on McGill’s website pertaining to attendance and security at BoG meetings, article 3 states that “no tape, video, or other means of recording sound or images are permitted whether prior to, during, or after a Board meeting.”
Article 39 of the Code states that, in a hearing, “The rules of evidence applicable in civil and criminal court proceedings shall not apply… So long as the evidence has been obtained in good faith and by reasonable means.”
It is unclear whether Article 39 applies to an interview.
Costopoulos said that an exclusion of evidence in a general case would depend on whether “the source and the manner of obtaining the evidence makes it fundamentally unreliable…but if the evidence is reliable, and it documents a serious breach of the Code, then I would use it.”
“As long as it’s legal, ethical, and doesn’t breach any other provision of the Code, then the DO has some discretion,” he continued.
The University declined to comment, citing the confidential nature of the disciplinary process. The disciplinary process at McGill is confidential at the discretion of the student.
Costopoulos spoke to sources for evidence from which an allegation may result. “Security reports, which can, of course, contain mistakes like anything else, are one element of the evidence that I use, but mostly it’s eye witnesses,” he said.
One student who received a summons to an interview with Costopoulos, however, was not present at the January 31 BoG meeting. The student provided evidence of their absence from the meeting and received notice on Tuesday that McGill was dropping its allegations.
Other students who participated in the action have received no disciplinary action. Costopoulos explained that “everything starts with an allegation, and if a student is identified in an allegation, and I find that there’s substance to the allegation, then I call the student in. If the student is not identified in the allegation, then I can’t call them in.”
“I can’t investigate allegations that are not sent to me,” he continued.
When asked whether, in general, the system allowed for potential bias as to which students were victim of allegations, Costopoulos responded, “Yes, of course, the reporting is imperfect.”
However Costopoulos said he didn’t think the bias could be accounted for, “Unless you want to live on a Big Brother campus, in which we have face recognition software everywhere, and pictures are taken and name and ID is sent to my Blackberry live…and I wouldn’t want to live on that campus.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Early iPhones controversy eased by recent success with first ever General Assembly 
Akshay Rajaram, Science Undergraduate Society (SUS) president, was pleased with the achievements of the SUS Executive this year.
The SUS organized its first General Assembly (GA) last Friday, where a quorum of 125 students was reached within an hour. In addition, a motion on accessible education was passed at the GA.
In an email to The Daily after the GA, Rajaram wrote that, “I do think that it was important in bringing together students who had an opinion on the issues being discussed [at the GA].”
“I don’t think the GA brought any differences to the SUS per se,” he wrote, explaining whether the GA has brought any changes to the SUS.
“Beyond publicizing the adoption of our stance on accessible education, I don’t think, there is any further room for implementing the motion [on accessible education],” Rajaram continued.
Beside the GA, the president – along with his team – has also been working on projects such as a new website that will be launched in a few weeks.
Rajaram described that this new website would be “more dynamic, interactive, and informative.”
“We know that this new portal will help us reach out to more students and help our departments publicize their events and services more effectively,” he added.
Another project called the SUS “Anti-Calendar” will also be launched in a few weeks. The Anti-Calendar is a database that will provide Science students summaries on undergraduate courses.
Beyond getting students informed, the SUS also provided ways for them to get involved. The Charity Semi-Formal and the White Panda concert were two events organized by the SUS to “increase science spirit and give students  a fantastic social experience,” according to Rajaram.
When asked about the greatest difficulties he has faced, Rajaram wrote, “I think one of the greatest challenges this past year was trying to find time to balance existing and new projects.”
“We started the year with four objectives – to increase visibility, to increase Science spirit, to give back more to students, and to expand the services we offer,” Rajaram wrote.
He added, “At the White Panda concert, seeing 800 students dancing away having an absolute blast – that was the goal, and I think [the executive] definitely delivered.”
The year, however, has not come without its controversies. SUS executives were faced with considerable media attention earlier this year, when it was made public that the SUS had spent $4,320 on iPhones for their executives.
As for future plans, the SUS is holding GreenWeek, its annual weeklong event dedicated to educating Science students about sustainability.
Other activities include the SUS Graduation Formal and its annual SUS Appreciation Night.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Amendments moves start date up by a week
At a special General Assembly (GA) called on Wednesday to propose a student strike to protest tuition hikes, the Concordia Student Union (CSU) voted with an overwhelming majority in favor of the strike.
The GA rapidly reached quorum, with nearly 1,800 attendees. There were three additional locations other than the main one in room H-110 of the Hall Building, one of which was The Hive at the Loyola Campus. All locations were in contact with each other for votes, and CSU VP External Chad Walcott’s opening speech in favor of the strike, which took place in the main location, was broadcasted to the three satellites.
Technical difficulties prevented the GA from running smoothly; Walcott had to repeat the first half of his speech after he was made aware that the live broadcast was not reaching the satellite locations. He asked the audience to bear with him, as it was the first time that the CSU had attempted to use these new methods to connect their satellite audiences. It was also the first time a CSU GA has had satellite locations to accommodate the large number of students attending.
“The technical difficulties revolved around having this broadcast live on four different locations,” explained Walcott afterwards. “We had internet cut out. We had mics cut out, anything you would have when technology is spread widely.”
The original motion to strike faced two amendments, both of which passed.
The first amendment was to have the strike begin on March 15.
The motion originally stated that the strike would begin March 22, but the date was changed after a student proposed an amendment, stating, “I think there is a bit of an issue with the date that the strike is to begin. As was announced yesterday, the provincial budget is being released on [March] 20, which means that we are going to be going on strike two days after the budget is released as opposed to mobilizing before that, which would be more effective.”
The second amendment added a clause that banned the blocking of teachers and students who wished to enter classrooms during a strike.
According to Walcott, “It was never our intention to block buildings. As our resolution originally stated, studio times will be respected, lab times will be respected, internships won’t be blocked. So that was always our intent.”
“We were never going to block buildings,” he continued. “In fact, it would logistically be a nightmare to block buildings at Concordia. I believe that each department and faculty association will just feel empowered now to move forward with their mandates, adopt their own mandates, as well as ensure mobilization for their students. This is something that should happen class by class, department by department, and faculty by faculty.”
After 45 minutes of discussion following the proposed amendments, the students voted on whether or not to pass the motion. The vote resulted in 1,152 students being for the strike and 557 against it.
Nicolas Martel, a third year photography student who has been striking with the Fine Arts Student Alliance since Monday, said that, “[The result of the strike] is just a complete validation of what we are doing right now.”
The strike will begin on March 15 and last for five days, or one academic week, until March 22. After this period, the CSU will assemble again to vote on whether or not to continue with the strike, according to Walcott.
March 22 is also the date set for a provincial day of action against tuition hikes, with a march in downtown Montreal planned for that afternoon.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
