The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Clarification of SSMU by-laws hopes to smooth group’s second referendum
From April 10-16, an online referendum is being held regarding Quebec Public Interest Research Group’s (QPIRG) status as a PIRG, as well as its lease of its building from McGill on University.
Hubie Yu, new Elections SSMU Chief Electoral Officer, has taken steps toward more clearly defining external student organizations, which was an issue during the referendum campaign QPIRG ran last fall.
“The definition of whether a certain organization or individual is ‘external to SSMU’ was a pretty grey zone in the fall…but it’s been cleared up since then,” said Yu.
Yu said she worked with SSMU President Maggie Knight to amend SSMU by-laws with a clearer definition, and on March 29 SSMU Council approved the amendment.
QPIRG is holding the special referendum as a result of the McGill administration’s request for a new vote before beginning negotiations regarding QPIRG’s Memorandum of Agreement (MoA).
 The administration voided the result of QPIRG’s fall referendum, citing that the referendum question had been confusing.
 This referendum period, the ‘no’ camp is using QPIRG’s support of the #6party occupation of the James Administration Building earlier in February as the focus of its campaign. The committee is banking on the perceived unpopularity of the occupation as a way to encourage students to vote ‘no.’ 
Elissa Brock, a member of the ‘no’ committee, elaborated via email: “QPIRG has lost the support of students. No one agrees with their divisive political causes and their support of 6party. They are asking for more than a fee: they are asking students to cough up $141,000, the total cost of cleaning up the mess 6party left behind.” 
The ‘no’ campaign also decried what Brock called QPIRG’s “divisive other dealings,” including its support of Tadamon!, a pro-Palestinian advocacy group that has raised controversy in the past through, according to the ‘yes’ committee, “supporting the removal of Hezbollah from Canada’s official list of terrorist organizations,” among other initiatives such as encouraging boycotts of Israeli products and organizing Israeli Apartheid Week. 
The QPIRG ‘yes’ committee sought to counter Brock’s argument that QPIRG does not represent the majority of students. 
Lena Weber, a press liaison for the ‘yes’ committee, described campus support for QPIRG as “overwhelming.”
“We’re just trying to build on that. So many people from all departments and faculties have been tirelessly getting the word out. We’re basically building upon the amazing momentum and love for everything QPIRG does that we saw last fall, when an overwhelming majority voted ‘yes.’”
The referendum held last fall – in which 65.6 per cent voted in favour of the question – included a clause changing the opt-out system to end online opt-outs. This result was challenged and eventually invalidated by McGill’s Judicial Board due to it “[dealing] with two issues, instead of one as required by the [SSMU] Constitution.”
As to the ‘no’ committee’s charge that QPIRG was an active participant in the #6party occupation of the James building, Weber denied this claim.
“We’re trying to continue to clarify that QPIRG was not involved in the #6party occupation at all. In fact, they found out about it at the same time as everyone else on campus. Contrary to some assertions, nobody who held a director position at the time of the #6party occupation was involved in its planning or execution,” Weber said.
“A vocal minority seems to take issue with QPIRG’s respect for students’ right to take political action, but we think it is important to stand in solidarity with people who are engaged in their own struggles. QPIRG tried to bring a speedy resolution to the occupation by asking McGill to set up a meeting between QPIRG, the occupiers, and a member of the administration, though the meeting was refused,” she added.
When the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ campaigns were asked about interactions between the two, they emphasized that, other than “correcting misinformation” on both sides, no dialogue has been attempted. Campaign violations have occurred on both sides, all of which have been publicized through Elections SSMU listserv emails.
The ‘yes’ committee has been sanctioned for receiving an endorsement from an external organization, and the ‘no’ committee has been sanctioned for engaging in slanderous campaigning.
The other issue that the referendum addresses is the addition of an online ratification system requiring a quorum of 15 per cent participation regarding motions that have been passed at General Assemblies. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Original vote reconsidered following concerns of campaign violations
Last Thursday, SSMU Legislative Council voted not to endorse a ‘yes’ vote for the QPIRG existence referendum.
In addition to endorsing a ‘yes’ vote to QPIRG’s referendum question, the motion sought to send a special listserv encouraging students to vote in the elections.
The original vote, in which the motion passed, was reconsidered because of concerns of campaign violations, specifically related to VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel’s involvement in the QPIRG ‘yes’ Committee and his ability to vote on the motion.
SSMU President Maggie Knight explained to The Daily that although members of Council had originally decided to allow Patel to vote, this was reconsidered in accordance with SSMU Chief Electoral Officer Hubie Yu’s interpretation of the election bylaws.
“Council had decided that there was no conflict of interest, but because the CEO’s way of enforcing things was to require that no campaign committee member can vote; once we became aware of that, we had to revise it,” said Knight.
“It is the CEO’s ultimate interpretation of how he or she wants to enforce [election bylaws]… and one of the principles in the bylaws is that you can’t use your position on any given body to forward your campaigning efforts if you’re part of ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ campaign, but that has been enforced in different ways in the past,” she added.
A second debate session and vote was held without the participation of Patel. The motion ultimately failed with 9 councillors voting in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention.
The debate in Council centred on whether it was appropriate for the SSMU to actively endorse a ‘yes’ vote in the referendum.
Law representative Ian Clarke expressed that “it is not in the SSMU’s role and place to speak out on a referendum”
“I find it disingenuous that SSMU offers to listen to students but then in an email say: ‘You know what we really want [is for] you to vote this way,’” said Clarke.
Education representative Kady Paterson also stated that “the EdUS [Education Undergraduate Society] told me to vote no… It is not that the EdUS doesn’t endorse the existence of QPIRG, but they don’t endorse the SSMU endorsing QPIRG,”
Clubs and Services representative Sahil Chaini explained that she supported the motion because of collaboration between SSMU and QPIRG.
“SSMU collaborates a lot with [QPIRG] with Culture Shock, Social Justice Days, and a lot of different clubs do collaborations with QPIRG; as well, they also support a lot of new SSMU clubs and services,” said Chaini.
Voting on QPIRG’s referendum question ends tomorrow night. The group is running its second referendum campaign this year after the results of its fall referendum question were declared invalid by the SSMU Judicial Board, who cited the question as unconstitutional on the grounds that it “deals with two issues, instead of one.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Attempts to discuss accommodation with University administrations
As the Quebec student strike enters its seventh week, striking students at McGill and Concordia have started reaching out to their respective administrations about respecting and accommodating the strike during exams.
Friday morning, a group of about twenty students held a press conference outside the James Administration building before delivering an open letter to Principal Heather Munroe-Blum. The letter – signed by 41 McGill students, professors and employees, and endorsed by six campus student groups and unions – made three requests of Munroe-Blum and Provost Anthony Masi.
The first request was that they push back the submission date for graduate theses by three working days in respect of the three-day graduate student strike, which lasted from March 19 to 22; the second, that they push the extended deadline for grade submission back by one week across the University; and finally, that they publically encourage professors and course lecturers in striking departments who have scheduled exams to work with departmental strike committees “to determine alternative ways of completing coursework…including providing grades of K (incomplete) to all students who have lost time due to the strikes.”
Susan Aberman, Munroe-Blum’s chief of staff, accepted the letter outside the James building. She said Munroe-Blum had “University business off campus.”
The letter calls for a “University-wide response” to avoid “potentially disastrous consequences to students’ academic achievement, and by extension the reputation of the University and the quality of the research it produces,” as a result of the strike.
“Formulating a response at the level of the University as a whole is the responsibility of McGill’s upper administration,” read the letter. “By abdicating their role to provide leadership in addressing the consequences of the strikes at McGill, the administration of this University unjustly penalizes students in a manner contrary to the larger interests of the University.”
The letter added that, “to treat the strike as a matter of individual conscience between professors and students is to put McGill’s teaching staff in an untenable position, caught between opposing pressures.”
There are currently over five hundred McGill students on strike, with some having been on strike for as long as four weeks. During the press conference, Mona Luxion, a PhD student in Urban Planning, Policy, and Design, said the administration “needs to recognize that strike and start to make accommodations for the [striking] students.”
“We’re here as a group of students and professors and members of labour unions, to call on the administration to take some concrete steps in terms of supporting the students who are on strike and recognizing their demands, and making sure that this semester can continue to unfold smoothly,” continued Luxion.
In an interview with The Daily, Luxion said the letter was not asking for the extension of the semester.
“It’s more creating some leeway for the discussion at the departmental level to even happen,” she continued.
Associate Director of Media Relations Julie Fortier wrote to The Daily in an email Friday morning that the administration “will need some time to look at the letter and the requests that it contains” before commenting.
Luxion said that if Munroe-Blum doesn’t reply, “we will certainly be following up.”
At Concordia, some departmental associations have been on strike since March 5. There are currently several thousand students on strike at the university, including undergraduates in the Fine Arts faculty, as well as the Geography and Women’s Studies departments.
Last Wednesday, students from two of the university’s striking departmental associations held a press conference with CLASSE spokespeople Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois and Jeanne Reynolds. CLASSE is a temporary coalition of striking student associations across the province under the Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ).
Gabrielle Bouchard, an undergraduate student in Concordia’s Simone de Beauvoir Institute, said “there has been a denial of this [strike] from the beginning.”
“Here at Concordia, since the start we’ve been going through the protest movement in a situation where the university administration has shown significant [opposition],” said Bouchard in French.
Concordia Director of Media Relations Chris Mota said on Wednesday that efforts are being made by the universities Deans “to help students get through the year without compromising the integrity of the course[s].”
On Friday, Concordia announced in an email to students that they would waive the $20 fee for applying for Incomplete status, which allows extended deadlines for submitting work for their final grade.
Mota said that Concordia will not extend the semester.
“The university’s position has been the same from the beginning, and it’s not going to change,” she said.
Final exams began at Concordia last Thursday, with about 75 protesters blocking entrance to the Hall Building on Concordia’s downtown campus for 45 minutes before being dispersed by riot police using CS gas.
As for the students continuing to strike through the exam period, Mota said that they’re “accepting the risks.”
“Those who choose not to attend exams when exams are being held, they know the consequences,” she said. “There’s just nothing more we can add.”
At the Wednesday press conference, Nadeau-Dubois said CLASSE attended to show its “unconditional support” for the Concordia students on strike.
“Unfortunately, since the start of the conflict [they] have faced an intransigent and undemocratic attitude in their talks with their administration,” he said in French.
Nadeau-Dubois said he found the Concordia administration’s attitude “difficult to understand,” since administrations at UQAM and some CEGEPs have already begun discussing ways to accommodate striking students academically.
He added that CLASSE also wanted “to warn the administration of Concordia that if they continue in their business-as-usual attitude” tensions would “go up on the campus.”
“Our coalition and our militants will be there on the campus to help the students, to help the strikers, in order to make their democratic-mandated strike respected,” he continued.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Protesters demand resignation of Quebec Minister of Education
Thousands marched through the streets of Montreal on Saturday in one of the largest protests witnessed since the beginning of the student strike. Demonstrators called for the resignation of Education Minister Line Beauchamp and demanding the cancellation of planned tuition hikes.
The protest was organized by the Coalition large de l’Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (CLASSE) and attracted students associations, trade unions, and community groups from across Quebec.
“It’s really unfortunate that Ms. Beauchamp hasn’t been doing her job as minister,” Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, a spokesperson for CLASSE, said.
“She’s letting university and CEGEP administrations do the dirty job of having to break strike mandates instead of seeing for the end of the strike by having a conversation with students,” he added.
Several universities and CEGEPs have won injunctions over the past weeks against the picketing of classes. On Monday, the Université du Québec en Outaouais obtained a ten-day injunction prohibiting picketing within 25 metres of the university’s two campuses. On Thursday, the Superior Court of Quebec banned the hard picketing of classes on the campus of the Université de Montréal.
“We’re determined to see the strike continue in spite of all of these injunctions,” said Jeanne Reynolds, another spokesperson for CLASSE. “This conflict will be solved through dialogue, not through the courts.”
CLASSE estimated that over 30,000 protesters took part in the demonstration. At one point, organizers reported that the march stretched from the intersection of St. Denis and Rachel to its starting point at Jeanne-Mance Park.

Despite the large number of participants, the demonstration remained peaceful. The Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) reported one arrest.
“There’s been some vandalism from students in the past,” said Amir Khadir, an MP at the Quebec National Assembly, adding that police were responsible for most of the violence. “We don’t wish for it; we don’t recommend it. The student movement as a whole doesn’t ask for it either. But we can understand that when the government is acting so close-minded and stubborn that this sort of thing happens.”
The upcoming week marks the fourth week of economic disruptions called for by CLASSE.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
