The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Police downplays risks despite past deaths and industry spin
The Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) defends the use of plastic bullets by clinging to a number of assumptions that have been challenged by social justice groups, civil liberties associations, and even police reports.
The SPVM fired plastic bullets at protesters during the May 1 anti-capitalist demonstration and on April 20 during protests against Plan Nord, near the Palais des congrès.
Plastic bullets are normally fired from single-shot launchers or multiple-launchers such as the Anti-riot Weapon Enfield, or ARWEN 37. 
While The Daily was unable to confirm which type of launcher is normally used by the SPVM, a 2006 document from the École nationale de police du Québec reveals that some officers are trained to use the ARWEN 37.
Single-shot launchers and multiple-launchers like the ARWEN 37 are controversial policing tools.
A 1998 report from the Toronto police states that “numerous deaths” have been attributed to the “improper use of these weapons at close range or unintended strikes to the head [and] neck.”
Police Ordnance Company Inc., which manufactures the ARWEN 37 in Canada, says on its website that the weapon is the first less lethal weapon to combine “lightness, high accuracy and the ability to fire up to 5 shots without reloading.”
However, the Toronto police department expressed doubts in 1998 over the validity of the claims made by manufacturers.  A report compiled by its Public Safety Unit emphasized the lack of accuracy of projectile launchers.
“Accuracy is a problem with this gun,” it reads. “It is acceptably accurate at 7 metres but by 18-20 metres, the weapon suffers greatly.”
According to the Quebec Civil Liberties Union, the inaccuracy of these weapons makes them lethal regardless of the distance between the officer and the target.
“At a distance where the weapon is accurate, the launcher can’t be used because the kinetic impact would be deadly,” a 2002 document read.
“At a distance, where according to the manufacturer the weapon is less deadly, the weapon is inaccurate and becomes lethal,” it continues.
In an interview with The Daily, SPVM Sergeant Laurent Gingras said that police only use plastic ammunition when officers are being “physically assaulted” during crowd control operations.
“We normally use plastic bullets when officers are being kicked or rocks are being thrown at them,” he said.
According to a report by the Quebec Civil Liberties Union, plastic bullets “should not be utilized for crowd control, but only against individuals who pose a serious threat to police.”
The hurling of projectiles at police, it continues, does not constitute a “serious threat.”
“The use of plastic bullets is neither reasonable nor justified because of the risk of injuries and death associated with it,” it said.
Sergeant Gingras said that being hit with a plastic bullet was similar to “getting hit with a good Charlie horse.”
The ammunition used by the SPVM is similar to the M1006, a 40mm “sponge” round used by the US military and law enforcement agencies in the United States.
According to a document obtained from the Washington County Sheriff’s office in the US, a man lost his finger in 2008 after being struck by a sponge round during an altercation with Oregon police.
Globalsecurity.org, a website that sells the weapon, states on its website that operators must be aware that “incorrect employment of the M1006 can cause lethal trauma.”
The 1998 Toronto police report noted that “many low lethality munitions perform inconsistently.”
“A particular danger is that the advertised velocities of the projectiles are often significantly inaccurate. Rounds that fall below advertised velocities may not incapacitate a subject. Rounds that are significantly faster than advertised may kill,” the report said.
Moreover, the cost of the ARWEN 37 is “prohibitive, each weapon costing several thousand dollars.”
“Ammunition, including that needed for training purposes is also extremely expensive, some costing upwards of $30 per round,” the report continued.
François du Canal, a member of the Collective Opposed to Police Brutality, told The Daily that plastic bullets are “one of the more dangerous so-called ‘non-lethal’ tools of ‘crowd control’ used by police.”
Du Canal said that Éric Laferrière lost his voice because he “received a plastic bullet in his throat during the protests in Quebec City in 2001.”
Philippe Ferraro was killed after being shot by a plastic projectile in 1995, he added.
In the United Kingdom, plastic bullets have killed 17 people between 1972 and 1989. According to a 2011 review of police tactics compiled by the London police, they can be considered to stop “violent attacks on the public,” arson attacks, and when fire and ambulance crews are being threatened.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Record-turnout for annual May Day action
Updated May 2. 
In honour of International Workers’ Day, around 3,500 demonstrators participated in the fifth annual May Day Anti-Capitalist demonstration yesterday afternoon.
The demonstration began at 4:30 p.m. near Champ-de-Mars metro before proceeding to march throughout the downtown area, and concluded in Square Émile-Gamelin around 8 p.m. – which is when the eighth night protest began.
When he spoke to The Daily at 10:30 p.m., Montreal police sergeant Laurent Gingras confirmed 107 arrests and reports of 2 injuries throughout the course of the demonstration.
The demonstration was organized by the Convergences des luttes anticapitaliste-Montréal (CLAC). In the organization’s press release posted later Tuesday, CLAC denounced the arrests and noted a record-turnout for the demonstration. Various contingents participated in the demonstration including a group of clowns, the Comité commémoratif des prisonniers politiques iraniens des années 80 and Comité montréalais de soutien au mouvement du 20 février.
The demonstration also included a Baby Bloc, a group of demonstrators with children. According to Myriam Tamèr, a UQAM masters student who brought her 18 month old baby to the demonstration, this is the second year a Baby Bloc took part in the demonstration.
“The main way to stay safe is to stay in a group together and to be visually present in the demonstration – that’s why we have the yellow balloons, to clearly identify us,” she said.
Tamèr said two groups organized the Baby Bloc this year : Parents contre la hausse and a mobilization committee of student parents from UQAM.
In the statement, CLAC spokesperson Mathieu Francoeur described the demonstration as a “chance to celebrate a legacy of confrontational, revolutionary, and explicitly anti-capitalist working-class culture.”
“This May Day, the CLAC wishes to reaffirm its solidarity with all the movements of resistance struggling against austerity measures here and across the world, and particularly with the extraordinary struggle of the Quebec student movement, which has been showing the world what a strong, united mass social movement looks like,” states the press release.
From Champ-de-Mars, demonstrators marched west on rue Notre-Dame, turning north onto St-Laurent and then west on René-Lévesque. A group of 40 riot police officers walked alongside the demonstration. The demonstration was declared illegal just after 6 p.m.
According to the SPVM, after the announcement was given for demonstrators to disperse, criminal acts continued to be committed. Demonstrators initially launched fireworks and flares, then paint bombs, and smoking or alight projectiles. Between 5:30 and 6 p.m., a citizen was injured after a paint bullet hit them in the head.
At the intersection of University and rue Ste-Catherine, police and demonstrators clashed. The Bank of Montreal’s windows were smashed, at least two demonstrators were arrested – one of whom was dragged for about 20 metres – and projectiles such as rocks and sticks were thrown at police.
Montreal resident John Ranger spoke to what he witnessed: “At that moment all hell broke loose.”
“The people who were friends of [those] who got dragged away, they were picking up rocks, bottles, anything they could, because what are you going to do? These people [the police] turn on innocent people for no reason – we are only walking,” he said.
Though Gingras said he was unable to confirm individual reasons behind the 32 arrests for criminal infractions that occurred, he confirmed that officers used plastic bullets, rubber ball grenades and 40mm bullets “to mark” demonstrators in order to “control those who violently attack police and attack citizens.”
One officer was injured due to “contamination by chemical irritants,” according to Gingras. “I don’t know if it was ours or something that was brought by demonstrators,” he added.
After riot police intervened, stating that unless demonstrators were on sidewalks they would be arrested with criminal charges. Demonstrators marched along sidewalks in nearby streets as police followed. On rue Jeanne-Mance, a car window was smashed and its rear door was dented.
The dispersion of the initial demonstration resulted in splintered groups forming. The demonstration set to reconvene en masse in Square Émile-Gamelin. The largest splinter group contained about 200 people.
Three McGill students marching in this group, spoke to the use of ‘concussion grenades.’ 
“They [the SPVM] threw them directly into the crowd, and one of them exploded about a foot from my own feet, and we could feel heat that wasn’t just the tear gas in them, but heat from the actual explosion from the bomb on our faces,” said one student, who wished to remain anonymous.
Around 7 p.m., 75 demonstrators were arrested under municipal regulations at rue Berri and Ontario. Gingras said that police gave demonstrators “time to disperse” after declaring the demonstration illegal, but “unfortunately, those people refused to do it [disperse], and that’s why they were encircled along Berri and Sherbrooke.”
Twenty minutes later, about 500 people gathered in the square, blocking Ste-Catherine just south of the square.
30 riot police previously gathered in the square walked among demonstrators before turning to charge diagonally through the crowd of demonstrators creating confusion and panic among demonstrators. The tactic ended in the arrest of one male demonstrator.
Other demonstrators pursued police north towards Maisonneuve, throwing projectiles. 100 officers established a line around the northeastern corner of the square blocking further advances.
The demonstration ended with about 300 demonstrators blocking rue Berri while police tried twice to clear the street. Half an hour later, after telling demonstrators they would spend the night in jail if they did not clear the street, a line of about 35 bike police stood along the western edge of the sidewalk with another 40 officers stood across Berri.
Police arrested three demonstrators who were part of the line of demonstrators facing officers with bikes. Two of the three demonstrators had been prominent in leading demonstrators back into the street the first and second time demonstrators re-occupied the street. Gingras said he did not have information on the context of the three arrests.
In a previous version of this article CLAC was misidentified as a coalition. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
