The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students continue third week of economic disruptions
About 200 students participated in blocking the entrances of buildings located at 600 and 700 de la Gauchetière this morning, beginning at 7:30 a.m. The blockade lasted until about 8:45 a.m., when riot police dispersed students blocking the main entrance to 600 de la Gauchetière using CS spray gas.
The students handed out pamphlets outlining the goal of the action – called ‘Block the flow: cette fois-ci mettons-les chaos!’ – throughout the duration of the blockade. The action was intended to block access to the head office of the National Bank of Canada, housed at 600 de la Gauchetière.
“Our presence here rests on much more than the struggle for accessible education. The objective? To disrupt the flows of capital that govern too much of our society while continually impeding equity and social justice,” the pamphlet states.
According to the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal, one male protestor, aged 23, was arrested for allegedly assaulting a police officer during the police intervention, and one student had a sprained ankle after falling while running from police.
SPVM media relations agent Daniel Lacoursière told media later that a woman inside the National Bank had fainted and hit her head, however, paramedics from Urgence Santé were unable to reach her due to students blocking the doors.
“That’s why we had to remove quickly the persons in front [of the National Bank],” he said.
The action is part of the third week of economic disruptions protesting tuition hikes, called for by CLASSE, the temporary coalition of the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ).
A political science student from the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM), who would not give his name and participated in the blockade, said a mix of university and CEGEP students organized the action autonomously.
Groups of between ten and thirty students stood with their arms linked at all entrances allowing people within the building to exit and refusing entrance to everyone.
Isolated altercations occurred when people attempted to push through students. According to eyewitness account, one altercation occurred between a man and a female student blocking the main entrance to 700 de la Gauchetière.
A separate altercation occurred at the Viger metro entrance to the National Bank. After attempting to push past students linking arms, a man grabbed the back of a helmet worn by a female student. He pulled down on her head before releasing his grip as the student screamed.
“That is not necessary,” said another student addressing the man. The man spoke with a different student for around 15 minutes after the incident.
“It’s a political action,” said one student who would not give his name. “It’s a question of politics but they want to make it personal: ‘I want to enter.’”
A man who attempted to enter the building addressed the students. “This is not how democracy functions,” he said in French.
At 8:30 a.m., the manager of the building read a statement in French over an SPVM loudspeaker stating that the blockage would no longer be tolerated. A police commandant also read a statement in French immediately afterwards asking people to move away from the building’s entrances.
According to Lacoursière, since the buildings were located on private property, once the owner states they no longer tolerate an action, the police take over by giving out eviction notices and removing demonstrators.
The initial warning was not given in English. When asked why the first warning was not translated into English, Lacoursière said in French that “if a demonstrator speaks only English – we’re in Quebec. The official language we use is French.”
“The people who were there knew what was happening. The people who I spoke with and engaged with spoke French. If you are a unilingual Anglophone you can turn and ask, ‘What did he say?’” he continued in French.
A second warning, announced in both languages, declared the action to be illegal at 8:40 a.m. Around 250 spectators had gathered outside the buildings, and police asked the crowd to move away from the entrance.
Police on bicycles approached students at the bank’s main entrance from two sides, however, students resisted police efforts to surround and disperse them. Some students remained at the entrance while others surrounded police officers.
At 8:42, about thirty riot police appeared. To cheers from some onlookers and boos from fellow students, students were sprayed with CS gas and pushed westward on de la Gauchetière. Riot police then charged the street, first to the west and then back eastward. The demonstration was almost entirely dispersed by 9:10 a.m.
National Bank employee Marc André Wolf, spoke to The Daily while waiting to enter the building after students were dispersed.
“We understand the mindset,” he said in French. “I work for the bank, but that’s not to say that I’m the bank. There’s two different things. What the bank does with loans, bursaries, whatever  – they don’t concern me. I’m here to work [and] pay my rent.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Day-long tuition protest designed to turn downtown core into “protest playground”
About two dozen students began twelve hours of almost non-stop marching through downtown Montreal this morning in protest of impending tuition fee hikes.
Dubbed the Manifestation Générale Illimitée (MGI) and organized by the independent student group Rouge Illimitée, the day of action involves twelve planned marches, leaving every hour from Square Victoria. According to the demonstration’s Facebook page, the day is designed to “turn the downtown core into a Protest Playground.”
“Now is not the time to back down,” continues the Facebook page. “We’re finished with the ‘training’ marches – after more than a month of protest, it’s time to hit hard!”
The first march left at 7:30 a.m. and headed north from Square Victoria before looping east around Place du Canada. The second march left an hour later and headed in the opposite direction. By the second march, the group had grown to roughly thirty people. Marches later in the afternoon swelled to well over one thousand.
A temporary staging point was set up at Square Victoria. A tent was pitched, with protesters printing on t-shirts and making signs. A number of live performances were held in the Square throughout the day.
Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, spokesperson for CLASSE, a temporary coalition of striking student associations formed under the Association pour un solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), spoke to the the purpose of the day of actions.
“The idea was to do something original, to organize multiple marches throughout the day to put the most pressure possible” on the provincial government, said Nadeau-Dubois in French.
Daniel Lacoursière, spokesperson for the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM), said they were going to “set a perimeter [for the day] and make sure traffic can circulate safely.”
The beginning of the MGI coincided with a student blockade of the Tour Banque Nationale next to Square Victoria. Around 9 a.m. police declared the blockade illegal, and riot police dispersed the protesters with pepper spray.
Richard Painter, an insurance broker who works in the building, had gotten into an argument half an hour earlier with some marching students on the corner of University and de la Gauchtière while he waited outside the building.
Painter spoke to The Daily after the confrontation, saying he thought students in Quebec “have a very good deal right now.”
“I don’t sympathise too much with them, because they have the lowest student fees in Canada. I think they have a right to protest, but they don’t have a right to stop us going to work,” said Painter.
The scheduled tuition hikes would raise tuition fees by $325 a year for five years, an overall increase of $1,625. Quebec base tuition would remain below the Canadian average after the five years.
According to l’Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ), almost 180,000 students are currently on strike across the province. At over six weeks, this strike is the longest student strike in Quebec history.
Tristan Lamour, a student from France who participated in some of the afternoon marches, said he thought the strike is “an interesting movement,” but that he didn’t think the students are going to win.
“I think the movement is very strong, but I have an impression that it is just a very good symbolic action,” said Lamour in French.
Last week, Quebec Education Minister Line Beauchamp offered to implement a revamped student aid program to appease the striking students. The plan would extend student bursaries and allow students with an annual family income over $60,000 to borrow under the aid program.
Quebec’s major student federations unanimously rejected the government’s proposal on the grounds that it did not address the tuition hike and would increase student debt.
— with files from Laurent Bastien Corbeil
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The former Prime Minister and current McGill professor discusses the Harper government, the NDP, and the years’ events at McGill
The Right Honourable Joe Clark was once Prime Minister and leader of the now-dissolved Progressive Conservative Party. He now volunteers as a professor of practice for public-private sector partnerships at McGill’s Institute for the Study of International Development.
In Montreal for a conference hosted by the Institute two weeks ago, Clark sat down with The Daily to discuss what has been an eventful year at McGill and in the national political scene.
 
The McGill Daily: What’s your job at McGill?
Joe Clark: What I am right now at McGill is a member of the advisory board of the Institute for the Study of International Development. I also hold an appointment as a professor of practice at that Institute, but I have not been active in that role for the last two or three years.
 
MD: What are your thoughts on everything that has happened at McGill this year?
JC: I can’t really comment on that. I was not here for any of that. I’ve seen news reports, but I’m no more informed than any other sort of casual observer of the news.
 
MD: As someone affiliated with the University, how did you see these events?
JC: Certainly nothing has come to my attention over the last year that would suggest that [the University’s] reputation ha[s] been damaged, but that is more a commentary on the attention I’ve been paying than it is on the actual events. Although I do think – because people know I’m associated with McGill internationally – that if there were some unusual problem it would be drawn to my attention, but none has been.
But this is the time of institutional challenge everywhere, so I don’t think – I’m not trying to be evasive – I don’t think I have anything useful to say about that.
 
MD: What do you mean when you say this is a time of institutional challenge everywhere?
JC: One instance is the Occupy movement, which was wholly new in the Western world experience. There have also been some quite dramatic events…in unlikely places: Philadelphia; Delhi was shut down for several weeks [over] concern about corruption in the government; in London some of the violence in the streets was in areas that had not been violent before, [with] images of buses being overturned and burned; and indeed the sense of the determination to change that one finds in many objectively [oppressed] parts of the world. Whether it’s the Arab Spring or Iran or elsewhere, this is a time of ferment – and I don’t mean to draw parallels with McGill, or to suggest that there aren’t particular causes here; I’m simply saying that this is a time in which protest is being expressed.
 
MD: The Quebec student movement has been around for decades though.
JC: I’m familiar with it in the past, yeah. I first learned about…the Quebec student movement when I went to a Canadian University Press (CUP) conference in Quebec City fifty years ago. So I know its strength.
 
MD: What are your thoughts on what the Conservative Party has done since the election last May?
JC: Well, I didn’t support the merger of my Progressive Conservative Party with the Reform Alliance because I thought the result would not be balanced. I thought that the very strong and positive traditions of my party would tend to be moved aside, and I’m afraid [that I’ve been proven] right… I think that this has been in effect a Reform Alliance government much more than a Progressive Conservative government. What does that mean? It’s certainly clear in international affairs, where its focus has been very narrow on the military and on trade. Much of the emphasis upon CIDA, which had been upon actual development dealing with poverty, has been replaced now by a supportive role [in] trade arrangements, not necessarily in the poorest countries. Our relations with many parts of the world where we had historically strong partnerships have deteriorated. There is an avowed interest in Latin America as a priority, but it’s primarily a trade interest rather than a political interest, and I think that is wasting a Canadian advantage. I’m sorry that’s happened.
I also think there has been an hostility towards some of the Canadian institutions – the CBC’s the most recent – and none of these are fault-free, but I think that they were given a benefit-of-the-doubt under former Progressive Conservative governments, and they’re not now. I’m astounded, frankly astounded, by the degree to which Parliament and Cabinet acquiesce in following, without any apparent questioning, the Prime Minister’s lead. Prime Ministers have always been strong in our system, but almost all others have respected their parties and their parliaments more than Prime Minister Harper does.
 
MD: What are your thoughts on the NDP?
JC: I find it very fascinating. A lot of people dismiss the number of members elected in Quebec as people who had no interest and no credential[s]. I think that’s a shortsighted view. At various times in my life as a national party leader, I had to find candidates to run in ridings that were not likely ridings for us to win, and it was often hard to find somebody who had actual deep roots there, but my practice was to find somebody who had an interest in politics there, and I think that’s what the NDP did with Jack Layton… The McGill Three [sic], very explicitly, were interested in politics, they had an understanding of it, and so I think two things flow from that: one is that they are likely to be much more able to participate in constructive debate; but secondly, the likelihood is that because they are politically inclined they will make use of the power of governance. So I think the likelihood of their getting re-elected is higher than a lot of other people.
And I don’t know [NDP leader Thomas] Mulcair, except to watch him, and I’ve been very impressed. I think, if he is a difficult personality, as some people say, this gruelling leadership campaign was very good for him, because it forced him to come to terms with his critics and his challenges. I was elected leader of my party in 1976 because people thought, correctly, that I could take on Pierre Trudeau in the House of Commons, whereas not many other people could. And he’s clearly able to take on a strong parliamentarian. I’m interested in his potential, and we’ll just see what happens.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
