The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Government seeks $124 million in cuts and fee hike for international students
 
Students and university administrators from across the province are growing increasingly skeptical of the government’s upcoming summit on higher education, accusing the Parti Québecois (PQ) of determining the outcome of the summit in advance.
Despite promises of further investments, Minister of Higher Education Pierre Duchesne asked universities on Tuesday to find $124 million in cuts by the end of the year.
In an interview with Radio-Canada on Wednesday, Rector of Université Laval Denis Brière criticized the government for reneging on its commitments.
“Those [cuts] go against the fundamental rules that the government created for the holding of this summit, which was supposed to establish a consensus,” he said in French.
His message was echoed on Friday in an email from Principal Heather Munroe-Blum to members of the McGill community, which described the cuts as “short-sighted” and claimed that they “threaten the very future of Quebec.”
“Now, we are being asked to manage the financial decline of the educational system, and the proposed decline of our educational and research contributions, our services to our students and professors, and our upkeep and management of our facilities,” the email read.
McGill is set to reduce its operating grant by $17 million to $21 million, according to the University.
Administrators are not alone in their criticism.
On Wednesday, l’Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ) called the cuts “unacceptable” and vowed to mobilize students for the summit in February.
“[The announcement] has confirmed what we feared: when the government wants to make a decision, it does so behind closed doors without any consultation. It’s the government that is avoiding dialogue, not the student associations,” read a statement in French on ASSÉ’s website.
The Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) has also expressed doubts on whether the government intends to keep its word.
Before Wednesday’s announcement, FEUQ President Martine Desjardins had already denounced the government’s decision to raise fees for international students.
In an interview with The Daily, Desjardins said that Duchesne had called for a 7.6 per cent increase in ancillary fees for international students in an internal document sent to the Advisory Committee on the Financial Accessibility of Education, a government advisory body.
“When you calculate the 7.6 per cent, it amounts to around $254,” she said in French. “It’s as if they had the hike, but for their ancillary fees and not for their tuition fees.”
“In the context of these talks, we consider the government’s decision to be absurd,” she added.
While the increase in ancillary fees is not yet slated to go into effect, several students said that they have already been charged.
“[The University] was told before the elections to raise the fees by this much, and then they were told after the elections to reimburse the fees for Quebec students, but they haven’t decided what to do for out-of-province and international students,” Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney told The Daily.
Mooney said that PGSS has pressured both the government and the University to reimburse the fees.
The government is planning to hold a preliminary panel on higher education next week at Trois-Rivières.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Fight against systemic violence persists beyond day of memorial, organizers say
The Sexual Assault Centre for the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) held a memorial service on Thursday in Birks Heritage Chapel to remember the women who lost their lives 23 years ago in the December 6 massacre at the École Polytechnique de Montréal, and to raise awareness about the gendered violence and oppression that people face today.
In 1991, the Canadian Parliament declared December 6 the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women to mark the anniversary of Marc Lépine’s shooting of 14 female engineers. He claimed he was “fighting feminism.”
Organized by the SACOMSS Special Projects coordinators, the memorial service featured speakers Dr. Lucille Marr, Annie Preston, and Myriam Arsenault-Jacques, as well as performances by McGill a cappella group Tonal Ecstasy, activist Stefan Christoff, and spoken word artist Lady Sin. The service was followed by a candle lighting ceremony and a reception.
Claudia Alexander, one of three SACOMSS Special Projects coordinators, told The Daily that “at least for someone having grown up in Montreal, [the shooting] was an event that […] is portrayed as the start of fighting [and] violence against women, when of course it’s been happening since society began.”
Madison Leia, a memorial organizer, agreed.
“It’s still very easy for people to ignore the fact that this is a systemic problem and we all have stories of how we’ve been victimized and harassed, how we’re survivors of untold violence against our bodies, whether it’s by the state or our friends or our partners,” said Leia.
Leia said that history does not always operate in a “linear progression,” and that this isn’t always visible day-to-day.
“I think that we are taught violence as children,” reflected Lady Sin. “I think that male-assigned children are taught that they have privilege and power and the right to female-assigned people’s bodies. I think that trans* people are erased from mainstream society’s memory and I think that women of colour – people of colour in general – are still dominated and exploited.”
“The whole story has a lot more to do with systemic violence and people who get invisibilized until something horrible happens,” Lady Sin said.
This systemic violence is rarely discussed at the University, a flaw that the memorial organizers pointed out in its institutional framework.
Memorial organizer Isabella Mancini said she believes the problem lies in “the way that Frosh is run, the fact that residences make it really, really difficult for people who are experiencing problems in Rez to speak about it and to move out of Rez […] and the way classes are totally ignorant to speaking about trans* folks and speaking about women.”
“I think McGill is a really good example of institutionalized ignorance, and I think that it’s really important to consider that,” Mancini added.
According to Alexander, this form of ignorance is not only propagated by the University but also by assumptions formed by students. “We make a lot of assumptions about what people experience within that institution, outside that institution, what their lives are like, [and] what it is to be continually categorized,” Alexander told The Daily.
For the memorial organizers and performers, working against systemic violence goes beyond the day of memorial and translates into their roles as students engaging with the University.
“I hope that people will continue to engage beyond the day of memorial and seek out tangible, as well as ideological, solutions to violence against women and trans* people,” said Lady Sin.
The École Polytechnique held a commemoration ceremony for the 14 women who were killed. A public assembly was also organized outside Palais de justice to condemn violence against women and remember victims of the shooting.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
