The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
‘Students Helping Students’ fund tabled indefinitely
Last Monday, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) held its first General Assembly (GA) of the academic year, an event that yielded few participants.
At peak attendance, there were thirty-eight students present – out of over 7,000 arts undergraduate students – a number that continued to dwindle over the course of the evening.
Because the GA failed to meet its quorum of 150 students, it ran as a consultative body, meaning that procedure continues as normal but that votes are not binding.
Though there was no set agenda for the evening, there were six motions to be discussed, many of which were similar to those brought up at the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU)’s GA last month.
The first motion, a motion regarding departmental democracy, encouraged departmental associations to hold their own GAs one week prior to the one held by the AUS.
Lily Schwarzbaum, a U3 Arts student and one of the movers of the departmental democracy motion, told The Daily she was “unimpressed but unsurprised” with the evening’s results.
“It is because the initiative to make general assemblies happen didn’t come from the councillors but from individual students who last year wanted something specific to pass,” she said. “But there hasn’t been any process to talk about why it is important to have direct democracy.”
Other motions brought forward included a “Motion for Accessible Education,” a “Motion to Oppose the Plan Nord,” a “Motion for a McGill Free from Fossil Fuels,” a “Motion to Create a Students Helping Students Fund,” and a motion from the floor regarding Canadian involvement in Iran.
The only motion that will not move on to be discussed in AUS Council next week was the motion to create a Students Helping Students fund, which was tabled indefinitely.
The motion would require the AUS to allocate $0.75 per student to a fund dedicated to helping students who are working for accessible education or who are affected by a student strike or tuition hike.
AUS President Devon LaBuik told The Daily he thought the evening went “fine.”
“I think we tried our hardest with advertising – that’s apparent,” said LaBuik. “I think we sent out three emails last week. We sent out one Monday as well to get more people to come.”
“In the end, we didn’t get a lot of people, which I was disappointed with because I thought more students would care about coming to support the general assembly,” he continued
When asked whether this was lowest recorded turnout of an AUS GA, LaBuik replied, “Well we have had only three or four GAs in the past several years, so probably…and last year was more politicized, but you have to remember last year some of the GAs didn’t hit quorum either.”
“I think the biggest thing is now we aren’t in the same political environment that we were last year,” LaBuik explained. “This happened with the SSMU GA as well, they didn’t have quorum. First of all, we need to start appealing to students in different ways. Doing more of the same and more emails [is] obviously not working, and we need to appeal to a broader audience than we already have.
Looking forward, he said, “What I would like to start working with, with our VP Communications, is a new campaign that is going to do something more creative with advertising than just blasting people with emails.”
LaBuik also stated that the reason for the GA’s timing so late in the year was due to the Judicial Board case regarding a previous AUS GA, which postponed it significantly.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Over sixty students attended a vigil last night for the Trans* Day of Remembrance at the Y-intersection on campus.
The vigil was hosted by Queer McGill’s Trans* Working Group, a new working group under the newly restructured organization. After an initial candle lighting ceremony, attendees organized in a circle to read the names of trans* people being remembered, followed by a moment of silence.
Mona Luxion, one of the event organizers, told The Daily that the vigil was held to “commemorate transgender people who have lost their lives – usually people who have been murdered.”
“Although today, we are also remembering people who have taken their lives and people who have died due to being denied medical care or being in such dire straits that they weren’t actually able to afford medical care or just being afraid of seeking medical care,” they said.
Luxion also explained that the event was aimed at raising awareness about the situation trans* people face, as well as to commit trans* people and allies to fight against these injustices.
Following the moment of silence, attendees shared stories and experiences until the event ended an hour later.
According to U3 History student and attendee Corinne Wolfson, the event was important as a forum for people to come together and see that there is support for people who are marginalized in their communities.
“I guess that there is just a big lack of visibility, and on days like these I remember what a luxury I have…that these people died just being who they were, you know the very fact of their physicality kind of gave people a license to hurt them, to insult them, to kill them, and it’s really upsetting,” Wolfson told The Daily.
Regarding how trans*-friendly McGill is, Luxion said, “It depends; there are some great people here, you can definitely find some pockets of support.”
“Overall it’s definitely not very trans* friendly and it’s not just McGill. McGill is embedded in an entire culture that is not very trans* friendly,” they continued.
“But things like being assigned to a room in rez based on your presumed gender, things like not being able to change your name on your class lists, on your email… are structural barriers that are in place even beyond the attitude of the people that make it a very difficult place to be trans*.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
