The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Pepper spray and sound grenades drive students into streets
Correction appended March 28
After almost two hours, a student blockade of the Port of Montreal was broken up by the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM). According to the CBC, the police used pepper spray and sound grenades to disperse the students. The students continued marching through the nearby streets where they joined a second demonstration that was scheduled to begin this afternoon at Place Émelie-Gamelin.
The protest began with almost 600 students gathering in front of the Cégep de Maisonneuve. The action was organized by the Société générale des étudiantes et étudiants du Collège de Maisonneuve as part of the ongoing week of economic disruptions in protest of the upcoming tuition hikes.
The students began marching east away from the Cégep at 10 a.m. The students then turned onto Pie-IX and marched down to the Port of Montreal entrance at the intersection with Notre-Dame.
The students blockaded the port peacefully for over an hour, chanting and talking with workers in the Lantic Sugar factory on the corner of the intersection. Police presence was minimal, with a few squad cars closing access to the intersection blocks away and directing traffic.
As with every other action this week, details were kept secret from the majority of the protestors. The Coalition Large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE) has been coordinating the week of actions, and McGill students have been designating a “risk level” for every action in terms of the possibility of violence or confrontation with police or other security forces. This morning’s blockade was at a yellow risk level.
Anthony Garoufalis-Auger, a Concordia Political Science and School of Community and Public Affairs student, said he had no idea what the action was supposed to be when he came, “but when I got here I thought that it was a very well-chosen action.”
“A lot of political actors or economic actors have interests in this Port. They’ll definitely be asking the government to make this stop,” he added. “I hope there are other blockades planned for the future. It’s definitely an efficient action that we’re doing today.”
Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, CLASSE spokesperson, said the recent outburst of student action has put added pressure on the provincial government.
“Yesterday [Quebec Premier] Jean Charest spoke about the question of loans and bursaries.  Obviously it’s not enough to make us go back to class, but it does nevertheless prove that the government is slowly weakening its position,” said Nadeau-Dubois.
Richard Choquette was blockaded inside the Port this morning driving a Lantic Sugar tanker. He said the blockade was “not a problem.”
“I called the company I’m supposed to deliver it to, and they understand I can’t get through and it’s OK,” he said in French.
Choquette added that, when he was a student, he had protested for Quebec sovereignty.
“It’s true that in those times we had less money when we were student,” he said. “Today’s students are going to become the taxpayers of tomorrow.”
– with files from Erin Hudson
In an earlier version of this article, it stated that CLASSE has been assigning risk levels for each action. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Strike renewal votes continue: Check back for updates on the week’s votes, picket lines, and actions
STRIKE COUNT:
Unlimited general strike: +/- 1,046 students (SWSA, GSDFSSA, AHCSSA)
On strike as of April 4: +/- 2,083 (SWSA, GSDFSSA, AHCSSA, EGSS)
 
Still to come:
Wednesday
CLASHNA strike GA (TBA)
Tuesday 
GSDFSSA renewal GA (10 am, EDU 211)
Art History and Communications (6 pm, LEA 26)
The Philosophy Students’ Association (PSA) voted today at a general assembly (GA) in the SSMU cafeteria not to renew the unlimited strike it initially declared on March 28. The original strike mandate stipulated that it be renewed every five academic days. The vote was 44 in favour of renewal, 68 against, and 6 abstentions.
PSA co-president Emma Ryman estimates that turnout equaled about 29 per cent of the roughly 400 Philosophy undergraduates at McGill that the PSA represents. The PSA allowed students to vote by proxy and email in their votes, and 62 of the 118 votes cast were online. Students who attended the GA but had to leave early were also able to record their vote in a book before leaving.
At least two-thirds of the three-hour-long GA was spent discussing online voting, and a motion was passed to ratify the way in which online voting would occur in future strike-vote GAs. Although coupled with online votes the motion to renew the strike failed, a clear majority of those voting from the floor of the GA voted in favour of renewal, with 13 opposing the motion, 23 in favour, and one abstention. 17 students recorded their vote in the book, with nine voting against renewing the strike, seven in favour, and one abstention.
— Lola Duffort
— Henry Gass
 
 
Sunday 8 p.m. | Geography students vote to end strike
After over a week on unlimited general strike, members of the McGill Undergraduate Geography Society (MUGS) voted via online ballot to end the strike. The results were announced on the MUGS Facebook page, with 13 students voting in favour of continuing the strike, 37 voting against, and 5 abstentions.
— Henry Gass
The members of the ASA gathered in Leacock 26 and doors were opened at 6:00 p.m. However, the meeting – chaired by ASA co-president Erin Schilling — was delayed in an attempt to meet its quorum of 60 people.
After the 40 minute lag, the ASA failed to meet quorum at a peak of 56 students, roughly 17 per cent of the entire departmental body.
The GA then became a consultative body, which means its motions would only act as recommendations for the ASA executives.
The body then proceeded to vote on the first motion of putting the strike vote online.
The motion set a 24-hour online voting period starting Saturday at 5 p.m. and ending at 5 p.m. Sunday April 1. Results will be published over the department listserv Sunday night.
The motion was amended to include “a description of the formal debate on the same page as the vote,” and it passed with a vote of 42 for, 8 against, and 1 abstention – as quorum decreased to 51.
The consultative body later moved to vote on the unmodified second motion for a three-day renewable strike.
This motion underlined that “no hard picketing of students shall take place, the use of alternatives to hard picketing of students, such as information campaigns, arts shows…shall be considered as a way to increase student awareness of the departmental strike.”
“If we do go on strike, we go on strike right,” said Julian Tucker one of the movers.
The ASA then voted to change the strike period from three days to five days and to recommend uploading the motion along with the online vote.
— Esther Lee
Wednesday 6 p.m. | CLASHNA to hold strike vote next week
The Caribbean and Latin American & Hispanic Studies Association (CLASHNA) voted today to hold a General Assembly (GA) next Wednesday. The association had originally planned to adhere to the Arts Undergraduate Society’s General Assembly vote to not strike, but concerns by members over the tuition hikes prompted a GA to be organized. The GA will be held next Wednesday.
— Laurent Bastien-Corbeil
Wednesday 10:30 a.m. | GSDFSSA vote renew strike doesn’t reach quorum
The Gender, Sexual Diversity, and Feminist Studies Student Association (GSDFSSA) General Assembly (GA) vote to renew its unlimited general strike did not meet its required quorum of 20 students on Wednesday morning.
The group used the meeting time to discuss last week’s pickets of the four Women’s Studies and Sexual Diversity Studies-coded classes, the participation of professors in the strike, and to announce workshops organized by the association.
Because the association voted for an unlimited general strike, the strike will continue despite the failure to reach quorum, which raised concerns among members.
“Because it’s an unlimited general strike, it doesn’t have a set duration,” explained Molly Swain, president and communications coordinator of the GSDFSSA.
“The motion is for an unlimited strike, unlimited being that until we actively, as a body, decide to stop striking, the strike continues.”
Swain welcomed students to amend the wording of the motion at the next GA.
The meeting continued with a discussion about the validity of departmental strike votes after the Arts Undergraduate Society’s GA on March 13. There was a lengthy debate over the possibility of voting online through ballot boxes. During the discussion, members discussed the accessibility of GAs for students who work or live far from campus, versus the value of being present for debate over motions and amendments.
The association is looking to schedule another GA by the end of this week.
— Queen Arsem-O’Malley
Tuesday 8:50 p.m. | Philosophy students vote for unlimited strike
The Philosophy Students’ Association (PSA) voted to go on unlimited strike tonight at a General Assembly (GA) held in the SSMU cafeteria. The final vote tallied 32 in favour of the motion to strike, with 18 against it and 6 abstentions. The PSA represents around 400 students; quorum for the GA was forty students.
During the nearly three-hour GA, the motion was amended several times before finally passing. The strike will begin Wednesday at 8 a.m., but the strike shall not apply to 200- and 500-level courses, theses, independent studies, or cross-listed courses.
The motion also states that the strike “shall be enforced by students forming soft picket lines in front of classrooms, with the exception of a hard picket line to be formed upon the arrival of the instructor. These students can take no other actions, save self-defence and discussion.”
Jonathan Wald, PSA student-faculty liason, said the clause was designed to “try to effectively have a strike while minimizing the antagonism of students.”
PSA co-President Emma Ryman said there was “a clear desire of students in the department to go on strike.”
Ryman also addressed the results of the March 13 Arts Undergraduate Society GA, which voted against going on unlimited strike.
“The AUS GA didn’t preclude departments from going on strike,” she said. “I think we believed it was in our constitutional authority.”
— Henry Gass
 
Tuesday 7 p.m. | Geography strike renewal vote fails to meet quorum
The McGill Undergraduate Geography Society (MUGS) failed to meet its necessary forty-member quorum tonight in its first vote to renew its unlimited strike. At its peak, the General Assembly (GA) reached roughly 25 students. Students took the time to make announcements, and the three candidates to be next year’s MUGS president presented their platforms and fielded questions from students.
The MUGS renewal vote will now be scheduled for tomorrow. If the GA fails to meet quorum again, the vote will be moved online and made available for three days, during which the strike will remain in effect.
— Henry Gass
The Department of English Student Association (DESA) voted against the renewal of its strike motion. 112 students voted against the continuation of the strike, 74 voted in favour and 12 abstained.
The motion to renew the strike was proposed by Danji Buck-Moore, Patrick DeDauw and Kevin Paul, who had also presented the initial motion to go on strike. Unlike last week’s DESA General Assembly, where the quorum of 75 students was only reached halfway through debate, 155 students were present at the beginning of the GA tonight.
The majority of the speakers and students were against the picket lines that prevented them from going to class during the strike. One of the amendments of the strike motion suggested that in case of a strike, “DESA would not support picket lines, intimidation or rudenessfrom those on strike.”
Because there have already been two General Assemblies regarding the strike in the English department, it is unlikely another will occur after Monday’s vote.
“Weprobably won’t ask for another General Assembly to take place,”said Buck-Moore.
– Louis Baudoin
On March 23, members of L’Association générale des étudiantes et étudiants de langue et littérature françaises (AGELF) voted in favor of a one-week strike beginning March 26, with 18 votes for and 5 against.
Before the vote, members were notified of the strike’s preconditions, established by AGELF’s executive. They included a respect of all professorial decisions regarding the handing in of assignments, as well as a picketing policy that would have boycotting students sign a paper before their class, stating that they will not be attending because they are on strike. Under these conditions, students choosing not to participate in the boycott would not be blocked from attending class.
“Our motivation will be from a feeling of needing to join the protest,” AGELF president Philippe Robichaud told The Daily in French.
When asked whether he was worried about the department’s reaction, Robichaud said that “teachers will support us,” mentioning that multiple department professors had been seen participating in the March 22 demonstration, including Michel Biron, chair of the department.
– Jane Gatensby
McGill’s Art History and Communication Studies Student Association (AHCSSA) will hold their first ever General Assembly (GA) next Monday. Although no resolutions for the GA have been announced yet, it is clear that the AHCSSA will decide whether to declare a department-wide strike.
However, at a general meeting on Thursday some of the AHCSSA executive strongly advocated for a day-long polling period in place of a GA to allow as many students to vote as possible.
“We want this to appear legitimate, and not hasty or rushed,” said Secretary Maud Hurley, adding that the student association would be unlikely to garner sympathy from departmental professors if only a small minority of AHCSSA members vote to strike.
AHCSSA co-president and former Daily Health and Education Editor Joseph Henry noted that there was no legal mandate the Association could provide for a strike. “We can’t say you have to go on strike,” said Henry.
Monday’s AHCSSA General Assembly will have a 7.5 per cent quorum, or about 80 students out of its approximately 1,100 members.
— Tim Forster
At their first official General Assembly (GA), held in Community Square this evening, the McGill Gender, Sexual Diversity and Feminist Studies Student Association (GSDFSSA) voted overwhelmingly in favour of an indefinite departmental strike. The final vote count was 27 for the motion and three against, with one abstention.
The motion, submitted by incoming SSMU VP External Robin Reid-Fraser, specifies that the strike will begin at 8:00 am tomorrow, and will be of unlimited duration, with weekly meetings to discuss tactics and renewal.
“The strike has been controversial on this campus,” said Reid-Fraser. “People have different feelings about the use of pickets, so it’s important that we have this conversation and people express their feelings.”
It was amended at the GA that an official non-hierarchical strike council be formed by any interested members of the GSDFSSA. A second amendment, which garnered debate, moved to define a “class” as anything that follows a McGill syllabus, results in any kind of grading, or takes place within a regularly scheduled class time or space. According to the motion, any classes conducted during the strike period are a violation of the strike mandate.
During debate, concerns were expressed that a strike is not the most effective form of protest, and that it would require excessive sacrifice on the part of students. However, the dominant tone of the discussion remained in support of the strike.
“The GSDFSSA has always had a strong commitment to the accessibility of education,” said the Association’s president and communications coordinator, Molly Swain. “It’s important that we stand in solidarity with the rest of the students in Quebec.”
The first meeting of the strike council was scheduled to take place immediately after the GA, and planned to discuss the use of hard and soft strike tactics, as well as general logistics of the strike.
— Emily Meikle
Tuesday, 6 p.m. | French literature students vote for one-day strike
Tuesday evening the Association générale d’étudiants de langue et littérature françaises (AGELF), which represents all undergraduate students in the Département de Langues et Littératures Françaises (DLLF), voted 30 to 1 to go on a one-day strike this Thursday, March 22.
The one-day strike coincides with a provincial day of action in protest of scheduled tuition increases.
AGELF also reached consensus on a motion to reconvene on Friday to vote on whether to go on a one-week strike beginning on Monday, March 26. This vote would take place after the Association des étudiant(e)s en langue et littérature françaises inscrit(e)s aux études supérieures (ADELFIES), which represents graduate students, convenes to vote on extending their strike for another week.
Philippe Robichaud, AGELF president, declined to comment in his official role, but said that as a student, he saw a “huge sentiment” among other members of the AGELF that last week’s Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) General Assembly vote not to strike was illegitimate. He added that members want to take more action independent of the AUS.
“We want to act on our own,” he said.
— Jane Gatensby
Tuesday 5:30 p.m. | Sociology will vote on whether to join the unlimited general strike Friday
A group of 15 sociology students met Tuesday afternoon in the SSMU Clubs Lounge to discuss the possibility of going on strike.
Organised by U3 Sociology student Ariel Prado, the town hall meeting was meant to “create an open space” where students could have a fruitful discussion about tuition hikes and the goals of a potential strike. Attendees discussed the issues of representation, polarisation, picket lines, and the role of professors, among other things.
Because there was a general consensus to strike among those attending, there was talk about turning the group into a strike mobilisation committee. After over thirty minutes of discussion, the group voted unanimously to hold an informal vote this Friday to determine whether Sociology students would go on strike. The group also decided that the quorum for this “General Assembly” would be forty people, and that if students vote in favour, they will use hard picket line tactics.
The meeting was held independently of the Sociology Students’ Association (SSA). While two of the SSA executives did attend the meeting, Prado said that “the executive didn’t want to be a part of [the meeting].” He added that SSA President Samantha Allen, who he had met with earlier to discuss holding a strike forum for Sociology undergraduates, “felt nervous that the SSA would be affiliated [with the strike].”
— Nastasha Sartore
“I’m hesitant to call Security because I don’t trust them. Nevertheless I’m legally obliged to teach the class and I think that it would be perhaps interesting to go outside, where it’s gorgeous, and maybe think collectively about the strike,” she said.
Osterweil added that she didn’t “appreciate the attempt to block my class and the attempt to block my students’ access to that class, and if I had less of a conscience I would call Security.”
— Henry Gass
– Henry Gass
 
Monday 7:53 p.m. | English students declare unlimited general strike
A motion for an unlimited general students strike, beginning tomorrow at 8 a.m., was passed by the Department of English Student Association (DESA) town hall this evening without unfriendly amendments. DESA representes roughly 1,200 McGill students.
The motion, presented by Danji Buck-Moore, U3 Music & Drama Theatre, Patrick DeDauw, U3 Cultural Studies, and Kevin Paul, U3 Cultural Studies, was the only item on the agenda. The town hall struggled to meet quorum early in the evening. However, as debates on amendments and the motion were completed, the town hall reached the required 75 students, and passed the motion with 53 in favour, 27 against, and 5 abstentions in an anonymous vote. The motion passed with the amendment that the strike committee be composed of DESA students.
The town hall came in response to the AUS vote last week to not strike. DESA asked for students’ and professors’ input on the issue and held office hours to get a feel for what English students wanted to do in wake of the AUS vote. DESA Literature representative Julie Mannell said that they “didn’t know what to expect, [we] just wanted to have a forum.” A  letter from two professors to DESA were read aloud at the town hall; one was anti-strike, the other pro-“right to vote.”
DESA will be contacting students this evening via listserv to explain how the strike will play out tomorrow morning.
— Vanessa Pagé
 
Monday 3 p.m. | CLASSE demonstrates on McGill-College
A group of roughly 200 students demonstrated outside 1253 McGill-College on the corner of Ste. Catherine where Quebec Premier Jean Charest was scheduled to speak.
The outer doors to the building were opened by students and occupied until SPVM officers arrived from within the building to push students out. The officers used pepper spray.
U4 Arts student and Daily staffer Ethan Feldman was one of the students pepper sprayed.
Feldman said, when he arrived at the demonstration, the entranceway to the building had been “completely filled by students.”
“Eventually people who were blocking the door had to leave and go somewhere else. I stood at the door and I held it open,” said Feldman.
SPVM spokesperson Raphael Bergeron said in a recorded message that a “little group of students” tried to get inside the building, and that the police “intervened and dispersed” them.
Feldman said there were no police at the scene at the time. He said, however, police approached the students from inside the building, having entered from somewhere else.
“Police began to push the doors open, push everybody out very physically,” said Feldman, who added that he hadn’t heard any warning from police before they started advancing.
“At this point a police officer, seeing that I was opening the door or something to that effect, held pepper spray extremely close to my face…and he sprayed in my left eye, all over my face on the left side,” continued Feldman.
The SPVM are currently unavailable for comment.
— Henry Gass
 
Monday 12 p.m. | Département de langue et littérature françaises begins five day strike
About 25 students from the Association des étudiant(e)s en langue et literature françaises inscrit(e)s aux etudes supérieures (ADELFIES) gathered on the steps of the Arts building starting at noon today.
ADELFIES voted unanimously to go on strike for five days last Friday. Their strike started today. “We are a bit of a strange department at McGill  – no one voted against the strike,” said masters student Alex Noël.
Noël said that no picket lines were formed by the striking students today, and, according to him, no picket lines to block classes will be formed. The ADELFIES’s strike is “only to encourage people to strike,” he explained.
Noël said the Arts building steps were chosen as the site for the demonstration because of their symbolism and visibility.
The demonstration had dispersed by 3 p.m. The ADELFIES will vote again this Friday on whether or not to continue the strike next week.
– Erin Hudson 
 
Monday 7:30 a.m. | Social Work joins the unlimited general strike
Picket lines were set up at 7:30 a.m. Monday morning around the three entrances to Wilson Hall, home of McGill’s School of Social Work.
The Social Work Student Association (SWSA) voted to join the unlimited general strike last week by a margin of 47 students for, 29 students against, and 1 abstention. SWSA is the only student body at McGill to vote to join the unlimited general strike thus far, and also the first student association to vote to go on unlimited strike in McGill’s history.
At 10 a.m. there were 15 students participating in picket lines around the building entrances by holding signs, chanting, and sporting face paint of a red square.
At that time, Anne Blumenthal, Y2 Social Work student and member of SWSA’s mobilization committee, said that four students had crossed picket lines.
Alex Beveridge, a Y1 Social Work student picketing outside the building’s University entrance, said that professors had crossed picket lines and were teaching classes inside, however, she noted having received support from professors since the picket lines formed.
While The Daily was near the Wilson Hall University entrance’s picket line, one student crossed the picket line peacefully.
– Erin Hudson

— Photos by Hera Chan, Henry Gass, Morgan James and Sam Reynolds
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
