The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
12 students remain on sixth floor
On Wednesday night, students outside the James Administration building attempted to deliver food to the 12 students who remained in Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson’s office on the sixth floor.
A makeshift pulley – a bucket and rope – was lowered out of a sixth floor window to students waiting below. Security agents cut the rope before any food could be supplied to students within the building.
“Security guards at the lower level grabbed the bucket and the rope, and destroyed them,” said student and Daily staffer Ethan Feldman, who was, at press time, still occupying Mendelson’s office. “Right now all we want is to eat.”
At 9:40 p.m., the students tweeted that they were on their last sandwich. One student on the sixth floor told The Daily that they have some additional food, though the supply is limited.
After the attempt to obtain food was obstructed by McGill Security, Feldman spoke to future efforts. “We have more rope [and] we’re attempting to build something. Students still have the space underneath our rope, but it is just not something that seems possible,” he said.
Students on the sixth floor gained access to a window after their negotiation team refused to exit the designated negotiation room. The students’ negotiating team has met with Associate Vice-Prinicpal (University Services) Jim Nicell.
Nicell was no longer negotiating with students as of 9:30 p.m. Feldman said that Nicell told students on the sixth floor that he would be a “phone call away” if they wished to contact him.
Earlier in the day, a student announced outside of the James building that Nicell told the bargaining team that he “doesn’t have the power to grant them access to food.” Nicell was unavailable for comment at the time of press.
Reports from the sixth floor said that the students had only planned for food provisions to last until Wednesday night.
On Tuesday night while participating in negotiations with Nicell, student Amber Gross attempted to bring food from the lobby of James to the sixth floor. She was informed by Nicell that she could not bring food with her to the students.
Director of Media Relations Doug Sweet said that, although students on the sixth floor have access to washrooms, in terms of food provisions, he stated, “My understanding is that they had brought provisions and were planning to settle in for some length of time, if they didn’t have sufficient provisions, they also have an option: they can go outside the building.”
“They’re not allowed to re-enter the building [if they leave],” Sweet added.
Reports from students who were outside the James building said their attempts to deliver food to students on the sixth floor were ongoing. At least three students planned to spend the night camping outside of James.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Lobby “party” ends after 24 hours, sixth floor contingent carries on
This story is in development. The article will be update to reflect any changes as they occur. Follow @mcgilldailynews for immediate updates.
About seventy students spent Tuesday night in and around James Administration building. The students decided to leave the lobby around 11:30 a.m. after having spent 24 hours “partying” in solidarity with a second occupation occurring on the sixth floor of the building.
At around 8:45 p.m., Security Services’ Operations Administrator (Special Events) Kevin Byers announced to occupants of the lobby that they would no longer be permitted to enter and exit freely. As of 9 p.m., wireless Internet was disabled in the building.
“The building is closed, so if you guys want to sit here and keep doing what you’re doing, it’s been peaceful, so let’s keep it that way. If you guys do leave, please take your belongings, because we won’t let you back in,” Byers told the students and faculty in the lobby.
“We are not going to come and start forcing you to leave, but bodily functions will probably at some point force you to go to the washroom. If you do go to the washroom … you don’t come back,” he said.
Students received word later in the night that employees who work in James Administration were notified that they should work from home on Wednesday.
Washroom facilities were not available to those in the lobby, and security agents were directed to stop students from finding alternative ways to go to the washroom. At least six agents controlled the main door, preventing people from entering. Multiple security agents controlled a door that leads to a stairway.
Students “partying” on the sixth floor negotiated with Associate Vice-Principal (University Services) Jim Nicell on Tuesday evening regarding their two demands: the McGill administration’s recognition of CKUT and QPIRG’s fall referenda questions and the resignation of Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson.
In the midst of negotiations, “partyers” on the sixth floor requested a student from the lobby partake in negotiations. Student Amber Gross, escorted by Nicell, joined negotiations on the sixth floor. She was prevented from bringing food to those on the sixth floor.
Gross returned to the lobby about half an hour later. She described negotiations: “We basically kept saying that we need to start by negotiating on the two demands. He said that both were impossible.”
“We pretty much decided that if he wasn’t able to start negotiations on the demands there was no point in continuing cause he was basically asking us to leave nicely, which is not why we were there,” said Gross.
QPIRG Board member Patrick DeDauw said that Jim Nicell is not involved in their discussions with McGill administration concerning the fall referendum question.
Nearly thirty students remained in the lobby throughout the night, despite being denied access to a washroom. A tent was pitched and around seven demonstrators spent the night outside in support of occupiers indoors.
As of Wednesday afternoon, no progress has been made in negotiations between administration and “the sixth floor party contingent,” according to a communiqué from the group. A statement from the lobby occupiers is forthcoming.
During Tuesday evening, student Ryan Thom performed three poems in the lobby as part of a teach-in regarding queer and people of colour issues. He spoke to his feelings of the student “movement” on campus, stating that, while he is a former member of Mob Squad, he stopped attending meetings in frustration.
“There are a lot of folks who are behind the cause I think, many of the many causes that drive people to do things on McGill campus that they’ve done this year but don’t feel that they can access those actions, access the communities that do direct action, [or] don’t feel they are being properly represented,” said Thom after his performance. A discussion was facilitated following Thom’s performance.
A public Facebook event called “The James 6th Floor occupiers do NOT represent me” was created after the occupation began. “Since last November, a very small – yet very vocal and radical – minority has been monopolizing the political discourse of our campus at the expense of all of us,” the event page states.
“We reject their extremist rhetoric. We reject their radical tactics. We reject their divisive speech. We are the Silent Majority. Or rather, we were the Silent Majority,” it continues. At press time, the event had 1,043 people attending.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill Security films the incident, along with sleeping demonstrators
Correction appended February 10.
One of 22 students staging a “surprise resignation party” for Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson in his office on the sixth floor of the James administration building was thrown out of the building.
At around 10:30 p.m. reports from the sixth floor “party” contingent were received stating that four security agents were surrounding the student, Moe Nasr, who has osteoporosis and was looking to leave the building to obtain his medication.
Security agents said they offered to escort Nasr to a back door in order for him to exit the building, however Nasr wanted to exit the building through the lobby, where nearly thirty students were partying in solidarity with the sixth floor contingent.
Students in the lobby attempted to negotiate with security agents for Nasr to join them or for Nasr to be escorted by another student to the back of the building.
“They wanted to escort me, so they told me it’s either the back or side staircase, I told them it’s the front staircase,” said Nasr. “They were like ok, go through the front staircase. They escorted me downstairs until we were between the first and second floor.”
In a film shot by students through a window in the door, Nasr is shown surrounded by five or six security agents and later carried up the stairs. Nasr states he fell several times, hit his head on stairs, and was carried by McGill Security.
Nasr originally stated that he was punched, but later corrected himself to say that he was elbowed in the stomach.
In an email to Le Délit, Director of Media Relations Doug Sweet wrote that “Security personnel threw no punches. There was a scuffle, because the individual in question, having been warned repeatedly that if he did not go out of his own volition he would be carried out, then resisted security personnel with all his might.”
Nasr said he was “thrown out” of the west side entrance of the building. “After that I went pretty much crazy, I started shoving them, I pretty much pushed practically every single one of them. I started pushing them back, running towards the door trying to open it,” he said.
Nasr then moved to the front entrance of the building. He attempted to gain access to the building but was repelled by security agents.
A charged exchange between some students and Kevin Byers, operations administrator for McGill Security, took place inside the lobby immediately following the altercation. East Asian Studies Professor Adrienne Hurley spoke to The Daily after the incident.
“It’s important to note that he was assaulted by McGill Security in the past,” said Hurley in the building.
Nasr was also allegedly assaulted by McGill Security on November 10, when students occupied Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s office on the fifth floor of James Administration.
Nasr said a member of McGill Security filmed the altercation between him and agents. Byers also filmed those in the lobby at about 4 a.m, while most were asleep.
When asked whether McGill Security was given a directive to film the two actions, Sweet told The Daily in an interview that, “We’ve said many times that we don’t discuss security procedures in public, and that applies in this case as well.”
The remainder of the night was peaceful, as students slept on the floor of the lobby and were in sporadic contact with sixth floor occupiers.
Security agents opened the main doors to the lobby at 5:45 a.m. According to one agent, the entry of cold air was necessary due to overheating.
A previous version of this article did not specify that the blows to Nasr’s head were a result of hitting his head on stairs, not from security personnel. Additionally, Nasr wished to clarify that he was not punched by security personnel, as originally stated. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Eleven witnesses testify, judgement to be issued within thirty days on whether to invalidate QPIRG and CKUT referendum results
Correction appended Feb. 9, 2012
After an over four-hour hearing with testimony from 11 witnesses on Monday night, the SSMU Judicial Board (J-Board) now has up to thirty days to issue a judgment on whether to invalidate the fall 2011 referendum results for QPIRG.
Students Zach Newburgh and Brendan Steven’s petition challenges the validity of QPIRG’s fall referendum question. It cites an allegedly unclear – and thus unconstitutional – referendum question, numerous ‘Yes’ committee campaign violations, and Elections SSMU CEO Rebecca Tacoma’s failure to fulfill the duties of her position.
The McGill administration refused to recognize the results of both CKUT and QPIRG’s referenda a month ago, citing a lack of clarity in the question.
Newburgh and Steven’s petition states “this appeal in no way reflects any views on the worth of [QPIRG] as an organization,” but instead challenged Tacoma’s competence and impartiality as Elections SSMU CEO.
However, debate ensued over the role of both Newburgh – who served as SSMU president last year – and current SSMU President Maggie Knight, in Tacoma’s hiring process.
Under cross-examination, Newburgh said he was “positive that the current SSMU president was involved in the [hiring] process.”
In an interview with The Daily immediately after the hearing, Knight said that, to her recollection, her only role in the hiring process was reviewing applicant resumes.
“I did, however, participate in the hiring of many other staff members along with the former president,” said Knight. “We did conduct a lot of interviews together, so it is possible that he simply mistakes what happened.”
Newburgh also said in testimony that he had been aware of seventy campaign violations by the QPIRG ‘Yes’ committee, a number he described as “unprecedented.” Tacoma, however, said in testimony that she officially sanctioned the QPIRG ‘Yes’ committee three times.
Newburgh and Steven’s petition lists excerpts from 15 emails sent from Newburgh to Tacoma between October 31 and November 10 – to which Tacoma provided ten responses – detailing alleged campaign violations by the QPIRG ‘Yes’ committee.
The emails form part of the petitioners’ basis for the argument of a “reasonable apprehension of bias” on the part of Tacoma, and that she “did not perform her duties with due diligence and impartiality.”
The petition cited one specific example, when Newburgh submitted examples of violations that Tacoma then enforced. According to the petition, at least one ‘Yes’ committee member continued to advertise support by Kanata, “a group external to SSMU,” after the censure, and was not penalized.
“The Respondent’s definition of groups external to SSMU is based on an unworkable criterion. The decisions based on this definition are therefore unreasonable,” reads the petition.
“While the CEO is empowered to set her own procedure, whatever procedure she might have set was not applied consistently,” continues the petition.
In testimony, Tacoma said Knight had advised her to not write detailed responses to emails during the referendum period.
“I was concerned that she would spend too much time at her computer writing out detailed answers,” said Knight during her own testimony.
“Given that it was a very contentious campaign and that her judgment was so important for fair implementation of the bylaws…I suggested to her that it was important that she be as physically present [on campus] as possible,” continued Knight.
Knight admitted in testimony that SSMU’s bylaws are “convoluted.”
Furthermore, Knight described how members of the QPIRG ‘Yes’ committee had contacted her early in the referendum period “with concerns that Rebecca Tacoma was exhibiting bias in favour of the ‘No’ side.”
Further testimony was provided regarding the recent financial harm inflicted by opt-outs on QPIRG. The petition cites a QPIRG’s 2010-11 expenses, which state that opt-outs constituted 11.74 per cent of total expenses that year.
Former SSMU VP Finance and Operations Nick Drew, who was on the SSMU executive with Newburgh last year, testified that a 12 per cent loss in expenses was not enough to threaten the existence of a not-for-profit organization like QPIRG.
Faiz Lalani, advocate for the QPIRG intervener in the case, called current SSMU VP Finance and Operations Shyam Patel as a witness. Patel testified that the number of opt-outs in a semester are “difficult to predict.”
Three interveners participated in the hearing: QPIRG, CKUT, and SSMU VP Clubs and Services Carol Fraser – each of whom called witnesses.
Newburgh and Steven declined to comment after the hearing.
Vladi Ivanov, legal advocate for CKUT, drew attention to the similarities between QPIRG and CKUT’s referendum questions last semester.
“I move with my argument now on the predication that the constitutionality of the two questions is the same,” she said during the hearing. “CKUT are here as interveners to protect the constitutionality of the question in the future.”
In her closing statement, Newburgh and Steven’s advocate Carmen Barbu noted, “Tonight we have learned a lot of things, but there are also lots things that we haven’t learned.” She cited examples of confusion over the interpretation of SSMU’s campaign bylaws, as well as what constituted an “external group” at McGill.
In his closing statement, Joshee-Arnal pointed to what he perceived as “bad faith” on the part of Newburgh and Steven, with their “failure to target CKUT with these hearings, despite the similarities in questions.”
The J-Board case has been mired in controversy since it was announced on January 14.
Originally scheduled to be heard January 31, the SSMU Board of Directors (BoD) suspended the case on January 26, citing the need to clarify the constitutional relationship between the J-Board and the BoD.
During the SSMU General Assembly a week later, Newburgh and Steven introduced a motion from the floor to reinstate J-Board activities; the motion failed. Three days later, the BoD reinstated J-Board activities in an open-session, re-scheduling the case to be heard Monday.
The day before the hearing, the J-Board dismissed Tacoma’s motion for Justice Raphael Szajnfarber to be recused from the case. The motion called for Szajnfarber to excuse himself from hearing the case on the grounds that he had a conflict of interest stemming from a dispute with the Ontario Public Interest Research Group (OPIRG) during his 2008-09 term as president of Hillel Ottawa. Szajnfarber had served as spokesperson for Hillel Ottawa after OPIRG denied them funding for a campus event.
The J-Board ruled, “We find that it would be difficult to argue that comments made years ago, in a different city about a different organization, in a different capacity, and in response to specific event, could in any way be construed to translate into a bias towards an unrelated entity in a completely different role and set of circumstances.”
In an earlier version of this article, it was stated that Tacoma and Joshee-Arnal “called” three interveners for the case, and that Newburgh and Steven did not call any. In fact, interveners participate in their own capacity as interested third parties in the hearing. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
