The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Charbonneau Commission continued to send shockwaves through the Quebec political landscape as former city of Montreal engineer Gilles Surprenant testified yesterday that he had received around $706,000 in bribes from the Quebec construction industry.
According to Surprenant’s testimony, the highest-paying entrepreneurs were Construction Garnier owner Joe Borsellino and Lino Zambito, the former vice president of Infrabec. Zambito allegedly gave Surprenant around $66,000 in bribes.
Zambito said that the engineer earned the nicknamed “Mister TPS” for Tax pour Suprenant – a reference to the federal sales tax of the same name.
The Daily visited the Commission last Thursday for Surprenant’s first testimony. Surprenant said he was paid to overestimate the price of contracts between the city of Montreal and the construction sector. Most of the money he earned – approximately $250,000 – was subsequently lost at the casino.
“I started to go to a casino to spend the money,” he told the Commission in French. “It was my way of giving money back to the state.”
“I was very happy to give back the money,” he said. “It felt like a liberation.”
Suprenant claimed that his salary as an engineer was “sufficient,” and that he had no intention of spending the money on anything “extravagant.”
“My daughter wanted to be an esthetician, and I remember paying $3,000 for a course,” he said.
Some of the money, however, was used to renovate his house.
Surprenant began receiving bribes in 1991, but his ties to the industry ceased in 2009. On Wednesday, he told the Commission that he was not a “bad guy” and that he was simply “corrupt.”
“Everyone noticed a hike in the price [of contracts],” he said in French. “It was well-known. I would even say that the clerk at our office [was aware]. It was not my job as a mere government employee to call the police.”
So far, the Commission has incriminated dozens of construction firms in cases of corruption and collusion. Last month, the Commission revealed that around ten companies share contracts for the city of Montreal, and that the Mayor’s party, Union Montréal, earned money by awarding municipal contracts to colluding entrepreneurs.
Laval Mayor Gilles Vaillancourt announced on Wednesday that he was temporarily stepping down from office due to health reasons. Yesterday morning, officers from l’Unité permanente anticorruption, Quebec’s anti-corruption squad, seized two security lockers belonging to Vaillancourt. The police obtained a search warrant for his home earlier this month.
Surprenant is set to continue his testimony today.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Professors discuss link between xenophobia and the economy
The far-right Greek nationalist party Golden Dawn, which won 18 seats in the June 2012 Greek legislative elections, has opened a chapter in Montreal.
Golden Dawn Montreal has had a Facebook page since July. Facho-watch, a Quebec anti-fascism group, told The Daily that Golden Dawn members organized a conference in August with Quebec neofascist groups Faction Nationaliste and La Bannière Noire.  Golden Dawn Montreal held a fundraising event on September 15. The event was advertised in the Greek Canadian Tribune (BHMA). Facho-watch participated in a protest against Golden Dawn on the same day.
Golden Dawn stated on September 18 on its official website that they are “already expecting the first shipment of aid from the core of Montreal in the coming days, which gives us hope that Greek nationalists never forget Greece.”
“They are only going to give those benefits, or those charitable boxes, to people who are legally resident in Greece,” Steven Slimovitch, spokesperson for B’nai Brith Canada, a Jewish advocacy group which fights antisemitism, told The Daily.
“We are utterly disgusted,” Slimovitch said about the creation of a Golden Dawn chapter in Montreal. “You have a party which is xenophobic to the nth degree, which has built itself on a racist platform and there is no place for a group like that in Canada. They believe that our lax laws against hate speech allow them to open up an office and spew the kind of hate that they’ve been spewing in Greece.”
On May 14, Golden Dawn leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos told Mega TV in Greece that the Holocaust was a “fabricated exaggeration.”
Spiros Macrozonaris, deputy leader of the Golden Dawn Montreal chapter, told the National Post that Golden Dawn has recruited 152 members in the city.
“This is totally false,” Facho-watch told The Daily in an email. “When they organized the food collect, they were only a dozen of members. On the group pictures we found, there aren’t more than 12 individuals.”
“We will continue to monitor them very closely with [the Canadian Security Intelligence Service] and the federal government and the Sûreté du Québec to […] make sure that a group like this does not establish a foothold in Canada,” said Slimovitch.
“The real lead in all of those should be taken by the Greek community,” he continued.
An online petition created by ‘Kat M,’ a Greek Canadian living in Greece according to the National Post, asked Stephen Harper to shut down Golden Dawn in Montreal. The petition had collected 2,450 signatures at press time.
The Hellenic Community of Greater Montreal and the McGill Hellenic Students’ Association could not be reached for comment.
Alexander Kazamias, senior lecturer in Politics at Coventry University, told The Daily that “all Greek parties set up local branches outside Greece, especially in cities with large Greek diaspora communities,” despite the fact that Greek citizens cannot vote from abroad.
McGill Economics professor Ken Matziorinis told The Daily that “since [Golden Dawn is] a legitimate party in Greece, they have the right to voice their opinions, even if their views are dangerous.”
“They have a right to open a chapter anywhere else in the world, unless they involve themselves in terrorist acts.”
Both Kazamias and Matziorinis say that it is important to understand the political and economic context in which this breed of nationalism has developed.
“Golden Dawn is a neofascist party. To some extent it represents a continuation of the military dictatorship that ruled Greece from 1967 to 1974,” Kazamias said.
Michaloliakos “was handpicked in 1984 by the leader of that dictatorship […] to lead the youth organization of a […] quasi-fascist party which enjoyed some support in the 1970s and 1980s,” Kazamias continued.
“The austerity drive that the northern countries – especially Germany – are advocating is certainly making the situation worse,” Matziorinis said.
“[Greece’s Gross Domestic Product] has been contracting for more than five years,”  Matziorinis said. “The Greek public is being asked to make sacrifices through tax increases and income salary cuts while unemployment is at 25 per cent.”
This has created “a perception that the social contract has been broken” in Europe, according to Matziorinis.
The situation in Greece is an “exact repeat of what happened with the collapse of the middle class in Germany [in the 1930s], which gave rise to extremist parties,” he continued. “The economic circumstances that Greece is facing are similar to those of a country that has lost a war, that has debts, and that at the same time is forced to make reparations.”
Kazamias, on the other hand, pointed to contrasts between Greece and 1930s Germany. “Fascism might be a rising force across much of Europe today, but it is still far from becoming a dominant ideology,” he said.
“For a fascist party to rise to power, it is necessary for the forces of the left to experience successive defeats. In Greece, however, so far the Greek left has seen its position enhanced and its popularity is rising sharply.”
Golden Dawn has been accused of leading attacks against immigrants in Greece. “Golden Dawn is a racist party that hates all non-white immigrants, however, there is a clear class dimension to the racism of Golden Dawn,” said Kazamias. “Their thugs prefer to attack […] poor manual workers.”
Facho-watch described collusion between Greek police and Golden Dawn members, in which some police units are allowing Golden Dawn to act as law enforcers.
Kazamias believes that “the connections of the Greek police and certain army units with neofascist elements which go back years,” and have contributed to the success of Golden Dawn.
“We do have a solution [for these immigrants] though. Greece, everybody knows, we have a very strong shipping industry. We’re going to bring them all to Canada. Canada needs immigrants here,” Macrozonaris told the Montreal Gazette.
“When there is too much illegal occupation all of a sudden, in a climate of economic uncertainty and depression, that accentuates these [anti-immigrant] feelings,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concerns include lack of advertising space and state of equipment
Last Thursday, SSMU VP Finance & Operations Jean Paul Briggs met with the Shatner Building’s second-floor tenants Lola Rosa Xpress, Bocadillo, and Bamboo Bowl to discuss their concerns.
In his report to Council, Briggs wrote, “The tenants are upset and losing money. Some of them expressed concerns that they wouldn’t return after the duration of the contract at this rate. They expressed disappointment with the state of the equipment, the constant breakdowns, and slow response from McGill to fix anything.”
Earlier this year, the three restaurants replaced Cultures, Tiki Ming, and Franx Supreme for the 2012 academic year under a one-year contract. The renewal of the contracts  are still to be determined.
Bocadillo owner Victor Gonzalez pointed to the restaurants’ limited promotional opportunities around the Shatner Building as a central concern.
“Our concerns are we feel that we are not free to promote ourselves. [The tenants] feel that for the type of restaurants that we are… our costs of operations are very high. We need to spread out our time of operation more but since we can’t do that, we need to focus on how we can make ourselves known,” said Gonzalez.
“How is it that even after two months of being here, there are still some [advertisements] for Tiki Ming or Cultures? There are no signs that say that there is a restaurant space on the second floor of SSMU,” he added.
The restaurants’ hours of operation are limited to 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Thursday and 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays. They are not open on weekends.
In an interview with The Daily, SSMU President Josh Redel responded, “[Miscommunication on promotional space] is probably an oversight on SSMU’s behalf…being so used to the University’s environment. For example, we have 21 services and…it’s part of the services to advertise for themselves. So I guess we assumed that this would be considered in their method of operation.”
Redel also explained that each tenant is given three windows, with two-thirds of the surface area available for advertisements.
“We actually talked about this in our executive meetings about lending support for them…in terms of advertising – putting stuff on the listserv, social media, talking to our Communications and Publications Manager so that she can meet with them and talk about doing posters in the building. Outside of the building, we really don’t have much control,” said Redel.
According to Gonzalez, the tenants also feel that their concerns about the equipment have not been adequately addressed.
SSMU regulations prohibit tenants from outsourcing equipment problems to external services for repair.
Redel explained that because a lot of tenants did not know beforehand what the environment was going to be like, there were some surprises regarding the capital investments and the space.
“For them, this is shocking because normally they can fix [the problems] themselves, or they can call in a plumber who will be there the same day […],” said Redel. “Another problem was…we said [that they would not] not have to put any capital investments into the place. And theoretically, the space would be good to go when [they] started. It turned out not necessarily to be like this for the [tenants] – some of the equipment didn’t end up working…and there were some hidden costs that they were not expecting.”
Briggs told The Daily that a listserv would be sent to students to provide feedback to the tenants.
“It’s going to be coming either this week or next week,” said Briggs. “It’s just going to be a survey form for each of the tenants to provide feedback. There’s also going to be one for Gerts and Gertrude’s as well…. So the tenants will know how to better target students’ demands.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
