The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Parti Québécois elected as the new minority government 
Shots were fired halfway through Pauline Marois’ victory speech on Tuesday after it was announced that her party, the Parti Québécois (PQ), won a plurality of seats in the National Assembly. The results brought an end to nine years of Jean Charest’s Liberal government, one of the longest in the history of the province.
One person was killed and another injured after an attempt to stop a lone gunman from entering Metropolis, where the PQ victory party was taking place.
After being whisked away by her bodyguards, Marois went back on stage to reassure the audience.
“This is what it’s like to be a female head of state,” she said in French.
The gunman later tried to set fire to the building. Inside the building, attendees were told that a sound grenade had gone off and were urged to remain calm. Most supporters were unaware of the events that were unfolding nearby, while others left prematurely because of a strong burning odor, similar to gasoline.
Tough road ahead
Marois’ government faces several challenges, including a staggering debt and stiff opposition in Parliament. While the PQ has vowed to repeal the tuition hikes through a ministerial decree, most of its campaign promises are likely to be difficult to pass through the National Assembly because of its electoral minority.
Relations between Ottawa and Quebec are expected to sour as well. The PQ has said that it would demand additional powers from the federal government, including greater control over immigration and culture.
Bernard Drainville, a PQ member of the National Assembly, told The Daily in French, “We will do everything we can to be respected. We have our values, our interests. With a PQ government, Quebecers will be respected. And we will use every means to achieve that.”
The PQ’s victory and the election of the first female premier in Quebec marked an important shift in the province’s politics, and members of the PQ were quick to point out its historical significance.
“I’d like to remind you that in 1940, women gained the right to vote in Quebec,” the announcer said in French. “Sixty years later, we have the first woman premier in Quebec.”
A small victory
Members of Québec solidaire (QS), a small progressive separatist party, also celebrated the election results. Françoise David, the QS candidate in Gouin, defeated PQ incumbent Nicolas Girard and increased the party’s representation in the National Assembly from one to two.
Their election night event was held at the Olympia Theatre in downtown Montreal and featured speakers such as actor and event emcee Paul Ahmarani and rock singer Dan Bigras. The atmosphere was charged with excitement as the relatively young crowd alternated between cheers of “debout” and a chorus of boos as results came in.
“I was dreaming of this opportunity for a long time. We will work with a lot more power, a lot more impact, especially that we now have a minority government, so each party, each MNA [Member of the National Assembly] will count in the balance of power,” said QS co-spokesperson Amir Khadir.
David added that the lack of a PQ majority would give her party the opportunity to “have a dialogue” and “put our ideas on the table.”
Disappointment for CAQ
Results for the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) were more disappointing, however. While the party won 27 per cent of the popular vote, it only gained 19 seats.
In his concession speech, CAQ leader François Legault said that he was ready to work with the PQ government.
“Marois will not be able to do everything she wants,” he said in French. “We will work with her if she is ready to make the necessary changes in Quebec.”
The end of an era 
For the Parti libéral du Québec (PLQ), Jean Charest’s loss in his home riding of Sherbrooke signified the end of an era.
At the PLQ’s Montreal headquarters, the crowd grew quiet as it was officially announced that the former premier had lost his seat.
Supporters continued celebrating through the night, however, as the final results of the PLQ proved better than those projected by the major opinion polls.
“We have been here for 145 years, so I think that we are going to be there for the next 145 years,” said Anson Duran, the PLQ candidate who lost to Françoise David in Gouin.
“We are the party that has always had the ability to have new faces, and you can see that there are new faces and a lot of young candidates,” he added.
Despite its nine years in power and a controversial record, the PLQ won fifty seats.
“There’s always [the want for change], and after nine years it’s just a natural feeling that some people have,” Duran said. “We’ll see what the next few years have to offer, and hopefully we can get back on our feet as soon as possible.”
Some students vow to continue their struggle
Away from the various party headquarters, approximately 200 demonstrators gathered at Place Emilie-Gamelin – a familiar rallying point from last spring’s nightly student marches – to protest the elections, whatever their results.
“Every candidate, every party is in one way or another at the service of capital,” said one demonstrator into a microphone immediately before the crowd marched out of the park brandishing a banner that read in French, “We don’t vote…we fight!”
The march followed a spontaneous route south east of the square, and a heavy police presence followed.
The Cinéma du Peuple, a film collective formed at Occupy Montreal last fall, set up a large tent and projected coverage of the elections alongside popular videos made about the protests.
According to volunteer Paul Bode, their projections were not necessarily meant to protest the elections but rather “to give people access to this information in a public space.”
The Facebook event created to publicize the event was titled “Leurs elections, on s’en calisse!”
The SPVM reported no arrests and no injuries.
[flickr id=”72157631430378316″]
—with files from Lola Duffort, Annie Shiel, and Juan Camilo Velásquez
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students to vote on strike continuation in General Assemblies
As McGill launches into the fall semester, many of its students face the decision of whether or not to go back to class. Though the student strike garnered less support at McGill than at many other Montreal universities, several of McGill’s student societies did vote to strike.
Among them were the Gender, Sexual Diversity, and Feminist Studies Students’ Association (GSDFSSA), the Philosophy Students’ Association, the Art History and Communication Student Association, and the English Graduate Student Society.
However, only the GSDFSSA is confirmed to still be on strike.
GSDFSSA President Isabella Mancini explained, “The strike motion stipulates that there must be a vote in order to end the strike, and that if the [General Assembly] does not reach quorum, the strike continues, because without quorum we are not a decision-making body.”
As their last two General Assemblies (GAs) failed to  reach quorum, GSDFSSA is still technically on strike, and will remain on strike until their next GA, planned for sometime in the coming weeks.
The Association des étudiant(e)s en langue et littérature françaises inscrit(e)s aux études supérieures (ADELFIES) – which also voted to go on strike last semester – plans to hold a GA tomorrow.
Bill 78, now signed into law as Law 12, includes a provision prohibiting the enforcement of a strike vote on university campuses. Violating Law 12 triggers hefty monetary penalties – an individual can be charged up to $5,000 per day for failing to comply with any part of the law.
Even in the face of these staggering fines, protesters have brazenly flouted the law throughout the summer, and there are indications that they may continue to do so with the start of the new semester.
McGill student and activist Kevin Paul said that so far, Law 12 has done little to deter students from striking.
“Just as [Law 12] has failed to stop street protests, it has failed to break strikes,” he explained. “Students have defended picket lines and disrupted classes, in particular at UQÀM and UdeM this past week.”
The elections played an integral role in the continuation of the strike, according to Paul-Émile Auger, the general secretary of the Table de Concertation Étudiante du Québec (TaCEQ). TaCEQ is a federation of student groups in Quebec which includes the Students’ Society of McGill University.
Auger confirmed that “TaCEQ still has members on strike, with a mandate from their GA.”
The newly elected Parti Québécois’ promise to abolish the hikes raises doubts about the future of the student movement.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Salaries and raises for top administrators revealed
McGill’s non-academic workers’ union, MUNACA, released a statement last week accusing the McGill administration of violating Bill 100 and revealed the salaries of the university’s senior administration.
Adopted in June 2010 by the Quebec National Assembly, Bill 100 is aimed at reducing the province’s debt. Among its provisions, the act stipulates a decrease in university administration expenditures for universities across the province.
The administration and MUNACA signed a collective agreement earlier this summer after a six-month strike by the union. Days later, the administration announced a cut in support staff to reduce administrative spending.
According to the University, the cuts are being made to bring McGill’s budget in line with Bill 100.
“McGill, earlier this summer, put out a notice saying that they [were] required by law to cut down on the support staff, including MUNACA, and that they were going to do it by attrition. We were surprised by this since our members are decreasing anyway,” MUNACA VP Finance David Kalant told The Daily.
To verify whether the administration itself was complying with Bill 100, MUNACA filed an Access to Information request asking for a list of salaries, bonuses, and travel expenses of senior administration members for 2009, 2010, and 2011.
The document provided to MUNACA shows salary increases for McGill’s top executives from 2009 to 2011 of up to nine per cent.
Among the largest salary increases was that of Provost Anthony Masi, whose salary went from $301,661 in 2009 to $330,000 in 2011. Similarly, Associate Vice-Principal (Human Resources) Lynne B. Gervais’s salary increased from $228,218 in 2009 to $246,475 in 2011.
The document also reveals that Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson received a raise of 3.4 per cent from 2009 to 2011. Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s salary went from $358,173 to $369,250 in the same period.
The salary for the VP Finance position, which was held by three different people in the three years covered by the documents, also increased by 7.4 per cent.
McGill administrators also received extra payments for “other elements” that range from 0.6 per cent to 33.6 per cent of administrator salaries. According to Gervais, these include “employer-paid life insurance premiums, tuition subsidies and financial advising fees, the value of an interest-free loan, car and housing allowances, or other forms of cash compensation not included in the base salary.”
MUNACA issued a press release accusing the administration of not complying with Bill 100, as the bill sets a 0.5 per cent salary increase restriction.
Gervais told The Daily in an email that the University has not violated Bill 100 because the additional remunerations come from performance-based evaluations done in the 2008-2009 academic year. Article 8 of the bill stipulates that organizations may give executives or managers performance-based raises if the performance evaluation took place in a fiscal year starting no later than 2009.
“The only way that managers (M-class employees) and executives at McGill receive salary increases is through a merit process, as opposed to automatic annual salary increases or an annual bump-up to the next step of the salary scale,” explained Gervais.
“The merit increase paid during fiscal year 2010-11 – the first year covered by Bill 100 – was based on performance from June 1, 2008 to November 30, 2009, and thus is in agreement with Article 8 of the Bill,” she said.
MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker wrote a letter to the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sports raising questions over the way McGill is seeking to comply with the bill.
“Although your Ministry does have guidelines recommending cuts by attrition to support staff, our understanding of the stated purpose of Bill 100 is to cut spending at the more senior management and executive levels,” wrote Whittaker.
The union has not yet received a response.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Contingency plans improve, but Frosh culture slow to change
Reforms to Frosh, the results of a year-long collaboration between the First Year Office, faculty associations, Student Services and the Students’ Society of McGill (SSMU), included more thorough leadership training and better coordination between organizers.
The reforms aimed at making the Frosh experience more inclusive of all students – such as those younger than 18 – as well as more accommodating to the surrounding Milton-Parc community.
According to Josh Greenberg, VP Events of the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS), “Everything for the most part went pretty smoothly.”
Asa Davis, VP Internal for the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS), echoed Greenberg’s positivity.
“They put a strong emphasis on making sure we had events for under-agers and I think we did a very good job of that this year,” he said.
Ahan Ali, director of the McGill Student Emergency Response Team (M-SERT) – formerly known as McGill First Aid – saw an upsurge in calls made to the service compared to last year, but ascribed this to more M-SERT involvement with Frosh organizers.
“Each of the individual faculties actually reached out to us this year, so we were able to cover a lot more events than in years past, especially at specific club events,” he told The Daily.
Despite the reforms, there were still reported cases of Frosh leaders leading their groups in offensive chants as well as giving Froshies – participants in Frosh events – inappropriate nicknames and writing them on shirts.
“That has always been an uphill battle,” Davis admitted, “because the leaders think to what they have been able to get away with in previous years.”
“It’s inevitable though that the message will be lost on some,” Greenberg added. “But every time we hear about an incident we do remind leaders every day via text message ‘scale it back, keep your kids in line.’”
Although some of the reforms were aimed at making Frosh less centered on drinking, Frosh leaders were still allowed to drink on the job.
According to SSMU VP Internal Michael Szpejda, “A big part of why we continue to allow drinking at Frosh is because harm reduction is proven to be more effective than completely removing drinking.”
One of the more negative events of the week was a report of a group of Engineering Frosh participants being lead into a Concordia building shouting offensive chants aimed at the university.
Both Davis and Concordia Security declined to comment on the incident.
According to SSMU President Josh Redel, “It is one of the lingering parts of Frosh from years past, and it happened again this year for some reason.”
“It has been taken care of and the EUS will be issuing a public letter of apology to Concordia,” he added.
The attempted reforms also failed to address complaints from the surrounding Milton-Parc Community.
Stephane Belanger, Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) inspector for station 38 – the Plateau Mont-Royal South station – told The Daily that there were “a lot of noise complaints… the same [amount] as previous years.”
 
—with files from Lola Duffort
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
When PhD student Misia Kowanda set out to register to vote on August 28, she didn’t expect it to be a 4.5-hour ordeal.
That day, when she traveled to her local revision office to add her name to the list of electors, she was turned away because she was a student and staffers assumed that she had a permanent residence outside of Quebec.
After reviewing the voting requirements online, Kowanda – originally from Burlington, Ontario – called the same local office, wanting to know why she could not register.
She told The Daily that she had a lengthy discussion with a staff member from the office, who insisted that students are not always eligible.
According to Kowanda, he told her, “You have to understand, a lot of students with strong opinions come here, vote, and leave without living with the outcome of the vote.”
However, he was unable to refer her to a specific portion of the Elections Act that dealt with students or explained why she failed to meet the requirements to vote.
She then called the Directeur général des élections du Québec (DGEQ) and verified that she did in fact have the right to vote. They urged her to call them back if she had more trouble registering.
Kowanda returned to the revision office with her income tax forms from the past two years – filed in Quebec – and documents listing the voting requirements. After being questioned repeatedly about her lack of a Quebec Medicare card, she successfully registered.
To be eligible to vote in Quebec, a student must be 18 years or older on Election Day, a Canadian citizen, a resident of Quebec for six months, and registered on the list of electors. Students whose families live outside Quebec are eligible to vote there if they have lived in the province for at least six months and are registered.
According to Christian Gohel, a returning officer for the Westmount–Saint-Louis riding, the staff members who questioned Kowanda were part of a commission de révision, a committee of three people – two of whom have been nominated by political parties – that adds, updates, and strikes names from the list of electors.
“Concerning the students, it is a special case because the law says that you have to be domicile in Quebec for three to six months,” said Gohel.
He explained that many students come to Montreal from Ontario wanting to vote in both provinces.
“Some people misunderstand the meaning of the six months because it’s not six months of temporary residence, it’s six months of being established for good,” he said.
According to the Civil Code, a person’s domicile is defined as “the place of his principal establishment.”
Kowanda, who has lived in Montreal for three years and files her tax returns in Quebec, said she considers Quebec to be her principal establishment.
When she was first told to leave the revision office, she recounted being devastated and on the verge of tears.
“I was so upset that my vote wouldn’t matter,” she said.
This will be her first time voting in a federal or provincial election.
Kowanda also expressed concerns that the personal opinions of elections staff members may be preventing eligible students like her from voting.
Ilona Dougherty, executive director of Apathy Is Boring (AIS) – a non-partisan organization dedicated to increasing youth voting rates through art and technology –  explained that the Quebec system of voter registration may be a huge deterrent to youth participation.
“The process in Quebec is not obvious,” said Dougherty. “You need to register before Election Day. You have two deadlines, and I know that a lot of people don’t realize that.”
Though Dougherty said she doesn’t blame overzealous elections staff for Quebec’s low youth turnout, she said that accessibility for voters – young and old – is a huge problem.
She also explained that temporary workers who receive a small amount of training often staff elections.
“Whether an individual worker makes a bad choice, that’s definitely something that’s plausible,” said Dougherty.
According to Gohel, this election saw an unprecedented number of people attempting to register to vote, which led to some delays at his revision office.
“It was easy to see that people were very anxious to be put on the list,” he said.
Students who encounter difficulties with registration can report them on the Elections Quebec website.
As for Kowanda, “I urge her to complain,” said Gohel. “Sometimes the process needs to be updated. Sometimes the procedures are too long, too tedious. Unless people complain, things change very slowly.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Pauline Marois plans to tighten language legislation
Approximately 25 people gathered at 11 a.m. on Monday in front of the Office québécois de la langue française to protest Bill 101 and the Parti Québécois’ (PQ) plan to tighten it.
Bill 101, or The Charter of the French Language, defines French as the official language of Quebec and dictates fundamental language rights.
PQ leader Pauline Marois has announced plans to strengthen Bill 101, most notably with a provision that would prohibit francophones and allophones – those whose mother tongue is neither English nor French – from attending English colleges.
“Public money should not be used to anglicize Quebecers,” Marois told Le Devoir in French. “We have the responsibility to send a message to new Quebecers: here we speak French.”
According to protester Antoinette Mercurio, “Bill 101 did some good because a lot of people learned the French language, that’s great. But now, it’s becoming extreme.”
The protest was organized on Facebook by the Quebec Office of the English Language, a Montreal-based non-profit dedicated to the preservation and promotion of English in Quebec.
Michael Bradley, one of the organizers of the Facebook event, said in a message to The Daily that he wanted to be very clear that the protest “doesn’t come off as anti-French.”
“We are fighting not only for anglo rights but also for francophone, allophone, and immigrant rights,” he said.
According to the protest’s Facebook page, the goal of the protest was to “replace Bill 101 with 199 to make QC bilingual so that we ‘exist’ to the ethno-nationalists.”
Bill 199, or the Charter of the French and English languages, was introduced to the national assembly in 1993 by MNA Neil Cameron and would have made English and French the co-official languages of Quebec.
Many of the protesters were at least bilingual.
“I’m trilingual,” explained protester Mario Lauri. “I have Italian, I learned French no problem. They don’t need to come and tell me I can only speak one language. Why are they dumbing me down like this?”
One protester, Ania Kwiatkuwski, said that her mother had been verbally assaulted at a grocery store the day before for speaking English to a friend and had to be aided by security guards.
“I’m here to stand up against that kind of hate, abuse, and intolerance,” she said.
The protest was also joined by members of Language Fairness for All (LFA), a group from Cornwall, Ontario.
According to the LFA’s website, the group advocates for fair hiring practices for all Canadians through representation by population.
The website also states, “English is the working language of Canada and much of the world. A grasp of all other languages should be considered an asset, but not mandatory. People are equal, but languages are not.”
“Hopefully Quebecers will make a stand for themselves,” said LFA representative Christopher Cameron. “I’m here for the 1.5 million allophones and anglophones that have very little right comparatively because of these language laws.
According to the CBC, Marois’ new version of Bill 101 would require businesses that employ 11 or more employees to use French in all staff communications, close “bridging” schools that allow students to transition to English public schools, and expand the bill to CEGEPs, trade schools, and adult education centers.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
