The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Foundational course and minor program in the works for next year
Plans for a North American Indigenous Studies program at McGill are moving forward, and those involved hope to have a foundational course – and potentially a minor – in place for next year.
Last Friday, William Straw, the director of the McGill Institute for the Study of Canada (MISC) along with Aboriginal Sustainability Project (ASP) Coordinator Allan Vicaire and Interim Dean of Students Linda Starkey, met to discuss the work done thus far, including preliminary research compiled by SSMU-hired researcher and Education student Brett Lamoureux.
Straw also confirmed his commitment to the North American Indigenous Studies program, which will be tentatively overseen by MISC.
A forum is currently planned for November 15 to get community input on the program. Vicaire will meet with student leaders next week to solidify the forum’s details.
According to Straw, student interest for the program has been “enormous.”
“When I do advising in Canadian Studies and ask students what sorts of courses they want more of, Indigenous/Aboriginal studies is by far the area most often mentioned,” he wrote in an email to The Daily.
Lamoureux, who has been conducting preliminary research for the program since July, will continue researching until December, a date Vicaire cited as the deadline for his part of the preparations.
The Process
Once Vicaire and Lamoureux have compiled data from preliminary research and from the forum on November 15, they will write a report and pass it on to Straw, who will write the actual proposal for the program.
According to Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi, a concrete proposal is the first step in the process of creating a new program at McGill.
In the proposal, applicants must “identify the purposes of the program, [adhere to] certain rules about how many credits are part of the minor program, demonstrate [they have] done appropriate consultations with the units that would be affected, identify the unit that’s going to be responsible for it…[and] provide a list of courses that are going to be part of the program,” Manfredi told  The Daily.
From there, the proposal is reviewed by the curriculum committee and circulated among departments to make sure the program doesn’t overlap with existing programs. Once approved by the curriculum committee, it goes to the appropriate faculty council, then to the Academic Policy Committee, and then to Senate for final approval.
Manfredi pointed out that “at every stage of the process, there is student involvement in the body that has to make the decision.”
He also recalled that an Indigenous Studies program had been in the works for many years, but with little progress until now.
“This has been a long-standing thing, I think someone’s been talking to me about an [Indigenous Studies program] since I became Dean six years ago,” said Manfredi. “Every time someone came to me and said, ‘we’d like to put together a program,’ I said ‘great, go ahead, do it. Put the proposal together and bring it to the appropriate bodies,’ but for some reason it just never happened.”
According to Lamoureux’s preliminary report, the idea of an Indigenous Studies program was first initiated by former First Peoples’ House coordinator Ellen Gabriel in the early 2000s, eventually leading to discussions between the MISC and ASP in 2009.
More recently, members of Kanata and McGill faculty went on to form a subcommittee within the Social Equity and Diversity Education Office, which in 2010 submitted a proposal to the Principal’s Task Force on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement that resulted in the creation of a multidisciplinary Aboriginal Field Studies course.
Moving Forward
Straw said that he plans to have a proposal prepared for next year.
“On assuming the Directorship of [MISC] in June 2011, I made working on [an Indigenous Studies program] a top priority. I was aware that others have done a lot of work on this, but aware as well that one of the problems has been finding an academic unit to administer the program and usher through the proposal. I have consulted with those with a stake in such a program and have their agreement to go ahead with a proposal from the Institute,” Straw wrote in an email to The Daily.
“We have most of what is needed to support a proposal,” he added. “We will prepare the full proposal over the remainder of this term and submit it to the appropriate Faculty of Arts committee soon after. At the same time, we are developing a foundational course proposal for submission…so that, even if the program itself is delayed, the course may be in place.”
Straw said that he aims to submit the proposal for the first meeting of the Faculty of Arts curriculum committee in January.
“All these things take steps, they take time, and an actual major program might not happen for another five or six years,” Vicaire added.  “But we could have a minor…people entering first year at McGill may in a few years be able to do a minor in Indigenous Studies.”
The Program
As it is currently envisioned, the program will cover Indigenous Studies within the North American context.
“One could well imagine a program dealing with indigeneity that covered a wide range of indigenous peoples from virtually all continents of the globe,” wrote Straw. “The shared (or majority) feeling about McGill’s program is that the distinctiveness and shared experiences of North America’s indigenous peoples are clearly enough to warrant a program focused on them alone.”
Vicaire added that this did not preclude the inclusion of comparative studies with indigenous groups such as those in the United States, Australia, and New Zealand, who have had similar experiences with British colonization.
Given that the current proposal will be for a minor program of study, it will likely require grouping together existing courses and putting a structure around them rather than creating new courses, according to Manfredi.
Lamoureux’s report cites a number of existing courses that could be cross-listed for a North American Indigenous Studies minor, including courses from Anthropology, Biology, Canadian Studies, English, Environmental Science, History, Geography, Law, Politics, Social Work, Sociology, and Education courses in languages such as Algonquin, Cree, Inuktitut, Mi’kmaq, Mohawk, and Naskapi.
Straw also cited a new MISC course on Aboriginal art and culture as a potential core course for the North American Indigenous Studies program.
“I think it’s a perfect fit, personally for me,” said Vicaire. “An anthropology or history lens can be so limited…sometimes for indigenous people, we feel uncomfortable with that…like we’re underneath a microscope…. Something broader like [Indigenous Studies] helps to broaden that scope.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Professor cleared of misconduct despite corporate funding and controversial methods
Dean of Medicine David Eidelman announced yesterday that after an internal review, the University will not be pursuing an independent investigation into allegations of research misconduct made against professor emeritus J. Corbett Macdonald, who conducted asbestos industry-funded research on the health effects of asbestos at McGill in the early 1970s.
The inquiry was launched in February after a CBC documentary revealed that Macdonald had accepted nearly one million dollars from the asbestos industry.
“Professor McDonald [sic]properly acknowledged financial support from the asbestos industry in his publications […] There is no evidence to suggest that the sponsors influenced the data analyses or the conclusions,” read a statement released yesterday by the University.
The report, prepared by McGill Research Integrity Officer Abraham Fuks, claims that Macdonald’s findings were often corroborated by others and that his research demonstrated a link between asbestos exposure and lung cancer.
The work of Brown University professor David Egilman – a vocal critic of Macdonald’s research for over ten years – was cited numerous times in the report.
However, Egilman told The Daily that he was never contacted by the University during the course of its investigation, despite offering to meet with them.
“McGill has its own definition of an investigation,” he said. “You would assume that you would talk to the person who filed the complaint and published a peer-reviewed paper that laid out the issues.”
The report also acknowledges that asbestos companies exploited a distinction made by Macdonald’s research between chrysotile asbestos and other forms of asbestos, particularly his reference to chrysotile as being “essentially innocuous” at certain concentrations.
One of Macdonald’s studies concluded that “most, if not all” cases of mesothelioma were related to exposure to tremolite asbestos and not chrysotile.
The study described certain mines in Quebec as containing higher or lower amounts of tremolite – mines in area A and mines in area B – but MacDonald never refers to these mines by name.
“Their whole theory is based on comparing the mesothelioma rates and they don’t say which mine is which,” Egilman said. “If they didn’t make up the data, they hid information […] That’s worse than scientific misconduct.”
Fuks admits in the report that he could not “find direct identification of which specific mines were in areas A and B and all the published data are coded both for subjects and mine.”
“It is therefore not possible to make these linkages by name,” he concludes.
Despite this, Fuks argues that there is “no basis to presume that the analyses performed by [Macdonald] and his colleagues are flawed” because the data Macdonald used was consistent across his studies.
Egilman claimed in a paper published in 2003 that Macdonald did not use the right equipment to assess the levels of asbestos exposure.
Fuks’ report addressed this by stating that although Macdonald was aware of the drawbacks of his equipment, it was impossible for him to use the latest measuring tools because he was comparing his numbers with data obtained using older instruments.
“[Macdonald] did not have the opportunity to carry out prospective measures of exposure and [was] forced to either use the data available or not initiate the study,” the report read.
Egilman also claimed that the relationship between Macdonald and the asbestos industry was greatly understated.
“[The asbestos industry] said they were looking for Macdonald because they were looking for someone who would want to be a champion for them, like the tobacco companies did with cancer,” he told The Daily.
Macdonald testified before the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration in 1972 and proposed lowering U.S. safety standards, according to a 1973 book by investigative science reporter Paul Brodeur.
Eidelman said at a press conference on Wednesday that MacDonald’s public advocacy of the use of asbestos was not “germane to an issue of research misconduct.”
“We don’t regulate the speech of our professors,” he said.
Earlier this year, a group of Canadian scientists criticized McGill for its continued ties to the asbestos industry and called for the resignation of Roshi Chadha from the University’s Board of Governors.
Chadha is the director of an asbestos-exporting firm and the wife of Baljit Chadha, the president and founder of Balcorp Limited – a prominent exporter of asbestos to India.
Eidelman declined to comment on Chadha’s relationship to McGill.
The report concluded by recommending that McGill hold an academic conference on the topic of alternatives to asbestos and the challenge of asbestos removal.
—with files from Lola Duffort
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
David Suzuki and Jeff Rubin discuss economics and the environment
Students and community members gathered on Monday to hear environmentalist David Suzuki and economist Jeff Rubin deliver a clear message: human beings have come to the end of an era of unprecedented growth.
The sold-out event, which took place at Pollack Hall, was part of a multi-city lecture tour launched on September 23 at Toronto’s Word on the Street literacy festival for Rubin’s new book, The End of Growth.
The lecture, which was moderated by CTV news anchor Tarah Schwartz, opened with a standing ovation as Suzuki and Rubin walked on stage.
Suzuki, co-founder of the David Suzuki Foundation and long-time academic, science broadcaster, and environmental activist, told the crowd that he was very happy to finally be sharing the stage with an economist who was bridging the two generally conflicting fields of environment and economics.
“Environmentalists have been told that they don’t know economics,” Suzuki explained. “And it’s true, environmentalists don’t know economics – we just use common sense. But when economists started warning about the end of growth, I knew I wanted to be part of this.”
Rubin, who served as chief economist at CIBC World Markets for over twenty years, opened the talk by explaining the importance of the two critical fuels that drive our economy: oil and coal.
“We attribute the last thirty to forty years of economic growth to our own brilliance,” said Rubin, “when really it has been because of cheap fuel – of which we are out.”
“We can no longer afford the oil that is coming out of the ground. What we’re talking about is not just another recession, it is not twenty to thirty years from now. Our rendezvous with triple-digit oil prices is now.”
“I think from the environmental standpoint I’m bringing some very good news,” Rubin said. “I think we’re talking about a major deceleration in economic growth. Those triple-digit oil prices are going to lead to very green places even if we don’t want to go there.”
During Suzuki’s speech, he explained that we have prized human constructs – such as capitalism and the economy – above the very world in which we live.
“This is the moment for all of us to ask, what is the economy for? Are there no limits to the economy? Are we happier with all of this stuff? We have to ask these questions because I think we stand at an absolutely catastrophic point in our relationship with the biosphere.”
According to Suzuki, human beings have become a force like no other the planet has ever seen.
“No other species has ever done what we are doing now,” he said. “We are now a geological force, altering the world physically, chemically, and biologically. We have lost our understanding of our place on the planet.”
“We are like any other animal on the planet,” Suzuki continued, “in that our most fundamental needs are water, air, and the earth. These are our most vital needs as humans, but what have we done? We have elevated a human construct above the very world in which we live. Let’s go back to the real world we live in.”
When Schwartz asked Suzuki about the most important thing Canadians can do right now for the future, Suzuki immediately responded that we have to “take back democracy and show our leaders what really matters to us.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Recommendations on disciplinary and security procedures outlined
After four open discussions and a half-day symposium, Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi released three recommendations in his Report of the Open Forum on Free Expression and Peaceful Assembly last week.
The report summarizes the discussions that took place from March to May and recommends that language in the Code of Student Conduct be clarified, that the James Protocol be less restrictive, and that Security Services review its training program.
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum mandated Manfredi to head the process of organizing the Open Forum on February 13.
The mandate originated from the Jutras Report on the events of November 10, 2011 – an internal investigation conducted by Dean of Law Daniel Jutras – which stated that “University authorities should provide and participate in a forum open to all members of the University community to discuss the meaning and scope of the rights of free expression and peaceful assembly on campus.”
Munroe-Blum’s announcement of the Open Forum project immediately followed the release of the Provisional Protocol Regarding Demonstrations, Protests, and Occupations on McGill University Campuses and the five-day occupation of Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson’s office.
Munroe-Blum announced in Senate yesterday that the Provisional Protocol would be reviewed and discussed during the November Senate meeting.
Open discussions
The number of community members who took part in or watched the Open Forum discussions was not available. The Daily previously reported that the first discussion, which took place on March 1, saw a “handful” of attendees.
Students interviewed at that time expressed a lack of faith in the process. Manfredi’s report notes, “some students had engaged in a boycott of the process” due to “skepticism about the efficacy of the Open Forum and criticisms of both its style and substance.”
Manfredi wrote in an email to The Daily that he became aware of the boycott in a meeting with authors of the November 10 Independent Study Inquiry (ISI) “after the Open Forum sessions were complete.”
ISI member Amanda Murphy said that she was not among those who boycotted, but described the environment of the second open discussion as “hostile.”
Murphy said she was among the few students present who were not members of Manfredi’s Advisory Committee or involved with SSMU Council.
“[The discussion] was not conducive to dialogue at all, unless you were very certain of your viewpoint,” Murphy recalled.
The report also includes concerns about concealing identities during protests, a discussion that mainly revolved around the use of masks to preserve anonymity during #6party. After the occupation, several staff members in James brought up concerns that masks added to an atmosphere of intimidation and made them feel threatened.
Manfredi also notes the contrasting concern that easily-recognized students could be targeted by security and administrative personnel, discouraging on-campus demonstrations.
Another major discussion is that of public versus private space. The report clarifies, “in strictly legal terms, McGill University’s campuses are private property…and open to the public by invitation.”
It also states that differentiation of space – including restricting access to some locations such as those where research is conducted – is reasonable and done at other universities.
Recommendations
Manfredi’s call to clarify language in the Code of Student Conduct hinged largely on the fact that the Code does not define the term “disruption.” Section 5 of the Code, which discusses disruption, was the basis of much of last year’s disciplinary action following the #6party occupation and several other incidents on campus.
According to the report, clarifying this term would “identify activity that is clearly exempt from disciplinary proceedings.”
The recommendation to review the James Protocol – the security procedure to enter the James building, which became very strict following #6party – has been addressed to some degree by the fact that Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa announced in September that the building would no longer be on card-only access, and that McGill community members would be allowed to enter the building during work hours as long as they signed in.
At yesterday’s Senate meeting, Munroe-Blum referred to an incident last week in which “two students went in and created a sense of intimidation in the [James Administration] building.”
Doug Sweet, director of Internal Relations, told The Daily that it was an isolated incident in which two students accessed the James Administration building and “reacted aggressively” to staff members who asked them to make an appointment.
Sweet pointed to the need to balance community building access rights with creating a safe environment for those working in the building.
Manfredi’s final recommendation is that Security Services “review their training program.”
The report discusses participants’ concerns about the securitization of campus and enhanced surveillance of public events, but does not factor these into the recommendation, which focuses more on the procedural recommendations such as, “security personnel must be well trained in the substance of University regulations and the preparation of incident reports.”
—with files from Juan Camilo Velásquez
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists reflect on movement’s legacy and future mobilization
At 11 a.m. on Monday, October 15, Square Victoria was silent. The small park in the centre of Montreal’s financial district showed no signs of the revolutionary Occupy movement that had claimed possession of it exactly one year before.
Occupy Montreal had planned its anniversary celebration for noon on Monday. By 1 p.m., about 100 people filled the square.
“People are on anarchist time,” joked Occupy organizer Paul Bode.
On the Queen Victoria statue, someone wrote “Place du Peuple,” the name that the occupiers chose when they renamed the square during the occupation last October.
Koby Rogers Hall and Frédéric Biron Carmel were responsible for the installation of photographs of last October’s occupation that were mounted on red poster board throughout the square. The photos were placed according to their respective vantage points in the square. The installation was part of their collaboration on [P(re)]occupations: The Living Archives of Occupy Montreal, which is opening at the Skol centre of modern art on Friday.
Carmel said that his goal in mounting the installation was to bring people into the world of Occupy Montreal and make them think about the meaning of activism.
“There are multiple scenes that implicate the observer. For example, we have scenes that are very collective, or we have scenes that are much more intimate – two activists who are about to get evicted – and we see all the emotions that are behind that,” he told The Daily.
“Occupy’s one-year anniversary is just another opportunity to highlight what is an ongoing global mobilization, bringing attention to these longstanding struggles and overall injustice,” added Hall.
Simon Lussier, a journalist for OM99% Media, described the media outlet as one of a few “spin-offs” from the Occupy movement, which also include the Assemblées populaires autonomes de quartiers and La Chorale du Peuple, a group of activists who perform anti-oppression songs.
According to Lussier, Occupy Montreal’s greatest accomplishment is the mobilization that it subsequently inspired.
“I think [its future is in] the many movements that sprung from Occupy,” he said.
“The movement certainly outgrew its camp in many ways,” commented Hall. “It’s work that can probably be accomplished more effectively neighborhood-by-neighborhood, in the streets, rather than by having to engage in a power struggle with the authorities.”
Among the Occupy veterans who came back to the square for the anniversary celebration was Alejandro, a Mexican activist and artist.
“I think gatherings like this are so beautiful, and I think it’s good to remember, to come and commemorate,” he told The Daily in French. “Just because we’re not still here doesn’t mean we don’t exist.”
According to the Canadian Press, three arrests were made under a municipal bylaw, but the protesters were released later that day.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
