The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill Principal fields questions on years’ events and her legacy
Correction appended April 1
This Tuesday, McGill Principal Heather Munroe-Blum sat down for an hour-long interview with reporters from The Daily, Le Délit, and The Tribune in the Macdonald Engineering building. While the interview was officially with Munroe-Blum, McGill Vice-Principal (External Relations) Olivier Marcil and Director of Media Relations Doug Sweet also sat in on the interview, occasionally adding their own comments.
 
The McGill Tribune: Next year will be your last year as principal of McGill. What are your goals for your last term, and what do you hope your legacy will be?
Heather Munroe-Blum: It’s a good time to be thinking about that. Certainly my goals for the coming year are the major planning initiatives that we have underway – the response to the Principal’s Task Force on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement; the completion of the next round of academic planning known as the ASAP Paper; and integrated with that and parallel to it the development of the Strategic Research Plan. Those are the places where we, I think, really stand to now take measures, commit ourselves to them and have some targets that we’ll be reporting back on. And in that regard, the Task Force on Diversity, Excellence, and Community Engagement is really important for me. The other piece, of course, is the follow-up to the Task Force in my first term, on student life and learning, and although we’ve made progress, I think there’s still a ways to go in that. And I guess the other part that’s very important is McGill not just being in Quebec, but of Quebec. You know, we’ve just celebrated our 190th anniversary. We were here before Quebec was a province or Canada was a country, so all the great things about McGill are not just related to what happens within the institution, but where we are. So celebrating that, framing up the ways we’ll express that over the next 25 and 50 years, and at the same time doing the same in the international context. One of the assets that we bring to those who are here – to our students and our professors, but also that we bring to the broader community through McGill – is all the bridges that we create to the rest of the world. So those are some themes.
The McGill Daily: So, it’s been quite the year at McGill…
HMB: Yes, it has.
MD: How do you think the many events of this year have affected McGill’s brand?
HMB: Brand is a very commercial term, and I know it’s the term that’s out there. I think of it as our reputation and our reach, so maybe that’s another way of saying brand. Our reputation and reach have never been stronger. We have way more opportunities that are offered to us than we can respond to, in terms of partnerships, in terms of the wonderful people who want to come here, both students and professors.
MD: As for students who come on campus – to tour the campus and see events going on – do you think that has an effect on them?
HMB: I’ve been talking to them, and their parents may be asking more questions than they are, but the students who come are pretty focused on the mission of the University and their own experience. Even last week, it was interesting that would-be students and parents were communicating with me, and I was saying look, you may want to stay away. The day of [March] 22, you know there was a big citywide demonstration planned, and people just said, well we’ll just readjust our plans, no question about it.
Le Délit: For MUNACA, why has a collective agreement not been signed?
HMB: You know everything that I know about it. I understand there’s a meeting planned for tomorrow evening, and that people are working through the outstanding issues. And let me just say as Principal my hope and my goal is to have this signed and to move on. And certainly for our employees to have access to their compensation.
MT: Following some events this semester, some people have been worried that McGill is a “consequence-free environment.” How would you respond to those people?
HMB: I would say it’s not a consequence-free environment. We’re working very hard to find the right balance between making sure that our core activities are protected, that people are able to do their work, whether it’s students or professors or admin and support staff. And we balance that with the ability for people to express themselves freely, and to demonstrate peaceably. Clearly, there are limits to the latter, and there should not be limits on the ability for people to do their work and carry out their responsibilities here. So there are consequences, and I think we’ve seen some of them in the last week. You know, we’re doing our best to balance this. But I know there’s a concern about this, so you can imagine we’re quite preoccupied with it.
MD: With regards to the recent disciplinary action taken against students participating in strike action, including students being banned from campus, can you comment on that?
HMB: I don’t comment on disciplinary actions, but I think you would see with the banning of students from campus that there are consequences.
MD: Has this measure been taken before?
HMB: I don’t know. What happens from a disciplinary point of view is not normally in a public lens. The University functions, it’s a huge place, we have approximately 50,000 people who make up the daily community on our two campuses, and then more out into the affiliated teaching hospitals. Much of what happens in all respects happens at the local level of the University, so I think what’s happening right now in terms of the issues that you’ve raised, and then the issue of discipline, is having a much more public focus than typically would be the case. So I’m not involved in the day-to-day of disciplinary action.
LD: About the provisional protocol regarding campus protests – when will it end or is it supposed to keep going next year?
HMB: Well, Dean Manfredi’s reporting back in the fall on the outcome of his forums, and also the academic meeting that’s being planned on this matter. There will certainly be some repositioning in the fall.
MT: This year we’ve seen some tension, and I’m sure Dean Manfredi’s open forums are a way of allowing people to express themselves. But also last semester you had a live webcast where you answered questions, and you had a blog. 
HMB: Yes, in fact, we’re actually planning some more webcasting. This is something that we’ve had a lot of feedback on, and I seek your guidance too if you have suggestions. Again, with the big community, and then a broader community of family members of our students around the world, alumni around the world, it’s really a challenge to think about how to communicate regularly, not just when there’s something that happens that makes people worried, but all the good things happening too. And it does seem the webcast is a good way to do that, both on a regular basis, probably, so we’re doing one in April, and then I think the plan is again in the fall and the winter to do them.
You all saw one of the reactions to the fall [webcast]…was far more students than ever in my experience saying, ‘Well what about me? What about my voice, what about my interests and concerns?’ And what we don’t want is an extreme to dominate, whatever that extreme is. I mean, the extreme in some years could be partying, and simply partying and not thinking about other issues. It could be just athletics, as many of the American universities find. We have a very diverse student body, smart, able, dedicated, but a whole lot of range of interests and activities. And so the leadership of the University is very distributed, the elected leadership of the constituent members of the University is very distributed, and we need to very actively continue to pursue how best to have a good alignment of that, that allows for and celebrates diversity, while respecting the place and the mission of the University.   
MD: What is McGill doing to investigate McGillLeaks, and will the findings be made public?
HMB: We’re pursuing it fully, so as has been communicated we have very, very deep forensic auditing going on. We have the police involved. And it is unlikely that the results of much of this will be made public, because it’s a security issue. It is interesting how we’ve received [comments] from other institutions commending the way that we’ve handled it… I think overall we feel we’re taking every measure we can to protect people’s privacy, and there will be consequences for those who have been involved in this.
LD: Why did McGill threaten the Daily Publications Society when it is legal under Quebec law to use information that is in public space, even if it is illegally obtained?
HMB: Because it’s a breach of the privacy laws to use that information.
LD: But not for journalists to use that information. 
HMB: Well that would be tested in the courts.
Olivier Marcil: We have asked, not only to The Daily, but everybody that has published those documents that have been stolen from the University, to remove the link from their site. Everyone has agreed. It’s not a threat to The Daily.
HMB: It’s our responsibility to protect the privacy of people who work with us and who are part of the community. I would think you would respect that, and I think as part of good journalism you would respect the privacy of people too. It’s your judgement, and it’s your choice. It was a very serious breach… Everybody [received a similar letter], anyone who published anything, and as I said, not just media outlets.
MT: The response of the investigation into Professor McDonald’s asbestos research were to be released at senate last week. Are you able to provide any sort of update?
HMB: The Dean [of Medicine David Eidelman] provided an update at the Board meeting, I think the week before last, and says he will now have received the report from the person who is conducting the investigation. He is now reviewing the report, and he will come out with something in the near future.
MT: Will that information be released?
HMB: Yes, when he comes up with his findings, they will be made public. You remember, it was done decades ago, this research, so it was done in a very different context. And our Dean is a respirologist himself, and has a deep concern about the issues, but the fundamental issue is that of the quality of the research, and that’s being investigated very thoroughly.
MD: Can you tell us when your potential successors for next year will be announced, and what that process will involve? 
HMB: The process is underway, which is why it’s announced quite far in advance. It’s an advisory process to the Chair of the Board, who takes a recommendation to the Board of Governors. There’s a broad representation of the University constituents on the advisory committee: students, admin and support staff, faculty, and alumni. And then they look for the best candidate. All of our leadership searches – for deans, for vice principals, for the principal – are done at the international level, looking for the best candidate.
LD: Is anybody else from the McGill administration leaving next year? 
HMB: I’m not leaving the University, I’m a professor in medicine, so I’m stepping down as principal at the end of June 2013. The Deputy Provost term finishes around the same time, but he’s a professor in psychology, so we’re not leaving.
LD: Are you sad to leave as principal in this climate? 
HMB: Look, I feel very proud of the place and the people across the University, but in the senior team as well, and in our senior volunteer leadership. I’m not leaving the principalship yet, I’ve got well over a year left and I have a big agenda – as we’ve described – between now and then. But today, I think the University is a great place, its reputation has never been stronger, its people have never been more talented, its ability to contribute to society has never been stronger than it is today. I’m very proud.
MT: In the past few months, the portfolio of the Deputy Provost Student Life and Learning has been under review. So far, what will be the main changes to the portfolio?
HMB: I don’t think the Provost has decided yet. He’s doing that review, and of course the Deputy Provost is contributing, as are many, many people across our two campuses. The position of Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) came out of the Task Force on Student Life and Learning, and I launched that task force because up until that time there was no one with a VP level role whose only preoccupation was students. And in a University that is so known for its research, as McGill is, and has such a breadth of research, having people at the senior table, who for whatever decision we’re making, whatever it’s about…having someone there who’s an advocate and an ambassador for students is really important, and has been embraced by the Provost as well. And Professor Mendelson has diligently done that, so he doesn’t ever let us think about other issues without thinking about the effects on students and the ability to reach out to students, and understand also how different student needs are, whether you’re part time or you’re in a professional program, or you’re an undergraduate or you’re graduate… I think it remains to be seen whether or not there will be a major restructuring, and then there will be very big shoes to fill in finding a successor to Professor Mendelson.
MD: The Quebec budget was recently released and there are no plans, despite student action, to stop the tuition increases. Is McGill still in the same position of supporting the tuition increases?
HMB: Yes, we are. But I absolutely am committed to not talking about tuition without talking about student aid. So the reality is, and you know the facts, but let me just state them very, very simply, that in the year 2016-17, Quebec under this new rise in tuition will be at the average of Canada last year, not this year, but last year. You also know, as students, that there is a shortfall on our resources to do the things that we need to do – support students.
When I became principal, one of the recommendations I took to the Board that they approved, was that for every net new dollar of tuition that comes into McGill, we would take thirty cents and put it into student support, over and above whatever Quebec does. And our advice to Quebec has always been, don’t raise fees unrealistically, raise them realistically, but ensure that there’s student aid for those who can’t afford to pay. And so over the eight years or so that our own McGill policy has been in place, we’ve increased by 500 per cent the amount of student aid available to students at McGill. And with the unfreezing of tuition, we’ve moved only very modestly in terms of students paying a meaningful percentage of the education they receive, even those who can afford to pay more.
I want to say that I don’t support the tuition fees south of the boarder, even in the public universities – they are too high. Even in the public universities, they are too high. If you look at the quality that we deliver on our underfunded basis, what we’re looking for is the average of Canada, notwithstanding that we aim to compete with the best in the world.
MD: It’s been quite hectic in James Admin this year. Is there administrative work that is being moved outside of the building?
HMB: There are about 300 people who work in the James building, they’ve been working very hard to keep up with the workload. During the strike, some of it was moved out. During the occupations, there was a total disruption to work, but nonetheless employees work very hard to keep up with their own responsibilities.
MD: So it’s just business as usual?
HMB: It would be crazy to say its not different coming into a place that is now locked, or [requiring] card access. But I think the system that we’ve put in place, I hope we’re smarter today than we were September 1 with respect to how to protect the safety and security of people on our campus, and allow work to go on without having an undue presence of security. If you think of most public buildings, they have something like the reception desk that we’ve put into the James Building, so it’s actually been much smoother, and I think easier for people to get in and out.
There are three hundred people who come in and work really hard, are in in the morning, stay late at night, who felt completely unsafe in the building, had their space intruded, some of them [felt] physically very threatened. So there’s an aftermath to that. So the new measures I think are allowing access for those who have work in the building, meetings that go on in the building, but added a sense of security for the people who work there and are doing their utmost to serve the University.
MD: Are they permanent measures? 
HMB: I don’t know. I think the fall will be a good time to revisit what makes sense, but one of the things we’ve learned – and just looking at what other Universities do, and what other public institutions do – is having a reception desk, and a sign in for visitors is a very normal procedure… Those kinds of standard procedures simply were never considered.
LD: What are the strategies to increase the number of classes offered in French?
HMB: There is opportunity to take French lessons now, for students who don’t speak French.
LD: But it’s really hard. 
HMB: It is really hard, it is really hard, and it’s hard in a couple of ways. One, it’s not free for everybody, and two, there are pretty heavy course loads. So, one of the things I know is happening is a consultation about how to do that, and frankly, it’s an issue for our employees too. When I say that we’ve hired over a thousand new professors, over half of them from outside the country, almost all of our new professors are bilingual or trilingual, they don’t all have English or French. I’ve been very happy at how successful its been, hiring so many people from outside of Quebec and having them come with their families, and the majority of them have settled in well, and their children are learning French, and are bilingual. But, there is an issue, and it’s different in different faculties. So Engineering, for example, you know the course requirements leave very little degrees of freedom. The Provost and the Deputy Provost and I just met with the Engineering undergraduate students two weeks ago, and one of the things they were saying is there’s always wonderful other courses to take, but we can’t do it. So I asked, how many of you would be willing to take five years instead of four to get your degree, and the majority of them put up their hands. That was sort of a surprise to us. But maybe there really are ways of moving into a more flexible ways of taking courses that allow those that want to take a bit longer and learn French, or do some other things, take another kind of program in addition to their major, they could do that as well.
I know people don’t like talking about money, in fact people would rather talk about their sex lives than their financial circumstances. But the reality is, when we’re underfunded it means something, and part of what it means is we can’t just choose to do a whole lot of things that we would like to do without getting more resources. If you look at the budget of last week, it doesn’t have much margin to move. New revenues will come with more students, that’s how provinces work. It’s a head count funding basis, it’s not a mission-specific basis, it’s not a quality specific basis per se, so we work to get quality in the context of our funding, and that means some things have to either be paid for on an elective basis – that people chose to pay for them – or we need some help from the government to do that. And I would say French language exposure should be a high priority for the government, I would hope it would be a high priority for students too.
An earlier version of this article quoted Munroe-Blum as saying, “We’ve moved only very modestly in terms of students paying a meaningful percentage of the education they receive, even those who can’t afford to pay more.” In fact, she said “those who can afford to pay more.” The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Article 21(a) invoked for strike-related actions
Four students were subject to a five-day ban from campus over the past week for incidents related to the ongoing student strike. The students were banned under article 21(a) of the Student Code of Conduct and Disciplinary Procedure by Associate Dean of Arts André Costopoulos.
The suspensions followed a week of tension on campus surrounding departmental strike votes and picketing, particularly around hard picket lines attempted by the Department of English Students Association (DESA) and graduate students from McGill’s School of Nursing.
Article 21(a) states that when a disciplinary officer has “reasonable grounds to believe that the student’s continued presence in said area is detrimental to good order, or constitutes a threat to the safety of others, immediately to leave and remain away from said area or a part thereof, as the case may be, for a period not exceeding five working days.”
The definition of “good order” and “safety of others” is interpreted by the disciplinary officer.
Ethan Feldman, a U4 Arts student, was banned beginning last Wednesday, March 21. The other students, which included SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault, were banned for incidents that took place on Monday, the same day that a McGill student was allegedly hit by a security guard while students picketed classes at Concordia.
Two of the students, who wished to remain unnamed, were informed verbally by Costopoulos of their suspension from campus, and were escorted from campus by security agents, while Pedneault and Feldman were notified via email.
Costopoulos spoke to article 21(a), which he said is rarely invoked, and is separate from disciplinary action.
“It’s actually quite rare that I find a situation on campus that justifies excluding a student. It’s really a last resort,” Costopoulos said.
Pedneault said that he was not aware of his suspension until Costopoulos asked why he was on campus and informed him of the decision, which had been sent via email earlier that day.
Pedneault said that the incident for which he was banned involved the presence of a Université de Québec à Montréal (UQAM) class on McGill’s downtown campus. Several UQAM students wished to conduct a discussion about the student strike during the class, and contacted Pedneault to serve as a liaison with McGill Security.
According to Pedneault, the class was a peaceful discussion, and ended when both pro-strike students and class participants left at about 9:45 a.m. He added that there was “no confrontational atmosphere,” and while there was one security guard present for part of the class, he “was surprised to get a letter from the University which essentially says that, in relation to events that took place in Adams 348… I was considered a threat to good order.”
One of the students suspended said that they were not actively participating in picketing classes, but had been handing out flyers next to a picket when they were removed from campus.
The written notice of suspension sent by Costopoulos to three of the students had no description of the incidents in question other than the number of the room outside of which they allegedly occurred.
In the current form of the Code, there is no appeals process for a 21(a). Costopoulos called this a “flaw in the Code.”
“I would like to see in 21(a) some CSD [Committee on Student Discipline] oversight to shield students against abuse,” he said.
“I can’t speak for any other [disciplinary officer], but, personally, if a student said, ‘Well, I want CSD to review your decision, I want to appeal it to CSD,’ I would look at the Code and I would say, ‘There’s nothing in there that prevents it,’” Costopoulos explained.
The suspended students said that they provided no identification, but were identified through recognition by security personnel or by Costopoulos.
“This [issue of identification] is brought up again and again, and the only thing I can come up with is being recognized is not an infringement of rights. If people know who you are, they’re not infringing your rights by that very fact, just like people know who I am when I walk around campus,” Costopoulos explained.
Security personnel also enforce the ban. According to Feldman, Costopoulos told him that Security’s mandate includes physically removing suspended students from campus if necessary. A “valid academic reason” must be cleared with Costopoulos for exceptions. Costopoulos also granted Pedneault limited access to the Shatner building in order to be able to work from his office during the suspension.
On Tuesday morning, a letter was sent to Costopoulos and several administrative figures questioning their disciplinary practices by a lawyer representing several students facing disciplinary charges from the University, including some of the students banned from campus.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Simultaneous anti-tuition hike marches criss-cross downtown Montreal
A new student organization orchestrated its first action at noon on Thursday as part of CLASSE’s week of economic disruptions.
CLASSE, the temporary coalition formed by the Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (ASSÉ), invited its members to attend the ‘Grande Mascarade,’ a 1,500 strong demonstration that split into a four different marches before reconvening at Place des Arts.
The Front or Fédération des Étudiant(e)s Collégial ou Universitaire Révolté (FECUR), an autonomous group that formed a week and a half ago, organized the marches. One of its members, a student dressed as a pirate who wished to be identified as a student from the University of the People, said the group was formed based on its members’ political affinity and functions as a direct democracy.
The Facebook event called for students to bring masks and costumes. The four marching routes were also each assigned a colour and a cause.
The student noted that the police are the “determining factor” of whether a protest goes well. “It’s for that that we see four demonstrations, four different scenarios, and aspects of denouncing the political profiling that is manipulated by the SPVM,” said the student in French.
The four-pronged demonstration was based on the 18th and 19th century tradition of civil disobedience, known as rough music. The event page called it “Charivari dans les rues de Montréal,” stating that the uproar “was a moment where villagers would dress in costumes and masks to heckle the home of a community member whose conduct they criticize.”
“It’s a form of popular justice,” said the student during the blue demonstration. He added that, by wearing masks, demonstrators were guaranteeing their right to anonymity and denouncing the political profiling of students frequently participating in actions.
In the Facebook description of the action, the organizing committee noted the group was in favour of a diversity of tactics. “We will not condemn and we will not intervene if individuals or groups decide to undertake more radical action. The police already do enough repression like that. In this sense, no physical altercations and no profiling between demonstrations will be tolerated,” it read.
The student explained that FECUR respects any tactics that shares its objectives. “We are not calling for violence…but if people do it that’s why we’re in the streets, it’s for that that we are on strike. It’s to create the opportune moment.”
– Erin Hudson
 
Blue
The blue protest was called “Ensemble, bloquons la récupération!” About 600 demonstrators marched from Phillips Square zigzagging between Maisonneuve and Ste. Catherine, as far west as Crescent. Around 1:50 p.m. demonstrators came onto McGill campus, marching up to the Arts building before leaving via McTavish.
The protest denounced the Quebec student federations the Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec (FECQ) and the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ).
The banner carried at the front of the protest read in French, “FECQ and FEUQ do not represent us.” A second banner positioned in major intersections throughout the march, read, in French, “The state ignores our cries, FECQ and FEUQ appropriate them. Students against the sexist hike.”
“We say that FEUQ and FECQ do not represent us because they are traditionally two unions that often refuse to use the strike or to fight at one point or another,” said the student involved in FECUR in French.
In 2005, CLASSÉ, the coalition representing ASSÉ during the strike movement, was among those excluded from negotiations between students and the government as FECQ and FEUQ negotiated for students alone.
He described the participants of the action as being willing “to do caricatures of the student movements.”
“[FECUR] denounces certain elements of traditional unionism,” he explained. “It’s just to laugh a bit and rub it in the face of the human system and, at the same time, rub it in the face of the SPVM,” he added.
Students with sparkly confetti threw handfuls at police cars and bystanders as they marched. A makeshift band marched among demonstrators including a tuba, drums and a trumpet. Many dressed in costume with masks.
“We’re dressed up as mummers, which is a tradition in Newfoundland of disguise that happens around Christmastime when you go into people’s houses dressed in whatever you can find to be totally unrecognizable by people you know,” said a Concordia Women’s Studies student who preferred not to give her name. She marched with four other ‘mummers.’
At Place des Arts, the four demonstrations reconvened around 2:30 p.m. A banner hung by students from Cégép Ahuntsic, which read in French, “FECQ, FEUQ, CLASSE: same fight,” generated attention and debate.
Other students approached the banner to discuss differences in strategy and goals between the three organizations.
Benjamin, an active member within Cégép Ahuntsic, said the student movement is having difficulty determining the manner in which to lead the fight. “We want to see a united movement, a strong movement,” he said.
Vegetables, bread, and meat remains were later thrown towards the banner, until the students removed the banner to applause from the crowd.
The blue line passed Place des Arts to march on UQAM, where students interrupted a mining conference that was taking place in a UQAM building. The other three lines joined the group at UQAM and remained on the campus, dancing and chanting, for hours afterward.
– Erin Hudson
 
Yellow
About 200 demonstrators bedecked in masks and the colour yellow headed south from Phillips Square, led by an effigy of Quebec Premier Jean Charest and a banner bearing the slogan: “T’as le droit d’être contre la grève, pis on a le droit de te trouver scab.” (“You have the right to be against the strike, but we have the right to find the scabs.”)
The cause behind the yellow march was to protest the “syndicalisme jaune” – strikebreaking tactics employed by some students and student federations.
Taking turns whipping the Charest effigy or beating it with flags, students began the march began heading south from Phillips Square, looping back around to the north, and heading east along Sherbrooke. The yellow march passed the blue march twice along the way, first at the corner of Ste. Catherine and Drummond, and again outside the Roddick Gates.
The march paused briefly outside the Loto-Québec building on Sherbrooke. Nine police officers blocked the building while the marchers chanted, some holding a hand over their right eye in reference to the injury suffered by Cégép St. Jerôme student Francis Grenier outside the building earlier this month. Grenier lost sight in his right eye after a police sound grenade detonated near his face.
Frank Lévesque-Nicol – member of the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE), one of the main organizers of student actions this month – said that the goal of the day’s actions “was to have the biggest carnival possible.”
Lévesque-Nicol compared the Mascarade to the other actions CLASSE has been facilitating this week: a series of “economic disruption” targeting some of Montreal’s financial hubs. Action so far this week, of which the details have been kept confidential from even the majority of those participating, have involved an occupation of the Fédération des cégeps building and a blockade of the Port of Montreal.
“The goal [of the Mascarade] really was to go into the economic disruption week and have something that doesn’t require being invisible, and having it organized secretly,” said Lévesque-Nicol.
Habib Hassoun, a McGill French Literature student, joined the demonstration at Place des Arts. Hassoun said he thought “the real strike began on Friday,” the day after the March 22 provincial day of action, the largest student protest in North American history.
“I think this week they proved that they are ready to do everything to be opposed to the government’s decisions,” he said. “Students nowadays are just proving that they have a lot of creativity.”
— Henry Gass
 
Orange and green
The orange line’s theme was the “ultraviolence” of the provincial government. About 600 people took part in the march, which was denouncing “the violence of a government that refuses to negotiate and sends police instead.”
Most TV networks decided to follow that line, as it was expected to turn violent. Protestors moved trash cans and construction signs to the middle of the streets, though many were moved back or set upright by students later in the march. Some vandalism occurred, including the use of spray paint on a Université du Québec à Montréal building and on cars parked behind the police headquarters.
Like the other marches on Thursday, the orange march was welcomed by supportive bystanders, including business owners and construction workers, along its route.
The orange march arrived at Place des Arts at roughly the same time as the green march. The green march was the only march to head east of downtown. Numbering several hundred students, the march had been calling for free education.
— Anthony Lecossois
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councillors accuse Joël Pedneault of using SSMU money to publish propaganda
A motion to censure SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault failed Thursday night during SSMU Legislative Council.
The final vote count – conducted by secret ballot ­– was 11 for, 11 against, and one abstention.
Councillors Raphael Uribe Arango, Isabelle Bi, Haley Dinel, Meredith Driesberg, Joshua Fagen, Justin Fletcher, Hector Hernandez, Julia Kryluk, and Kady Paterson moved the motion. It cited claims of “SSMU money being used for printing and publishing propaganda used to influence the AUS GA results” and “students being granted after-hours access to the SSMU office” as some of the reasons to censure Pedneault.
The motion also referred to the five-day ban from campus imposed on Pedneault by Associate Dean of Arts André Costopoulos.
Pedneault spoke to campus media soon after the decision was made. He stated that he believed the motion was unwarranted.
“I still think the motion to censure was unwarranted; it was a sad day in the history of SSMU. People went way beyond the pale and moved for something that involved me personally in a very serious way,” said Pedneault.
“I don’t think people raised issues in the right way,” he continued.
Before the motion was moved, several members of the gallery addressed Pedneault during question period.
One of these students was Brendan Steven, a U2 Political Science student involved with the McGill Moderate Political Action Committee (ModPAC).
Steven explained to The Daily what the intention of this was “to lay out step by step the abuses that have happened in the [External] portfolio this year.”
“The way he’s gone about his portfolio has been extremely divisive and I think tonight is a clear indication of where that has gone,” said Steven.
A ModPAC press release stated that “a motion to censure SSMU VP External Joel Pednault [sic] for abuse of office tied 11 – 11. The result of the vote sends a strong message that the VP External has  politicized his office, subsidizing and benefiting Mob Squad activists on the student dime.”
Kady Paterson, Education representative to SSMU and former Daily Production and Design editor, said that the motion arose as result of constituents’ concerns.
“I think we tried to get our voices heard. I don’t think we really got to in a full extent, [because] we had a difficult gallery,” said Paterson.
Around twenty students were present in the gallery for debate on the motion, many of whom were visibly upset at comments made by Council. Councillors suggested multiple times that members of the gallery compose themselves, and the option of moving the discussion to an in-camera session was voted down by a narrow margin.
“I am pleased with the way the vote went, I guess it’s the best we could have hoped for. We have no hard feelings against [Pedneault] at all, it’s just the actions, not the person,” Paterson added.
President Maggie Knight spoke against the motion during Council, expressing her disagreement with the way issues were brought forth.
“I’m not sure it is appropriate to wait until this point of the year and then have a personal motion to censure. There should have been a motion saying we want you not to do this,” said Knight.
Knight supported Pedneault after she stated that he was acting under the SSMU mandates and was not breaching SSMU procedures.
“If a student activist is involved in supporting a SSMU campaign that is affiliated with the SSMU mandate, it is appropriate for the student to have access to be printing,” said Knight, referring to one of the accusations in the motion.
Athletics representative Hector Hernandez spoke for the motion to censure Pedneault.
“Coming from The [United] States, and having paid a lot of money to go to school, [tuition hikes] don’t affect me a lot. And I feel like there are a lot of people on campus that are in the same boat,” said Hernandez.
“Being a public figure you cannot impose your own agenda on people that have different agendas,” he continued.
Clubs and Services representative Adam Winer spoke against censuring Pedneault, and addressed Hernandez’s comments.
“I think that this evening I have seen unwarranted attacks on VP Pedneault specifically. [Hernandez] said he was imposing an agenda, if people were uncomfortable with his platform when he ran, then perhaps people should have run against him,” said Winer, referencing Pedneault’s acclaimed candidacy in last year’s SSMU elections.
Pedneault stated he will not cease to support the strike against tuition hikes.
“I’ll continue supporting the strike in all the ways that I can with respect to SSMU mandates,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
