The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Academics and health experts question impartiality of departmental review
Correction appended Feb. 23, 2012
The research work of Professor John Corbett McDonald, an emeritus professor in the Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health at McGill, is now under review after allegations of research misconduct.
McDonald retired from McGill in September 1988, after over two decades as a McGill epidemiology professor. According to a recent episode of CBC’s The National, McDonald received at least $1 million between 1966 and 1972 for research into the health effects of chrysotile asbestos from the Quebec Asbestos Mining Association, which received a large portion of its funding from the asbestos mining giant Johns-Manville.
McGill’s review is being lead by Rebecca Fuhrer, chair of McGill’s Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health. A group of academics and health experts published a letter last Friday calling for an external review of McDonald’s research. McDonald’s research holds that chrysotile asbestos is less harmful than other forms of asbestos, and only deadly when a person is exposed to large quantities of it.
“Hardly anybody else but the McGill team believed that,” said lead signatory of the letter and professor emeritus of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Université Laval Fernand Turcotte. “The rest of the world was really arrested by this,” he continued.
In a statement released last Thursday, Dean of Medicine and Vice-Principal (Health Affairs) David Eidelman said, “Holding scientific views that are different from those of the majority does not constitute research misconduct.”
Imperial Tobacco is also believed to have paid McDonald to review a paper on the health effects of tobacco. An October 1988 letter from McDonald to Imperial Tobacco states: “As agreed, our fee for this work is $10,000.”
A postscript to the letter adds, “I would wish to emphasize that there must be no publication of any part of this review under [my] name.”
Turcotte worked with McDonald early in his career, and described him as “one of the superstars of public health in this country” at the time. This fact, Turcotte continued, jeopardizes the impartiality of Fuhrer’s review.
“Because I have worked with Corbett McDonald in the past, I would have refused that kind of mission, and God knows that I have worked [with him] much less than his immediate colleagues in the departments,” he said.
“When I got the documents that proved that he worked secretly for the tobacco industry, it took me months to overcome my depression,” said Turcotte.
Politicians at the federal and provincial level have called for an end to the Canadian production and exportation of asbestos, a policy long defended through McDonald’s research. Westmount-based company Balcorp Ltd. is also seeking a $58 million loan from the Quebec government to re-open the Jeffrey Mine in Asbestos, Quebec.
Roshi Chadha, a member of McGill’s Board of Governors and director of the export company Seja Trade Ltd., took a leave of absence from McGill two weeks ago. Seja Trade, which exported asbestos – primarily to India – from the Jeffrey Mine for 16 years before the mine closed operations last fall, is a subsidiary of Balcorp.
Kathleen Ruff, senior human rights adviser for the Ottawa-based Rideau Institute, told The Daily that McGill’s review was coming at a “critical moment” for the Quebec and Canadian asbestos industry.
“The global asbestos industry has used Macdonald’s research constantly, and still today uses it to deny the harm caused by chrysotile asbestos,” said Ruff. “This is not an issue from the past.”
Another signatory to the letter criticizing McGill’s preliminary review, Edward Keyserlingk is the former director of the Biomedical Ethics Unit in the McGill Faculty of Medicine. Keyserlingk lost his brother, Robert, to mesothelioma in December 2008. Robert’s widow, Michaela Keyserlingk, said he was exposed to asbestos on naval ships in the early 1950s.
“Forty years later they suddenly found that he had fluid on his lungs,” she said.
“It’s a horrible death. They are really suffocating. And if you think we have all the morphine and all the opiates available to modern medicine to mask all these horrible symptoms, and nobody in India has that and these people must be dying the most excruciating death I can possibly imagine,” she said.
“I think McGill would do well choosing people outside of their own community. I think this is much too serious to have your own people investigating your own people,” Keyserlingk added.
In the original version of this article, it stated that Edward Keyserlingk is a McGill professor emeritus of Medical Ethics & Health Law; he is in fact the former director of the Biomedical Ethics Unit in the Faculty of Medicine. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Dean of Medicine says it’s “unlikely” the review will find anything 
A week after coming under criticism for its past and present connections with the Quebec asbestos industry, McGill launched a review into the research of one of its retired professors.
Last Thursday, VP (Health Affairs) and Dean of Medicine David Eidelman announced that the faculty had appointed Rebecca Fuhrer, chair of McGill’s Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, to conduct a preliminary review of the research of John Corbett McDonald, an emeritus professor in the department.
Fuhrer has not given a deadline for the completion of her preliminary review, but in an email she wrote, “The timeline for this preliminary review will depend on the time that is needed to respond accurately to the remit I have been given by the Dean.”
In a statement, Eidelman said Fuhrer’s review “is being undertaken to ensure that the research of Professor McDonald was conducted according to the rigorous scientific standards for which McGill is known.”
“The outcome of Professor Fuhrer’s review will determine whether there is a need for a more detailed investigation, in accordance with our standard policies and procedures,” continues Eidelman’s statement.
Kathleen Ruff, senior human rights adviser for the Ottawa-based Rideau Institute, said the circumstances of the review “are such that it clearly raises issues of conflict of interest.”
“It is not acceptable; it does not have credibility to do an in-house investigation of the department, by the department,” continued Ruff.
A group of academics and health experts ­– many of whom, including Ruff, initially condemned McGill’s asbestos connections – have signed a letter criticizing the internally-conducted preliminary review. The letter was published last Friday.
The letter calls specifically for McGill to revisit a complaint filed in September 2002 by David Egilman, a clinical associate professor at Brown University and signatory to the letter. Egilman’s complaint, addressed to Robert E. MacKenzie, the then-associate dean of graduate studies and research, alleged that McDonald had manipulated data and cited supporting data that did not exist.
“I asked them three questions. I think they should answer those three questions, and they need to publish the answers to those three questions,” said Egilman in an interview with The Daily.
With regards to his 2002 complaint, Egilman received a response from McGill 16 months later, stating that his grievance was “unfounded.”
“If the data’s there, [Eidelman] could end the investigation in about five minutes,” continued Egilman.
Egilman sent his three questions, along with his supporting evidence, to Eidelman last Saturday, copying both Fuhrer and six news outlets – including The Daily – on the email.
Fuhrer replied the next day, confirming that Egilman’s documents “will be added to those that we are collecting.”
Fernand Turcotte, lead signatory of the letter and professor emeritus of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Université Laval, said that the outcome of the current review is crucial to “preserving the credibility of McGill as an institution.”
“If this second attempt at dealing properly with the questions – that were perfectly legitimate, [which] were raised by Dr. Egilman – if this is missed a second time, well that’s going to become a problem on its own,” said Turcotte.
Eidelman addressed Egilman’s 2002 complaint in an interview with the Montreal Gazette.
“It’s a very painful episode for us at McGill to have these allegations made, but we have to follow standard procedure,” Eidelman told the Gazette. “If you ask me, we are unlikely to find anything this time either.”
Ruff believes Eidelman’s statements supporting McDonald have prejudiced Fuhrer’s review.
“The instructions and statement that Dean Eidelman gave create a tainted atmosphere, create a prejudiced atmosphere, which makes the whole exercise suspect,” she said.
Esli Osmanlliu, president of the McGill Medical Students’ Society, said he felt comfortable with the faculty’s response, though he added that it was “shocking to hear those allegations” against McDonald.
“I don’t have access to the sources justifying the allegations in the documentary, but it is still worrying to think that there may have been some influences from the industry when the research was conducted,” he said.
“I believe [Fuhrer] is very well suited to undergo this review,” he continued. “I think the review is actually a very good thing, because as long as it stands, those are allegations.”
SSMU President Maggie Knight said the review would likely come up at this Wednesday’s Senate meeting.
“It’s an issue that’s very much related to the academic premise of the University and the academic integrity of our research,” said Knight.
“We come here, we work hard, and we want to know that people have faith in the research that comes out of McGill,” she continued.
In the Senate meeting, a motion from the floor to encourage the issuing of a public statement regarding asbestos research at McGill was tabled until Fuhrer’s review is completed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
