The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Meeting attended by students, faculty, staff, and administrators
The first public meeting of the Open Forum on Free Expression and Peaceful Assembly, hosted by Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi on March 1, was marked by expressions of disapproval from many students with regard to the administration’s consultation process.
The ninety-minute livestreamed meeting, which took place in Moyse Hall, was attended by a handful of students, faculty, staff, and senior administrators.
Manfredi, chair of the Forum, structured discussion around questions posed in Dean of Law Daniel Jutras’ report on the events of November 10.
Dave D’Oyen, U2 Arts student, said he found “forums like this to be pointless.”
“I can’t understand how you know that tension exists in this University, and we’re not really doing anything to solve it. This is just another talk shop,” he continued.
One student in attendance named Courtney explained that, “The format of this consultation seems so flawed to me.”
“I feel like by speaking and just being here right now, I’m almost validating this type of consultation to students, and I don’t feel comfortable validating it,” she continued.
A contentious point of debate involved campus safety and the validity of occupations in particular as a method of protest.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson attended the event and spoke about the five-day occupation of his office last month.
“I don’t think that we should assume that people who work in the Deputy Provost’s office should assume that they can have their space invaded,” Mendelson said.
“The people who work in my office are members of this community, and they currently don’t feel that they have a safe space to work in,” he added.
Caroline Baril, who works in Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s office as senior associate (Government and Institutional Relations), spoke to her experiences during both the #6party occupation last month, and the occupation of Munroe-Blum’s office on November 10.
Baril said that some of her colleagues, especially those working in Mendelson’s office, have “become justifiably a little fearful whenever they see a group coming towards them, because they don’t know what to expect now.”
She added that the occupations had caused her to fall behind on work, preventing her from “doing my job, which is contributing to the life of the University.”
“I feel, as an employee of the University, that I’m not respected by the people that I’m working for,” she said.
Political Science Professor Catherine Lu addressed Baril’s statement. “I find the excessive reliance on the language of fear and security describing the reaction to student demonstrations very off the mark and problematic, because it conflates the dangers of having an armed intruder with the problems of civic protest,” she said.
“It’s not what we’d like to happen in our offices, but this is a part of being a public institution,” continued Lu.
In response, Mendelson said he was concerned about the “the slippery slope that you’re going to go on, which is that the ends can justify the means.”
“It seems to me that there are some ends that we can all agree with, but that doesn’t mean that we would all agree with any means to achieve those ends. So we really have to, I think, be very careful,” he said.
Lu, however, said she saw the “slippery slope” pointing in the opposite direction.
“When we start using the language of privacy and rights to basically say those in positions of authority and power really don’t have to listen to people who are lower than us or inferior to us… I think that it’s a big mistake for a democracy, and it’s a big mistake for a university,” she said.
One of the first questions Manfredi posed was whether the University should designate specific areas to hold demonstrations.
Josh Redel, president of the Engineering Undergraduate Society and a member of the forum’s  nine-person Advisory Group, said the concept of a designated protest space was interesting, but that “part of the point is that direct action inherently disrupts something.”
“So if you have a designated corridor that’s far away from classrooms, administration buildings, and therefore doesn’t disrupt anything, what’s the point then? They’re never going to use it,” he said.
The forum will hold three more public meetings this semester, as well as a conference in April. Manfredi is mandated to submit a final report to Munroe-Blum no later than October 8.
After the event, Manfredi spoke to The Daily regarding his final report. “This forum is not about a micro-analysis of specific policies, practices, and regulations. It’s about getting a general sense of the community on these issues that can then form an intelligent discussion on these things,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Report delayed due to ATI issues with McGill
Over three months after its launch, the Independent Student Inquiry (ISI) into the events of November 10 published its final report last Thursday.
The report comes about two and a half months after Dean of Law Daniel Jutras submitted his report on November 10 to Principal Heather Munroe-Blum. Originally scheduled to be released in January, the release of the final report was delayed while waiting on Access to Information (ATI) requests filed with McGill.
Chris Bangs, co-author of the final report and a U2 Economics and Political Science student, said in an interview with The Daily that he filed ATI requests with McGill on five separate dates between November 25 and January 19, some of which were resubmissions of previous requests.
McGill has yet to acknowledge receipt of a request that Bangs filed on December 15, and he has only received one set of requested documents, which related to animal testing. ATI requests at McGill are handled by the office of Secretary-General Stephen Strople. The Quebec Act respecting “Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection of personal information” states that the public body has a maximum thirty days to respond to ATI requests.
“Throughout this entire process McGill has not followed the law in its dealings with me,” said Bangs, “which is really regrettable.”
Bangs said that he received a letter on February 15 from McGill’s lawyers to the Commission d’accès à l’information requesting that the commission disregard some of the requests, due to their number and repetitious and systematic nature. Bangs also said Strople’s office cited understaffing from the MUNACA strike last semester as a reason for an extended delay on responding to the requests.
Bangs said it could take a year for his case with McGill to be heard by the commission, so he filed a grievance two weeks ago with the McGill Committee on Student Grievances. Bangs’ grievance contends that Strople’s office has violated Parts 1, 5, 6, and 31 of the Charter of Students’ Rights in the course of their dealings with him.
Part 31 of the Charter reads that “no personal information shall be disclosed by the University to a third party in a manner which permits the identification of the student.” The basis for the section was a similar letter that the Daily Publications Society – which is also in a dispute with McGill over ATI requests – received from McGill’s lawyers on February 15, which mentioned Bangs’ name.
Amelia Bagnoli, co-author of the final ISI report and a U3 Arts and Science student, contrasted the four ATI requests she filed with the SPVM to those Bangs filed with McGill.
“I got a letter that recognized that they received my Access to Information requests, got another letter stating that they were rejecting two of them and cited the law by which they were rejecting them, and then they allowed me access to my other requests,” said Bagnoli.
Bangs said the ISI wasn’t “relying” on information gained from ATIs.
“It would have been really nice to verify a lot of stuff in the Jutras Report, because we weren’t given access to any information,” he said.
The ISI received 34 accounts of November 10, none of which came from administrators or non-faculty staff. The final report states that “despite repeated requests, all refused to be interviewed, stating that they were participating only in Dean Jutras’ investigation. This continued even after the publication of the Jutras Report.”
The ISI presented the final report to SSMU Council last Thursday, and said that one of the main criticisms of it was a lack of perspective from the administration. Harmon Moon, co-author of the report and a U2 Arts student and Daily columnist, said the perception of bias was a “tragic consequence” of the administration declining interviews.
“We weren’t out for blood. So that they should refuse to interact with us on such an essentially innocent level is really galling,” he continued.
Bagnoli said the administration “definitely did block our inquiry from having a complete scope of things.”
The report made 10 recommendations, but Bagnoli said applying the recommendations was “outside the scope of our mandate.”
According to VP University Affairs Emily Clare, SSMU may pursue some of the recommendations.
She noted the fifth recommendation, that a “Protocol should be enacted which clearly specifies the process of an unbiased inquiry in the event that similar or comparable circumstances occur again on McGill campus,” would likely be pursued.
“This is something we’ve brought up multiple times in Senate,” said Clare. “McGill is not very open to the idea of having an external investigation.”
She also admitted that “the year is winding down, so we may not have enough time to really follow things through.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Abductors gave trophy Facebook profile, “night on the town” 
Article updated Feb. 5, 2012
Wednesday morning, VP Internal Todd Plummer broke the news over the SSMU Listserv that the Faculty Olympics trophy had been stolen from his office.
The event took a shocking twist Friday afternoon when a Facebook profile created for the trophy posted a ransom note on the SSMU Faculty Olympics Facebook group.
The ransom note – posted along with a picture of the trophy – stated, “Dear SSMU, We have your beloved trophy. It is safe…for now!”
Later Friday night, SSMU received a note, again on Facebook, that outlined three demands in order for the trophy to be returned. If not met by the Opening Ceremony of the Faculty Olympics, the trophy will be returned “finger-by-finger.”
The demands include the SSMU Executive videotaping a rendition of “ ‘Rocket Man’ in the style of the great William Shatner” to send out over the SSMU listserv, along with the re-naming of Gert’s coat check to “Sean Turner Memorial Cloak Room.”
This is the first break-in to the SSMU offices, though Wallace Sealy, head of SSMU Security, does not want to think of it as such.
“I’m not referring to this as a break-in,” he said. “I’m quite sure it happened during the day when Todd was around.”
Sealy said that, as of Friday afternoon, he had “two soft leads,” and was still in the process of reviewing security footage of the SSMU office.
Last year’s SSMU VP Internal Tom Fabian acquired the trophy last year.  Plummer said is not worth “more than three hundred dollars.”
When asked whether this was an internal attempt to create buzz for the Faculty Olympics, Plummer said that “registration for the [event] filled before I did any advertising, so I would hardly say the event need more buzz.”
“I have so many projects going on…that I really do not have time to entertain the whims of these hooligans,” he added.
The Daily was contacted by one of the anonymous self-proclaimed “abductors” late Friday afternoon. The phone call came from a cell phone registered in Escondido, California, although the abductor stated that they are, at this time, in Montreal.
They reiterated the fact that the trophy was safe and was currently “wolfing down Alto’s and getting ready for a night on St. Laurent.”
Regarding when the trophy was taken, the abductor said they were “surprised” as to how long it has taken Plummer to notice it was missing. They stated the trophy had been gone “a couple months.”
“We are just trying to have a little fun and get everybody into the Faculty Olympics spirit,” they stated.
The abductors wished to remain anonymous, though Plummer stated that he has “a really strong feeling it is someone from EUS… I think it also could be someone from Kinesiology because they won last year.”
When asked if he would participate in negotiations with the abductors, Plummer stated, “We do not negotiate with terrorists, even amateur ones.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SUS Mobilization Committee positive about impact
The Science Undergraduate Society (SUS) held the first General Assembly (GA) in its history last Friday evening.
The first motion regarding accessible education passed by a wide margin with 81 votes. Quorum for the GA is 125. It was reached within one hour.
The motion was moved by U2 Physiology student Leif Halldor Asgeirsson and U1 Biology student Carl Dion Laplante. They are both members of the SUS Mobilization Committee, who started the petition for the GA.
The original intent of the motion was to make the SUS adopt a policy supporting accessible education, with a stance against tuition hikes and the long-term goal of free education for all Science students. It was amended three times.
The amendments focused the policy on the current Quebec tuition hikes instead of long-term goals.
After the first motion was passed, people started leaving, and quorum was lost.
The second motion, to recognize an SUS Strike Committee was withdrawn by the movers, U1 Mathematics student Aidan Drake and U2 Mathematics student Matthew Henry. They are also members of the Mobilization Committee.
SUS speaker Matthew Dolson adjourned the GA after the second motion was withdrawn.
Though quorum was brief, members of the Mobilization Committee were pleased with the outcome. “To be honest, I wasn’t excepting to reach quorum, so [having enough people show up] was good,” Asgeirsson told The Daily after the GA.
“On the other hand, the fact that we have to struggle at McGill to get 125 students to come to a GA is depressing,” he added.
Dolson spoke about the passage of the GA’s first motion. “That is as good as it can go,” he said. “It was good that people got involved and people had things to say.”
Although the motion regarding an SUS Strike Committee was not discussed on the floor, the Mobilization Committee members were positive about the impacts of this GA.
“If we use the momentum of [the] GA, good things can happen,” said Laplante.
He added that the Committee intends to continue working  to mobilize for an unlimited general student strike.
There are currently over 91,500 Quebec university and CEGEP students on strike. The Art Undergraduate Society is holding a GA to vote to join the strike on March 13. The strike is in protest of a five-year, $1,625 hike in tuition fees scheduled to start this September.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Canadian Association of University Teachers says agreement means “million-dollar increase in fees”
On January 30, the University of Toronto (UofT) and the University of Western Ontario (Western) signed a new agreement with Access Copyright to cover copyright-protected materials in print and digital formats.
Under the new agreement, which runs until December 2013, UofT and Western will each pay Access Copyright, a copyright licensing agency which provides access to over 22 million published works, an annual royalty of $27.50 per full-time student.
The previous royalty was $3.38 per student, with an added $0.10 per printed coursepack page. The new agreement does away with the per-page royalty for coursepack copying.
According to Stephen Jarrett, legal counsel at Western, students paid an average of $18 a year in royalties, which was in line with the Canadian average.
McGill’s annual copyright fee is $12.45 for full-time students, with an additional charge of $0.83 per credit.
Jarrett told The Daily that Western made the decision to move to a single annual fee because of difficulties identifying digitally-delivered copyright material.
“Quite frankly, an equal amount of copyright material is being delivered over online course management systems as is being delivered physically,” Jarrett said. “We have to get a sense of whether or not the materials that are being delivered are subject to copyright or not, and this agreement buys us a couple of years to look into that issue.”
The Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) has condemned the agreement. In a statement released on their website, the organization argues that the new agreement “allows for the surveillance of faculty correspondence, unjustified restriction to copyrighted works, and more than a million-dollar increase in fees.”
The CAUT notes that wording in the agreements defines copying as “posting a link or hyperlink to a digital copy.”
However, each agreement also explicitly states that “nothing in this agreement restricts the ability of the Licensee…in any way that would be permitted by the Copyright Act, including linking or hyperlinking.”
Jarrett admitted that Western disagreed with Access Copyright over what constitutes copying, and said, “[the agreement’s] wording was a compromise.”
“If there were some judicial determination in the future that hyperlinking requires the permission of the copyright holder, [Western] would be covered under the agreement,” he continued. Jarrett told Western News that there was no provision that “provides for surveillance of academic staff emails.”
The agreement also states that, although surveying of communications content-management systems will be necessary, “Any survey shall respect all applicable privacy laws, including the Licensee’s privacy policies in effect from time to time, and the principles of academic freedom.”
CAUT is also concerned with the agreements because of what they perceive as Access Copyright’s “characterization of the education sector as disrespectful of copyright, despite the sector’s billion-dollar-plus annual expenditures on copyright material.”
CAUT argues that Bill C-11, the Copy Modernization Act that will amend the current Copyright Act, will be passed in the next few months, and that it “will strengthen the bargaining power of [the education] sector with organizations such as Access Copyright.”
Bill C-11, now in its second reading in the House of Commons, would amend Section 29 of the Act to state that “fair dealing for the purpose of research, private study, education, parody, or satire does not infringe copyright.” Bill C-11’s proposed amendment is the inclusion of “education, parody, or satire.”
Jarrett acknowledged that Bill C-11 will change the Act, but said that Western signed the agreement from 2011 to 2013 in order to be certain they will not infringe on it.
Over thirty Canadian universities have chosen to opt out of new agreements with Access Copyright.
Robert Gilbert, the communications coordinator for Access Copyright, told The Daily that the opt outs, and CAUT’s comments, suggest “that educational institutions decided to opt out of the Interim Tariff in anticipation of the fair dealing exception for ‘education’” that is currently part of Bill C-11.
Access Copyright doesn’t operate in Quebec; its counterpart COPIBEC licenses Quebec post-secondary institutions.
University of Toronto Provost Cheryl Misak declined The Daily’s requests for comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Board of Directors upholds J-Board’s decision on QPIRG referendum
SSMU Legislative Council decided to denounce Bill C-10 – also known as the omnibus crime bill – to provincial and federal governments.
The decision was made at Council last Thursday, which also voted on motions that were not formally passed at February’s General Assembly, due to loss of quorum.
The motion, moved by Law Representative Ian Clarke, also seeks to make SSMU create a media campaign to denounce the bill, and to support any students that wish to denounce it as well.
“One part will be to get the word out and to say this is not a good idea, we should not stand for it, and the other half is to advocate to the government and perhaps change their stance,” said Clarke.
VP External Joël Pedneault was also mandated to lead the movement, which will denounce the bill to the University’s member of Parliament, Marc Garneau, and to Quebec senators.
The motion to “reform frosh,” moved by VP Internal Todd Plummer, also passed.
Plummer expressed concerns over the way Frosh currently runs, citing that, “it orients students to University life in an inappropriate way, and is dominated by ‘bro culture.’”
Council also passed a motion on “Negative Corporate Influence on Campus,” which seeks, in part, to “build a University community governed by students, staff and faculty internal to the University community, rather than corporate agenda.”
The SSMU Board of Directors (BoD) also met on Thursday and ratified the decision made by the Judicial Board (J-Board) regarding QPIRG’s fall 2011 referendum results.
The ratification came following Council’s recommendations.
VP University Affairs Emily Clare told The Daily that the BoD tries to follow Council’s advice because the latter has broader student representation.
“In order to respect the internal democratic processes of the SSMU, it’s important that the BoD respects Council’s recommendation. We cannot have international students [on the BoD], so it is inherently discriminatory. Therefore, it is important that the BoD respects the will of Council,” said Clare.
During Council, Management Representative Samuel Latham advised councillors to adhere to the recommendations of the Bylaw Review Committee, and discuss whether the decision was unreasonable.
“Based on the report of the Bylaw Review Committee, a decision of the J-Board should only be overturned when it is deemed manifestly unreasonable and motivated by discrimination,” said Latham.
Adam Winer, Clubs and Services representative, stated that discussion should not focus upon “whether we as individual members of Council find that the QPIRG question was one questions or two questions,” as doing so would result in “taking the role of J-Board justices.”
“I think it sets a very worrying precedent if we as Council, or as a BoD, overturn the decision,” he said.
Becca Yu, U2 Arts student, presented a letter to Council, signed by thirty students. The letter expresses “disapproval and frustration” with the J-Board decision to invalidate the results of QPIRG fall 2011 referendum.
The letter mentioned that “the decision made by the J-Board could severely affect campus life by impeding QPIRG’s ability to function in a meaningful way.”
“We are also angered by the way in which the decision was made, as well as the reasoning provided,” states the letter.
The letter pointed to a potential conflict of interest on the part of Justice Raphael Szajnfarber.
After the discussion, the Legislative Council voted to recommend to the BoD to uphold the decision made by J-Board.
VP Clubs & Services Carol Fraser also reported that the Cafeteria Light Project, which has been on-going for three years, continues to be at a standstill because of disagreement between McGill and SSMU on the architectural designs.
Fraser told The Daily that, because the project is funded with student money, the design proposed by SSMU should be upheld.
“If it doesn’t even change the lighting capacity in the cafeteria so much, we are considering not even going with the project,” she added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
