The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Thousands crowd Montreal streets for fourth consecutive night
Students showed their opposition to the latest offer from the Quebec government by marching in droves through the streets of Montreal on Friday.
The protest came hours after the Quebec Premier Jean Charest called for spreading the five-year, $1,625 tuition hike, over seven years.
Because of inflation, Charest’s proposal would amount to an 82 per cent hike in tuition fees instead of the original 75 per cent.
The protest
Thousands of students gathered at Place Émilie-Gamelin at around 8:30 p.m. before marching peacefully through the downtown area.
The protest remained calm until demonstrators reached the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Bishop.
At that point, protesters mobbed a marcher who had smashed the window of a Canadian military recruitment office.
Riot police later intervened on the corner of Bleury and Ste. Catherine by splitting the crowd into three groups and arresting several protesters.
Despite the arrests, one officer told the crowd that the march could go on.
Small altercations between protesters and bystanders later occurred on St. Laurent.
The crowd dispersed at around 1:00 a.m.

The proposal
The provincial government also said that it would increase access to student bursaries. Under the new plan, students whose family income is less than $45,000 would have access to bursaries, instead of the original $35,000.
$39 million would be added in bursaries and in student loans.
At a press conference on Friday, the Education Minister, Line Beauchamp, said that the new plan would cost students “less than 50 cents per day.”
A commission to overlook university spending would also be established.
The spokespeople of the three largest student associations in Quebec said on Friday that it was unlikely that students would accept the offer.
“This is an offer that is falsely portrayed as a compromise,” Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, spokesperson for the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE), told Radio-Canada in French.
“The hike isn’t diminished; it’s raised. Students and their families won’t have to pay $1,625, but $1,778.”
Talks between the student associations and the government broke down earlier this week after Beauchamp chose to exclude CLASSE, considered the most militant of the student associations, from the negotiation table.
The Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec and the Fédération édutiante collégiale du Québec left negotiations in solidarity.
The offer came as the student strike in protest of the tuition increase, now the longest student strike in Quebec history by nearly a month, enters its eleventh week.

 
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Tuition hike negotiation breakdown at forefront of protest
On Thursday evening, students and their supporters marched in Montreal for a third consecutive night to protest tuition hikes in the wake of the breakdown of negotiations with the provincial government on Wednesday.
Protests have been occurring daily in downtown Montreal since negotiations began with the government on Monday, and subsequently broke down after Minister of Education Line Beauchamp excluded the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE) – considered the most militant student association – from negotiations on Wednesday.
The protest, which at its peak consisted of an estimated 2,000 marchers, was advertised on the CLASSE website as well as on Facebook, where the event “HOLY SHIT : MANIF NOCTURNE PRISE 3 !!!” listed 2,304 attendees.
The protest began at 8:30 p.m., when protesters gathered at Parc Émile-Gamelin.
“It’s a huge joke,ˮ said Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) philosophy student Alexendre Bolduc to The Daily in French about provincial negotiations. “[Beauchamp] was there for one hour of talks; in my opinion, they really don’t take us seriously. They’re fanning the flames, they continue to infantilize us. They showed us that they can’t negotiate in good faith; it’s going to have to be worked out in some other way.ˮ
As the march set off from the park, protesters were addressed by police, who asked that they move in the direction of traffic. They were blocked by police from moving west down Ste. Catherine and instead went south on St. Denis and turned eastward to march on René Lévesque, effectively blocking the street. Police on horses, bicycles, and in cars maintained a presence ahead of the march and behind it, and groups of police in riot helmets marched alongside protesters.
As the march crossed de Bullion around 9 p.m., police declared it illegal, causing some marchers to leave.
On Twitter, the Service de la Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) announced that the protest had been declared illegal because projectiles had been thrown at police. Less than an hour later, the SPVM announced that, although illegal, the protest would be allowed to continue if it remained peaceful.
Throughout the night, sirens could be heard as police rushed to keep up with protesters’ unannounced route. With the exception of a few instances of pyrotechnic material being set off by protesters, no acts of violence or vandalism were observed during the march. The only arrest reported by police concerned the use of pyrotechnics. In many instances when the crowd neared police, it chanted “On reste pacifique” (Let’s stay peaceful).
Numbers dwindled rapidly in the protest’s third hour. Fewer than one hundred protesters remained when the demonstration came to a close in front of Place Ville Marie, where one protester, Felix Levellier, addressed the crowd. “We’ll be back tomorrow, and there will be three times as many of us!”
After his speech, Levellier told The Daily in French that he was not one of the protest’s organizers, but had decided to speak to ensure that the protest ended without violence. When asked why he had attended the march, Levellier said, “We want to stop the hikes, but above all else we want the government to hear us, peacefully.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
