The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
CLASSE members protest exclusion from tuition hike negotiations
Police clashed with protesters for the second time this week as negotiations between three student associations and the Quebec government broke down.
The breakdown came after Education Minister Line Beauchamp barred members of the Coalition de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE) from participating in talks.
The Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) and the Fédération étudiante collégiale du Québec (FECQ) left the negotiation table in solidarity with CLASSE.
The protest
More than 5,000 protesters gathered at Place Émilie-Gamelin at around 8:30 p.m. before marching through the streets of downtown Montreal.
The demonstration remained calm until protesters reached the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Guy. Demonstrators overturned garbage bins, smashed bank windows, and hurled rocks at police cars.
Riot police intervened at around 10:30 p.m. by detonating concussion grenades, throwing tear gas canisters, and charging the protesters at the intersection of Ste. Catherine and Metcalfe.
After regrouping on Sherbrooke, demonstrators marched down St. Denis and clashed for a second time with police on René Lévesque.
Beer bottles and rocks were thrown as demonstrators scattered before charging riot police.
The crowd dispersed at around 12:00 a.m.
Small altercations between police and demonstrators continued throughout the night.
Around 60 protestors were arrested at 1:30 a.m. on the corner of St. Dominique and des Pins after being kettled an hour and a half earlier.
The SPVM told The Daily early Thursday morning that they did not have an accurate number on arrests.


The truce
Beauchamp accused CLASSE of breaking the “truce” she called for on Monday as a condition for negotiations. Under the “truce,” CLASSE was told not to hold any demonstrations during a 48-hour negotiation period.
Students held a demonstration Tuesday night that ended in a smashed HSBC window and several arrests.
“This demonstration was announced on the site of the student association called the CLASSE,” Beauchamp told reporters in a press conference Wednesday afternoon.
“We cannot pretend today that they have dissociated themselves. I consider therefore that the CLASSE has excluded itself from the negotiation table,” continued Beauchamp.
Three smoke bombs were also detonated Wednesday morning, one each in the Lionel-Groulx and Henri-Bourassa metro stations, and one in the Complexe Desjardins.
SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault said excluding CLASSE “is possibly the worst move [the government] could have done at this stage.”
“At least in Montreal the vast majority of student activists and people who are involved in the strike are with CLASSE and support CLASSE, so it definitely won’t reduce the amount of conflict related to the strike,” said Pedneault.
CLASSE, considered the most radical of the major student associations by the government, denounced violence carried out during the 10-week-old student strike, but refused to condemn civil disobedience or acts of self-defense.
Nadeau-Dubois responded to Beauchamp’s offer of a truce on Monday by neither accepting nor rejecting the offer.
Spokespeople for CLASSE — of which I am one — don’t have the power to take a position on a truce, nor to constrain the 180,000 students on strike and order them to stop mobilizing,” Nadeau-Dubois said in a press conference on Monday.
“So the truce that she has asked for is de facto in effect,” he added.
Nadeau-Dubois has insisted that CLASSE had not planned any actions this week, and, while Tuesday’s demonstration was announced on the association’s website, CLASSE was not involved in its organization.
Pedneault said CLASSE “could have taken a clearer line” on the truce offer.
“They could have rejected outright the truce and said they’re still going to be at the negotiation table, or something to that effect,”
In a press conference Wednesday afternoon, Nadeau-Dubois said Beauchamp “doesn’t want to talk about the tuition hike.”
“This decision by Madame Beauchamp is obviously another strategy to sabotage the discussions,” he added.
— with files from Jordan Venton-Rublee

 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill still seeking $39 million in funding for innovation project
New details of McGill’s Quartier de l’Innovation (QI) project in the former industrial centre of Griffintown emerged in a presentation to the University’s Board of Governors (BoG) Tuesday afternoon.
Rose Goldstein, vice-principal (Research and International Relations), and Phil Barker, interim director of the Montreal Neurological Institute, introduced the plans for the QI, a partnership between McGill and the École de technologie supérieure (ÉTS), an engineering institution in downtown Montreal.
According to Goldstein, the vision of QI is a “transformational partnership between ÉTS and McGill to establish an innovation ecosystem” in Griffintown. Its focus would be on educational, industrial, social-cultural, and urban innovation and entrepreneurship.
ÉTS approached McGill with the idea in the spring of 2010. In May 2011, Goldstein asked Barker to lead McGill’s internal planning process for the project.
Goldstein told the BoG that the project will “engage corporate partners by bringing them closer to our students.”
The project was criticized in a January Senate meeting for the lack of student involvement, as well as the potential corporate partners the project could attract. Barker’s report to Senate listed Bombardier, Google, and Monsanto among potential corporate partners.
Goldstein clarified corporate partnerships within QI in an email to The Daily on Wednesday. Goldstein wrote that the examples provided in Barker’s January report “were purely hypothetical and, in hindsight…not properly reviewed as to whether they would be appropriate partners.”
“We regret that any examples were included,” Goldstein continued.
In her email Goldstein wrote that neither Bombardier nor Monsanto are involved in the QI, and that McGill is “still in the process of determining how exactly the QI will interact with industry partners.”
The “pre-launch” year
The QI is set to launch this fall, although Goldstein told BoG a business plan will not be ready until the same time – also when the University is also planning on beginning consultation with students and faculty. At the January Senate meeting, the University had aimed to have a preliminary QI business plan by March.
Goldstein wrote in her email that “because of the complexity of the project and because we hope for the widest possible participation in the subsequent consultations, the decision was made to wait until September – when more students can participate – for the official launch.”
“It is important to remember that the QI is currently in its ‘pre-launch’ year,” continued Goldstein in her email. “While McGill and ÉTS are conducting a number of feasibility and planning studies, the full vision for the project will not be fully articulated or officially unveiled until early September.”
The QI will initially be located in two buildings dubbed INGO I and INGO II. INGO I, owned by the ÉTS, has already been renovated, and will house a McGill lab researching biofuels, according to Goldstein. The other building, INGO II, will require an investment of $40 million to renovate.
The project has over $1 million in secured funding, comprised of $350,000 each from the Montreal, Quebec, and Canadian governments. When Board member-at-large Lili de Grandpré asked how the project would continue to be financed, Goldstein said that there is no overall budget plan in place yet, answering, “We’re imagining some kind of PPP [Private and Public Partnerships] model.”
The PPP model has been applied recently in Canada to mixed success. While universities in British Columbia have been engaged with business partners since 2001, a PPP initiative with Busac Real Estate undertaken by the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) in 2005 to build two new buildings ended in failure. The project went $106 million over budget and left UQAM $400 million in debt.
Goldstein said in her interview that she didn’t foresee McGill investing a substantial part of its own money in the project, bud didn’t rule it out.
“We’re really looking for external funding,” she said.
QI “champions”
Goldstein added in her presentation that various business and community leaders – whom she dubbed “QI ‘champions’” – had already agreed to sponsor the project. In her email, Goldstein said there were several more still considering sponsoring the project, saying she did not think it was “appropriate to announce the participants until everyone has made a decision.”
In her presentation, she said the project already has an interim governance structure in place, and that “we’re in the process of identifying and recruiting [a] group” to form a permanent advisory board.”
She clarified in her email that McGill is “still exploring whether [the ‘champions’] will have a formal role in the QI governing structure or whether they will simply help share information about the project among their professional networks.”
After the presentation, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum said that “at this stage in development it’s always a bit nebulous,” but called the partnership a “critical step” for McGill.
“It’s going to be a bit of an experiment because there’s no rule book to go by,” continued Munroe-Blum.
Munroe-Blum said that in her meetings with students, their overwhelming priorities were internships and job placement.
“Compared to peer research universities, we are underdeveloped in giving students hands-on experience,” she said.
The project aims to fill this gap through its partnership with ÉTS, which requires one year of industry experience prior to graduation and boasts a 100 per cent job placement rate for students post-graduation, according to Goldstein.
Mitigating gentrification
Goldstein said that the project represents a way for McGill to “give back [to the community] in a way we haven’t been known to before.”
However, administrative and support staff representative David Kalant voiced concerns with a possible increase in housing costs as a result of the project. Goldstein answered that the University is working with the municipal government “to make sure that doesn’t happen.”
She said mixed-cost housing was one such solution being considered for the area. “We want to make sure everyone’s circumstances are respected,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
