The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Association’s seat reinstated, funding will remain suspended 
At the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Council meeting last Wednesday, the East Asian Students’ Society Association (EASSA) was stripped of their funding as a result of the second absence of Alexandra von Zadora-Gerlof, the EASSA representative to AUS.
According to the AUS Constitution, missing two Council meetings without providing written notice five days in advance results in the removal of AUS funding from the departmental association and in the suspension of their seat indefinitely.
Von Zadora-Gerlof was absent from Council on October 17 and 24.
Justin Fletcher, AUS VP Internal and former EASSA representative to AUS, told The Daily, “After [von Zadora-Gerlof] had missed the October 24th council, I emailed the departmental association telling them that their seat has been suspended and here is how they can reclaim it.”
Von Zadora-Gerlof’s seat was reinstated during last Wednesday’s meeting of AUS Council, though the association’s funding will remain suspended for the rest of the semester.
The October 24 meeting was a special session of Council, called to approve the AUS referendum questions.
According to Fletcher, the meeting was called at the October 17 meeting – at which von Zadora-Gerlof was not present – as well as over emails from AUS President Devon LaBuik and the speaker.
Fletcher added that the AUS Constitution allows the president to call such sessions.
“It’s an unfortunate situation, but we do take attendance at AUS Council very seriously,” he said.
In an email to The Daily, the EASSA executive wrote, ”Owing to some personal matters, our AUS rep was unable to attend the first meeting, and a bit of a miscommunication resulted in her being unable to attend the second […] However, at the last AUS meeting [on] Wednesday, the matter was discussed and resolved.”
To reclaim a suspended seat – as mandated in section 9.1.2 of the AUS Constitution – a departmental association must notify AUS five days before the next Council to be put on the agenda. Once at the Council meeting, they must receive a majority vote in favour of their reinstatement.
“Last night, we voted whether or not to approve their seat on AUS Council, and we did approve that. However, the article in the Constitution stated that they will lose their funding. So that isn’t negotiable,” said Fletcher.
“Essentially, we just followed the rules in that circumstance,” LaBuik told The Daily. “I think we just had to make a point that they had to be there.”
When asked how the loss of funding would affect EASSA, LaBuik said, “Basically they have to fundraise all the rest of their money for the rest of the semester […] They get their funding for next semester, just not this semester.”
AUS VP Finance Saad Qazi added, “The Constitution doesn’t specify what happens to funding that loses its seat on Council, so I guess that’s up to our discretion.”
According to Qazi, the money intended for EASSA will instead be put into a supplementary departmental fund, for which all the departmental associations can apply. EASSA, however, must wait until next semester to apply.
“[EASSA] have already submitted a budget with loss of funding taken into account,” said Qazi.
“It’s upsetting it happened so early in the semester, but we did reinstate their seat,” said Fletcher. “We did attach a clause in the resolution though that one further absence this year will result in the immediate revocation of future funding and voting rights at AUS Council.”
He added, “I really hope this won’t happen with any other of the associations. It was a very difficult motion to present.”
According to the AUS website, there are 111 students in EASSA, which receives $262 per semester from AUS.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Democrats Abroad McGill offers assistance
From community discussions to Facebook memes, it’s difficult to ignore the buzz on campus about the American presidential election.
According to McGill’s website, 20 per cent of the student population comes from outside of Canada. Of that 20 per cent, Americans make up the majority.
The United States consistently has a low youth voter turnout rate, defined as voters between the ages of 18 and 29. Despite the spike in youth votes during the 2008 election, the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement (CIRCLE), an American research group, found that the youth vote turnout still lags significantly compared to the turnout of voters aged 30 and older.
Ilona Dougherty, executive director of Apathy is Boring, suggested that living abroad during election time may contribute to social barriers to voting.
“You vote where you live. Not being exposed to the same information on local politics and on political candidates has effects,” she told The Daily.
McGill student Patrick Miller, ori-ginally from Portland, Oregon, can attest to Dougherty’s speculation.
“I am voting this year, but I’ve lagged behind in the process a bit. I haven’t had the same motivation to research issues and candidates the same way I would have just by socializing if I still lived in the U.S. I think I would have at least had a more well-informed understanding.”
Karl Urban, another American McGill student on exchange in Germany this year, echoed these concerns.
“I do feel distanced from the election and that its impact will mean less to me living abroad. However, I also follow the election online through various news sources and talk with my American friends too, which really helps,” he told The Daily.
However, Dougherty did point to the existence of a number of resources for voters living abroad as a cause for optimism.
“The U.S. is a bit better [than Canada] in providing resources for those living abroad,” said Dougherty. “There are partisan and non-partisan groups that can help the voting process.”
Among these groups is Democrats Abroad. The organization’s McGill chapter assists Americans living in Montreal with the voting process by offering postage, collecting ballots, and bringing them to the U.S. Consulate to be mailed.
Daniel Braden of Democrats Abroad McGill (DAM) told The Daily, “We know it can be difficult for people to take the initiative to get to the post office, buy stamps, and mail a letter. It’s those little things that add up. Our job is to make the whole thing as easy as possible.”
Marc Seltzer, also from DAM, said that through working with the group, he has been able to appreciate its impact and has witnessed the enthusiasm for this election.
“Many of the Americans I encounter in Montreal do not seem disengaged at all to me – in fact, less so than many Americans living in the U.S.,” he told The Daily. “I do think that some people leave U.S. politics behind them when they move out of the country. On the other hand, here in Canada, I meet so many Americans who are tuned in to American politics and are eager to vote. We are close and it is easy to follow the news here. Our organization has a chapter in Montreal with more than 1,000 members. That is 1,000 U.S. citizens in greater Montreal that signed up and said that they wanted to be connected to a Democratic political organization.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council debates GA motions
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council opened its bi-weekly meeting last Thursday with a series of motions from the recent Fall General Assembly (GA) earlier this semester, before moving to a heated debate over the motion to officially endorse the Radio CKUT 90.3 FM fee increase referendum.
VP Clubs & Services Allison Cooper stated that the intention of such an endorsement would be to “lend legitimacy” to CKUT.
After intense debate, the motion barely failed, with 11 in favour and 11 opposed.
Since 1988, CKUT’s fee for full-time undergraduate students has remained unchanged at $4, despite inflation and rising costs. With this referendum question, CKUT seeks to increase its opt-out-able fee by $1 for all full-time undergraduate students.
“The fact that they haven’t increased their fee in so long means that their ability to provide that resource to students is compromised,” said VP External Robin Reid-Fraser.
In the past, SSMU has officially endorsed attempts to increase financial support for CKUT. In the Winter 2012 semester, the SSMU Executive Committee endorsed a referendum question to make the CKUT fee un-opt-out-able. The question failed to pass online ratification.
VP Internal Michael Szpejda pointed out the failure of the referendum last winter as a sign that SSMU should be cautious in endorsing a fee increase associated with the same student group.
The biggest concern surrounded whether it was in SSMU’s mandate to take on divisive referenda where “clearly, some students feel one way, and some students feel the other way,” said Szpejda.
Arts representative to SSMU Nicole Georges commented that the goal was not to question the legitimacy of CKUT as an independent student group, but rather to determine whether SSMU has the mandate to officially endorse a particular side on a clearly two-sided issue.
“I know from the people I’ve spoken to in my constituency […] it feels as though it alienates people who don’t necessarily have the same opinion,” Georges said.
Szpejda echoed Georges’ concern over the possibility of unequal representation.
“I’m just curious how SSMU intends to represent all of the students at McGill University,” Szpejda said. “If we’re leaning one way, that means we’re not representing all of our constituents.”
GA Motions
Thursday’s Council meeting also discussed the motions that failed to reach quorum at SSMU’s recent GA.
Described as “Old Business” on the meeting’s official agenda, the councillors opened the floor to debate on the motions regarding renewing support for accessible education, ethical investments at McGill,  opposition to Canadian military involvement in Iran, and Plan Nord.
Reid-Fraser, who recommended that Council pass the motion regarding accessible education, said, “SSMU should be working to make sure that this type of education that we are fortunate enough to receive should be accessible to as many people who wish to access it, regardless of financial state.”
After amending the “resolved” clause to modify education from being a “human right” to a “right,” Council passed the motion with 24 in favour, zero opposed, and four abstentions.
Council also narrowly passed the motion regarding ethical investments at McGill, with nine in favour, seven opposed, and eight abstentions.
Georges addressed the issue of transparency in accessing McGill’s financial documents and asked Council to table the motion indefinitely.
“There is not enough information for the McGill students to understand the financial impact…of getting rid of investment relationships and funding…We know the environmental impacts but we don’t know how it pertains to McGill financially,” she added.
The motions regarding opposition to Canadian military involvement in Iran and regarding Plan Nord were tabled indefinitely with a simple majority until further notice.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
CKUT, McGill’s campus-community radio station, begins its referendum period today regarding a $1 increase in its opt-outable student fee.
CKUT has been operating on the same $4 fee since its launch in 1988. The radio station’s last referendum was held last year, in which a motion to make its student fee non-opt-outable did not pass.
In an interview with The Daily, Elections SSMU Chief Electoral Officer Hubie Yu said she didn’t want to speculate as to the results of the referendum, but is confident in the importance of the institution.
“Referenda in general, not just for CKUT, are important to campus and student life as their outcome can influence the loss or improvement of a service that students – even if it’s only a sector of the population – have come to love or depend on. Referendum results are also important indicators of what students want or believe in, which makes the process such a unique component of democracy at McGill.”
Carol Fraser and Tim Beeler run CKUT’s ‘Yes’ Committee. An official ‘No’ Committee has not been formed.
“CKUT is an important bridge between McGill, the greater Montreal community, and the rest of the world,” Beeler told The Daily. “CKUT is well-loved in this city, and has consistently been voted the number one station in the Mirror’s readers’ poll. For example, we have an intern who came to us from Germany because of how much she loves the show ‘We Funk’.”
The Students’ Society of McGill University failed to pass a motion to endorse CKUT during its meeting last Thursday.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Asbestos, underfunding, and diversity discussed
Last Friday, McGill Principal Heather Munroe-Blum met student reporters from The Daily, Le Délit and the McGill Tribune for a 45-minute interview in the James Administration Building.
The McGill Daily (MD): My first question is regarding the asbestos research. A lot of people, including Dr. Colin Soskolne at the University of Alberta, have described the report carried out by Professor Fuks as “self-serving and without transparency.” […] How do you respond to that and to the multiple criticisms of the report?
Heather Munroe-Blum (HMB): In fact, the report has broadly been very well received and followed a good process and in the context of the academic review, which is peer review, we feel very comfortable that a very objective review was done. It was asked as a special request of our integrity officer, so it was outside the normal purview of the research integrity officer, and I certainly feel very comfortable with the conclusions of that report.
MD: Why wasn’t an external report done?
HMB: Because we have processes and procedures that we use. As I say the entire research enterprise is governed on a peer review basis and through the policies and constructs that we have in place.
MD: In 2009, the Principal’s Task Force on Diversity, Excellence and Community Engagement found that students from high-income households were disproportionately represented at McGill, and you have also repeatedly said that tuition does not correlate to accessibility. Do you believe that maybe accessibility for those families from lower-income households is related to tuition?
HMB: Let me just tell from a public policy point of view the dynamic here. Quebec had, for a long time, very low frozen tuition and did right up to the last couple of years. It’s just a few years now that it has been unfrozen to go up at some notion of cost of living increases year over year…It’s very clear that if you come from a background with low financial means, you need more than free tuition. You actually need a bursary for your scholarship or something that pays for housing and transportation, and books, and the cost of being a student. […] So while the values of having low frozen tuition or even no tuition are values we can all relate to, as you can imagine, when I was a student, I might have taken a different position on what intuitively makes sense about getting accessibility. In fact, in a system like Quebec’s where you have low tuition, you have the poor subsidizing those who can afford to pay a reasonable share of their education…Now we’ve had a campaign over the last seven to eight years where building support for students has been one of the three major pillars. We have increased by 500 per cent the amount of student support available. The problem is that we still have a gap between what I’d like to be able to say before the end of this calendar year, that every qualified student can come to McGill independent of financial need.
McGill Tribune (MT): Coming back to the asbestos report, are there plans to adjust the recommendations of that report, for example that the Board of Governors avoid investing in asbestos companies and that McGill hold an academic conference on the issues?
HMB: [Avoiding asbestos investments] is not something you can do without having a formal motion come forward and so forth. That’ll depend on people bringing it forward. We do have a committee of the Board on socially responsible investment. The issue of managing investment portfolios is a complicated one and the goal of the investment committee is to preserve the money that comes in and to invest it so as to grow it over time to the best of our ability in common markets. And so it’s an easy thing to say; it’s very complicated when you understand that a majority of investment tools today are big conglomerate investment tools…we know of no investments that we have currently in asbestos.
MD: After your departure, only five out of 23 senior administrators will be women, and furthermore only 18 per cent of tenure-track professors are female. Do you think that McGill has a problem in terms of equity? Do you think it can be fixed?
HMB: […] I’m happy to speak to the general issue, which is we definitely do. And you’ve read my task force report – we need measures to really encourage women and other underrepresented groups to move into positions that have a possibility for leadership, and it’s a strong theme for me, and you can imagine that it is. And so again, just in terms of what I’ve seen over my lifetime, unless you really pay attention to these issues…there was a very strong movement in North America in the seventies and eighties called “Women’s Lib” and I know there’s just been a weeklong series of events tied to this. Women moved into positions, and in some sectors there are fewer women in the same leadership positions than in the early nineties [which] had seen such progress. So if we’re not attentive, we lose ground and we need to be careful not only to not create disincentives for women and other underrepresented groups to come into these roles but to create incentives for them to. […] Am I concerned about it? Yes, and I’m interested, and it’s actually one of the reasons why Lydia White was given the position that she has [of Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures & Equity)]. That was a direct response to the taskforce’s recommendations. So I’m hoping we’ll make serious progress.
MD: You have mentioned several times that McGill is underfunded, and in the latest budget presented by the Provost there is a deficit in the operating fund. But when we take into account the restricted, the capital, and the endowment funds, would McGill’s financial shape change? Can the movement of money be done across the funds?
HMB: The reality is we have no flexibility. The pension fund is a constrained fund, which you know is very challenged right now. Our endowment, which is just over $900 million right now…we pay out 4.25 per cent a year right now on that. And a vast majority of that money, we don’t accept money for things that we don’t believe are consistent with our mission. […] We make it clear when we’re going after gifts what our priorities are, and those gifts come in with no strings attached…Our donors come in with very precise – you know fellowships in such and such, research support in this area, an endowed chair for a professor in this field – and we have no flexibility at all to move that, and I think one of the things that’s not well understood is when people say, that’s almost a billion dollars in endowment. You know, why don’t you take $700 million of it and fix the infrastructure and put the rest into student aid and solve your problems? We can’t do that legally because it’s to go where it’s to go, and those needs are great and pressing needs…but the other is, we only get… roughly $40 million a year that comes into the budget out of that $900 million plus. And that then is all completely targeted, and dominantly to student and research support, some student services, some fellowships and bursaries allotted in the fellowships and bursaries area and very targeted areas.
This interview has been edited for space and clarity. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Grievances include Provost’s lack of training and lack of formal appeal process
Correction appended November 5, 2012.
The McGill Senate will review the University’s Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment, and Discrimination Prohibited by Law this year for the first time since 2009.
Various student groups have criticized the policy since it was first instated as the school’s sexual harassment policy in 1988.
Among these groups is Advocacy Branch (A-Branch), the part of the volunteer-run Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) dedicated to supporting students, faculty, and staff navigating the policy.
The two A-Branch volunteers interviewed identified the authority the policy gives to the Provost as a chief grievance.
“We find it disconcerting that the Provost has so much power,” said Taylor*, a current volunteer and former A-Branch representative. “Our concern is that the Provost isn’t required to have any training in sexual harassment or discrimination.”
Under the current policy, any member of the McGill community may file a complaint against another member to an Assessor, a volunteer member of the McGill community appointed by Senate.
If the Assessor fails to facilitate an informal agreement between the complainant and the respondent, the Assessor investigates and prepares a formal report with recommendations. The Provost evaluates the report and makes a final decision – one which need not follow the Assessor’s recommendation.
Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures & Equity) Lydia White and Provost Anthony Masi do not think this is problematic.
“It’s a matter of ultimately who’s responsible for how the University runs…It is not the Assessors, it’s the Provost,” White told The Daily, adding that the current Provost trusts the Assessors and has only ever followed their recommendations.
Regarding the Provost’s training on the topic, White said, “It’s just not clear that there would be time…this is just one part of his job.”
Masi said he attended the Assessor’s orientation, but did not pursue further training.
“A judge isn’t necessarily trained as a policeman or a prosecutor,” Masi said. “I don’t see why the Provost would have to have training, I’m more on the judge’s side.”
A-Branch also believes that Assessor training, which consists of an initial two-hour session with the University’s legal officer and one or two follow-ups over the course of the year, is inadequate.
White noted that starting this year, additional training from the Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) Office would be provided.
Another aspect of the policy over which Taylor expressed concern is the absence of a formal appeal or complaint procedure. While complainants do have recourse to the University’s Grievance Procedure, A-Branch believes that it is ill-suited to cases of sexual harassment.
According to Taylor, “Going through a different procedure as an appeals mechanism means you have to recount your story again to more people…it’s heavy for someone to carry that.”
White expressed uncertainty about whether or not there should be a formal appeal process, and Masi believes it is unnecessary.
“There is already the ability to make your case to an Assessor. The Assessor makes an initial judgment. That judgment is then reviewed,” said Masi. “I know in baseball you get three strikes, but I think the second level up is sufficient.”
Professor Prakash Panangaden, an Assessor since 2007, voiced different concerns about the structure of the policy.
“Students are still afraid of filing complaints against their professors, and employees against their managers,” said Panangaden. “I don’t think people feel protected enough by us…I don’t feel like I can protect them that effectively either.”
Specifically, Panangaden felt that he could not protect complainants if their cases were not successful.
“We have rigorous demands for evidence…When it’s some low-grade continuous harassment that I can’t pinpoint easily, or make a compelling case for a particular side, then I can’t really put an end to it, or shield the person.”
“They have not done a good enough job to provide support,” Panangaden added. “I think student mental health [services] should be beefed up.”
Despite the various concerns about the general structure of the Policy, A-Branch’s main goal for the upcoming review is for McGill to at least adhere to it.
They point to the fact that the University has not upheld the part of the policy that stipulates the creation of “an office the mandate of which includes the education of, and the dissemination of information…concerning such matters as harassment, discrimination and equity.”
“An office does not exist,” said Taylor. “There is no one space that manages the distribution of information on the policy. It’s written in very legalistic language, and it’s very hard to understand, and nowhere on campus or online is there some kind of information to help people understand it.”
Quinn*, the A-Branch representative, said their second objective is to see the continued updating of the policy website.
White felt that the website does need more work, but that between the website and the services provided by SEDE, the policy’s requirements for an office had been met.
The SEDE Office distributes general information about equity, discrimination, and harassment, but little information about the sexual harassment policy itself.
Panangaden feels that an office for the policy is perhaps unnecessary, but that the policy needs to be better publicized.
“I don’t think anyone knows this whole thing exists,” Panangaden said.
At the last review at Senate in 2009, A-Branch presented recommendations to the review committee and succeeded in having the word “intent” removed from the policy’s definition of sexual harassment.
White said that she will be assembling the review committee shortly, and this year, A-Branch will be granted a spot.
Senate will vote on the review committee’s recommendations in March 2013.
*Names have been changed to preserve the anonymity of SACOMSS volunteers. 
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Prof. Panangaden had been an Assessor since 2010, in fact, he has been an Assessor since 2007. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
