The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Review of collective agreement between parties stalls
Updated on March 18, 2012. 
For the first time this semester, about 250 non-academic workers rallied – this time on campus – to demonstrate their opposition to the delayed signing of MUNACA’s collective agreement with McGill.
The union, which represents approximately 1,700 non-academic support staff, ratified its collective agreement with the University on December 5, 2011 after being on strike for the entire fall semester.
Since the strike ended, MUNACA and McGill have been reviewing the collective agreement’s wording and the interpretation of its new or modified articles. After the process is complete, the agreement must be translated into French, and then the agreement can be signed.
At 12:30 p.m. on Friday, MUNACA members and students gathered near the Roddick Gates before marching through campus to gather outside the James Administration building.
MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker addressed the demonstrators before going into the James building to deliver a letter to Chief of Staff Susan Aberman, who said she would deliver it to Principal Heather Munroe-Blum this weekend. Whittaker called Thursday to make an appointment with the Principal, but she was unavailable.
“I tried to make an appointment to see the Principal because, as you know, it’s Fort Knox now and unless you have an appointment, [and] go through two security barriers; you don’t get into that James Admin building,” he added.
“During the last three months several meetings have taken place and much progress was made, until February 17, 2012. On this date, the Employer introduced an interpretation that departed from a reference to employees…which we agreed to eliminate,” the letter read.
According to Whittaker, the process came to a standstill due to the University’s inclusion of an additional 40 members to a list of employees who would receive modified pay increases in the form of lump sums applicable to their pensions.
The list was agreed on by both parties in November 2011 and consisted of 80 members, who are unable to have their maximum salary raised due to the 2001 implementation of pay equity. Now, Whittaker states that McGill has added 40 people, potentially more, without providing the rationale for its decision.
“The problem which has stalled the entire collective agreement is the sole issue of where are these 40 people coming from. The University, over three weeks, has still not provided that information,” he explained.
Whittaker said that the three-week delay has made the union executive and membership “very frustrated.”
U1 Arts student Becca Yu attended the rally. “[McGill] basically has sucked three more months of work still without a contract,” she said.
“It was really good to see a huge group of people from MUNACA coming together again and actually being able to go through campus,” she continued.
In a statement released on March 6, Associate Vice-Principal (Human Resources) Lynne Gervais attributed the delay to two issues, one of which was salaries that are higher than the salary scale maximum of the position.
In a post on the union’s website, a note by Gervais is quoted: “Even if there is still a dispute about any issue, MUNACA can sign the agreement as ratified and file an interpretation grievance to resolve this issue.” The note is no longer on McGill’s Human Resources website.
Speaking with The Daily, Whittaker called Gervais’ note “ludicrous.”
“Who would possibly sign an agreement that they don’t understand the clauses of and will just put their faith in the system that later it will all work out?” he said. “This is absolutely ridiculous and I certainly hope that this is not how the administration functions, but it would explain a great deal.”
 
In a previous version of this story, the list was said to have been agreed on by both parties in October 2011. In fact, it was agreed on in November 2011. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
One-day MCSS strike scheduled for March 22
Correction appended March 12, 2012
The Macdonald Campus Students’ Society (MCSS) has voted to go on strike for the first time in its history.
MCSS held a General Assembly (GA) last Thursday, in which a motion for a one-day strike on March 22 was passed with a roughly two-thirds majority. There are currently over 130,000 Quebec students on an unlimited general strike in opposition to an incremental $1,625 tuition hike, scheduled to begin in September.
The MCSS – which represents 1,698 students – requires a quorum of 10 per cent, which was exceeded by over 100 students.
Alex Pritz, MCSS senator who helped organize the GA, said the large turnout was a result of the tuition hikes.
Pritz said the MCSS hasn’t had a GA reach quorum since 2005.
“It’s like seven years in the making,” he said.
MCSS VP Finance Nicolas Chatel-Launay said the GA was “probably the most respectful General Assembly I’ve ever seen.”
“There was not even one single verbal insult at the microphone; it really went that smoothly. I was surprised, very happily surprised,” he continued.
The final vote to strike was “far from close,” said Chatel-Launay, who explained that there were 140 votes in favour of the strike, and 80 against it.
The motion, moved by a member of the Mac Campus student mobilization committee, originally called for a three-day strike. However, an amendment passed shortening the strike to one day. Chatel-Launay said the amendment passed with a “very, very clear majority.”
Pritz said the major opposition to the strike motion came from students in the CEGEP-level Farming Management Technology program.
“They aren’t actually facing any tuition hikes. They’re not planning on going to school after this because it’s a professional degree,” said Pritz.
Chatel-Launay said MCSS would start planning the strike this week, by arranging buses to take students downtown for the march and asking professors to cancel classes.
Pritz said that some professors have decided to cancel classes on March 22, but that it is going to be “difficult logistically” to implement the strike.
“There’s a pretty good contingent of people that aren’t going to [strike],” he said.
“I think the first priority is just getting teachers, professors, and the administration just to recognize the strike,” he continued.
In the printed version of this article, it incorrectly names MCSS VP Finance Nicolas Chatel-Launay as Chantel-Launay; The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Graduate students overwhelmingly support strike motion  
The McGill Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) voted overwhelmingly last Wednesday to go on a three-day strike, March 20 to 22, in protest of upcoming tuition hikes. PGSS represents roughly 8,000 graduate and postdoctoral students at McGill.
The strike, voted on at PGSS’ Annual General Meeting (AGM), will take place on the days leading up to and including the March 22 provincial day of action against the hikes.
PGSS has a policy in place calling for free tuition for Quebec students and a freeze on tuition for international and out-of-province students.
“It’s one thing to have a policy; it’s another one when students overwhelmingly vote for a strike. That will surprise many people coming from graduate students at McGill, I think,” said PGSS VP External Mariève Isabel.
PGSS has only declared two strikes in its recent history, once in 1996 and once in 2005. Both were one-day strikes.
Wednesday’s strike motion, moved by Isabel, resolved that PGSS hold a one-day strike on March 22. A motion from the floor amended the motion to lengthen the strike by two days.
Steve Peters, a PhD student in the Department of Integrated Studies in Education and member of the Graduate Students Mobilization Group (GSMG), moved the amendment. In an interview with The Daily, Peters said he and the GSMG had got the sense from talking to other graduate students that they wanted to “up their participation in a student strike.”
“Many of them want to see something more than a one-day strike – that’s more or less symbolic – to a three-day strike, which would allow more graduate students to participate and, I think, send a stronger message to the administration and the government,” said Peters.
The AGM also approved a slew of changes to PGSS’ governing documents. Various motions were passed without debate, changing PGSS’ name, purpose, and bylaws, as well as restructuring its Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
“The purpose of the PGSS literally was changed; they changed the name of the PGSS, the French name, and all of this went with no debate,” said PGSS VP Finance  and former Daily columnist Adrian Kaats, who called the changes a “100 per cent overhaul.”
Kaats objected to the fact that, while the motion was passed, it was “called to question” – a call for a vote – before the AGM engaged in any debate.
“I think if that happened at a place like the SSMU, it would have gone a little less unnoticed, it would have garnered a little bit of debate. So, I’m disappointed in that,” he said.
He said the vote was premature because the PGSS executive had planned on amending the motion at the request of PGSS Council. The amendment would have empowered Council to review the changes in the intervening period between the AGM and the changes going into effect June 1.
Should Council insist on the amendment being made, Kaats explained, PGSS may have to call a Special General Meeting.
“Doing it now is a big, huge pain in the ass, because how the hell are we going to call a Special General Meeting, get quorum again, piss all that money away, when we had the people in the room right there?” he said.
However, Kaats said he was happy with the results of the remainder of the AGM. Kaats was in favour of voting to join over 130,000 Quebec students on an unlimited general strike, but admitted that “logistically, it’s nearly impossible” for McGill graduate students.
“You’re talking about flushing work, which could be years of work, and it could actually mean lots of money and resources that are going to be wasted. So, it’s not just about losing your semester for a lot of grad students, it’s about losing a hell of a lot more,” he said.
Isabel spoke to the challenges of hikes for graduate students. Citing studies conducted by the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) – PGSS’ parent society – Isabel said the average master’s student earns $16,000 a year, while working 25 hours a week on top of full-time studies. She also said one out of every five graduate students has a family.
Peters said the hikes show that McGill doesn’t appreciate graduate students’ contribution to the University, “especially to [its] research agenda.” He drew attention to the most recent contract between McGill and teaching assistants, ratified last November. Graduate students criticized the agreement for not increasing the number of hours TAs are allowed to teach.
“Grad students are being squeezed on all sides, and I don’t think that the contribution they make to the University is being acknowledged at all, especially by our administration,” said Peters.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students not satisfied with consultation process
Last Tuesday, the Executive Director of Residences Michael Porritt met with residents of the first and second floor of Solin Hall to discuss the recent dismissal of their floor fellows, Francis (Danji) Buck-Moore and Drew Childerhose.
The floor fellows were dismissed from their positions nearly two weeks ago due to their involvement in the occupation of the sixth floor of the James Administration building in February.
The decision to fire Buck-Moore and Childerhose was made after a period of consultation with the residence community, which was conducted by Porritt over reading week.
In response to the decision, two letters were delivered to Porritt, one signed by over 300 members of the McGill community, and the other by 61 of the 67 floor fellows.
The first letter states, “While we, the undersigned, understand that there are consequences to the actions taken on campus, we do not believe that the current option being considered by McGill administration is in the University’s best interest.”
Porritt told The Daily in an email that “I do not expect everyone to agree with controversial decisions of any kind, but I do hope people respect the extent of open consultation that I try to make a part of all of the important decisions in residence.”
“I gave the Rez community open access to share their thoughts and feelings and hundreds of people did so with a wide variety of viewpoints. All of them factored into the decision,” he added.
The meeting at Solin Hall, which media was not permitted to attend, took place at 10 p.m. last Tuesday. Around thirty students, Porritt and Acting Associate Director of Residence Colleen Lewis were in attendance.
Although Buck-Moore and Childerhose received invitations to attend – which were also emailed to students on their floors that morning – neither took part in the meeting.
Porritt told The Daily after the meeting that “I had the chance to talk with a lot of them over the course of the consultation period, so this was a chance to follow up with some of them…and let them know the exact details of what the situation is now so that they know, because they’re the ones that are most directly impacted.”
According to Caitlin O’Doherty, a U1 Arts student and resident of Solin Hall who attended the meeting, Porritt provided the students at the meeting with two reasons behind his decision to fire the floor fellows: their insubordination, and the oppression of the sixth floor staff of the James building.
“It was just really frustrating,” O’Doherty said. “[Porritt] kept saying these two things, and it was pointed out that they were very vague reasons.”
O’Doherty also spoke about the consultation, expressing some skepticism about its relevance.
“All the consultation that the administration keeps saying we’re part of, it’s really just a check box,” she continued. “It’s just a reason for them to say they’ve talked to the students, but they don’t have to ever be accountable to listening and following up from the students, and that’s, I think, the biggest problem we were pointing out.”
The meeting in Solin was not the first between the residence community and Porritt in which the dismissals came up. On the afternoon of Sunday, March 4, Porritt attended the Inter-Residence Council (IRC) meeting in Douglas Hall.
D’Arcy Williams, president of Gardner Hall, attended the meeting at Douglas. He said the meeting was called to discuss a letter that Porritt wanted the IRC to sign, which addressed the dismissal of the floor fellows.
“Porritt approached us to sign off on [a] letter that would be sent out to all the residence students,” Williams explained. “Basically, he wanted to use our signature on it as a way to show that we’re trying to be respectful of everyone’s decision, and to move forward from the decision, because what’s done is done.”
When asked whether the subject of the dismissals of the floor fellows came up at the IRC meeting, Porritt told The Daily, “No, because it wouldn’t. Those are personnel issues, and that’s confidential. That wouldn’t come up.”
A portion of the letter was written solely by Porritt, while the remainder was signed by Lewis and IRC president Sam Gregory, in addition to Porritt. Before the meeting, a copy of the letter was made public on Facebook.
According to Williams, the letter was a draft circulated by Porritt to certain members of the residence community as an example of the kind of statement he wanted the IRC to sign.
He also explained that the letter was not intended to be made public.
The portion of the letter signed by Porritt states that, “there have had to be some difficult decisions made with regard to the residence community in the aftermath of the James Building occupation. I hope that everyone will respect and understand that these decisions were made after an extended and open consultation period with the primary stakeholders involved.”
It also clarifies, “My decisions regarding student employment have nothing to do with the Code of Student Conduct [Green Book]. The Code is a separate process that is administered by the disciplinary officer of the faculty involved or, in the case of an incident in residences the hall director is the disciplinary officer.”
Buck-Moore and Childerhose reiterated this point, emphasizing that their dismissals had nothing to do with the Green Book, a misconception that they said has been circulating around campus. Neither Buck-Moore nor Childerhose have had disciplinary action taken against them by the University.
Williams explained that the IRC decided not to sign the letter at the meeting on Sunday, “Not because we agree, not because we disagree, but because it’s simply not IRC’s place. That’s not our role. Our role is to represent the students, and some people thought this was a little bit inappropriate to be brought in front of IRC.”
Buck-Moore commented on the decision, explaining that “I think one thing that a lot of us were confused and concerned about with that, was that that’s kind of inherently a political action, to ask a representative body of other people to support a decision that’s already been made.”
Buck-Moore and Childerhose have no plans to leave their residence accommodations, and will be remaining in Solin until further action is taken.
“Legally, we feel like we’re entitled to [stay] for the time being,” said Childerhose, “and I feel like most lawyers would feel the exact same way.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Arts Undergraduate Society President talks to The Daily 
This year has been an eventful one for Jade Calver, the president of the biggest faculty association at McGill. This year the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) had its first General Assembly (GA), and is about to vote on a student strike.
Calver has been involved with AUS for four years, and was the VP Academic before becoming president. But her year as a president has been an important one for the Society.
Calver pointed to the political climate on campus this year, and the role AUS has played.
According to Calver, AUS has been “trying to address both students’ hurt as a result of what has happened, especially with police presence on campus, as well as polarization amongst students within the faculty with regard to different issues.”
Calver described how the increased political activities on campus have had an impact on student involvement.
“This is a time when we have seen the most student involvement ever in the AUS… It’s the most amazing thing to see students engaged in political life,” said Calver.
In spite of this political climate, the AUS did not take an official stance on the MUNACA strike that took place last semester.
According to Calver, “It was difficult because it came at the beginning of the year, and [the AUS] didn’t, at the Legislative Council, have enough information to take a stance about it. I think as it progressed further into the year, it was an issue for us once we began to see how it was affecting Arts students.”
Calver declined to comment on the Society’s joint statement with other faculty association presidents about the #6party occupation.
Another important item on the AUS agenda this year has been Orientation Week, previously known as Frosh. After facing deficits in past years, the event made a profit this year, despite a $12,000 theft.
Calver recommended a number of improvements to the event in years to come, including a reduction in price, and a switch to making daytime campus activities alcohol-free.
One of the biggest changes in AUS this year was the implementation of the General Assembly. Calver told The Daily that it is still “a work in progress,” as it has not been done in the past.
“I think that now there has been a push for more regular GAs, so I’ll be putting forward a question to students in the next GA,” she said.
In reference to the GA on January 31, Calver explained that, “like any GA or any council, we did have some positive and negative feedback. I believe that it was because of the personal views of the students who were there, but we will try our best for the next GA.”
Calver discussed the resignation of two of the three Arts representatives to SSMU, Micha Stettin and Jamie Burnett.
“I think with regards to [Stettin], it was a personal issue for him, that he didn’t agree with the policies or ideologies of the SSMU or the AUS.”
“With regards to Jamie, it was personal on another level, in that he didn’t fulfil the requirements for the position,” said Calver.
Calver told The Daily that she has been pleased with the overall performance of the other AUS executives.
“They have done so much with their portfolios… I’m proud of all of them,” she said.
According to Calver, financial difficulties were among the biggest setbacks for AUS this year. She referred to the lack of audits and tax returns produced in previous years as particularly challenging.
Another impending issue for the AUS is the possibility of a student strike. Calver said that she will try to respect students’ rights.
“Ultimately students will vote whether they are in favour. I think our role in it is to protect students’ rights, whether it be their right to attend class, their right to miss class because of the strike, or their right to protest on campus,” said Calver.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
