The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Administration concerned about student strike disruptions
McGill announced slight changes to the administration of the semester’s exam period this afternoon in light of on-going disruptions throughout the city linked to Quebec students’ unlimited general strike now in its tenth week.
For the exam period, which begins tomorrow and runs through April 30, the location of the exam room will not be disclosed until the day before the exam. Students will also be required to show their McGill ID to get into buildings and rooms where exams are being held.
Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Morton Mendelson said the administration had been approached by some students “concerned about disruptions to exams similar to disruptions of classes.”
“We just want to make sure that the exams unfold in an appropriate way. We want to make sure that there’s a serene environment,” continued Mendelson.
Students have been on strike across Quebec for over two months in protest of a five-year $1,625 tuition fee increase scheduled to begin in September. Last Thursday morning, riot police broke up a student picket of Concordia’s Hall Building on the first day of their exam period.
Mendelson said the administration is “just taking precautions,” but that they would “be remiss if we weren’t doing the planning.”
“We take this very seriously. It’s our responsibility to provide an appropriate environment for learning and for assessments. It’s a student’s right to expect that, and so we’re just insuring that we’re doing our best to deliver on that,” he continued.
Although students were already required to bring their IDs to exams, Mendelson explained that “every exam period there are some students who forget their IDs, and we want to avoid that because we want to be able to identify McGill students.”
With almost 170,000 students on strike across Quebec, there are five departmental associations still on strike at McGill. The two undergraduate student associations are the Social Work Student Association (SWSA), and the Gender, Sexual Diversity, and Feminist Studies Student Association (GSDFSSA).
The GSDFSSA will be holding a renewal strike general assembly (GA) tomorrow, but since the department only has one scheduled take-home exam, GSDFSSA President and Communications Coordinator Molly Swain said it was unlikely they would picket exams.
“Unless our membership is very strongly wanting us to go and picket other exams I don’t think that that’s necessarily what we’re going to be doing as members of the departmental strike committee,” said Swain.
SWSA, who have been on strike since March 14, will be holding a renewal GA this Wednesday. VP External Echo Parent-Racine said that the association has been voting for soft picketing tactics since their strike began.
“If students are going to be picketing exams that would be more of a hard picket, and that’s not what we have been mandated to do thus far,” said Parent-Racine.
“[Picketing exams] is something that students are concerned about, so I expect it’ll come up at the GA,” she continued.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
CLASSE ready to negotiate over university spending
The Coalition large de l’Association pour une Solidarité Syndicale Étudiante (CLASSE) said today that it was prepared to negotiate with the government over the management of university finances.
The announcement came a day after Quebec Education Minister Line Beauchamp’s decision to form a committee with members of the Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ) and the Fédération étudiante collégiale du Quebec (FECQ) to look into university spending.
Vandalism by students
The minister, however, said in a press conference yesterday that she was not ready to talk with CLASSE because of its “refusal to condemn acts of vandalism.”
Beauchamp’s decision was proof that the minister was trying to “divide and conquer the student movement,” said Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, a spokesperson for CLASSE, in French at a press conference this morning.
“There are enough courts in Quebec to condemn the violence. We don’t understand why the student movement should do the same,” he continued.
Nadeau-Dubois added that it was up to individual student associations on strike to denounce the violence, not CLASSE.
“Our role is to be spokespersons. Our role is to respect the mandate that was given to us,” he said.
Seven people were arrested last Friday after Beauchamp’s Montreal office was trashed, according to police.
“CLASSE distances itself from acts of violence,” Nadeau-Dubois said. “Those aren’t part of the methods we use, and we will never use them.”
Negotiating with the government would “reduce the tensions that have been accumulated over nine weeks of strike,” he continued.
The minister has not said if the government would reconsider its decision to exclude CLASSE. A spokeperson for FECQ, however, told Radio-Canada this morning that the federation was ready to sit down with Beauchamp even without CLASSE.
FEUQ said yesterday that it would “strongly recommend” the presence of members of CLASSE at the negotiation table.
This is the second overture Beauchamp has made to student federations since the strike began. The first, a proposal two weeks ago to reconfigure the Quebec student loans and bursaries program, was unanimously rejected by the federations since it didn’t address the government’s planned five-year, $1,625 tuition fee increase.
Student Solidarity
At the press conference, Jeanne Reynolds, another spokesperson for CLASSE, reiterated the organization’s calls for student solidarity.
“It’s important when we want to negotiate that every student organization is present, to maximize our chances of success,” said Reynolds in French.
Nadeau-Dubois pointed out that CLASSE represented half of the almost 170,000 students on strike across Quebec.
“The minister cannot ignore half of the strikes. If she wants to find a solution, then CLASSE must be part of it,” he said.
Nadeau-Dubois added that “2005 must not happen again.”
A 2005 student strike in protest of cuts to student loans and bursaries ended when a compromise was negotiated between FEUQ, FEUQ, and the government. The association equivalent to CLASSE in 2005, known as CASSÉÉ, was excluded because of its perceived radicalism.
More actions
CLASSE also announced protests for the upcoming week. The group plans to demonstrate next to the “Salon Plan Nord”, an exhibit organized by the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal to showcase the government’s policy.
Actions are also planned to gather at Place Émilie-Gamelin for the “Jour de la terre et le bien common.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
