The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
How the Quebec student movement is reaching out to Anglophones
While student movements in Quebec have been, historically, almost exclusively Francophone, the current strike seems to be making an effort to integrate both sides.
Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, the spokesperson for the Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE), said that efforts have been made to include Anglophone students in the movement.
“There is no secret, it is a question of making more effort and more mobilization,” said Nadeau-Dubois in French.
Six faculty associations at Concordia – Geography, Fine Arts, Philosophy, Women’s Studies, and the School of Community and Public Affairs – became the first Anglophone student associations to declare a strike this year on March 5. The Concordia Student Union’s (CSU) and the Concordia Graduate Student Association also voted to begin striking Thursday.
CSU is a member of the Fédération des étudiants universitaires du Québec (FEUQ), not CLASSE, but VP External Chad Walcott said in French they “feel very much included.”
Walcott added that he thinks the biggest reason behind the CSU’s activism is the current executive committee. “Everything has to do with internal mobilization. We have been getting help from FEUQ, but mobilization has to happen before other people can help,” he said.
While CLASSE’s website is bilingual, the English version seems to be updated less frequently. Furthermore, no student from an English institution sits on ASSÉ’s executive committee. Three students from McGill and Concordia sit on the subcommittees.
And while Concordia students will be joining the strike, other Anglophone institutions – most notably the Dawson College Student Union and McGill’s Arts Undergraduate Society – have voted against it.
Nadeau-Dubois noted that associations unaffiliated with a larger student federation like CLASSE or FEUQ are much more common in Anglophone institutions than in their Francophone counterparts, and that this impedes greater mobilization.
“The culture of mobilization is not as strong in English-speaking schools. When someone proposes an unlimited strike at a [General Assembly], it might seem to come out of nowhere,” added Nadeau-Dubois.
Walcott agreed that, “Political issues are much more discussed and institutionalized in the French universities. Without the culture, it is difficult to have impact and to make the message spread into a movement.”
While mobilization is often more difficult in Anglophone universities, SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault said in French it might be of more value.  “If McGill students are on strike, it means something. It is a sad reality, but when CEGEP du Vieux Montréal goes on strike, nobody is surprised.”
Another difficulty is the great proportion of out-of-province and international students at McGill and Concordia compared to that of most Francophone universities. Nadeau-Dubois countered this by saying that it is important to place the tuition debate in the context of austerity measures worldwide.
“We can see that the tuition hikes are part of a broader tendency to cut in social programs and to corporatize universities around the world,” he said.
At Concordia, Walcott says that the objective right now is to simply get the information out there.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Disorganization plagues General Assembly
Arts students voted against joining the unlimited general strike in Quebec on Tuesday evening, in the third Arts General Assembly (GA) of the year.
Beginning three hours after its scheduled start time with the last-minute addition of two overflow rooms, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) GA convened in the SSMU cafeteria at nearly 9 p.m., with over 1,000 students in attendance in various campus locations.
While six resolutions were on the agenda to be discussed, the majority of students attended to vote on the resolution calling for AUS to join in an unlimited strike against the impending Quebec tuition hikes.
There are currently over 144,000 students on strike across Quebec in protest of a five-year, $1,625 tuition increase scheduled to begin this September.
In an informal discussion period prior to the start of the GA, a student questioned the AUS as to how they were not prepared for the volume of students – the line to enter the Shatner building stretched across campus for over an hour – resulting in a hours-long scramble for additional space.
AUS Speaker Ben Lerer said that this rate of attendance could not have been anticipated based on prior participation at AUS GAs, both of which had showings of fewer than three hundred students, and lost the 150-member quorum within the first few hours.
U1 History student Ben Patrick Stidworthy expressed frustration with the disorganization, indicating that they “gave plenty of warning regarding how many people were going to show up. We told them to prepare for at least 1,000.”
Communication between the SSMU cafeteria and overflow in the SSMU Ballroom and Leacock 132 was facilitated via Skype. Logistical issues continued to be a problem throughout the GA, with ten to twenty minute delays while waiting to hear results from all of the rooms.
Students who were not in the cafeteria and wished to participate in debate were required to walk over, and it took several minutes to arrange the lines of debaters.
Those in attendance criticized the management of the overflow rooms. Kearsten Chau, a U2 Arts student, was in Leacock 132 during the GA.
“It was actually very upsetting, as I felt that a lot of it was handled undemocratically in the sense that a lot of the time the media feed was muted during really important points of debate,” she said.
“It was also muted when [Lerer] was reading through the text of what we were actually voting on,” she added.
After a quick passing of a motion to allow a TVM livestream, and a slight rearrangement of the agenda, debate on a resolution that would place the more than 7,000 AUS students on an unlimited general strike took place.
A mandatory six-minute debate period was enforced, with three speakers in favour of the motion and three against.
Strike proponents emphasized the historic success of student strikes in Quebec and the limited access to education that a tuition hike would entail. Anti-strike debaters focused on the unrepresentative nature of the vote, the impact a strike would have on the rest of the semester, and the pursuit of better financial aid programs rather than a strike against the tuition hike.
AUS VP Finance Marlene Benavides added the fact that the joining of the strike mobilizing body CLASSE (Coalition large de l’Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante) – which the resolution would mandate the AUS to request to join – would cost the AUS $5,600.
Before any amendments to the motion could be made, a motion to suspend the rules and call the strike vote to question was raised by Brendan Steven, a U3 Political Science student and member of the McGill Moderate Political Action Committee, in the SSMU cafeteria. All three rooms voted on the motion.
The motion to call the question passed with 777 in favour and 236 against, though students in Leacock 132 voted to recount, and were still voting on whether to call the question when the ballroom and cafeteria began voting on the actual motion to strike.
After a suspenseful thirty-five minute wait for the results of the final vote, the call to go on strike was voted down with a final outcome of 495 for a strike, 609 against a strike, and 16 abstentions.  The vote constituted a 55 per cent vote against the strike.
Harmon Moon, a U2 History student and Daily columnist, came to vote against the strike. “I think that we proved pretty conclusively that McGill does not want to strike…and as a result McGill is not going to go on strike, despite this attempt to shoehorn it through a GA,” he said.
Reflecting on the sentiment of the evening, U3 Arts student and President of the History Students Association Michelle Reddick told The Daily, “It was extremely intense, and extremely close, and very nerve-wracking.”
“I was a little surprised that [AUS] hadn’t anticipated for more space. I know that that is really hard to do but given the enormity of the issue in the province, they had to know SSMU would fill up,” she continued.
Students left en masse after the results, and the GA was left with 119 people to vote on the remaining four resolutions.
With the required quorum of 150, the group became a consultative body, with any passed motion becoming solely a recommendation to the AUS Council; the body voted to adjourn shortly after, without discussing or voting on any further motions.
The resolutions that were tabled include a constitutional amendment requiring online ratification of GA resolutions and an increase of GA quorum. Other resolutions included the creation of a Committee on Equity and Dignity, the creation of an AUS Audit Committee, and a series of amendments to the constitution regarding AUS spaces.
Last week, the McGill Post-Graduate Students’ Society and Macdonald Campus Students’ Society voted to go on three-day and one-day strike respectively, leading up to the March 22 provincial day of action against the tuition hikes.
The Concordia Student Union (CSU) and Graduate Student Association also voted to strike last week. CSU will begin striking Thursday.
In the aftermath of the GA, the SSMU Executive Committee issued a statement to AUS communicating that they were “disgusted by your sense of entitlement and disrespect for the space, time, and resources of others,” as “the SSMU Executive and full-time staff had to neglect their other responsibilities to intervene in the crisis.”
A number of actions were taken in addition to this statement, including a banning AUS from room bookings in the Shatner building for the remainder of the semester, except on a case-by-case basis.
Additionally, AUS will be billed for “all security agents, staff overtime, services (including TVM), and cleaning costs incurred [during the GA].”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
