The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Tuition could increase more for international and out-of-province students
The Quebec government is not backing down on the tuition fee increase it laid out last year, according the 2012-13 provincial budget presented by Finance Minister Raymond Bachand yesterday in the National Assembly.
Last year’s budget revealed the plan for the incremental five-year, $1,625 tuition increase, sparking province-wide student mobilization that has led to almost 200,000 Quebec students joining an unlimited general strike this spring in protest of the hike. The plan also included a 25 per cent increase in overall university revenue through increases in tuition, government spending, and efforts to seek out more donations and sources of funding.
Bachand is aiming to balance Quebec’s budget next year. SSMU VP External Joël Pedneault said he wasn’t surprised by the contents of this year’s budget.
“The big surprises, the big sort of sea changes, have already happened. The government is just kind of staying the course,” said Pedneault.
He added that few in the Quebec student movement expected the government to make concession in the budget.
“If they are going to start making concessions, it will probably be next week or the week after, when a strike will have started to last for six weeks,” he said.
According to the budget, the tuition hike will result in a $95 million increase in student contribution, in the form of tuition fees, to Quebec university funding. By the end of the hikes in 2017, the student contribution will have jumped from 12.9 per cent in 2009 to 17 per cent.
Bachand told the National Assembly yesterday that it was “reasonable for a student to assume 17 per cent of the cost of his or her education.”
Spending by the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport is also budgeted to increase by 2.2 per cent to just under $16 billion.
Pedneault noted how the budget has made no provision regarding tuition fees for international or out-of-province students. According to Pedneault, the government committed in last year’s budget to consult with student associations about fees for out-of-province and international students. Pedneault said these consultations never took place.
Pedneault explained that, since tuition fees are set by the government, they could give very little warning before deciding to re-regulate or de-regulate international and out-of-province fees.
“It’s very much possible that students will know at the last minute if their fees are going up, or by how much,” said Pedneault.
Pedneault noted the Quebec government’s recent deregulation of international tuition fees in some university programs. At McGill, international tuition for Law, Engineering, Management, and Science is deregulated.
“The government just hasn’t made any indication of what their intentions are, which is not surprising, but also dishonest given the commitments they made exactly a year ago,” he continued.
Pedneault said it was possible the government wants to keep the international and out-of-province tuition issue as a “bargaining chip in eventual negotiations.”
“They might hope to play students off against each other by maybe negotiating a tuition freeze or less of a tuition increase in exchange for a tuition increase for out-of-province and international students,” said Pedneault.
McGill released a press release last night addressing the budget announcement. The majority of the press release praised the new budget for dedicating $35 million for the restoration of Wilson Hall, which was built over a century ago, and houses the Schools of Nursing and Social Work.
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum stated in the press release that McGill was “glad to see” the government investment in the restoration.
“Our ability to fulfill our mission with respect to our development of professionals, teaching and research is severely handicapped by the state of many of our facilities,” said Munroe-Blum in the press release.
“By supporting the restoration of Wilson Hall, the government is taking an important first step in addressing this threat to our University’s ability to continue to offer training programs that have a direct contribution to the health and well-being of Quebecers,” she continued.
The press release did not reference the tuition increases specifically. Munroe-Blum commended Bachand “for his commitment to eliminating the deficit, controlling spending, and for his continued reinvestment in universities.”
Ultimately, Pedneault said he read the budget as a “pre-electoral budget.”
“The government is just playing its cards” in advance of a possible provincial election this year, he said.
“A lot of the new measures that were introduced have to do with older folks, which is fine, but it is telling. The Liberal Party’s electorate is typically older, typically wealthier, so the measures that they introduced will probably be helping them first,” he continued.
In an interview with the Canadian University Press (CUP), Martine Desjardins, president of the Federation étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ), said it was “very frustrating that the government is not listening to the next generation.”
“We’re very frustrated to see that the government right now is [seeing] students as second-class citizens,” continued Desjardins.
There are no “user fees” or taxes announced for this year’s budget. The government also announced that they will collect higher royalties – roughly $1.2 billion – from natural resources like mines, forests and water.
The budget sets to invest $1 billion in Plan Nord, an increase from $550 million. “The Plan Nord is taking shape,” Bachand told the National Assembly.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Peaceful eviction leads to third road blockade in three days
A group of around fifty students occupied the lobby of the Guy Metro Building for almost four hours Wednesday morning as part of the ongoing strike action at Concordia.
The students were evicted peacefully around noon by the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal. They proceeded to blockade de Maisonneuve at the corner of Bishop, in front of Concordia’s Hall Building. Student demonstrators have blockaded the intersection every day this week.
Concordia undergraduate students have been on strike since March 15.
Bader Takriti, a Concordia undergraduate occupying the lobby, said they were there to pressure the Concordia administration “to support students, to support faculty, to support other communities at Concordia, particularly with regards to the strike for accessible education.”
“The majority of administration offices are in this building, and we’re targeting our administration,” he continued.
Keara, another occupier who asked to only be identified by her first name, also said that the Guy Metro Building was also physically “the most practical” to occupy.
“It’s a small building. There’s only two elevators and a stairwell to block,” she said.
Around 11:30 a.m., the students in the lobby learned they would receive an eviction notice from the SPVM, and that any demonstrators remaining in the lobby after receiving the notice would be arrested for trespassing.
The occupiers then held a discussion to determine their response.
One occupier said, “My personal perception is that it’s important to stay here as long as possible, but the fact that it’s between the police saying to leave and us leaving in five minutes, or everyone gets arrested, I don’t think it’s worth it in terms of the long-term effects.”
Earlier in the discussion, students from other universities had agreed to not vote during the discussion, as it was not their “public image” which was at stake.
Another student during the discussion drew attention to the presence of students from other universities participating in the occupation.
“We had friends from francophone schools, which is something that doesn’t happen at Concordia anymore these days. So I wanted people to be really proud of what we’ve done, and feel OK about walking out knowing that we have done something amazing,” said the student.
Keara said she had been able to talk with Concordia Provost David Graham for “about an hour and a half” this morning when Graham was trying to get up to his office.
“I just happened to be blocking the elevator that he was trying to get in to, so I got to talk to him,” she said.
Keara said she spoke with Graham about his position on the tuition hikes, a five-year, $1,625 increase, which the Concordia administration has supported since it was announced in last year’s provincial budget.
“The impression that I got from him was just that he seemed, in his view, this was a battle that had already been lost. I think that’s a really disappointing view for an administrator at a school to have, in a position with a lot of power,” said Keara.
Concordia Director of Media Relations Chris Mota said the occupation created “security issues.”
“People basically felt trapped in the building,” said Mota. “It was not only a question of people getting to work, but there were already people working in the building.”
Mota also said the occupiers were “asked repeatedly to move” – and were given the option of continuing the demonstration in the lobby so long as they didn’t block access to the elevators or stairwell – but refused the request.
“It’s unfortunate that when offered the opportunity to protest without blocking access, that the students chose to ignore that and block access,” she said.
Mota confirmed that the occupation “certainly had an effect on operations,” though she wasn’t sure to what extent.
The occupation was announced in a press release sent to The Daily at 8:37 a.m. announcing an “all-day gala event” to be held in the Guy Metro Building lobby in celebration of Concordia’s “new plan dedicated to securing accessible education in Quebec.” The press release also provided an email address and phone number for media spokesperson “Christina Moto.”
Anna Kruzynski, an associate professor in Concordia’s School of Community and Public Affairs, said she read the press release and then came by the building. She said she then participated in the occupation “in order to help students figure out what their rights were.”
“I was very impressed. The students dealt with a potentially tense situation,” said Kruzynski.
“Faculty and the general populations must support the students, because these are the kinds of actions that make it such that in Quebec our tuition fees are relatively low,” she continued.
According to a number of students, the occupation had been planned for several days, as one of the actions in advance of tomorrow’s provincial day of action against tuition increases.
“I think that we’ve decided that civil disobedience in this case was worth it to get attention to what we’re trying to say,” said Keara.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Overwhelming vote ends nearly a year of negotiations
Last Thursday, members of the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) voted 96 per cent in favour of accepting the tentative agreement reached between the union and McGill in late February.
AMUSE was accredited in January of 2010, and represents all casual non-academic employees at McGill, many of whom are students or temporary full-time workers.
According to a press release issued by AMUSE on Monday, “the union looks forward to working with the membership to implement the agreement in fairness and to suit the diverse needs of all members.”
The agreement, which comes after almost a year of negotiations between the union and the University, includes all six of AMUSE’s bargaining priorities, including fair wage increases, priority for AMUSE members for contract renewals and promotions, paid overtime, and paid sick leave.
The agreement will last three years, and ends in 2015.
According to AMUSE President Jaime Maclean, “it was a really basic agreement, our first collective agreement, so there’s not a lot to take issue with.”
However, she added that “there are certain concerns that we will be keeping in mind for the next time we negotiate.”
Farid Attar Rifai, former president of AMUSE, has been a member of the AMUSE bargaining team since before the union entered negotiations with McGill in March 2011.
Although “not very many people” came out to the ratification vote, Attar Rifai explained that “I think it does reflect the general sentiments of casual workers.”
Under Quebec Labour Law, there is no quorum for ratification votes.
The union’s new agreement defines the salary structure for casual employees into three groups, of which most students working part-time will fall into the “all other casual employees” group.
These employees will be divided into three classes – A, B, and C – depending on their job requirements and expertise, receiving minimum rates of pay of $10, $11, and $12 per hour respectively.
“There will be no improvements on the collective agreement, it’s set in stone so to speak,” Rifai Attar explained. “The task of the executives and stewards of AMUSE right now is to ensure compliance from the managers – it’s a huge change and there’s going to be overhaul in the way a lot of departments manage casual workers.”
“You can’t go wrong with the current situation, because there’s a lack of uniform policy at McGill, a lack of sometimes basic right,” he added. “The fact that we were able to put into wording things that were informally given in some departments…was a good thing for a lot of the casuals.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
