The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Corporate sector least diverse
Women and visible minorities are underrepresented in senior leadership positions across Montreal, according to a report published by Ryerson University’s Diversity Institute and the Desautels Faculty of Management at McGill.
The report – part of DiversityLeads, a five-year, $2.5-million project funded by the federal Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) – aims to “benchmark and assess the progress of diversity in leadership” to develop specific solutions to advance diversity across Canada. It examined six sectors: elected, public, private, education, voluntary, and appointments to Agencies, Boards and Commissions.
The study found that women accounted for 31.2 per cent of senior leadership positions, despite comprising 51.7 per cent of the population of surveyed areas in greater Montreal.
The figure for visible minorities was even lower, standing at only 5.9 per cent, despite visible minorities comprising 22.5 per cent of the population. The problem compounds itself for women that are visible minorities, who represent 11.5 per cent of the population, but only hold 1.9 per cent of leadership positions.
The corporate sector was found to be the least diverse, with women at 15.1 per cent and minorities at 2.6 per cent. By comparison, the government and education sectors both had over 40 per cent women, with 9.6 and 6.4 per cent visible minorities, respectively.
Wendy Cukier, founder and director of the Diversity Institute at Ryerson University and a lead researcher on the project, highlighted the significance of the sector-based approach to this research in an email to The Daily.
In a phone interview with The Daily, Suzanne Gagnon, another researcher on the project and a professor of organizational behaviour at Desautels, warned that sector averages should not necessarily be taken at face value, and that there is often a wide range of representation within sectors. She suggested that certain organizations could act as models for others within the same sector.
She explained that phase two of the research would include a cross-sectoral survey and case studies to discover specific reasons for, and solutions to, the problem.
Gagnon emphasized the benefits of addressing this underrepresentation. “Diversity at the top of an organization has been linked to a company or organization’s ability to retain top talent, and also as a separate issue – although they are linked to an extent – to innovate, to make innovative and creative decisions drawing on multiple perspectives.”
She also explained that, “it matters for young people and for [their] aspirations and for social inclusion more generally to have leaders who broadly represent the population.”
Elizabeth Groeneveld, a faculty lecturer and chair of the Women’s Studies program at McGill, explained that underrepresentation in leadership in Montreal is likely linked to broader systemic racism and sexism.
“There can be impediments in terms of access to education and the kind of mentoring that is often given to men or people who are racialized as white [that] is not always extended in the same way to women and visible minorities,” said Groeneveld.
Gagnon, in reference to both the corporate sector and as a general trend, described how organizations are “self-reproducing entities” that tend to operate as they always have, which becomes a systemic obstacle to introducing women and visible minorities.
Groeneveld echoed this idea: “The language of being ‘the right fit’ for a company can sometimes become code for people who look like us, think like us, and talk like us.”
Cukier noted that several other projects are in progress as part of DiversityLeads, including studies on the representation of Aboriginal people, persons with disabilities, and members of LGBT communities, as well as analysis on the impact of representations of leadership in media. Gagnon mentioned that similar studies were also conducted in other major Canadian cities, including Vancouver and Toronto.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Cites government unwillingness to discuss free education
In anticipation of the Quebec government’s upcoming summit on student tuition and higher education, L’association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ) announced Thursday morning that it will boycott the event later this month.
With the announcement, ASSÉ expressed its concern about the government’s refusal to consider free tuition proposals.
“Instead of fostering a real debate about the role of Quebec universities, [the summit] seeks to build a consensus around the commodification of education,” ASSÉ wrote in French on its website.
In lieu of attendance, ASSÉ is planning a march on the second day of the summit to demand that the government freeze all current tuition hikes and reopen discussion on the abolition of fees.
The announcement comes after weeks of back-and-forth between the Parti Québécois (PQ) government and ASSÉ concerning negotiations around free tuition at the summit.
ASSÉ remains concerned that, prior to the summit, the government has already decided to index tuition fees to inflation and sees the summit as a “public relations operation” rather than a meaningful exchange on education in Quebec.
“It’s going to confirm decisions that have already been taken by this government behind closed doors. We see no other option but to quit the summit in order for ASSÉ not to legitimize it,” Jérémie Bédard-Wien, spokesperson for the group, told The Globe and Mail in an interview Thursday.
ASSÉ represents over 70,000 students and is considered to be the most radical of Quebec’s student unions.
The Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ), another union representing over 125,000 students, still plans on attending the summit.
“We need to have a debate,” FEUQ President Martine Desjardins  told The Daily. “Of course it’s not easy, of course we know that the government is not going in the direction that we want, but still. We have an obligation to last spring and we think we are obligated to be there, for our students.”
FEUQ remains in favour of a tuition freeze. However, Desjardins emphasized the common ground between her association and the government. She said that the government and FEUQ agree on proposals for an independent commission to assess university governance and transparency, improvements to student financial aid programs, and thorough assessments of universities’ financial situations.
While critical of the government’s indexation plan, and its recently announced cuts in university funding, Desjardins criticized the feasibility of free education.
“We don’t judge people that are asking for free education,” she said. “We don’t have any position [for or against] free education, it’s just that we don’t think that, for now, with the public finances that we have, it’s possible.”
She offered no comment on ASSÉ’s decision to boycott.
Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois, former spokesperson of Coalition large de l’association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (CLASSE) – an alliance of student associations – and staunch supporter of free education, wrote on Thursday that the proposal should not be left off the table.
“No one, not even the ASSÉ, is claiming that free tuition can be established in two days,” he wrote on rabble.ca. “But can we not think of a plan for gradually reducing fees, even if it means in the short run opting for a freeze as a transitional step?”
Quebec Premier Pauline Marois told the press on Thursday that ASSÉ members “are depriving themselves of a place to speak.”
“It’s a shame but that is their choice and I respect it,” she said.
The government remains opposed to free education.
In a press conference on Friday, the Conférence des recteurs et des principaux des universités du Québec (CREPUQ), an organization that regroups the administrations of universities across the province, said that it would “refuse to be associated with a solution that will not lead to increased funding [for universities].”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
