The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“Re-appropriation of democratic space by the people” praised
Alongside Tam-Tams and street vendors, in a setting far away from tear gas-clouded Gezi Park in Istanbul, around 100 demonstrators gathered in Mount Royal Park last Sunday at 2 p.m. in solidarity with the Occupy Gezi movement in Turkey.
The demonstration was the second in an ongoing series of Sunday park protests that seek for democratic values to be upheld in Turkey, and demand the resignation of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
McGill Engineering undergraduate student Melih Cem Olcusenler originally conceived the idea for a park protest. After putting a call-out over the Turkish Students’ Society of McGill University Facebook group, Olcusenler co-organized the first Sunday demonstration with McGill alumni Suna Tatlipinar and Merve Sancak.
“Stay strong Turkey. Montreal is with you,” read one of the signs at the latest Sunday protest. Another read, “They got the guns. But, we’ve got the numbers.”
Sancak, a McGill graduate with a bachelor’s degree in Middle East Studies and History, started the afternoon by calling out for a moment of silence to honour those who were reported killed under police repression at the Occupy Gezi protests in Turkey. Protesters wore black to mourn those lost. This was followed by the singing of the national anthem of Turkey, which was composed after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire to mark the coming of a Turkish republic.
Chants that followed were shouted in Turkish, French, and English. Popular Turkish songs were sung with altered lyrics, accompanied by traditional Turkish instruments.
Sancak said the songs “talk about how police gas individuals but [the protesters] don’t care about it.”
“I have no backup from any organization in [the] Turkish community,” Sancak said. “I’m doing this so my friends in Turkey see that we are with them.”
Heavily criticizing Erdoğan’s track record of representing only the Turkish citizens who voted for him and his “fascist” policy making, Sancak said some have been describing the movement as “another War of Independence.”
“Erdoğan has called all supporters for the Occupy Gezi çapulcu, or looters,” Sancak stated, adding that the protesters have embraced the insult, which can also translate into marauder or freebooter.
“We say we are all çapulcu, and we all çapulling,” Sancak said.
Québec solidaire’s Amir Khadir, a Member of the National Assembly of Quebec, also attended the demonstration on behalf of his party to show support for what he described as a “popular movement.”
In an interview with The Daily, Khadir praised “the re-appropriation of democratic space by the people,” comparing the Occupy Gezi movement with the Maple Spring, where hundreds of thousands took to the streets of Montreal at around the same time last year.
Speaking of Erdoğan’s “authoritarian government,” Khadir said, “We don’t need to go to Turkey to see that. We remind everyone that just last year here, for around the same issues, the popular movement [asked] the government to consider people’s rights, to consider common good [in making] decision[s].”
Demonstrations in solidarity with Occupy Gezi will continue in Mount Royal Park every Sunday at 2 p.m.
“Turkish people – write that down – they don’t like to be oppressed,” said Sancak.
 [flickr id=”72157634031810934″]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Policy change does not extend to official documents
As of June 10, students at McGill will be able to use their preferred, rather than legal, name on unofficial documents such as McGill ID cards, class lists, student advising transcripts, and exam rosters.
However, students’ legal name will still be used on official documents, used by organizations outside of McGill. According to McGill’s website, these documents include official university transcripts, reports to government, letters of attestation, diplomas and certificates, and tuition fee e-bills.
McGill Registrar Kathleen Massey announced the change in an email to staff on June 6. “The University intends to phase in the use of students’ preferred first name in information systems and on all unofficial University documents over the course of the 2013-2014 academic year.”
Since 2006, students have been able to indicate a preferred name on Minerva, which appeared in parentheses next to their legal name on class lists. However, this name did not appear on any other University documents.
According to Massey’s email, approximately 11 per cent of students at McGill use a preferred first name. This includes students who wish to be addressed by nicknames or middle names, but the new policy change is “of special benefit to [trans*] and gender non-conforming students whose legal first name does not match their gender identity or presentation.”
This policy change does not extend to the MyCourses or Minerva online portals. Although students may create an email alias – allowing their email to appear as “preferredfirstname.lastname@mcgill.ca” – they still need to log into the online portals using their legal first name.
“There is a relatively complex technical reason for this and the University is working to introduce changes that will, if successfully implemented, result in the preferred first name being used in all the systems mentioned and…also…within MyCourses,” Massey wrote in an email to The Daily.
There are other areas that the policy change does not cover. Postal mail from McGill – which, Massey noted, usually consists of official documentation such as a transcripts, a confirmation of enrolment, or a diploma – will still bear the legal name.
According to Gabrielle Bouchard, the Peer Support and Trans Advocacy Coordinator at the Centre for Gender Advocacy, the use of a legal name on postal mail can be problematic. “This point is super important because [housing], especially shared [housing], can be a significant place of outing for [trans*] people and can lead to dangerous situations,” Bouchard wrote to The Daily in an email.
Students may also incur additional charges by changing the name on their ID card. McGill will only waive the $25 replacement fee for students changing their preferred name before September 30, 2013.
According to Bouchard, Concordia and University of Toronto both waive ID card replacement fees for students who wish to change their preferred name – and do not have a time limit.
“The need for one to change their name is not frivolous and helping them by not charging a fee for this would be great,” Bouchard wrote. “It would go a long way to help [trans*] and gender non-conforming students who are often marginalized and in precarious situations.”
Concordia’s preferred name policy – nearly identical to McGill’s, but without the fees – has been in place for the past school year after Ben Boudreau, a student, fought to have his preferred name displayed on university documents.
According to Bouchard, the newly implemented preferred name change policy at Concordia has been a success.
“Since that policy [at Concordia] has been implemented, we have not had people coming to the [CGA] requiring help to find strategies on how to [live] their academic life with the dichotomy between their legal name and their name of common usage which was much more common before,” Bouchard wrote in an email to The Daily. “Now, they … go about their lives without worry of being outed at least because of their student identity.”
Despite problems with official mail, online portals, and ID card fees, Bouchard praised McGill’s policy change as a “positive step”.
Although this policy makes it easier to use a preferred name in a university setting, Quebec is one of the strictest provinces when it comes to changing a legal name. The Directeur de l’état civil requires evidence that the preferred name has been used for at least five years, and applications are processed on a case-by-case basis.
Quebec is also the most expensive province for name changes – it sometimes can cost over $500 when administrative and application costs are factored in. In addition, changing one’s legal name is also not always desired or possible.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Position has seen controversy over past seven years
Following the inaugural seven-year term of Morton J. Mendelson, Ollivier Dyens has been appointed as the new Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) (DPSLL). Dyens, the former Vice-Provost for Teaching and Learning at Concordia University, will begin a renewable five-year term on September 1.
The DPSLL has a broad portfolio that integrates both student life and student learning in areas such as Student Services, Teaching and Learning Services, Athletics and Recreation, Enrolment Services, and others.
The DPSLL also oversees International Education (including Exchanges and Study Abroad) and the University-level quality control for academic programs and courses.
According to McGill’s website, the DPSLL “serves as a central liaison” between the University’s administration and students, “with a view to ensuring that impact on student life and learning is factored into decision-making.”
It is this broad and integrated scope that Dyens appreciates most about the position. “Bringing [student life and learning] together, to me, is very, very forward looking. Learning is closely intertwined with the life the student leads in a university. So I think it’s an amazing opportunity to actually do something that most universities need to do more of: extend the classroom.”
Learning and a rich academic experience, Dyens said, only happen in conjunction with a healthy living situation. He noted a problem with the visibility of support services in many universities. “Universities have a whole slew of support structures for students. The issue is that students don’t even know this structure exists.”
Since its creation in 2006 by outgoing Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s “Task Force on Student Life and Learning”, the position of DPSLL has attracted controversy. Mendelson’s seven-year term saw the occupation of his office, a battle over student referenda, and the authorship of a new protocol governing future protest on campus.
In 2011, a letter recommending improvements to the position of DPSLL was signed by a variety of student leaders, including Katie Larson, this year’s incoming SSMU President (at that time, the president of the Music Undergraduate Students’ Association).
Larson was one of two student representatives on the Advisory Committee for the Selection of a DPSLL. The committee – which convened in Autumn 2012 – was chaired by Provost Anthony Masi and also included two special advisors from student associations, four Senate representatives, and four Board of Governors representatives.
Although most of the details of what the committee actually discussed are bound by confidentiality, Larson explained that the committee approved and recommended the way the job was advertised to potential candidates.
According to Larson, the committee did consider the concerns about the DPSLL position raised over the years by students, and by the aforementioned letter. “For student associations, the biggest issue is that the DPSLL plays a double role as advocate and communicator,” Larson told The Daily in an email. “This was not changed, and is still a lingering concern.”
Dyens described this double role to the McGill Reporter as “being the voice of the students but also in support of the faculties.”
“[I want to] work with students as intellectual partners,” Dyens explained. “There will be disagreements, we’re not always going to be looking eye to eye on some things, but you need to talk to students to know what the issues are.”
Dyens also expressed a wish to solve past problems as quickly as possible come September. “What we need to do [is] start talking,” Dyens said. “I know it sounds a bit corny, but there’s nothing else to do at the moment for me.”
Although he would not comment on specifics at McGill, Dyens is coming in at a time of budget cuts at McGill, a challenge he acknowledged. “Now, budget cuts are budget cuts, it’s never easy, it’s not easy for anyone, but it’s the case for the whole [system]. … So we have to do better with what we have.”
In his former position at Concordia, Dyens oversaw curriculum development, the promotion of outstanding teaching and learning, and program appraisal.
He also brings experience in the area of technology and learning to the position, an area important to the University in its upcoming projects. In February, McGill announced that it had joined the “edX” consortium, which offers massive open online courses. The University plans to begin offering some of its classes entirely online as early as 2014.
Acknowledging that online course development was “a big challenge for universities because it’s a shifting landscape,” Dyens spoke in support of online courses. “There’s thousands of studies … saying a well-developed online course is actually a little bit better than in-class instruction,” he said, while adding that “extremely strict” quality control was crucial to maintaining online courses.
Dyens highlighted the accessibility of online courses for atypical students – those who work, live at a distance, or are otherwise unable or unwilling to attend physical classes – and for students with different learning styles.
“[I intend to] build a strong pedagogy, one that’s adapted to [online learning], and that will have as good, if not better, results learning-wise for students.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
