The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student union seeks to give anglophones a tool for mobilization
The Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), one of Quebec’s largest student unions, recently announced the upcoming January publication of its very first English journal entitled Ultimatum. With authors from McGill, Concordia, and English Cegeps in Montreal, the journal aims to broaden ASSÉ’s audience to anglophone students.
“Ultimatum [whether in French or English] serves as a tool for mobilization for students,” Mathilde Michaud, one of the members of Ultimatum’s French edition, told The Daily in French. “It’s an English tool for mobilization to reach the anglophone population in Montreal.”
Topics specific to McGill would include “recent cuts to courses in the Faculty of Arts […] and more global issues in relation to austerity,” according to Michaud.
ASSÉ is a Quebec student union, founded in 2001, most notably known for its efforts in countering the proposed tuition hike during the 2012 Quebec student strike. However, anglophone universities did not play as substantive of a role in the strike as their French counterparts. Only departmental associations went on strike at McGill, while AUS voted against a strike. However, unlike McGill, Concordia’s student union did go on strike.
In February 2013, McGill’s Art History and Communication Studies Graduate Students Association (AHCS GSA) voted to join ASSÉ – the first anglophone association to affiliate with the union since 2002. Later that same year, Concordia’s School of Community and Public Affairs Students’ Association also joined. Certain anglophone Cegeps have since joined ASSÉ as well.
In light of these new additions to ASSÉ’s student union community, Michaud explained the importance of creating a journal in English. “L’ASSÉ would like to give [these English student associations] more of a say […] by allowing them to also be part of the written media base of ASSÉ,” she said.
Michaud hoped that the journal will encourage other English student associations to affiliate themselves with ASSÉ, especially because since its beginning, “ASSÉ has been a Francophone association, not by choice, but by function.”
Benjamin Gingras, ASSÉ’s co-spokesperson and finance secretary, elaborated on Michaud’s point, and told The Daily that the journal will help to expand political issues concerning all students beyond French-speaking students.
“We can’t stay bound to a francophone population when there’s a reality of students that is broader than that. There are international students, say at Concordia and at McGill, for whom English isn’t their second language and who don’t speak French, and [ whom] we need to speak to, to inform. [… We need] to cross the language barriers and have everyone informed about what’s going on.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizers centre vigil on trans women of colour
On November 20, a group of about 25 people gathered at Norman Bethune Square for a candlelight vigil to honour the lives of the people who were killed last year as a result of anti-trans* violence.
The vigil, organized by Samuel Theodore Bae and Ché Baines of Queer Concordia, was one of the many vigils held across Canada and the U.S. for Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR). TDoR began in 1998 in response to the murder of Rita Hester, a trans woman of colour, and has since been held annually to memorialize the people murdered due to anti-trans* violence and hatred.
At last Wednesday’s vigil, members of the crowd formed a circle around the names of the dead, written on paper bags containing lit candles. “[The candles are for] 65 people who are specifically being honoured this year,” explained Baines.
Bae welcomed everyone to the vigil and spoke about the nature of violence against the trans* community, emphasizing the fact that the majority of people killed as a result of anti-trans* violence are trans women of colour.
“It is our responsibility to create spaces in which trans women of colour feel safe while they are alive, instead of just honouring their memory,” said Bae. “[It is our responsibility] to create safe spaces, act in solidarity, build intersectionality, [and] fight for the lives of those who were lost.”
The names, ages, and locations of each of the dead were read aloud by the attendees from a list that was passed around. However, Bae told the group beforehand that some of the causes of death – stabbing, gunshot wounds, torture, beatings, stoning, and dismemberment – had been excluded. “I’ve made the decision to keep out the causes of death with the disclaimer that we do this for the benefit of trans* people present, who face these fears, live with these fears in mind […] on a daily basis.”
After the reading of the names, Bae invited anyone who wished to speak to step forward and share their story. Kai Cheng Thom, a McGill student and Daily columnist, read an open letter, previously published in The Daily, to Islan Nettles – a trans woman brutally murdered in August.
“It’s difficult to share, I think, in spaces like this, where most of us don’t know each other,” said Thom, “but I think it’s important […] that if we’re going to talk about trans women, then at least one of us should speak.”
“It is our responsibility to create spaces in which trans women of colour feel safe while they are alive.”
Bae concluded the vigil by stressing the overwhelming representation of trans women of colour among the dead. “It is no mistake to say that trans women of colour are our most vulnerable demographic,” Bae said. Of the 65 names on the list, 45 were from South or Central America, with 33 hailing from Brazil, and 7 from Mexico.
While the main purpose of the vigil was to commemorate those murdered, the vigil also aimed to make a statement.
“Transgender Day of Remembrance is run by an organization of women who very purposely exclude racial discussions from the official communications,” said Bae. “I wanted to make a vigil in which we subvert how Transgender Day of Remembrance usually goes by their standards to make it very trans-women-of-colour-centric, and to honour that demographic.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
