The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists, authors, criticize ‘imperialist’ tendencies
On November 1, Aziz Choudry, an assistant professor in integrated studies in education at McGill, organized a guest seminar on globalization, education, and change. The seminar, in which about ten people participated, concentrated on Nikolas Barry-Shaw and Dru Oja Jay’s book Paved with Good Intentions: Canada’s Development NGOs From Idealism to Imperialism, which deals with the efficiency of Canadian non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the developing world and their relation with the Canadian government and mining companies.
Barry-Shaw, who was present at the seminar, is a masters student in history at Queen’s University. In his book, he argues that NGOs were developed as a form of constraining social unrest that came with “squeezing the poor” in developing countries during the 1980s financial crisis, as developed nations used imposed regulations in developing countries to enrich world banks.
“They just wanted to stop the fact that people were rioting and people were resisting them. And they started doing that by [forming] NGOs,” Barry-Shaw stated during the discussion.
He explained how the same methods are used today to contain social unrest resulting from Canada’s mining projects abroad.
“We see this with the corporate social responsibility program [CSR] right now. It is very openly stated that this will help contain social and environmental conflict. That we are going to go in there and build a school and do this kind of palliative projects in and around the mine site and that we are hoping that communities stop resisting mining projects. That’s the stated thing and our government is funding that.”
Rex Brynen, a professor of political science at McGill, responded to some of Barry-Shaw’s arguments in an interview with The Daily, and argued for a more nuanced approach.
“There has been much controversy over the decision of some NGOs to partner with mining companies (and receive [Foreign Affairs, Trade, and Development Canada] funding) to do projects in affected countries,” he wrote in an email to The Daily. “Yes, this may be an effort to provide an ethical facade for unethical mining practices, as some have argued. On the other hand, given that mining development is likely to occur anyway, an argument can be made that such partnerships encourage more ethical practice. I would be concerned about this practice, but not automatically opposed to it in any and all cases.”
On Barry-Shaw’s argument for a movement away from NGOs and toward grassroots organizations facing the mining sector, an attendee raised the question of how such organizations could criticize NGOs and collaborate with them at the same time.
“[NGOs] produce things because they have money, they produce reports that grassroots and activists use, as they don’t have money to do that,” the attendee said.
Brynen added to this, writing, “Grassroots activism is useful. It isn’t always very professional or effective. It is rarely any more independent or representative – it is simply accountable to different constituencies. It often lacks the resources to make effective change. It is part of a response, but not the only part.”
Barry-Shaw also emphasized the need for NGOs to move away from funding and toward organizing.
“I think we need to move away from this fixation with money,” he said. “Resources are important in the organization and to mobilize people, but the activism that I found the most interesting that was going on within the NGOs in the 60s, 70s, and 80s was done by people who were idealistic and committed.”
Choudry also noted the importance of avoiding generalization in this particular situation.
“I think one thing that is important to think about is the danger when we’re talking about NGOs to kind of make a totalizing analysis about NGOs,” he said. “It is not like all NGOs are with the mining sector, and most of them have very different histories.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists discuss “the end of immigration” in the face of cheap labour
Dozens gathered at New Chancellor Day Hall last Wednesday for a film screening of The End of Immigration?, a film by Marie Boti and Malcolm Guy that reviews the growing tendency to use temporary foreign workers as an inexpensive source of labour in the Canadian market.
According to the film, over the past few decades, Canada has worked toward cultivating an ‘immigrant-friendly’ reputation, an endeavour which is seriously hindered by the increased use of temporary foreign workers to fulfill labour needs in the country.
[vimeo id=”49887882″]
The temporary foreign worker program was initially created to relieve temporary labour shortages by attracting skilled employees and caregivers when Canadians could not be found to fill the vacant positions. However, in 2002, the emphasis shifted to low-skilled positions when employers realized that the program could become a source of inexpensive labour. This shift has been criticized in the past year after several cases attracted public attention – notably, the Royal Bank of Canada’s use of the temporary foreign workers, as well as one case where temporary foreign workers replaced contractors in Fort McMurray.
According to figures released by Statistics Canada from the National Household Survey, 1.4 million people in Canada are unemployed out of the 18 million that are eligible to work, yet labour shortages still run rampant throughout the country. Businesses have begun employing temporary foreign workers, a solution which, ironically, seems to be quite permanent. Despite the promise of reforms by the government, the program is only growing.
This trend has had far-reaching implications beyond just the displacement of Canadian workers from opportunities in the employment sector. With over 330,000 employees in Canada falling under the federal temporary foreign workers program, the population of temporary workers greatly outnumbers the immigrant population.
One temporary foreign worker, Enrique Llanes, was present at the panel. Llanes came to Canada from Spain with a background in anthropology, but due to an inability to find work in his field, now works for a video game company.
“In Spain, we have this idea of Canada like a social paradise. Maybe it’s because we compare it to the U.S.. Canada and the US are very close – the U.S. is something like the devil, and Canada is like the little angel,” Llanes said.
However, this perception is misleading, he continued.
“The employer has full rights over your life, to call you at any moment, at any second, one hour in advance and tell you you have to be here and work in two hours or three hours. What do you do? You can’t get another job so you tend to comply.”
According to activists, Canada now mimics Europe, Saudi Arabia, and Hong Kong, areas with economies heavily reliant on temporary workers, making the use of these “rent-a-workers” more commonplace. Although temporary foreign workers make a large contribution to the Canadian economy, their collective political voice is still negligible.
Yessy Byl, an Alberta Federation of Labour advocate for temporary foreign workers, was one of many to criticize the flawed program.
“We have a system that is inherently engendering exploitation – it’s just inevitable. We set up a group of people who are brought to Canada to work […] so we’ve got basically slave labour, because [the temporary workers] can’t work legally somewhere else,” Byl said in the film, in reference to the stipulation that temporary workers must remain with a specific employer and within a specific location in order to maintain their employment.
“The system, the entire program itself, just lends itself to exploitation.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
