The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill hosts English-language debate for upcoming municipal elections
The top four mayoral candidates faced off in an English-language debate on Tuesday night at McGill’s Tanna Schulich Hall about the now-familiar topics of Montreal’s crumbling infrastructure, the threat of construction-aggravated traffic, and the recent spectacle of municipal corruption scandals.
With corruption front and centre at the start of the debate, both Denis Coderre, currently polling as the front-runner, and Marcel Côté, who is polling dead last, were on the defensive.
Coderre’s party, Équipe Denis Coderre, includes 25 ex-members of Union Montréal, the now-defunct former ruling party that saw two mayors go down in corruption scandals. Côté’s Coalition Montréal includes eight ex-Union members.
“Who was the leader of the caucus of Union Montreal? It was Bernard Blanchet. He is with you. Who was the leader of the majority on the floor of the city council? It was Marvin Rotrand. […] How can you change the situation with the same people?” Projet Montréal’s Richard Bergeron asked Côté, before adding slyly, “Though it’s not as worse with you as it is with Mr. Coderre.”
Côté insisted that an “unresponsive bureaucracy” rather than party-wide complicity allowed corruption go on. “It’s a question of good management,” he said.
“The reality is that [corruption] is not that deep – we had the inquiry, we had UPAC,” or Quebec’s anti-corruption squad, claimed Coderre. His platform includes the creation of a City Hall-appointed independent inspector general. “You know, if the roof is leaking, you don’t throw the house down.”
Le Vrai Changement pour Montréal’s Mélanie Joly, who plans to combat corruption by making all of the city’s documents available online to the public, earned laughs from the audience when she retorted, “It’s not only the roof, but also the foundation of Montreal that is leaking.”
Vastly diverging views about the city’s transportation goals emerged as the discussion turned to the economy and transit system, with Joly and Bergeron presenting ambitious plans for public transit while Côté and Coderre cautioned against “politician[s’] promises.”
For Bergeron, an urban planner, combatting the urban sprawl that is sending 22,000 Montrealers into the suburbs each year will be key to revitalizing the economy. His plan is to invest heavily in new housing and modern public transit. His program’s hallmark is an electric tramway network for the city, with between 10 and 15 kilometres (km) operational by 2017.
Joly, for her part, wants to create a fully operational 130 km bus rapid transit (BRT) network by 2020, with 62 km, including a loop between McGill and Griffintown, operational within her first term. BRTs are bus-based mass transit systems that mitigate sources of bus delays by providing dedicated lanes and pre-pay stations.
A BRT would cost “eight times less than the tramway of Mr. Bergeron, or 40 times less than a metro,” Joly said, “and it would have the same impact in densifying the territory.”
Coderre, on the other hand, plans to update existing structures in more conservative ways. “Instead of expending a lot of money, there’s already a plan from STM that we should put forward,” he said.
According to Bergeron, the number of cars in the Montreal region jumps by about 35,000 each year – an unsustainable pattern, he said.
He insisted that keeping traffic flowing would be “impossible” when taking into account the massive rehabilitation projects needed on major thoroughfares such as the Turcot interchange, and required substantial investments in transit encouraging Montrealers to choose public transport.
Côté retorted that “bashing the automobile” wouldn’t solve congestion, and that “the cheapest and fastest” way of improving transit would be to create dedicated bus lanes – a project for which the provincial government has already set aside $75 million.
 Tapping into commuter frustration at lingering, empty construction sites, he quipped, “Montreal is the orange cone capital of the world,” and promised several times to expedite public construction by making workers come in on weekends.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Attendees criticize Bill 12, system of internal police investigations
On October 22, around 100 supporters and activists gathered at the third annual candlelit vigil to commemorate those who have died at the hands of the Quebec and Montreal police.
The vigil was organized by the Justice for the Victims of Police Killings Coalition. The Coalition is composed of the friends, family, and allies of Anas Bennis, Claudio Castagnetta, Ben Matson, Quilem Registre, Gladys Tolley, and Fredy Villanueva, who were all victims of police killings.
Members of the Coalition and survivors of police abuse spoke in front of the headquarters of the Fraternité des policiers et policières de Montréal. Speakers discussed their encounters with police brutality in emotion-filled speeches that stressed the importance of coming together to remember the victims.
A brass band played throughout the vigil to commemorate the dead. In lieu of a minute’s silence, a minute of loud appreciation was held, where the crowd clapped and cheered in recognition of the bravery of the victims and their relatives.
Police presence at the vigil was light, with two police cruisers parked around the corner, and two uniformed officers looking on from a distance.
Several speakers at the vigil argued that there is an endemic injustice in the system of police inquiries, pointing out that, since 1987, only two police officers have been convicted in Montreal.
Bridget Tolley spoke about her mother, Gladys Tolley, who was struck and killed by a Sûreté du Québec police cruiser near her home in 2001.
“This is my fourth year demanding justice and a public inquiry into my mother’s death.”
“The Quebec government should not even be involved when it comes to police [inquiries], they are the employers of the police,” she continued. “Why is it that everywhere else it’s a conflict of interest when this happens, but not here, not to us? If it was me that killed the police, I would be in jail right away.”
“The Quebec government should not even be involved when it comes to police [inquiries], they are the employers of the police. Why is it that everywhere else it’s a conflict of interest when this happens, but not here, not to us? If it was me that killed the police, I would be in jail right away.”
The Quebec government has denied requests from Tolley for an independent inquiry into the circumstances of her mother’s death. The police investigation was carried out by the brother of the officer who struck and killed Gladys Tolley.
In response to allegations of unfairness in police investigations, in March 2013, Quebec’s Ombudsperson Raymonde Saint-Germain gave her approval to Bill 12, which aimed to create an independent police investigation procedure.
While Saint-Germain stated that the bill “strikes a balance between the public interest and respect of the rights of all involved,” detractors say that any consultation of police opinion in such cases amounts to a conflict of interest.
The Coalition contre la Répression et les Abus Policiers – or Coalition Against Police Repression and Abuse – has independently documented a list of people who have died at the hands of the police since 1987 across Canada. In Montreal alone, there are 51 people alleged to have died following a police intervention. The most recent death was that of Abraham Isidore Havis, who died on August 17 after an altercation with police.
Jaggi Singh, a social justice activist, told The Daily that Bill 12 is nonetheless a step in the right direction. “I think recently these [issues] have been catching on. The very fact that the government has been talking about a Commission, beyond the ‘police investigating police,’ is just an example of that. That never would [have] happened without popular pressure.”
“We’re highlighting the fact that the police can act with impunity. The police killings and police brutality show that.”
“What ends up happening is that every incident of police brutality or police killing is seen in isolation,” Singh continued, “or it is seen as something that has specific circumstances and the structural issues are never addressed. So I definitely do think it’s a structural thing.”
Speakers and attendees at the vigil agreed that viewing these acts of police violence in isolation is dangerous.
A young woman, who asked to remain anonymous because she herself is under police investigation, told The Daily in French, “We think these are isolated incidents but they’re not at all. […] This is the kind of thing you see every day.”
“[The police] work with complete impunity, knowing they’re not filmed. They make arbitrary arrests that are really abusive. These happen every day, yet no one knows about it,” she continued.
“What people in power count on is people’s ability to forget,” said Singh. “What this vigil is about is memory. Remembering who those folks were, that they have stories to share and that they had loved ones and interests in life.”
[flickr id=”72157636852297535″]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
