The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students visit sites of military research
A walking tour of locations where McGill conducts military research started at 3690 Peel, home to McGill’s Institute of Air and Space Law (IASL), on Thursday. The tour – organized by a new incarnation of Demilitarize McGill, a student group that has been dormant since 2010 – was attended by approximately 15 students.
The IASL, which was founded in 1951, conducts research for the U.S. Air Force. Their website notes: “For more than a quarter century, the US Air Force has been sending its best and the brightest officers to study Space Law at the IASL.”
Graduates from the IASL often go on to work with major governmental military organizations, such as the U.S. and French Air Forces, as well as major weapons manufacturers such as Boeing.
The group moved to the hallway in front of the Shockwave Physics Group (SPG) in the Macdonald Engineering building, where Cleve Higgins, a McGill graduate who uncovered the SPG’s links to the U.S. military in 2006, gave a presentation on their past and potential current research in thermobaric explosives.
Higgins, who was an activist with the now defunct GrassRoots Association for Student Power (GRASPé), was a founding member of Demilitarize McGill and wrote his thesis on McGill’s military ties.
Isaac Stethem, another member of Demilitarize McGill, told the group about how McGill filed a motion with the Commission d’accès à l’information du Québec against 14 McGill students, seeking to disregard several Access to Information (ATI) requests.
“The details of these labs aren’t known anymore. That was one of the things that was included in the ATI requests [that McGill are refusing to provide],” Higgins said.
The last stop was at 688 Sherbrooke, which houses McGill’s Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) laboratory. Kevin Paul, another member of Demilitarize McGill told the group that the CFD has produced research on anti-icing technology and simulation software for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), including attack drones used by the U.S. military.
According to Paul, after an ATI request was filed on the CFD lab relating to their funding by Lockheed Martin – one of the world’s largest military contractors, all mention of Lockheed Martin was removed from their website.
“This raises the question of the research priorities of the academics – whether the academics are neutrally pursuing their interests or the R&D departments of these companies,” Paul said.
Demilitarize McGill and the group moved across the hallway to the offices of Newmerical Technologies, which sells similar software to that developed at the CFD. Newmerical’s President, Professor Wagdi Habashi, is also the director of the CFD lab.
“According to NASA, [the systems marketed by Newmerical] are the ideal solution to the UAV de-icing dilemma, for General Atomics – who are the manufacturer of every attack drone in the U.S. military arsenal,” Paul said.
Today, McGill has no estabished position to evaluate the potential harms of military research, something Demilitarize McGill wants to change.
In 2009, McGill lifted regulations that made researchers who receive money from the military indicate whether the research they were doing had direct harmful consequences. The lifting of these regulations has left the University with no policy guidelines on military research.
“The line on military research [does not] appear in [any] other research policy guidelines at the federal level, or with any of our peer universities,” Principal Heather Munroe-Blum told The Daily in 2009.
But for Alicia Nguyen, a member of Demilitarize McGill, “This is not an acceptable excuse to lack an ethical review.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Admin talk about cuts at student-hosted forum
Corrections appended March 18, 2013.
An open forum on the termination of over 100 Arts classes was held in the Madeleine Parent room in the Shatner building on Thursday. The forum was organized by the Anthropology Students’ Association (ASA), and included members of McGill’s administration, students, and faculty.
“It is clear that students and faculty are frustrated with the state of higher education within Quebec, frustrated with the lack of transparent discussions about the 8 per cent Arts cuts, and frustrated with the rampant uncertainty in the upper administration,” ASA VP Internal Mercedes Sharpe, who was present at the forum, told The Daily by email.
Dean of Students André Costopoulos told the forum that the main reason for the  cuts was to better teaching in Arts in the context of increasingly limited resources.
“In an ideal world I’d like to see all classes being small seminars, that would be fantastic. We also live in a real world of resource constraints where we have 7,000 students to 270 professors,” Costopoulos said.
The cuts will target under-enrolled classes capped at 20-30 students, will help equalize workloads between professors, consolidate similar classes, and allow for reinvestment in Teaching Assistants (TAs) and student services.
Most of the classes up for elimination are taught by course-lecturers, whose union representatives did not speak at the forum.  Costopoulos mentioned in passing a desire at the administrative level to make more course-lecturers full-time teaching faculty.
SSMU VP External Robin Reid-Fraser asked Costopoulos why the budget cuts imposed earlier this year by the Parti Québécois (PQ) government were not being spread out over a longer amount of time.
According to Reid-Fraser, the PQ proposed at the education summit in February that only a certain percentage of the cuts would have to be implemented now, and that universities could take the cuts as deficit.
Costopoulos responded that getting into debt with the hopes of getting funded later was not a good idea.
“The government says I’m giving you leave to go into more debt and if you do that in three to four years, we’re going to start giving you money back; meanwhile you’re accumulating more and more debt. Should that money not come in, you’re going to be in trouble. In the past 200 years we have accumulated a $100-million deficit, now we’re facing $40 million in two years,” Costopoulos said.
Justin Marleau, Vice-President (Teaching Assistants) of AGSEM – McGill’s Teaching Union, voiced the concerns of TAs facing the budget cuts.
“Ever since 2007 we have seen a decline in the amount of the overall revenue that the university has been putting toward teaching assistants,” Marleau said.
Associate Dean (Academic Administration and Oversight) Gillian Lane-Mercier said that while there would be 101 fewer courses in 2013-14, the teaching assistant budget has been increased by 16 per cent.
Students at the forum pointed out that they were concerned with the amount of input students had in university affairs. Costopoulos responded by saying that he believed that students have an important voice, and pointed to committees and working groups that students have a voice in.
“Students are represented in the Faculty Council, the Senate, et cetera,” Costopoulos said. “The problem is filling the student seats in these committees.”
More information about the cuts to Arts classes will be announced by the administration in the next two weeks.
The print version of this article incorrectly stated that the forum was organized by the Political Science Students Association (PSSA), included a misleading headline, and a misleading paragraph concerning the administrative aim of the cuts.

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Agreement comes after 12 years in court and conciliation
After 12 years of wrangling with the administration, both in court and at the conciliation table, employees across the University will see approximatively $5 million in additional pay equity adjustments.
Since 2001, a relatively new provincial law has mandated McGill – as well as employers across Quebec – create internal pay equity models to assess and redress differences in compensation for persons who occupy positions in predominantly female job classes.
The McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), whose membership represented the largest number of female-dominated job categories at the University at the time, contested the pay equity model developed in 2001 by McGill.
“The model they chose was not in fact legal. They made an alteration to the line that made no sense that reduced the amount they had to pay out,” MUNACA VP Finance David Kalant told The Daily.
The original payout totaled close to $6 million, according to MUNACA President Kevin Whittaker.
MUNACA and several of its members lodged complaints with the Quebec Pay Equity Commission, who decided in October 2004 to investigate the McGill pay equity model without first formally hearing the complaints out in court.
According to MUNACA’s lawyer, Johanne Drolet, McGill immediately filed an injunction with Quebec’s superior court, arguing that the Commission could not independently decide to investigate pay equity models.
MUNACA waited over four years to be heard by the superior court, and just a few weeks shy of their hearing, the Quebec Equity Commission offered McGill and MUNACA to mediate a conciliation process. In the winter of 2009, both parties agreed, and since have been at work on hashing out a new equity model.
According to Drolet, McGill was not the only large employer – and not the only university – to make these types of contestations.
“Especially when it’s a new law, employers will try the law, and try and see if their interpretation could be the correct one,” she said.
The new pay equity agreement will see more employees in female-dominated positions receive compensation than the 2001 plan, and additional payments made to some female-dominated positions that were already adjusted under the original plan.  The University will be responsible for compensating anyone who held these positions from 2001 until 2009 – including those who have retired from McGill.
The University is required to make these payments within 12 months.
The University will not have to pay interest on these retroactive payments, something that MUNACA considered contesting, but decided not to in favour of expediency.
Interest on $5 million is “globally probably a large number, but for each individual it’s not worth waiting another ten years,” Whittaker told The Daily.
The administration has repeatedly pointed to pay equity as a burden on the University’s operating budget in the context of provincial budget cuts, a point of view for which Whittaker has little sympathy.
“I’m sorry that the University has to pay that out now during these financial woes but this was something that they did to themselves. Had they paid it out when they should have, 12 years ago, or at least discussed it, we wouldn’t be in this mess that we’re in.”
The Pay Equity Act also requires that employers perform audits every five years to determine whether pay equity is being maintained. The audit performed in 2010 by the University was also contested by MUNACA, both on the grounds that it was calculated according to an illegitimate pay equity model, and that the lack of information relayed to employees about the audit process and the adjustments themselves put McGill in violation of the Pay Equity Act.
“They put numbers up, but it wasn’t maintenance,” Whittaker said.
MUNACA is currently in conciliation with the administration about re-doing the 2010 maintenance according to the new pay equity plan, and hopes to resolve the issue before the end of the year.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
