The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Arts senator alleges cuts are punishment for Course Lecturer unionization
Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi announced last Wednesday at a Faculty of Arts Committee meeting that as many as 100 classes in the Faculty of Arts are set to be terminated for the 2013-2014 academic year. The number represents 8 per cent of Arts courses.
The cuts have been under consideration since September of last year.
According to Manfredi, smaller classes currently taught by full-time professors will be cut, and the professors moved to larger lectures at the expense of the temporary course lecturers currently teaching them.
In an email to The Daily,  Manfredi wrote that that the objective was to “increase the proportion of Arts courses and students taught by permanent, full-time faculty members.”
“Whenever possible and reasonable, our Arts courses ought to be taught by permanent, full-time faculty members rather than temporary teaching staff,” he wrote.
Each individual department within the Faculty of Arts will decide how to achieve the objective.
“One way to achieve this objective is to ask permanent, full-time faculty members to teach slightly fewer of the lower enrolment courses and to teach instead more of the larger introductory and intermediate courses that are often currently being taught by temporary teaching staff (called course lecturers at McGill). Another way to achieve this objective is to rotate lower enrolment courses on a two or three year basis.  Yet another way is to replace several lower enrolment courses with a more broadly defined slot course,” wrote Manfredi.
The move, according to Manfredi, will save the faculty money that will then be put directly into other teaching support like Teaching Assistants (TAs) and activities like internship programs and student advising.
“Additional TAs and TA-ships will mean more financial support for graduate students, smaller conference sections, better undergraduate student access to certain courses, and more time for professors to have substantive interactions with students,” stated Manfredi.
AGSEM–McGill’s Teaching Union president Lilian Radovac told The Daily that she was surprised and disappointed by the decision. The union is composed of three units: course lecturers, invigilators, and teaching assistants.
“No one from the faculty spoke with the union that represents course lecturers at McGill, even to give us a heads-up, let alone to consult with us on this move,” said Radovac.
The course lecturers unit of the union was certified in August 2011 and is currently negotiating their first collective agreement with the University. According to Radovac, the decision of cutting classes was not addressed during negotiations with the administration.
Arts Senator James Gutman told The Daily that he believed the administration is “punishing course lecturers for unionizing.”
“What this does is pit course lecturers against TAs, because they’re saying: ‘we’re going to cut course lecturers but we’re going to give it to TAs’,” he said.
Radovac stated that AGSEM stands united in its opposition to these cuts. “[The teaching assistant unit in AGSEM] is aware of the fact that McGill does not deal fairly with any of its employee groups and they’ve had twenty years of experience learning that.”
Radovac also stated that the decision to cut smaller classes will negatively affect the quality of education at McGill.
“We don’t have enough [small classes] as it is, our students are crying out for more intimate learning settings and instead of giving more opportunity to learn in a smaller class environment with more one-on-one time with their instructors, the university is now going to give them less of that.”
Arts Undergraduate Society VP Academic Tom Zheng, believes that “courses should not be cut, students should have access to a diversity of courses.”
Zheng also mentioned that while he encouraged an increase in the number of TAs to reduce the TA to student ratio, classes should not be cut to achieve this. “Both [increase in TA and course lecturers] should be done without one affecting the other,” he said.
The decision-making process is still ongoing and a Town Hall meeting – planned by the AUS – for the Dean and students to discuss is planned for January 22.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Role of Assembly of First Nations questioned
Protest rhetoric tends to err on the side of boundless optimism, but when Stuart Myiow stood up in front of the crowd of hundreds at the Idle No More protest last Friday, he bluntly broke the mold.
“The Mohawk Traditional Council (MTC) can’t directly support the Idle No More movement,” he said, reading from the statement that the Council had released that day. Myiow is a temporary Wolf Clan representative of the Council.
The MTC statement goes on to outline its criticisms of the Idle No More movement, saying it has “too many voices saying too many different things, including some radical and controversial demands, allowing those responsible for the problems…to hijack the movement.”
Initially, the crowd didn’t seem to register the potentially controversial content of the statement, which, like the other speeches that day, was peppered with cheers and applause.
Wahéhshon Shiann Whitebean is a female chief on the MTC and one of the co-signatories of the statement. She explained why she saw the breadth of opinions in Idle No More as problematic.
“People are standing up, but they don’t know what to do to make a difference, which is why there needs to be leadership and direction,” she said. “If Idle No More is the beginning of something, it would be good to see people take it somewhere.”
Melissa Mollen-Dupuis, a Montreal-based Indigenous rights activist and one of the march’s organizers, said that she thought it was really important that the MTC have a say, even “if we don’t agree with everything they have to say.”
“I’m not scared of people not being okay with the movement, that’s for sure. I think it would be more scary if everyone agreed with everything.”
In response to the criticism of there being too many voices in the movement for it to accomplish anything, Mollen-Dupuis said that she saw Idle No More’s ideological openness as one of its greatest strengths.
“Idle No More definitely has a lot of voices and a lot of different ideas. They can see that as a negative thing, but I see it as a very positive thing,” she said. “Voices are like twigs: if you have one twig it will break, but many twigs won’t break as easily. People might want to have a clear unilateral voice that says the same thing, but that’s not going to happen.”
The MTC of Kahnawake co-exists with its Mohawk Band Council. The latter is one of 630 Canadian First Nation band councils whose chiefs are represented by the Assembly of First Nations (AFN), the current governing structure of First Nations on the federal level. In the past, some of the band councils have suffered heavy criticism after charges of corruption and failing to be properly representative.
Contrary to the electoral system by which a native community’s band council is formed, traditional councils’ representatives are nominated by clan mothers and confirmed through consensus.
The MTC’s statement listed a series of demands, including that band councillors fight to “dissolve the structure of the AFN, […] formally pull out of the self-government agreement [and] dissolve the elective band council system.”
Joe Delaronde is a spokesperson for the Mohawk Council of Kahnawake, on Montreal’s south shore. He acknowledged that the AFN has had its share of problems in the past, but doesn’t see the dissolution of the Assembly as a viable road to solving the problems of Indigenous peoples in Canada.
“The AFN is not perfect, the council system is not perfect, but is there any other body that brings Native peoples together? I don’t see one,” he said in a phone interview with The Daily. “If people don’t like the AFN, I invite them to come up with some other method that brings people together and gives them a chance to have a voice about issues of national importance.”
Whitebean, however, said that complete dissolution of the structure of the Assembly of First Nations and of the band council system is a perfectly reasonable and realistic goal.
“It would be stupid to support anyone in the band council system because it’s something that has destroyed our people,” she said. “The elected system does not work for our people. In fact, we’ve been contacted by other nations to help them set up their own traditional councils.”
In contrast to the electoral system by which a native community’s band council is formed, traditional councils’ representatives are nominated by clan mothers and confirmed through consensus.
“[Saying we’re going to dissolve the AFN is] like saying we’re going to dissolve the federal system of Canada,” said Mollen-Dupuis. “I don’t think it’s the best idea, I think we have to be realistic. We’re going to have to repair the relations we’ve already weaved, and get the knots and the holes out of the fabric that’s already been weaved.”
Chief Theresa Spence, who has been something of a lightning rod for the Idle No More movement, also came under attack in the MTC’s statement, calling her a “spectacle.” Spence is an elected band council aboriginal leader who has been on a hunger strike since December 11 with the goal of obtaining a meeting between Stephen Harper, Governor General David Johnston, and aboriginal leaders. Her goal that has yet to be realized.
Delaronde noted that Kahnawake’s Band Council has received several messages from people who didn’t understand the MTC’s decision to read an anti-Idle No More statement at a rally for the movement.
“It’s a free country, they can say what they want, but we were certainly surprised,” he said, adding, “We received a couple of emails from non-native people who thought that it was ill-advised to release such a statement at a rally by and for native peoples, and who thought that the movement should have a more united front.”
Despite their multiple, harsh criticisms of Idle No More, the MTC nonetheless maintained that it does “support the movement of all people in this struggle to correct corrupt governments and return truth as the standard of our societies.”
“[Our problems with Idle No More] don’t mean that we won’t stand with people or support them,” said Whitebean.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Union unanimously endorses tentative deal to its members
Quebec’s paramedic workers ended their two-and-a-half week symbolic strike last  Friday. A tentative agreement was reached after three days of intense negotiations between Quebec’s Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and negotiators for the 2,500 paramedical employees affiliated with labour federation Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN).
Quebec’s paramedics have been without a contract since March 2010.
The agreement, which was announced by Hébert last Thursday, still needs to be ratified by individual union members.
A resounding 71 per cent of the union’s members voted down a previous tentative agreement between the CSN and the province in October 2012, but Jeff Begley, president of the Federation of Health and Social Services of the CSN, told The Daily that he expects a different outcome this time.
“The delegates received the information on the agreement and unanimously decided to recommend it to the members,” Begley said.
Regional general assemblies of CSN members started across the province on Tuesday. “We expect that in the next two weeks the agreement will be ratified, and signed in the days that follow,” Begley said.
The strike, which started on December 24, was the first legal strike ever undertaken by the paramedics.
Paramedical services are deemed to be an essential service under the Essential Services Act, which meant that strikers were legally responsible for providing 100 per cent of their normal services. Instead of reducing emergency ambulance services, the strike was administrative, with paramedics refusing to completely fill out insurance forms.
“When you call an ambulance, somebody pays for it – either your insurance, or Quebec auto insurance, or you personally. There are papers that have to be filled out so that whoever has to be billed, can be billed. Those are the kinds of papers that weren’t completely filled out,” Begley told The Daily.
The CBC reported that paramedics had stopped telling hospitals when non-urgent cases were brought in, making work harder for their emergency room staff. Apparently, this was especially tough during the end of December, when there were an abnormally large number of patients suffering from the seasonal flu.
However, a representative from the McGill University Health Centre, which runs six teaching hospitals in the Montreal region, including the Montreal General Hospital, told The Daily that patient care was unaffected by the strike.
The Essential Services Act meant extra work for the striking ambulance technicians, since complaints about a diminishment of service from the public could have meant fines for the union. “That means that we have to have teams that, even though they aren’t working, they have to make sure that everything is running smoothly. That is a lot of work,” Begley said.
In an attempt to make the strike visible to members of the public, ambulances were decorated with colourful signs that read: “En Grève” – “on strike” in French.
The union’s strike tactic, which included demonstrations throughout the province, seemed to speed up negotiations, which have been ongoing since February 2011. “We did notice since the beginning of the strike that the government has been feeling more and more pressured to come to an agreement,” Begley said.
In a press release, Hébert said that he was proud that an agreement, satisfactory to all parties, was found. “Finding common ground was a big challenge,” he added.
The new collective agreement, if ratified, will reduce the number of pay scales from 16 to 14, allowing paramedics to reach the top of pay scale two years earlier. This is still far from parity with other provinces, which the union was initially seeking, where it takes on average five years to reach the maximum pay scale.
The paramedic’s previous contract also stipulated that paramedics were not being paid extra for the first half-hour of overtime. “This was a rather strange clause,” Begley said, “from now on – at the end of the regular eight-hour day if you have to stay and work longer, you are paid time-and-a-half.”
Changes have also been made to the pension plan, where accrued benefits have been increased from 0.8 per cent of a paramedic’s salary per year to 0.85 per cent per year.
The new agreement, if ratified, will be up for renegotiation in 2015
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Professors’ association publicly denounce decision
Correction appended January 17, 2013.

Pressure on the provincial government is escalating as Quebec universities begin to mobilize against the $124 million budget cut initiated by the Parti Québécois (PQ).
The budget cut came as surprise to universities across the province when it was announced last month, in the middle of the 2012 fiscal year. Student and administrative groups across campus are starting to mobilize their opposition to the cuts. Alvin Shrier, president of the McGill Association of University Teachers (MAUT) talked to The Daily about publicly denouncing the budgetary restraints.
“People have to stand up and speak with a loud voice. For the government to expect a university to come to a substantial cut late in the fiscal year while preparing for something different – well it’s hard to imagine the government doing that on itself,” he said.  
MAUT sent a motion to all parties concerned as well as the Montreal Gazette at the end of last year. The motion calls for “all universities, student associations and faculty unions and associations to establish a unified and common position in demanding a reversal of the budget policy on higher education and research put forward by the Quebec Government.”
Quebec universities are now faced with cuts of up to 15 per cent over the next four months, according to the MAUT motion.
Shrier expressed concern over what kind of cuts McGill would implement, fearing students services will be the first to face adjustments.
“I could see some of the first cuts we’ll see will be on student services,” he said.
The McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) has also reacted to the cuts. 
“It is completely unreasonable that these cuts are retroactive, made well after university budgets have been set. McGill’s budget includes a recently signed collective agreement and a soon to be signed pay equity agreement, both of which MUNACA and McGill achieved with help from government conciliators,” read MUNACA’s official statement. 
“No matter how universities might make these cuts, they will be damaging to the core functions of universities, which will ultimately be damaging to the province generally.”
The cuts were announced nearly two months before the upcoming summit on higher education slated for late February. SSMU VP External Robin-Reid Fraser expressed concern about the effects of these cuts on the summit.
“The impression given before was that all options were on the table, to be discussed in a constructive way…it was very poor timing on the government’s part”.
SSMU will be releasing a statement on the matter shortly, but indicated a consensus of discontentment with the cuts.
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) also pointed to the summit in their own press release stating: “With the Quebec Summit on Higher Education to be held in February, these cuts undermine the Government’s credibility to genuinely address the issue of higher education funding.”
PGSS is calling for the Quebec government to reverse their decision on the university cuts. 
Principal Heather Munroe-Blum will be participating in a pre-summit meeting on January 17 and January 18 on the topic of governance and financing of universities. The meeting will be held at Université de Sherbrooke. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Statement of “values” on free expression to be released
The McGill administration has abandoned plans for a permanent protocol regulating campus protests, following a condemnation from the Canadian Civil Liberties Association (CCLA).
The CCLA’s statement reads that the organization has “significant concerns about the extent to which [the protocol] protects freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association on campus and whether it assists members of the community in understanding the limits being placed on these rights.” 
“We’re claiming this as a victory for everybody who worked to oppose the protocol,” said Lilian Radovac, the president of AGSEM – McGill’s Teaching Union.
Although the administration’s announcement said that its decision came solely as a result of the consultation process, Radovac believes it was much more likely that “the confluence of the opposition from the unions, the media attention, and ultimately criticism from a national civil liberties group that […] lead to such a dramatic about-face.” 
Despite campus unions and student groups raising similar concerns during the initial consultation process, the administration released a proposed version of the protocol reflecting no substantive changes to the university-wide community on November 30. 
The administration’s announcement released yesterday states that “the McGill community will be best served by an agreed-upon statement of values and principles, rather than a protocol of operating procedures, which, by definition, must be sensitive to context and determined by judgment,” and that it will now embark on a second consultation process.
Radovac added that for AGSEM, “the issue won’t be fully resolved until the provisional protocol is officially revoked […] there should be no protocol at McGill.”
The provisional protocol was first introduced in February of  2012, immediately following the five-day occupation of Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Morton Mendelson’s office in the James Administration building. According to the email that first released the protocol, it was to “remain in effect until further notice.”  
Late Wednesday, members of the administration could not say whether or not the provisional protocol was still in effect. 
The CCLA statement was dated January 8,  posted to the CCLA’s website, and sent to Provost Anthony Masi and VP (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa via the email address provided during the protocol’s consultation process. According to Cara Faith Zwibel, the CCLA’s Fundamental Freedoms Program director and the statement’s author, the CCLA never received a response from the University.
Last week, the protocol received even more off-campus attention when a Montreal Gazette article reported on U3 philosophy student Eli Freedman’s grievance to Senate about the protocol, and quoted McGill alumnus and prominent civil rights lawyer Julius Grey as noting an increasingly harsh attitude about campus dissent at McGill.
Anti-protocol campus mobilization had been underway since last February and intensified after a revised version was released to campus unions and student groups for consultation in November. 
The new version included a definition of what would be deemed a “peaceful” demonstration.  Campus unions and student groups published letters in student and the Montreal press, which in turn published critical editorials. Several student associations voted to condemn the protocol.
AGSEM launched a website last week, endorsed by campus unions MUNACA and AMUSE, as well as the Philosophy Students’ Association, compiling information and press clippings about the protocol, and promoting a protest that was to be staged January 23 –the same day that the protocol was to go before Senate.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
