The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Over 600 Indigenous women mourned and remembered
For the eighth year in a row, Missing Justice held the Vigil and March for Murdered and Missing Indigenous Women in Montreal. The vigil was one of 360 similar events held across the world, according to organizers.
Around 200 protesters gathered at Cabot Square, where speeches were given to an emotional and applauding crowd by Viviane Michel, Joey Shaw, John Cree, and others. Afterward, the march winded down Ste. Catherine and ended at Phillips Square with a candlelit vigil and various performances.
Those who spoke at the rally talked about the long-lasting effects of residential schools, the ongoing colonization of Indigenous people and lands, and the injustice of missing and murdered Indigenous women from their communities.
“I want justice. I want justice for my mother. I want justice for myself. I want justice for everyone here. I want justice for the hundreds of missing and murdered Native women across this country,” said Irkar Beljaars, a Métis journalist and activist, in one of the speeches. “And more importantly, I want justice for everyone across this country.”
“There’s a phenomenon of native women going missing and being murdered across Canada,” Bianca Mugyenyi, Programming and Campaigns Coordinator at the Centre for Gender Advocacy, told The Daily in an interview.
One demonstrator, who identified only as Caroline, shared that she was at the march because of a close personal connection to the issue. “My auntie went missing from Winnipeg in 1992 and she was supposed to go home to Vancouver after our grandfather passed away and she was never heard of again. We don’t know where she went, we don’t know if she made it, there has been nothing that has come to light.”
According to the Native Women’s Association of Canada (NWAC), there are around 600 missing and murdered Indigenous women in Canada. Activists argue that this figure is too low, citing a shortage of data due to a lack of funding and political support, while police claim that the figure is too high.
“One person, one woman, one girl, is way too many already,” said a member of Missing Justice at the march.
Bridget Tolley began the annual march in 2005, when her mother, Gladys Tolley, was struck and killed by a Surêté du Québec police cruiser. The officer in question was never charged, and an independent investigation was denied.
According to Mugyenyi, this lack of resolution is not uncommon, and is instead a major problem when dealing with the issue of violence against Indigenous women. “When the police don’t take these cases seriously, as indicated in that these cases are not solved, and when the justice system does not give the same support, people need to act.”
“If women keep going missing, and there will be this silence around it, which means that they are more vulnerable [… and] in even greater danger,” she said.
Many demonstrators felt that it wasn’t remarkable that they were attending, but that it was their duty.
“I am not doing anyone a favour by coming here, I am not doing anything excellent [by coming here …],” said Sara Sebti, a McGill student, adding, “As a privileged person you have the responsibility to use your privilege in a productive way.”
Others pointed to ongoing colonization in Canada as a concern, and as motivation for attending the march.
“Our whole Canadian, Quebec [sic] society is built on colonization,” said Cleve Higgins, an attendee. “You can see it in the banks we are walking past, and the tar sands and all those things that destroy the lands Indigenous people are living on.”
Mugyenyi echoed this concern. “All Canadians have a historical obligation to right the wrongs of the colonial legacy.”
When asked what the next steps were for the movement in the future, Mugyenyi highlighted the vastness of the issue. “In terms of research and awareness, we need funding for it,” she said, referring to the fact that the only federally funded initiative – the Sisters in Sprit database – lost its financial support in 2010.
“[We also need to] counteract stereotypes of Native women, which increase their susceptibility to violence. […We need] cultural sensitivity for police forces; they don’t have the tools to investigate completely and thoroughly, or with the will to do so,” Mugyenyi continued.
Many of the demonstrators at the march and vigil agreed that while the government had a role in helping with funding and broader support, there needs to be more power given to Indigenous communities.
“We only [march] one evening a year but it should be a lot more than that,” said Higgins, “[We should protest] until it is taken seriously by the government [and] they actually put some effort in helping these Indigenous women.”
With files from Hannah Besseau, Joelle Dahm, and Sarina Gupta.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
200 immigration detainees strike for better access to services
200 immigration detainees are calling for justice, striking over prison conditions, and asking for better access to medical care, social services, food, and legal aid. The strike, which began September 17, was largely provoked by a prison transfer that resulted in limited services and decreased accessibility for detainees.
In August, the detainees were moved from prisons in the Greater Toronto area to Ontario’s Central East Correctional Centre (CECC) in Lindsay, Ontario, in light of the upcoming closure of the Toronto West Detention Centre.
“We’re talking about a mass civil disobedience action within prison cells,” Jaggi Singh, an activist with No One Is Illegal Montreal, told The Daily. “This is very significant. These are people who are in a very precarious situation, who might not get support from wide sections of society.”
The migrant detainees were moved in two batches from Toronto to the CECC in Lindsay, Ontario, according to Emelina Ramos, an activist with Toronto-based migrant justice group Fuerza/Puwersa. While the Toronto West Detention Centre is a low-security public prison, the CECC is a high-security private prison.
“There’s been a lot of wondering as to why the detainees were moved to a private prison,” Ramos told The Daily.
As a private prison, CECC offers fewer classes and life skills programs than the Toronto West Detention Centre. According to Ramos, these programs are crucial for many detainees.
The transfer of prisoners from Toronto to Lindsay also means that prisoners are now two hours away from essential services such as legal resources, social services, and for some, their families.
One of the prisoners, Jalal Joshton, is originally from Iraq. He has lived in Canada for 16 years, and has been detained for seven. For Joshton, the move meant that he was cut off from his family.
“I can’t even see my son. Windsor is six hours away [from Lindsay]. [My family doesn’t] have the money to come all the way down here – my wife and son are on welfare,” Joshton told The Daily in an interview. “I haven’t seen my son in seven years – he was 14 months and now he is eight years old.”
“I’m suffering here, I’m suffering. In my country they don’t let you suffer, they shoot you and you’re done. Here, they make you die very slowly.”
A major issue with the transfer has also been access to phone calls. Detainees are not given access to making international and long-distance phone calls, according to Ramos, and local calls have been consistently dropping.
Erik Kusi, a current detainee, told The Daily that the inconsistency with the phone service has strained the detainees’ communications with lawyers and families. Kusi is a permanent resident of Canada. He arrived as a refugee from Liberia, and was detained due to a prior conviction. Before his detention, Kusi was two years away from being eligible to apply for citizenship.
“Their [CECC] phone systems cannot get ahold of our lawyers and families because supposedly their phone system […] is very sensitive,” said Kusi. “You cannot make 20 minute phone calls without the phone cutting off. The phone systems are most important to access our lawyers and our family members. This is [one of] the demands we’re striking for.”
Access to medical services and social workers have been limited since the transfer as well.
“There is no social worker. They say they are going to get a social worker but there is no social worker yet. They hired one, but she hasn’t [seen] anyone yet. The situation, if they are making money off of me or what, I have no idea, they must be making money. Three years of my life, and next to [no changes],” said Joshton.
A joint statement on the issue was released on September 23 by Books to Bars Hamilton, Dignidad Migrante, Fuerza/Puwersa, No One Is Illegal Montreal, No One Is Illegal Vancouver, and Solidarity Across Borders Montreal.
Over the past ten years, according to the statement, the number of people without full status – including temporary workers and refugees – has risen to 60 per cent, and yet the number of permanent residency visas granted is the same. Less than 25 per cent of refugee claimants are accepted.
Approximately 82,000 migrant people have been detained in Canada since 2004, and 25,000 have been imprisoned, according to the statement. One third of detainees are held in maximum-security provincial prisons.
In 2012, Canada passed Bill C-31, which amended the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act. The Justice for Refugees and Immigrants Coalition – comprised of groups such as the Canadian Civil Liberties Association and Amnesty International – argued that the bill works to arbitrarily detain groups of refugees, and has too much power to deem those who hope to escape violence and persecution in their home country as illegal.
The amendments gave the state “broad, unfettered, and unprecedented powers,” according to a press release by the Coalition. Provisions in the bill allow the government to “arbitrarily detain groups of refugees; keep parents, children and spouses apart for years; […] and authorize the stripping of permanent residence from refugees.”
There are many reasons why non-status people can be detained, according to Ramos, including but not limited to: not having the correct travel documents, an inability to be deported because their home country will not take them, or having prior convictions.
“We should be aware of the reality of the immigration detention and the injustice of it. We aren’t [necessarily] talking about people who are being detained for being convicted of a criminal offense. These are people in administrative categories – that is, they haven’t necessarily committed a crime, their only ‘crime’ is to have been a migrant. So it’s particularly insidious that detention is being used against people,” said Singh.
“The system is flawed, it’s not working,” said Ramos. “Some people who have prior convictions, their convictions are completely bogus in our courts. For example, in countries where it is illegal to be gay, and you have a conviction for it – you could come here and all the government of Canada sees is that you have a prior conviction and so you get detained.”
Unlike the United States and the United Kingdom, which limit detention of immigration detainees to 90 days, Canada does not have a limit to how long people can be detained.
While immigration detainees are supposed to undergo a monthly detention review, at CECC, their isolation from lawyers has impeded progress on their cases.
“Some of these individuals have been held in detention for ten years and they’re not being told when they’re going to be released because Canada doesn’t want to release them in their own community,” said Ramos. “In some cases, their home country doesn’t want to take them either – and [so] they’re stuck.”
The majority of migrant detainees at  the CECC come from African countries and the Middle East, according to Ramos, and there are no European migrants currently detained.
On September 17, the detainees led a walkout where they left and refused to re-enter their cells. The detainees were forcefully put back into their cells by the guards, according to Ramos.
On September 18, detainees held a hunger strike that lasted 24 hours. A second hunger strike started on September 23, and lasted the subsequent 11 days. At least six detainees were reported hospitalized during the hunger strike.
“[People are feeling] frustration, headaches, anger, and other stuff too,” said Kusi, who went on hunger strike. “There is [a lot of] yelling going around. It’s just getting people stressed out. I’m getting frustrated myself.”
The CECC responded to the strike by enforcing lockdowns, Ramos told The Daily, where detainees are not allowed to leave their cells for extended periods of time – even up to 18 hours a day. Certain detainees were put into segregation. According to Ramos, the communication between the CECC and the detainees has been limited, and only furthered frustrations.
“The warden has told them he was going to make the canteen better, which he did. But he also told them they would get a better phone line, but calls continue to drop and are fuzzy. They hired a social worker, but she has yet to show up. The relationship [between the detainees and CECC] has not been very good at all,” said Ramos.
As for a response to better health services, Ramos said the CECC did bring in nurses, but the initiative fell short of a real change.
“They asked for better access to medical services, and there were nurses, but only because of the hunger strike. Now that the hunger strike is over, the nurses are gone. It was a very conditional thing,” said Ramos.
* * *
The hunger strikes ended on October 1, Ramos told The Daily, because of complications with health and hospitalizations, in addition to a lack of response from the Canadian Border Service Agency (CBSA).
The detainees are still on strike, but are trying a different tactic to have their demands met. They will now be boycotting their hearings that will decide the outcomes of their cases since, according to Ramos, many of the detainees report seeing no progress at their monthly meetings.
The strike has garnered the attention of the United Nations Refugee Agency, who have since visited the CECC to talk to detainees, according to Ramos.
“They said they’re working on it, but that the government is not budging,” said Ramos.
“The CBSA has told detainees they they’re going to deport 60 of them Monday [October 7] or Tuesday [October 8],” Ramos told The Daily. “No one thinks it’s going to happen because they bluff like this all the time. But if it does happen, it means that we’ve lost.”
“What we need is a way to regularize the status of people who are dealing with irregular status,” said Singh. “People who are detained are the tip of the iceberg in terms of people who live in Canada without full status. There are anywhere from half a million to a million people who live without status. In the U.S. it’s closer to 12 million.”
“First and foremost this is about undocumented people struggling to get dignity and justice within the limitations of the Canadian system,” said Syed Hussan, an activist with No One Is Illegal Toronto.
“These are people trying to get better standards. People should not have to go hungry to have access to phone calls, to call their family, to call their lawyer, when you’ve been jailed without [being charged with a] crime. That in itself should call people to act, to rise up, and to question the immigration system in Canada.”
With files from Emelina Ramos.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Fortier visits, asks for more student input
Correction appended October 7, 2013.
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) held their bi-weekly Legislative Council meeting last Wednesday to discuss various issues, including opening the Arts Lounge to non-AUS groups and the proposed creation of a 3rd floor reception area in the Leacock building.
Principal Suzanne Fortier was also present at the meeting and spoke about the relationship between administrators and students.
“I didn’t come here to be an administrator, sitting in a corner there, and enjoying my wonderful office. […] I want to be a part of this community, and I want [to] do good work for this community, and I think my attitude and my beliefs are shared by my colleagues,” said Fortier during the meeting.
However some of the councillors, including AUS President Justin Fletcher and Arts Senator Claire Stewart-Kanigan, later raised their concerns about the physical disconnect between the James Administration building and the overall student body.
“As the James Administration building does not provide any direct services for students […] spatial issues foster a natural disconnect between administration and students,” Fletcher said later in an e-mail to The Daily.
During Council, Fortier also emphasized the need for communication between the administration and students, telling the Council to “tell us” when issues arise. “There are formal avenues and less formal. It’s important that we can talk to each other at an informal level, and be able to sort out why we see things differently,” Fortier added.
Stewart-Kanigan said later in an interview with The Daily, “I think that it is inappropriate to put the onus as much on students perhaps as she [did].”
However, Stewart-Kanigan noted, “It’s the first few weeks of her principalship. She has taken some actions that have definitely challenged the way McGill has operated in the past in terms of accountability.”
Another business item on the meeting agenda was a motion to allow access to the Arts Lounge for non-AUS organizations.
“I know that [SSMU gets] many, many groups looking for bookings and that they only have one room that’s similar to the Arts Lounge (the Club Lounge) so this offers another room and one that’s different than what SSMU offers,” said VP Internal Enbal Singer, who moved the motion, in an e-mail to The Daily.
The motion was passed and the Arts Lounge will now be available for the use of non-AUS groups for a fee of $25, while AUS-affiliated clubs will continue to be able to book the Arts Lounge without paying. The money will be put into the AUS budget for lounge maintenance.
Council also discussed the creation of a 3rd floor reception area in Leacock, though according to a straw poll, Council was not in favour. No formal motion was passed.
“Based on the discussion, Council’s sentiments were largely that a third floor reception area is unnecessary given current staffing constraints and that staff knowledgeable about programs should remain within departments,” President Fletcher noted in an e-mail to The Daily.
“Furthermore, it was the sentiment in the room that our time and energy would be better spent advocating for more student spaces in Leacock,” Fletcher continued.
“The onus is on us as students to approach our department chairs and make sure the space is allocated for us as students; [it’s a] you snooze, you lose kind of thing.”
An earlier version of this article stated that Council discussed the proposed restructuring of the Leacock building, when Council in fact discussed the creation of a 3rd floor reception area in Leacock. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Suzanne Fortier makes surprise appearance 
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) held its monthly Council meeting on October 2. On the agenda was the amelioration of post-grad life, internal business, and a surprise visit from Principal Suzanne Fortier.
In his Secretary’s report, PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney said that steps had been taken to ensure the even distribution of student grants.
On occasion, some post-graduates and post-doctorates get more than enough grants while others get none. The problem, according to Mooney, stems not from a lack of funds but rather from bureaucratic oversight.
“The central administration has the money and it is sent off to the various faculties, but sometimes it does not make its way to the right people, and we’re talking to the administration to figure out a way to do that,” he said in his address.
PGSS also plans to make post-graduate student rights regarding their supervisors more clear. A recent PGSS survey that asked students to assess their supervisors came up with mixed results.
PGSS, Mooney says, will aim to “increase awareness, protect, and advertise student’s rights regarding their supervisors.”
Four motions were discussed and voted on during Council.
The first was a motion to impose a non-opt-outable fee of $0.75 on PGSS members once per semester to financially support the operations of the McGill Tribune, making PGSS members part of the Tribune Publications Society. This motion passed.
A similar question was put to referendum in late April of this year, but it lost by a close vote. According to Mooney, the Tribune started covering Council and graduate student issues about a year ago, and is interested in expanding its coverage. When the proposed $1.00 per semester fee lost in referendum in April however, Mooney said that the upcoming referendum will be lesser in scope.
“We agreed that we’ll ask the question again, but we’ll ask for a smaller fee,” he told The Daily.
Another motion aimed to institute a McGill Writing Centre fee of $1.80 per term, to avoid the cessation of “all one-on-one tutorial services for graduate students” provided by the centre.
The motion passed, but the follow-up motion, which aimed to amend the PGSS budget for a one-time transfer of $3,000 from the Special Projects Fund to the McGill Writing Centre for tutor wages, did not.
“Some people said, ‘even though it’s an important service […] we don’t feel comfortable allocating money from the budget,”’ Mooney later told The Daily.
The fourth motion aimed to create a policy regarding Mandatory Institutional Fees (FIOs). PGSS currently risks seeing new FIOs created by McGill’s Fee Advisory Committee without an official PGSS referendum, the standardized process utilized for fee increases in other student bodies at McGill. A policy for structuring a referendum process in the event of any fee changes or increases was voted on, and the motion passed.
The highlight of the meeting was McGill Principal Suzanne Fortier’s surprise visit, when she took the floor for a short speech and questions from students afterwards.
On several occasions, she emphasised the need for herself, the administration, and the professors to be “connected to the student body.”
“Open communication and honesty” between the two bodies, she said, is vital in order to improve students’ university experience.
Her speech also emphasized the need to maintain and better McGill’s status as a world-class university despite financial troubles. To do this, Fortier emphasized, the priority investment must be in people – attracting top-level graduate students and professors – rather than in material.
Fortier’s visit, Mooney said, was largely successful. “[It’s] clear that this was a great forum for her to hear about what issues are happening at the local level,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Conference “is not a substitute for doing the right thing”
In response to McGill’s controversial history with the asbestos industry, the McGill Faculty of Medicine held a public conference on the topic of asbestos and research integrity at the Faculty Club on October 1. Two guest speakers, Dr. David Egilman of Brown University, and Kathleen Ruff of the Rideau Institute, focused on their past and present criticism on the asbestos research of former McGill professor John Corbett McDonald in the 1960s and 1970s. The speakers proposed that the University take future action with respect to meeting its intellectual and ethical standards in research.
The two spoke in the second half of the afternoon, beginning with Egilman. His presentation largely consisted of a scientific critique of McDonald’s research. However, he added, “I am not here to question the motives of the scientists.”
After reading through a quote in which McDonald openly admitted in 1998 to “a degree of arbitrariness in some of the pooling carried out,” Egilman argued that the conclusion of the research was founded on data manipulation. “They threw data out because it gave them wrong results,” he said.
According to the speakers, asbestos mining and manufacturing companies today continue to justify the promotion of chrysotile asbestos in developing countries using McDonald’s asbestos research.
Later, Ruff explained the origin of the Quebec Asbestos Mining Association’s (QAMA) reasoning in funding and using McDonald’s research on the so-called innocuousness of asbestos.
“[In the 1980s] asbestos sales plummeted, and the industry thought it would die, but Professor McDonald helped them save the day by coming in with his message arguing that it can be safely used in controlled circumstances,” she said. “So the industry went on a mission to developing countries to get them to use chrysotile asbestos.”
Egilman and a number of scientists worldwide had filed complaints with McGill in 2002 and 2012, both of which claimed inaccuracies in McDonald’s research and a need for the University to pursue “independent, transparent and thorough” investigation of these criticisms.
In February 2012, the University began a departmental review that would assess the integrity of McDonald’s research and work under McGill’s scientific standards.
Soon after the review, which found no evidence of research misconduct, McGill’s Research Integrity Officer issued a consultation report in September 2012, which, Ruff alleged, was fatally flawed.
She also emphasized one of the report’s flawed statements concerning the so-called “international consensus” of McDonald’s findings.
“Not a single reputable scientific organization in the world supports Professor McDonald’s findings that chrysotile asbestos is virtually innocuous,” she said. “The consensus is overwhelming in the world, in the scientific community. Chrysotile asbestos, all forms of asbestos, are hazardous and should stop.”
McGill’s report also states that the safety of chrysotile asbestos is a highly controversial and conflicted issue, rather than an established scientific consensus. “It is a disservice, a great disservice, that McGill has been promoting [this message],” Ruff stated.
Egilman and Ruff both stated that McGill should retract McDonald’s study, and that its ultimate aim should be to positively impact the real world with research and scholarship that meets the University’s intellectual and ethical standards.
“This conference is excellent,” said Ruff. “[However], it is not a substitute for doing the right thing.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Addresses victim blaming, consent, prevalence of rape culture
Trigger warning: This article contains discussion of rape, rape culture, suicide, and depression.
The Centre for Gender Advocacy’s “Another Word for Gender” series closed with an emotional keynote event on October 3 – a talk by Glen Canning, the father of Rehtaeh Parsons, about the failure of the justice system, and the forces that normalize sexual assault in Canada, including victim-blaming.
Canning told the audience of around 100 people in the Shatner Ballroom that it was his first time speaking in front of a large group of people, but that he wanted to share the story of his daughter.
Parsons’ case first gained media attention last year, following the teen’s suicide after aggressive and prolonged bullying in response to her sexual assault. In November 2011, Parsons was gang-raped after attending a house party. A cellphone photo of the rape was shared days later by students at her school across social media sites.
According to her father, the photo was taken by one of the rapists and was not only shared at her school but across her district.
“It was going everywhere, and everyone knew about it,” said Canning, adding, “She wasn’t just raped, she was humiliated and destroyed.”
Not long after the photo was shared with the community, Parsons and her family came forward to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to report the incident – which is where the victim-blaming began, Canning said.
“I think it is outrageous that this happened, I think it’s inexcusable for the police to bungle this case the way that they did, and they did it right from the start.”
The investigation went on for one year, with few updates given to the family and no arrests made. The case was declared closed in March 2012, without questioning or consulting any of the people who were involved with the allegations of sexual assault.
The police told her mother when the case was deemed closed that “there [were] mistakes made that night, and Rehtaeh made mistakes too.”
“They were essentially saying she shouldn’t have been drinking at that party, and to us that is just wrong. It didn’t matter what she did that night, no one had the right to rape her,” said Canning.
He noted that his daughter was heartbroken by the case being closed. “She felt she did the right thing by speaking up and it was used against her.”
Parsons, Canning revealed, turned to drugs and self-harm to cope with the pain and feelings of isolation spurred by the events. Eventually, Parsons and her father decided that she would seek medical treatment at a local hospital.
Canning also pointed to faults in the hospital system. “Taking her to that hospital was the biggest mistake of my life,” he said. “I think she learned nothing in that hospital that she could use to cope with the issues she was going through.”
“The hospital that she was admitted to treated her like a drug addict because [the drug treatment program] is the only program they offer teens that age,” he told the audience. “So you have to be a drug addict, you are not a sexual assault victim.”
Not long after she was admitted, Parsons was discharged. She committed suicide shortly thereafter. Canning believes that her time in the hospital made her worse off.
Shortly after her death, her mother posted a Facebook status regarding her suicide that quickly gained international media attention, with her parents receiving calls from CNN and MSNBC.
However, not all the attention was positive. A “Support the Boys” campaign started in the community, with people rallying around the assault suspects, declaring their innocence.
The group printed signs and went to the police system to protest, alleging that Parsons lied. They also created Facebook groups claiming that since the boys were “good-looking [and] cool guys, that she probably wanted her assault because they never would have committed the crime,” Canning explained to the audience.
The cyber-bullying continued even after Parsons’ death – Facebook groups were created with tormenting titles and photoshopped pictures mocking her suicide. Some of the content was sent to her family.
When Canning wrote a letter to Facebook to take down one of the groups, they responded that the group did not “violate their standards.”
Canning posted the message on his blog, where it was picked up by the hacktivist group Anonymous. Anonymous tracked down the Facebook group owners and shut down the groups.
Charges of creation and distribution of child pornography have now been laid against two of the boys. “[However] despite them sending it to hundreds of kids, who then sent it to hundreds of [other] kids, [those are] the only two charges they came up with in this entire thing.”
Canning is adamant that the police never investigated the sexual assault aspect of the crime. “For them to say they have no evidence to substantiate a charge of sexual assault is a blatant failure on the side of the police to do their job.”
“This is just wrong, this is a failure in a system here. Her school didn’t even call her once, the police never investigated her crime at all.”
Canning hopes that by talking about his daughter’s case, change will occur. He noted that the sexual assault centre he took his daughter to prior to her death is faced with wait times of several months and is desperately in need of funding. “[It is] inexcusable that this is happening in our community and people aren’t getting the help that they want.”
“We have a problem in our system in Nova Scotia with young people, because they don’t know what consent is, what healthy relationships are,” said Canning. “They don’t know what healthy sex means, they don’t know about respect or empathy or compassion.”
“I think there is a failure in investigating sexual assault in Canada, and hopefully by sharing our daughter’s case we can highlight that and we can try and fix it. We are not going to be able to do that though if we don’t admit it is broken.”
With files from Hannah Besseau.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Former professor John Corbett McDonald’s ties to asbestos industries
McGill’s intimate ties with the asbestos industry began in 1965, when the Quebec Asbestos Mining Association (QAMA) sought ties with an academic institution.
The QAMA found its ally in former professor John Corbett McDonald, then an emeritus professor in the Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health at McGill. That same year, the Association founded and helped establish QAMA’s Institute of Occupational and Environmental Health (IOEH) in Montreal.
McDonald received a large portion of the organization’s money – nearly $1 million from the IOEH over six years during his research.
McDonald, who is now retired, was the author of an epidemiological study on the health of some 11,000 workers born between 1891 and 1920 who worked in the Quebec chrysotile asbestos industry.
Many allege McDonald’s acknowledgments of the presence of industry funding in his publications and presentations were misleading at best, despite claims made to the contrary by McGill.
In one instance, in 1972, McDonald testified before hearings of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration in favour of looser asbestos safety regulations. According to the book Expendable Americans, at the hearings, McDonald identified himself as an independent researcher and denied any connection to the asbestos industry.
For more than two decades, ranging from 1971 to 1998, McDonald and his team published a series of articles concluding that the health risks associated with chrysotile asbestos were “essentially innocuous” at certain exposure levels, much lower than those of other asbestos fibres.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), asbestos is primarily used in two forms: chrysotile and amphibole fibers. Chrysotile asbestos, which is the kind primarily mined in Quebec, represents 90 to 95 per cent of the world’s production.
A CBC documentary that aired in February of last year put the issue back at the forefront by claiming that the asbestos industry used its ties with McDonald and McGill to promote its image. In response, in an open letter sent in February 2012 to members of McGill’s Board of Governors, and published in various media outlets, a group of academics and health experts asked McGill to break its ties from the asbestos industry, and called for an independent investigation into McDonald’s research.
Soon thereafter, it was announced that the University would conduct its own internal review. In a report released on October 17, 2012, the University’s Research Integrity Officer (RIO) rejected allegations of collusion and by the same token found no need to launch an independent investigation.
The RIO’s report concluded by recommending that McGill hold an academic conference on the topic of alternatives to asbestos and the challenge of asbestos removal, resulting in this past week’s one day conference, “Asbestos: Dialogue for the Future.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
While this week’s “Asbestos: Dialogue for the Future” conference touched on a wide range of issues related to McGill’s history with research ethics and asbestos research, the event left a number of questions unanswered. In particular, some alleged that there was not enough explanation of the University’s next step forward in terms of its research ethics policy, a question that the conference attempted to address throughout the course of the day.
The conference left Kathleen Ruff, senior advisor to the Rideau Institute, who presented on McGill’s failure to adequately address asbestos research at the university, largely unsatisfied with its outcome.
While Ruff congratulated McGill on holding the conference in her initial presentation, she also critiqued what she saw as the University’s silence on its contentious history with both former professor John Corbett McDonald’s research and corporate-sponsored research at large.
“I absolutely do not think at all that the conference was enough,” Ruff told The Daily. “It’s not a substitute for doing the right thing. […] The shadow on McGill’s reputation will not go away until it addresses this issue properly, and so the conference was a fine thing to do.”
Ruff said that conference guest speaker David Egilman’s presentation, “The Past is Prologue: Universities in Service to Corporations: The McGill-QAMA Asbestos Example,” brought up a litany of criticisms against the University that remain unaddressed. Furthermore, she noted that such behaviour represents a pattern of ethical leniency at the university.
“If a professor at McGill goes and lobbies to advance the interests of the industry and to oppose health measures, and not only does not disclose, but falsely says, ‘I have no connection with that industry,’ does McGill feel this is appropriate conduct?” Ruff asked. “McGill has always refused to answer that question. I think they need to answer that question, because they need to set an ethical standard.”
However, David Eidelman, Dean of Medicine, pushed back against the notion that the University’s ethical standards are unclear. Eidelman also emphasized that the criticism brought forth by Ruff and Egilman is a significant source of contention.
“There are people who believe that Kathleen Ruff and Dr. Egilman are misrepresenting what [McDonald] said. There are other people who say, ‘no they’re not misrepresenting it, they’re absolutely correct,’” Eidelman said. “That to me sounds like an academic controversy. Universities are about academic controversies.”
“I believe the function of a university is to allow people to say what they have to say, and where possible, to put data behind it to prove it,” he said.
SSMU VP University Affairs Joey Shea, one of the primary actors involved in organizing the conference, also pushed back against some of the criticisms brought forward by Egilman, calling parts of his presentation “a bit sensationalist, regardless of where you are on the political spectrum.”
Despite pointing to the criticisms of McDonald’s research as largely an academic controversy, Eidelman acknowledged that there are certain questions to be addressed at the university.
“The fact that there’s no research misconduct doesn’t mean that there’s no problem. That’s why I wanted the conference,” he said.
The conference’s closing panel had a broader scope, addressing the ethics of corporate research at McGill. In recognition of the controversy surrounding McDonald’s asbestos research, Eidelman highlighted the last panel as crucial for talking about the larger issue of private sector investment in universities.
The speakers tackled various ethical complications of for-profit research at publicly funded universities. All were unified in stressing the need to reconcile private with public interests, though not at the expense of academic freedom.
“Academic freedom is a terribly important topic that universities have to take perhaps more seriously than they have,” explained Daniel Weinstock, a professor in McGill’s Faculty of Law and one-time director of the Research Centre on Ethics at the Université de Montréal. “But we have to approach this in an all-encompassing manner, [and] that includes both government and corporate threats to academic freedom.”
Weinstock warned tha too often, “Ethics [are] very superficial, [they are] something that we think about at the tail-end.” He added that research ethics are divorced from moral implications and have come to be seen as a bureaucratic control.
Though the speakers all recognized the importance of the issues discussed, none offered  any solutions, inviting criticism from some audience members.
“The afternoon panel didn’t address the issues we put forward. It dealt more with general issues about communication. It spoke about corporate social responsibility,” said Ruff.
“They didn’t address any […] of the issues in our complaint or any of our criticisms, and they didn’t provide any answers on the very serious and disturbing questions we’d raised about the failure of McGill to [deal] with our complaints. The evidence I put forward, I think, was very clear and damning.”
The Research Ethics Office (IRB) at McGill operates a review process of research proposals that Ruff criticized as “biased, lacking in transparency, and incorrect.”
Eidelman, in part, agreed with Ruff. “We think that the biggest challenge for this university in terms of research ethics is post-monitoring.”
He elaborated that mechanisms to assess whether research has been carried out as planned should exist, alongside procedures to see whether IRB approvals are justified.
“That’s something which we’ve never done at McGill,” Eidelman admitted. “Right now, to be honest, I don’t think we have the resources to do it. This is something we should certainly think about.”
After the conference, Ruff sent an email to conference participants and organizers to reiterate her questions surrounding the University’s research ethics policy, which was also made available to The Daily.
The first situation that Ruff addressed involved the hypothetical situation of an industry-funded McGill researcher intervening at a public policy hearing and using their privately funded research to influence policy in that field. Ruff asked if the University’s ethical standards “require or expect that the academic should disclose the fact that his/her research is financially supported by the industry in question.”
Secondly, Ruff asked if it were “acceptable,” under University standards, for the academic to deny any connection to the industry financing or supporting their research.
After inquiring if McGill’s ethical standards address such a situation, Ruff requested documentation and asked if the University is concerned with such an issue. “Is McGill prepared to examine and to adopt ethical standards so that these actions would be addressed and so that McGill academics and the wider public would know what McGill’s position is?” she wrote.
The question of research ethics at McGill remains up in the air. Echoing an earlier discussion with Principal Suzanne Fortier, Shea told The Daily that when it comes to ethical standards and corporate-sponsored research, McGill has “a reputation of having particularly tricky regulations in comparison to other institutions.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
