The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators condemn Parti Québecois austerity policies
Around 400 concerned Quebeckers from across the province assembled Saturday afternoon at Phillips Square to protest the austerity policies proposed by the Parti Québécois government, including a hike in Hydro-Québec electricity rates.
The protest was organized by the Coalition against public service fees and privatization – an amalgamation of over 85 independent organizations from grassroots movements – in response to Hydro-Québec’s demand that electricity prices be raised, on average, 5.8 per cent by April 2014.
This demand comes after a 2.4 per cent rate increase was granted to Hydro-Québec by the provincial energy board in April 2013. The utility claims the newest hike is needed to fund new wind farms and keep up with both inflation and rising commercial and residential demands for electricity.
According to CBC, a 5.8 per cent hike would see the average homeowner in Quebec pay about $72 more each year.
At the protest, social activist Mostafa Henaway told The Daily that these hikes were uncalled for.
“[Electricity] is a publicly accessible good; there is no reason to increase the rates. It is simply out of a profit margin, as opposed to the actual necessity [of raising] them,” said Henaway, adding that increased rates will decrease the affordability of housing.
The march, peaceful throughout its duration, wound its way from Phillips Square to Hydro-Québec headquarters, and finished off at Square Victoria. The protest was escorted by a small contingent of police on bicycles despite  not being declared illegal.
There was a heavy police presence when the crowd stopped outside of the Hydro-Québec building, but this didn’t stop organizers from giving speeches from the steps.
“The government has the impression that these rate hikes are only numbers, only numbers on paper,” yelled organizer Marie-Éve Rancourt to the paused crowd in French.
The percussion group Kumpa’nia provided the constant rhythm of drums that echoed throughout the protest. Some signs, held by protesters and written in French, opposed the installation of Hydro-Québec smart meters, while others labelled the proposed hikes as part of a “budget of austerity.”
“Hydroelectric prices directly attack the power of households, and their ability to eat well,” Philippe Viel, a protest organizer, told The Daily in French.
This feeling was shared by others at the march. “How will they pay for their hydroelectricity?” Patrick, a protester, asked in French. “It will cost a fortune.”
“Government [officials] have decided to look to the pockets of citizens to erase the deficit […] this in the end isn’t acceptable,” he added.
While the protest itself was focused around increased rates, many groups present expressed concerns with social issues and government cutbacks.
“They say cutback,” the crowd chanted outside of the Hydro-Québec building during the organizers’ speeches, “We say fuck that.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill hosts third annual series of talks, workshops
Correction appended October 1, 2013.
From September 23 to 27, McGill hosted its third annual Indigenous Awareness Week, which aimed to create awareness about oft-overlooked Indigenous issues at the university. The week, organized by for the Social Equity and Diversity Education Office (SEDE), saw over 480 students, staff, alumni, and community members, take part in events ranging from informational talks to interactive workshops and movie screenings.
Allan Vicaire, Indigenous Education Advisor at SEDE, spoke to the importance of the week at McGill. “I think there is a big misconception over what Indigenous people are, we have a lot of international students, and just even Canadians […] we’re not taught the proper history – we’re taught the watered down history,” he said. “We need to break down misperceptions with the truth.”
This year saw a change of the name of the week from “Aboriginal” to “Indigenous”, which, according to Vicaire, “is more of an inclusive term.” Looking to the future, Vicaire stated that the organizers were looking to alter the title once again. “It’s more than awareness […] you also want to talk about the achievements and struggles.”

“‘Who Makes the Call?’ A Panel on Indigenous Identity”
Thursday saw a critical look at the complex questions of identity faced by many Indigenous peoples in Canada, as well as issues of status and inclusion, with a panel titled “Who Makes the Call.” Paige Isaac, coordinator of McGill’s First Peoples House, moderated the panel discussion between Cecile Charlie, Skawennati Fragnito, and Michael Loft.
The panelists discussed their experiences of what it means to be Indigenous, as well as their thoughts on the importance of Indigenous legal status. After the Indian Act was enacted in 1876, many Native people faced the dilemma of being non-status – in other words, they had no legal right to own land on reserves and often faced exclusion from their own band.
In 1985, Bill C-31 amended the Indian Act to grant status to the children of Native women who married non-status men – an issue that directly affected the family of Fragnito, one of the panelists. Still, this did not end the conflicts between the legal definition of identity and self-identification.
Loft, a social worker and associate professor with McGill’s School of Social Work, explained that “bloodism,” or the practice of defining status by the amount of non-Native blood, “didn’t come from our people” but instead stemmed from the Indian Act itself.
“Once you lose your status, you can never get it back,” Loft said, explaining that status was important within a community for inclusion. He also pointed to low high school graduation rates in some Indigenous communities as an effect of a lack of inclusion.
All of the panelists emphasized that identity – and not just the oft-discussed issues of land rights or the Indian Act – was a crucial fight in the struggle for Indigenous rights.
“This isn’t just talking about numbers, or talking about rights, but this is about people,” Loft said.
Written by Arianee Wang.

“Challenges and Barriers for Indigenous Women”
The opening ceremony of Indigenous Awareness Week featured a talk given by Teresa Edwards, Director of Human Rights and International Affairs at the Native Women’s Association of Canada (NWAC), on the struggles faced by Indigenous women across the country.
Touching on Aboriginal women and the justice system, missing and murdered women, and domestic abuse, Edwards highlighted the systemic racism within the Canadian justice system. For instance, she noted that one in three females in the federal correctional system is Aboriginal.
Edwards also spoke out against the common misperception that the women who go missing live high-risk lifestyles, stating that instead, “a high-risk lifestyle for Aboriginal women is being an Aboriginal woman.”
Edwards also spoke on the need for allies. When asked by The Daily how a student at McGill might act as an ally, Edwards said, “Education is always powerful. Non-Indigenous people can be great allies – they are going to go into the world and be judges, police, teachers. And they can in turn educate people on the real situation of Indigenous people, good and bad, to make a better Canada for everyone.”
“As an ally you can come to show your support at public, peaceful demonstrations, or on October 4 to honour the many missing and murdered Indigenous women in Canada and across the globe,“ she said.
According to NWAC’s Sisters in Spirit Database, which started in 2005 to gather information on missing and murdered women across Canada, there are 582 cases of missing or murdered Indigenous women across the country.
Speaking to The Daily on the importance of Indigenous Awareness Week, Edwards stated, “If people knew and had the information they would be in a better place to make decisions and behave differently, and to be more informed with politics, with legislation, all the decisions that they make.”
Written by Jordan Venton-Rublee.

“Restructuring the Indigenous-Crown Relationship in Canada: The Promise of Indigenous Multilevel Governance”
Last Tuesday, Christopher Alcantara of Wilfrid Laurier University spoke at Thomson House about strained relationships between the Crown and Indigenous communities, critiquing at the top-down approach traditionally used by the government under the Indian Act.
Canada has a history of exploiting and oppressing Indigenous populations. The Indian Act, first enacted in 1876 and later amended, is seen as an attempt to assimilate Indigenous peoples to Canadian culture, contributing to poverty and their disempowerment. While it does not govern Inuit or Métis peoples, to this day, the Act remains the main piece of legislation that governs the relationship between Indigenous peoples and the Crown, despite a general consensus that the act has failed First Nations as a whole.
This, Alcantara said, is because the Canadian government continues to impose its own vision on Indigenous populations, with little consultation with tribes and band members – though recent developments, such as certain tribes’ transitions to self-governed land ownership, show that this trend may be shifting.
Alcantara argued that a multilateral governance system, in which Aboriginal groups are empowered to create policies tailored to fit the needs of their communities, should replace the current top-down approach of the Canadian government. If Indigenous populations are given freedom of choice, they will be able to experiment with different courses of action and determine how best to proceed in raising the standard of living, he said.
Some audience members questioned the effectiveness of Alcantara’s idea of “slow, incremental change” in making right the wrongs faced by Indigenous peoples at the hands of settlers.
“We must always be motivated by justice,” said Alcantara, but he noted that while large attempts at change may seem appealing, they usually do not work. Through the empowerment of First Peoples and celebration of their culture, Canada may one day see the healing of a nation that has been oppressed for centuries.
Written by Jill Bachelder. 

“Indigenous Health For First Nations, Inuit and Metis”
To close off the talks and lectures of Indigenous Awareness Week, Simon Brascoupé, an adjunct research professor at Carleton University, gave a presentation on the status of health and well-being of First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples in Canada. Brascoupé began the talk by reciting statistics disclosing the relative poorness in both health and healthcare for Indigenous peoples as compared with non-Indigenous peoples.
According to Brascoupé, Inuit infants die at 3.6 times the rate of other Canadian babies; in 2010, tuberculosis had doubled among Inuit infants to 185 times the rate of Canadian-born non-Indigenous infants; and by mid-2010, 116 First Nations communities across Canada were under a drinking water advisory.
The health challenges for Aboriginal, Métis, and Inuit peoples range from a crisis of chronic disease to lung cancer rates. Brascoupé supported the notion that solutions to such problems should be community-based.
Brascoupé also noted the importance of advocacy in improving Aboriginal health, from organizations to individual doctors and researchers.
Aboriginal doctors, such as Malcolm King, do important work in increasing attention to Aboriginal medical care.  These doctors also cite the causes of health disparities as including factors such as colonization, migration, loss of language and culture, and disconnection from native lands.
“I’ve met a lot of Aboriginal people that say ‘I’m on my healing journey, but I’m not healed,’’’ Brascoupé said. “[It’s] because they want to break the cycle of colonization.”
Written by Sarina Gupta.

“Kanehsatake: 270 Years of Resistance”
Friday saw the screening of the documentary Kanehsatake: 270 Years of Resistance, followed by a speech from Elder John Onawario Cree. Onawario Cree was present at the 1990 Oka Crisis, a land conflict between the Mohawk, the Quebec police, and the Canadian Army.
Director Alanis Obomsawin took the viewers through the struggle, which started in Kanehsatà:ke and the town of Oka, when the local Mohawk community attempted to protect their sacred land from development as a golf course.
After the Mohawk community decided to barricade the bridges that led to their land, the Quebec police led a raid on Mohawk territory that ended with Mohawk elders arrested and thrown in jail. The film essentially painted a portrait of the people behind the barricades.
During his presentation afterwards, Onawario Cree explained that many people didn’t understand why the Mohawk would stage an uprising. “In the [1990s], there were a lot of promises broken,” he said. “They sign treaties, and don’t honour them.”
“Now, we are protecting the land against the pipeline, but the oil companies do what they want,” he added. “It hasn’t gotten any better – it has gotten worse. We are still fighting for our land.”
Ultimately, he said, “the most important thing that came out of all this was the pride of being a human. Being a human being first, and then being a Mohawk.”
Written by Joelle Dahm.

“Understanding Mohawk: Language and History”
On Tuesday, a group gathered to participate in “Kanien’kéha 100: A Super Crash Course in the Language of the People of the Flint,” a Mohawk language learning session. The session, led by Akwiratékha Martin of Kahnawake, provided a basic introduction to the Kanien’kéha language, its history, and the ongoing language revitalization efforts in Kahnawake and beyond.
Martin, a language instructor in Kahnawake, began his session – as is customary in Mohawk tradition – with the Ohenten Kariwatkwa, or the “words that come before all else.” He then began a brief history of the language and explained the etymology of the name ‘Mohawk,’ a word in the Algonquin language that translates to ‘Man-Eaters.’  For this reason, many Mohawk people prefer to refer to themselves as Kanien’kehá:ka, or ‘the People of the Flint.’
Martin also provided some context for the state of Indigenous languages today, many of which have gone extinct. For instance, there are no longer any living speakers of the Laurentian, Neutral, Erie, and Susquehannock languages, to name a few.
According to Martin, there are approximately 1,300 first language Kanien’kéha speakers today. There are also several Mohawk immersion elementary schools in various Mohawk communities; the schools continue to grade six, after which Kanien’kéha is offered as a second language course.
“While children do develop a solid base of the language […] there is something missing,” Martin said. “Many children do not become fluent speakers due to governmental standards for the curriculum, and most of the children’s parents are not speakers, often turning Kanien’kéha into a kind of ‘school language’ that goes unpracticed in the home.”
Shortcomings aside, Martin highlighted the importance of revitalization projects. Above all, he stressed the “absolute beauty” of the language, emphasizing the meaning that can be awarded to a single word. “Think of any sentence you can,” he urged the audience, “then crush it into one word. That’s how awesome Kanien’kéha is.”
Written by Susannah White.
“Law vs. Justice: How the Courts are preparing the way for one last, fatal, round of treaty negotiations with Indigenous Peoples in Canada”
For in-depth coverage of the talk, see the article “Problematizing Canada’s history” by Ralph Haddad in our Health and Education section.
When Mary Eberts  – a longtime lawyer whose practice is centered on equality and Indigenous rights – began her Wednesday lecture on Canadian law and Indigenous people, she considered the traditional thanks given to the Mohawk people whose ground McGill rests upon. “We as settlers should […] be in a state of perpetual thankfulness,” Eberts said. “But what have we been doing instead?”
As part of the annual Wallenberg Lecture series hosted by the McGill Centre for Human Rights and Legal Pluralism, Eberts focused her talk on “what [Canadians] have been doing instead” – taking the land of the Indigenous peoples of Canada, and perpetuating complex legal negotiations over treaty rights.
One of the legal underpinnings of colonization, Eberts explained, was the Doctrine of Discovery, which Eberts described as “a sort of gentlemen’s agreement between the Europeans” that originated during the 1400s to govern the colonization of overseas land.
According to Eberts, under Section 35 of the Constitution Act of 1982, there are still cases of Indigenous rights “that are being decided by the Supreme Court of Canada today [… that invoke] the Doctrine of Discovery.”
Now, in disputes over land rights, the Canadian government requires that Indigenous peoples participate in negotiations that Eberts called inherently unequal. The government employs a “take-it-or-leave-it” approach, she said, and the court system for settling land claims is often terribly slow.
Apart from the legal precedent of land claims and negotiations in history and presently between the Canadian government and Indigenous communities, Eberts criticized the Canadian government for shying away from its past treatment of Indigenous peoples.
Although Eberts conceded she was not an expert on this particular matter, she argued that the historical treatment of Indigenous people constitutes genocide. After listing the five elements of genocide, as per the UN Convention adopted in 1948 – including killing or harming members of a particular group, or forcibly transferring children of the group to others – Eberts said, “Certainly, the intention was there.”
Written by Dana Wray.
“McGill’s Vision: Indigenous Studies Program”
On Wednesday, Haley Dinel and Joey Shea – the former and current SSMU VP University Affairs, respectively – hosted an information session on the University’s ongoing efforts to instate an Indigenous Studies minor, an ongoing effort since the early 2000s.
 The session highlighted the findings from a forum, held by SSMU last November, that brought in participants to discussion a vision for the program. The Indigenous Studies effort will likely see its status as a minor program solidified in 2014.
 As it stands now, the minor would be nestled under the Canadian Studies program. Dr. Will Straw, Director of the McGill Institute for the Study of Canada, noted that such a move would help the “disciplinary neutrality” of the program.
One participant asked if the program would use disciplines such as sociology and social work to delve into contemporary problems facing Indigenous people, such as alcoholism and homelessness. “[It’s] a whole slew of really dark issues that First Nations are facing right now,” he said.
Dinel responded that the program, at least for the short term – especially as it was currently planned as a minor rather than a major – could not touch upon every issue that planners might like to see.
“You have to take it in baby steps,” she said.
Straw also noted that, once established as a minor with existing resources, the program would begin to mobilize to grow using outside resources. Straw predicted a move toward a major within two to four years of the program’s inception as a minor.
As for the bureaucracy tying up the program at the moment, Straw said that organizers had foreseen and planned for such an obstacle.
“I think we’ve done our homework,” he said.
Written by Molly Korab.
 
An earlier version of this article stated that Allan Vicaire is the Aboriginal Sustainability Project Coordinator for SEDE. In fact, he is the Indigenous Education Advisor for SEDE. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The 2012-13 figures on harassment, sexual harassment, and discrimination prohibited by law
At the first Senate meeting of the 2013-14 academic year, Lydia White, Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures and Equity), presented the annual report on the Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment, and Discrimination Prohibited by Law. Instituted in 2005, the policy is currently under a routine review, and will be presented with revisions to Senate later this year.
What is the policy? What does it cover?
The policy aims to educate the McGill community on issues of equity and harassment, and to resolve potential problems. Excluding criminal cases, it covers cases of harassment, sexual harassment, and discrimination prohibited by law (or, the exclusion or preference of a person based on characteristics such as race, sex, or disability).
How does someone file a complaint?
Students, graduate students, administrative and support staff, and academic staff, can all file complaints. A potential complainant can first see an assessor to talk over the situation. Otherwise, a written complaint must be submitted to an assessor, who will then deem whether the complaint falls under the purview of the policy. Complainants can name multiple respondents in their complaint.
What are the possibilities for the resolution of complaints?
Some complaints never make it past an enquiry. Other complaints are withdrawn. “Sometimes by talking to somebody, [potential complainants] realize they can take it into their own hands,” or that there is a better path to resolution, according to White. Those that advance into an enquiry can either be resolved informally, or proceed to a formal resolution. In a formal resolution, the complaint can either be found to have grounds or not. If it has grounds, consequences could include disciplinary action for the respondent – but everything remains confidential.

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Strives for safer space on campus 
Rez Project, a series of volunteer-run workshops, hit campus residences in September, focusing on educating students living in residence at McGill on topics of sexual assault, gender, and sexuality.
“Sexual assault happens disproportionately within university residences,” Chelsea Barnett, one of the two coordinators for Rez Project, wrote to The Daily in an email. “Furthermore, homophobia and transphobia in particular are issues students may not have been challenged to think about before.”
The project was started ten years ago by groups of students from the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS), Queer McGill, and residence floor fellows. It was created out of a perceived need to increase education on the diverse identities that new students will encounter in residences. By opening discussion with new students on these topics, Rez Project hopes to make McGill a safer place, and bring individual identity privileges to the forefront.
“Some students are shaken because they’re recognizing their own privileges for the first time,” wrote Barnett. “Other students feel like they’re being given space and time to be heard for the first time.”
The current model of the workshops is influenced by groups on campus, such as SACOMSS Outreach. Rez Project facilitates dialogue on topics of identity and equity by asking students to define what certain words such as privilege or cisgender mean to them, and how these terms are important to keep in mind in the residence setting.
Rez Project is not without its limitations. For one, the reception of Rez Project is far from consistent. “It’s all over the map, really […] Some [participants] are totally checked out altogether, others walk away having learned something new,” Barnett wrote.
“There’s always a handful of people in the room with typical privileged identity who don’t understand the relevance of [the] workshops, people who don’t see how it affects them. We hope to help those people recognize the way [the] system privileges them and how other identities do matter,” said Annie Preston, another of the coordinators for Rez Project.
Another concern includes Rez Project’s approach to incorporating intersectionality into the workshops. “One of the critiques of Rez Project is that it is not intersectional enough, and privileges certain marginalized identities more than others […] Rez Project was designed by students from Queer McGill, SACOMSS, and floor fellows, who saw a need for these workshops, and that is one of the reasons why it’s focused like this,” Preston explained.
In an effort to fix these limitations, Rez Project has added two new activities to the workshop this year. “One is the use of [the] standpoint diagram to help people recognize how their own social location will affect their ability to understand the material. The second is a ‘gendering’ sexual activity to look at the way in which society determines how your gender affects your sexual activity and how society perceives it,” said Preston.
“We decided to add the [standpoint diagram] because we felt like there are students who don’t identify [with] the categories in the workshop – just because they don’t identify as queer, it doesn’t mean queer people don’t exist and we need to exclude them,” said Preston. “We also felt like the workshops were missing a connection between sexual assault and the fact that it was an act of power and not a matter of desire.”
Rez Project continues to plan for further initiatives to educate the McGill community on these topics. “In an ideal world, Rez Project would be one of many mandatory workshops that students would attend,” Preston wrote to The Daily. “We’d like to see the roll-out of a workshop series that covers other aspects of identity: race, ethnicity, ability, religion, and mental health and suicide.”
“It sets a standard of caring for your fellow students that is impossible to do without Rez Project,” Queer McGill member Grace Khare told The Daily. “It also helps people who may not know about diversity politics wrap their heads around new concepts.”
As for the short-term, Preston hopes that “students feel more able to discuss these topics, [are] able to talk about them more fluidly with floor fellows, and [are] more respectful of peoples identities.”
“It’s really important for people whose experience may go poorly unless everyone sits through Rez Project,” said Khare. “It’s an excellent starting point for new students.”
With files from Hannah Besseau.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Annual workshop series opens discussion on feminist organizing and action
To acquaint people with feminist organizing and action, the Centre for Gender Advocacy is putting on a two-week series from September 23 to October 4 entitled “Another Word for Gender.”
The Centre offers free services and resources to the Concordia and greater Montreal community, and advocates for a number of social justice issues. The workshops in the series address gender and social justice issues, including content on men and feminism, trans* history, missing and murdered indigenous women, and sexual assault awareness.
“These are issues that affect everybody, absolutely everybody,” Bianca Mugyenyi, programming and campaign coordinator of the Centre, told The Daily.
“A lot of the time people think that as a gender advocacy center, we are only dealing with women’s issues or trans* issues, but certainly not men’s issues. A lot of these so called ‘women’s issues,’ are men’s issues. We want to address that, and we feel that everybody needs to be engaged in order to challenge gendered violence.”
“Another Word for Gender” hopes to provide workshops and encourage the community to engage with a deeper understanding of gender. One such workshop dealing  with men and feminism, held on September 30, aimed to facilitate discussion on what it means to be a male feminist, along with other topics.
“The point of the workshop is to talk about our experiences with men and feminism. We’ve prepared questions such as ‘what does it mean to be a feminist man and do men suffer under patriarchy,’” said Dan Parker, one of the presenters of the “Men and Feminism” workshop.
“We also want to talk a bit about how we can see men as part of a feminist movement, as completely intrinsic and essential to the movement. [We want] to try to conceptualize this without stepping on the toes of women who are leading the movement,” said Tim Keen, another of the presenters of the “Men and Feminism” workshop.
“Obviously there is a massive problem if you start showing up as a man in a feminist movement and start taking control because you’re perpetuating the same problem that you’re trying to solve,” Keen continued.
The Centre hopes its annual series will encourage personal development and mobilization. “A pretty important kind of energy is required for social change and social justice, [and we] try to do that by inviting incredible, real people with real stories,” said Mugyenyi.
“[The “Another Word for Gender” series is an] opportunity for people to gain skills; [it’s] an intro to feminist organizing and action. We’re pretty serious about our desire for people to […] become social actors.”
With files from Hannah Besseau.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Group advocates right of non-status children to attend school
On September 24, close to 40 people gathered outside the Commission scolaire de Montréal (CSDM) to protest the lack of access to schooling for undocumented, or non-status, children. The demonstration was organized by the solidarity group Education Across Borders Collective (EABC), a part of the migrant justice group Solidarity Across Borders.
EABC is a collective advocating for access to education for all, as well as a clear and accessible process for families that guarantees them confidentiality and free access to school.
A few members of the collective attended the CSDM’s meeting, while the rest remained outside for a discussion. Jaggi Singh, a member of EABC and a Montreal-based social justice activist, spoke to the crowd over a megaphone.
“There are children here in Montreal, probably numbering in the thousands, who can’t go to school because they don’t have documents. To put that in context, in the States, since the [1980s], all children regardless of immigrant status have [had] the right to attend school.”
“Deportations still happen, and there are still problems, but at a minimum, children are allowed to go to school. Except here in Quebec,” he continued.
With a new directive issued by the Quebec government this summer, education is more accessible to children who lack a permanent code, typically a marker of immigration status. Now, it is sufficient to provide a birth certificate and a proof of residence, such as a hydro or water bill. However, non-status children are still asked to pay up to $6,000 in tuition per year.
The protest was the most recent in a series of demonstrations organised by the EABC to put pressure on the CSDM. Representatives of the CSDM told the crowd that they were neither elected officials, nor in a position to change policy, and questioned why the group was targeting the bureaucracy rather than the politicians.
“They have the power to stop sending people bills, they have the power [to] say that it’s in the directives that we’re not going to ask for your immigration status,” said Singh in response.
Tensions ran high as representatives from the EABC tried to address the CSDM. Some protesters were told they could attend the meeting, only to be blocked by security at the entrance, leading to scuffles and shouting between activists and representatives of the CSDM.
Catherine Harel-Bourdon, the president of CSDM, said in French: “Please note that the CSDM agrees that the education of every child should be privileged, but as a public institution there are laws set by the ministry. […] We are in direct contact with the people, but if you have other requests, you should contact the ministry, because it is the ministry making the rules.”
“We encourage [non-status] families to present themselves at our administrative centre, where we will help them through the administration process in a personalized and confidential approach. During the last weeks, we only received seven families without immigration status at our office,” said Harel-Bourdon.
The EABC replied that there is no clear statement on the issue of confidentiality of documents specifically for non-status families, and criticized the alleged lack of information on the CSDM’s webpage.
“The commissioners say just to ignore the letters, but they don’t understand the situation of those families,” Romina Hernandez, spokesperson for the EABC, told The Daily.
“They see those letters coming again and again and don’t know what is going to happen, or if the education office is communicating with immigration. They live in constant fear.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Bike gates, finances also dicussed
After a relatively quiet first meeting, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held its second Legislative Council meeting of the year on September 26, discussing sustainability, finances, and bike gates.
Sustainability at McGill
The meeting opened with a presentation by Arts and Science representative Courtney Ayukawa and recent McGill graduate Lily Schwarzbaum on the ongoing ECOLE (Education Community Living Environment) project, of which the two are coordinators.
According to its website, ECOLE is an ongoing project that aims to create a sustainable living house in the Milton-Parc community. Organizers want ECOLE to be a hub for McGill’s current sustainability community and a model for sustainable living. The project also tries to break down barriers between various environmentally-minded groups on campus.
ECOLE has been in the works for the past couple of years, and is supported by SSMU, Student Housing and Hospitality Services, and the McGill Office of Sustainability. The project will launch for its pilot year in September 2014.
Ayukawa and Schwarzbaum explained that the project was focused on three aspects: living, learning, and community. 8 to  12 students will be living in the ECOLE house, working towards material and social sustainability. Each of these students will also be expected to do an independent research project on the topic. Ayukawa and Schwarzbaum told Council that ECOLE will serve as a much-needed physical space for both sustainability communities in McGill and Milton-Parc.
Applications for ECOLE’s pilot year will be sent out this winter, and despite concerns raised by some councillors, Schwarzbaum insisted that living space in the house will not be exclusive to environment students.
“We really want to approach sustainability from a holistic sense […] so we’d love to see both the diversity of student applicants in terms of their department [of] study but also in the research projects that they’re involved in,” said Schwarzbaum.
Students will not be paid to live in the house, but their rent will be subsidized, and they will receive academic credit for the independent study as well.
SSMU’s finances
Also present at the meeting was a representative from Richter, an accounting firm that has audited SSMU financial reports for the past eight years.
“We gave a clean opinion,” the Richter representative told the Council.
The Richter representative also laid out SSMU’s 2012-13 revenue at $7.7 million, of which $3.1 million came from student fees. SSMU’s expenditure for the same year was calculated at $7 million, resulting in a surplus. However, the Richter representative told Council that the surplus will only account for deficits in previous years.
Gert’s significant jump in revenues over the past year was also of significant interest. “Gert’s revenues went up by almost $300,000 which means students are drinking more,” joked the Richter representative. These revenues will likely be used to cover expenses from recent renovations to the student pub.
Milton bike gates
In one of the motions put on the floor, the Council addressed the issue of the Milton bike gates – a topic that provoked both outrage and bemusement from McGill students earlier this year.
Many of the councillors expressed their frustration with the gates. According to  VP University Affairs Joey Shea, the gates were constructed without informing the Office for Students with Disabilities.
“Basically there are two [options]: you can either bike through the gates, which means they don’t do anything, or bike right up to the gates, get off your bike and get right back on,” said Arts Undergraduate Society President Justin Fletcher, who is filling in an empty AUS representative spot at Council. “These gates do not solve the problem.”
The motion against the Milton bike gates passed unanimously.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Lacks ‘perks’ and allowances afforded to previous Principal
On Thursday, the McGill administration released Principal Suzanne Fortier’s contract with the University in full. Fortier’s contract, as it currently stands, outlines a base salary close to that of previous principal Heather Munroe-Blum, and does not contain many of the ‘perks’ or benefits present in the previous contract.
Fortier’s salary stands at $390,000, which, when adjusted for inflation, remains close to Munroe-Blum’s 2009 salary of $369,250. The new contract also includes a discretionary bonus of up to 20 per cent, based on performance.
Kevin Whittaker, president of the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) – an organization that took a strong stance against Munroe-Blum’s large allowances – said that the discretionary bonus remained the only component of the contract that seemed open-ended.
“It is the nature of the position that such a clause is needed to some degree – maybe not to 20 per cent,” Whittaker said. “I’m not crazy about the 20 per cent, I think it could have been less […] I mean, at 10 per cent, we’re still talking $30,000 plus.”
“I think that a follow-up to this would be: what percentage did [Fortier] earn?” he added.
Earlier this month, Fortier told The Daily that her contract would be less complex than that of the previous principal. “We wanted to make it a more simplified document,” she said at the time.
Some of the simplified clauses include the removal of the allowances Munroe-Blum was given for automobile and housing costs, which made up part of approximately $120,000 in total benefits, according to the Montreal Gazette.
Instead, Fortier’s contract notes that she will be reimbursed for all “reasonable costs” of the use of her vehicle for University business, as well as “reasonable expenses” in the use of her personal residence for University business.
Stuart “Kip” Cobbett, Chair of the University’s Board of Governors, disputed the notion that the language of such clauses might take away from accountability. He noted that such costs are typically impossible to predict, and that while there is not a cap on such expenses, they would have to be approved prior to reimbursement.
When asked why a cap on “reasonable” expenses would not exist, especially seeing that Munroe-Blum spent $132,000 on travel expenses between January 2008 and September 2009, Cobbett said that Munroe-Blum’s travel expenses should be viewed in the context of a massive fundraising campaign, Campaign McGill, that the University was running at the time.
Like Munroe-Blum’s contract, Fortier’s contract stipulates that she may be reimbursed by the University for financial planning services. While Munroe-Blum’s first-term contract allocated $3,000 per year for such services, Fortier’s contract allows for reimbursement up to $2,000.
Fortier’s contract also includes the stipulation that she must receive the approval of the Chair before engaging in outside commitments, including directorships, commissions, or consulting. Unlike Munroe-Blum, who was a member of various corporate boards including the Royal Bank of Canada, Fortier is not currently a corporate board member.
The direct publication of the contract on McGill’s website is an initiative that, according to Cobbett, came from multiple sources, including Fortier herself. Munroe-Blum never published her contract on the McGill website. In 2011, The Daily accessed her first-term contract through an access to information request.
“Dr. Fortier believes very strongly that her contract should be transparent and made available,” Cobbett said, noting that it was likely the first time ever that the principal’s contract has been posted on the McGill website.
Overall, Whittaker was optimistic about both Fortier’s contract and tenure.
“She is far more receptive to comments and concerns than in the past,” he said. “The issue of transparency seems to be addressed [in the contract], so we’ll see how that translates into her other duties.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
