The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Engineering students block McConnell
See more photos and get updates by liking our facebook page here.
A torrent of water emanating from a burst water main near the intersection of Pins and Dr.
Penfield flooded the downtown campus, along with large swaths of the downtown area, from
4 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Monday.
A 48-inch water main “gave way” while construction crews were conducting repairs on
century-old pipes, Montreal mayor Michael Applebaum said at a press conference on Monday
evening.
At McGill, several buildings, including Service Point and the James Administration building
were flooded and evacuated, or evacuated preemptively. All evening classes were cancelled,
although officials released a statement late Monday night announcing that classes – except
for those held in the Wong building – will resume Tuesday.
“We are trying to assess damage as best we can, but it will be extensive,” administration
officials told the McGill community in an emergency email sent while the flood was still
ongoing.
A concern for safety was first and foremost, according to administration officials. Security
services moved to cordon off areas where the flow of water was particularly strong, roughly
an hour after the video of a student being swept down McTavish toward Sherbrooke
appeared online.
Because flooding originated on Dr. Penfield and extended from Peel to University, students
and staff exiting campus had no choice but to wade through ankle- and knee-deep water.
With the flooding hiding spots already slick with ice, “our message has been please, please
be careful,” Director of Internal Relations Doug Sweet told The Daily.
In September 2011, a burst in the McTavish Reservoir flooded lower campus. At the time,
Service Point, Wilson Hall, and McLennan were all inundated. According to Sweet, however,
today’s flood was “worse, I don’t know how much worse, but definitely much worse… The fact
that it’s winter doesn’t help any.”
Engineering students build a dam
When a group of engineering students sitting in a McConnell Engineering building computer
lab noticed a torrent of water approaching the building, they immediately leapt into action.
“At crux of it, we’re all engineers. We like building dams,” U2 Mechanical Engineering student
Cyrille Goldstein said to The Daily.
Initially looking for shovels – and finding none – students instead grabbed salt bags,
composting bins, and garbage bins, and set to work on diverting the water away from
McConnell’s main entrance.
On Mechanical Engineering professor Amar Sabih’s advice, they filled garbage bags with
snow and piled them on top of each other.
Nearby students, staff, and faculty eventually joined the effort. McGill maintenance workers
noticed the students’ effort and offered their help, hauling plywood and shovels from other
parts of campus.
Activities Night, interrupted
On order from the Fire Prevention Office, SSMU executives began evacuating the Shatner
building at 5:30 p.m., according to VP Clubs & Services Allison Cooper.
SSMUfest, the winter semester Activities Night, was cancelled. According to Cooper, over
180 clubs had booked tables for the evening.
Although Activities Night has been rescheduled for Tuesday, most of the workshops and the
performances originally scheduled will likely not take place.
After multiple scans of the basement and sub-basement, SSMU executives told The Daily that
the Shatner building was not flooded.
— with files from Euan EK
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Permanent funding sought for SEDE
In the face looming campus-wide budget cuts, those who value equity at McGill are mobilizing to protect the equity office and its mandate, despite the office itself being involved in no advocacy on its behalf.
What is sought is a permanent, sound financial structure for the Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) office.
SEDE was founded in 2005 in response to a McGill initiative to foster more equity on campus. It has been involved in organizing a variety of programs, including, most recently, Homework-Zone, which recruits McGill students to mentor children in Montreal’s less privileged neighbourhoods.
While SEDE’s permanent budget comes from the McGill administration, this money is not enough to fund all of its programs and pay its entire staff. This means that it also relies on an amalgamation of other funding sources to make up the difference. 
In the past, these other sources have included McGill’s Sustainability Office, McGill Student Services, and several external groups. This portion of SEDE’s budget is temporary, as it must renegotiate funding from these organizations each year.
SEDE office manager Veronica Amberg acknowledged in an email to The Daily that this perpetual need to renegotiate funding “does create certain challenges for long- term planning.”
Since the Parti Québécois cancelled the tuition hike proposed by the previous Liberal government – and then made additional cuts in university funding to the tune of $124 million – the McGill administration has been vocally distressed about balancing its budget.
As the University moves to cut costs, McGill community members committed to equity and diversity are battling to keep the SEDE office from going under the knife.
On January 14, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society’s (PGSS) Equity and Diversity Committee put forward a motion to “actively support permanent funding for SEDE from McGill by writing a letter…to Associate Provost Lydia White and Deputy Provost Morton Mendelson that acknowledges SEDE’s achievements and requests maintaining financial support for SEDE’s ongoing work.”
PGSS Council failed to pass the motion, but Equity Commissioner Gretchen King believes that it wasn’t for a lack of support for the SEDE office or its mandate.
“We drafted the motion because some of SEDE’s permanent funding had been cut, and we wanted to support the continued existence and institutionalization of SEDE, which is also a funding issue,” King said. “Unfortunately, the debate got sidetracked by a conversation about how the McGill budget should be run in general.”
At their General Assembly (GA) on March 20, PGSS’s Equity and Diversity Committee is hoping to pass another motion “that expresses support of SEDE, forgetting the budgetary issue,” said King.
In the wake of the PGSS motion’s failure, the SSMU GA on February 4 will also hear a motion in support of SEDE, albeit one that is a more general endorsement of the office without any discussion of its funding structure.
SSMU Equity Commissioners Shaina Agbayani and Justin Koh drafted the motion. Koh explained that the motion came out of a desire to show that students support SEDE and care about equity at McGill.
“In this time of financial austerity, a lot of organizations are worried about budget cuts,” he said. “Because of SSMU’s commitment to equity, we thought that it would be a good time to officially affirm our collaborations with SEDE, because we’ve been working together for a long time.”
Lydia White is the Associate Provost for Policies, Procedures and Equity, making her the liaison between SEDE and the McGill administration. According to White, the problem is that SEDE has an insufficient budget to begin with.
“It’s clear to me that to fulfill all its goals, SEDE needs more money. Under the current [financial] climate, it might be quite difficult, at least for a while, to increase what they have,” White said in a phone interview with The Daily. “They have some wonderful initiatives, and they do need more funding. It’s not so much cuts, as lack of increases, that I think would be the concern.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Board of Governors to vote on final pick tomorrow
In its search for new leadership, the University has spared little expense. Invoices filed to the University by the international headhunting firm Odgers Berndtson for a four-month period between June 2012 and September 2012 total $178,690.
While a little over $71,000 of that money was spent on advertising – the invoices include reimbursements for ad placements in the Economist, the Globe and Mail, and the Times Higher Education, among other publications – the remainder of the money paid for the firm’s consultative services. 
Line items include a $12,000 “Executive Brief (Profile of University & Position Profìle).”
Since the invoices – obtained through an Access to Information request, and available on McGilliLeaked – only show expenses until September 2012, it could not be confirmed that this was the total amount spent by the University.
The practice of hiring headhunting firms to help with university upper administration appointments is common. Several Canadian universities have hired Odgers Berndtson, including the University of Calgary and Bishop’s University. In its search for a new president, Concordia University hired external consultants Laverne Smith & Associates.
The search for Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s replacement will end tomorrow, when the Board of Governors (BoG) is scheduled to vote – in a closed session – on a final list of candidates.
An announcement will be made to the university-wide community, “probably a week or so later,” according to SSMU VP University Affairs Haley Dinel, the only undergraduate sitting on the University’s 14-person advisory committee, tasked with making final recommendations to the BoG about candidates.
Odgers Berndtson did “most of the grunt work,” according to Dinel, including compiling and narrowing the list of candidates in consultation with the advisory committee.
The University’s search has been ongoing since March, when the advisory committee was struck. Its membership, constituted in accordance with the University’s statutes, includes one undergraduate and one post-graduate student, four BoG members, as well as representatives from Senate, the professors’ association, the alumni association, the Secretariat, and support staff.
According to Dinel, the committee has convened twenty times and conducted formal face-to-face interviews with all of the candidates being recommended to the BoG tomorrow.
The process also included a “lengthy consultation process,” Dinel said, referring to the thirty consultation sessions held during the summer, and the email provided to students for feedback.
For confidentiality reasons, Dinel could not confirm how many candidates are up for consideration by the BoG, or whether any of the candidates are from within the University.
According to SSMU President Josh Redel, who will vote tomorrow as the BoG undergraduate student representative, roughly one to three candidates are typically recommended to the BoG from the advisory committee.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Report notes growth of expensive managerial corps since late 1990s
University administrators in Quebec are making almost $200 million more than they were fifteen years ago due to bloated managerial corps, according to an unpublished report by a provincial professors’ federation.
Between 1998 and 2009, administrative salaries leapt from $129 million to $328 million, a 154 per cent increase. Details of the report, written by the Fédération québécoise des professeures et professeurs d’université (FQPPU), were published in Le Devoir on January 19.
The revelation comes at a time when administrators have been decrying the underfunding of their schools. Two weeks ago, the Conférence des recteurs et des principaux des universities du Québec (CREPUQ) announced that the Quebec university system faced an $850-million shortfall relative to other provinces.
The sometimes lavish paychecks of top administrators drew fire during last year’s student strike as symbols of waste at a time when the government and administrators were asking students to pay more. As of 2008-2009, the last year for which accurate figures are available, 43 Quebec university administrators made over $200,000 a year, including 13 at McGill.
In 2011, McGill Principal Heather Munroe-Blum’s salary stood at $369,250, with perks totalling upwards of $200,000, making her the best-paid administrator in Quebec.
But Michel Umbriaco, one of the study’s authors and professor of university administration at TELUQ, a correspondence university, says it isn’t extravagant salaries that are breaking the bank, but swollen administrative staffs. He notes that the average Quebec administrator is making just 4 or 5 per cent more now than in the late nineties, and even less in the Université de Québec (UQ) system, where managerial salaries are negotiated with the government.
“If the principals say they’re like the mayor of New York and their salary is zero point zero, that won’t change anything,” Umbriaco said in a phone interview with The Daily, referring to billionaire New York mayor Michael Bloomberg’s refusal to accept his mayoral paycheck.
Rather, it is what Umbriaco calls “a new corporate class” of mid-level administrators that accounts for most of the rise. Often coming from management backgrounds outside of the university, rather than from within the faculty ranks, this new crop of administrators is not only responding to more unwieldy government requirements and bigger, more complicated schools, but in some respects “manag[ing] themselves,” Umbriaco said.
“Is it because there are more tasks to do? Our contention is that yes, the government asks them to do more reporting,” Umbriaco said. “But we don’t think they need more managers to do that.”
The FQPPU thinks an external council should handle the question of administrative salaries, and recommend to the government that a limit be imposed on them. “We don’t mind that administrators make more than junior professors, but when it’s six or five times more, that’s a problem,” he told The Daily.
The McGill administration begs to differ. Olivier Marcil, vice-principal (External Relations), noted that Quebec universities are required to submit reams of paper work to the provincial government, such as sustainability plans, financial audits, and infrastructure plans, that require a huge staff.
“The government asks for more and more accountability, and that’s okay,” he said in a phone interview with The Daily. “But it adds layers, and we haven’t streamlined these things.”
“Universities in 2013 are much more complicated than in 1997,” he added. “We have IT, we’re on the world stage, we have much more research, and there are the environmental issues.”
As it stands, the proportion of salary dollars that Quebec universities spend on non-academic staff – administrators, but also support staff – is 44.27 per cent, almost exactly the Canadian average.
Marcil also defended higher salaries for individual administrators, saying they are needed to lure top talent to Quebec. If the provincial government imposed limits on administrative salaries, he said, Quebec schools would not be able to compete with elite universities in Canada and around the world.
“It’s like you’re telling me the Montreal Canadians cannot pay $8 million for Sidney Crosby. Well, they won’t get Crosby. And they won’t be able to compete in that league,” he said.
Asked what would happen to McGill if the government determined administrator salaries, as it does for the UQ system, Marcil was emphatic.
“That’s gonna kill McGill as we know it,” he said. “Literally.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Carter’s National Security Advisor discusses foreign policy
Zbigniew Brzezinski (McGill BA ‘49, MA ‘50) served as National Security Advisor for U.S. President Jimmy Carter. Brzezinski oversaw the normalization of U.S. relations with China, for which Carter awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Equally notable, Brzezinski’s tenure in the White House also included the Camp David Accords of 1978, which established peace between Israel and Egypt, and the Iranian Revolution and hostage crisis of 1979. Presently, Brzezinski serves as a counsellor and trustee at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., and as a senior research professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. 
McGill Daily (MD): How would you evaluate the current [U.S.] administration’s handling of the Arab Spring and the war in Syria?
Zbigniew Brzezinski (ZB): I think it has been prudent and cautious, but under the circumstances, that  is justified. The Arab Spring, widely proclaimed by journalists as a great democratic phenomenon, is still uncertain of its historical trajectory. It could easily end up as the “Arab Winter.”
MD: How would you evaluate the relationship between the current administration and Israel? Do you think the administration should be tougher with Netanyahu?
ZB: I think the administration should be guided by its best judgment of the American national interest. What is good for America is almost inevitably good for Israel, given its dependence on America. 
MD: Do you think that the opposite is true, that what is good for Israel is inevitably good for America?
ZB: No, I think that what is good for America is inevitably good for Israel, given its dependence on [our] military and financial support. Now obviously, America is not dependent on Israel for support. 
MD: Do you think that, considering the backlash against the announcement of new settler homes to be built in the West Bank, that the administration should reign in Israel?
ZB: The United States reacted critically and publicly to these decisions. There were statements to that effect both from the White House and from the State Department.
MD: On a different topic, how do you feel about the funding of the Mujahideen in Afghanistan during the Carter administration?
ZB: I think it was a desirable and necessary step, supported by the overwhelming majority of the international community. The Soviet [invasion of Afghanistan] was an outright aggression and it was potentially destabilizing for the entire region. 
MD: Is there a way that America could have prevented the growth of the Taliban out of that funding?
ZB: You know, the Taliban arose about ten years after the Soviet invasion. I don’t think you are very familiar with the facts, judging by that question. The Taliban didn’t appear on the scene until about ten years later. 
MD: But many journalists and commentators have inferred that the funding of the Mujahideen in the late 1970s was somehow responsible for the rise of the Taliban. Do you contend that?
ZB: The rise of the Taliban was the consequence of the destruction of the Afghan society by ten years of war, which was waged by the Soviets against the Afghan resistance.
MD: Okay, on the subject of Iran: do you think that the United States should bear moral responsibility for the replacement of [the democratically elected president] Mossadegh by the Shah, and the backlash against the Shah by the Islamist regime?
ZB: I think the United States was unwise in the way it handled the Mossadegh challenge. I understand the Iranian resentment about what happened in the early 1950s, in other words, almost sixty years ago.
MD: What would you identify as the greatest success and the greatest failure of your time as National Security Advisor?
ZB: I think the greatest successes were several. I think the Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt was a major success; I think the opening, both political and strategic, to China, was a very major breakthrough, which continues to shape international affairs to this time. I think the peaceful resolution of the Panama Canal problem created stability in America’s relations with Central America. I think the greatest setback was, of course, the failure of the rescue mission.
MD: On the topic of Iran today, how do you evaluate the nuclear threat?
ZB: I think it potentially could be serious, but in my judgment, it can be handled effectively without a war.
MD: Do you think the regime is sufficiently irrational to launch, or even threaten to launch, a nuclear weapon?
ZB: I don’t think there is one item of evidence to support that proposition. It is a self-serving regime; it is a very scheming regime; but it is not a suicidal regime. And neither is the country suicidal. The Iranians are very intelligent people.
MD: On the topic of Chinese-American relations, how do you think they should evolve? And what is the biggest challenge to the Chinese-American relationship?
ZB: I think the biggest challenge to the relationship is the rising nationalistic fervor in Asia, and the resulting regional instability. The way to cope with it is to have a close, consultative relationship with the Chinese, so that each side has a better understanding of the other side’s point of view and interests. Okay, one more question, okay?
MD: On the subject of the U.S. economy: do you think that the U.S. economy is doomed to be uncompetitive, and how does the U.S. absorb the non-service economy?
ZB: Let’s look at the economic projections for [2013]. Already indications are rising that the recovery is beginning. I think that in the advanced world, that the American economy is the engine of change. Of course, China, in the longer run, may surpass America. But that is several decades away. 
MD: How do you think the U.S. should get used to not being the hegemon; that is, how should the U.S. get used to being in a multi-polar world?
ZB: Well, I wrote a book about it, which appeared earlier this year, called Strategic Vision. It is very exactly on that subject. So let me end on a very self-serving plug for my book. If the readers find this interview of interest, perhaps they should look at that book. Could you do me the favour of sending me a copy of the McGill – it’s still called the McGill Daily? I’d love to have it. I very much valued my days at McGill.
— Compiled by Kaj Huddart
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Debate bogged down in procedure
SSMU Legislative Council reaffirmed its opposition to the development of Canadian tar sands, and committed to lobbying the University to divest its holdings in companies connected to fossil fuel production, at their meeting last Thursday.
Councilors engaged, once again, in debate over how far the mandate of the council extended.
Before passing with 13 votes in favour and three against, the motion regarding McGill Free from Fossil Fuels sparked disagreement over whether SSMU has the mandate to adopt motions that concern broader social justice issues.
Some councilors expressed concern with the motion’s assertion that SSMU should “adopt a position in favour of a rapid transition to a carbon-neutral society.”
“By just passing this [motion] saying we have a mandate, and then repeating the same process over and over by which an actionable process does not occur… [This is] institutionalizing the same problem,” Law representative Andrew Baker said at the meeting. He added that he recognized the difficulties in “translating the emotion into something more actionable.”
Councilor Zachary Rosentzveig disagreed. “It’s important that SSMU have this mandate to hold McGill to a higher standard,” he said to Council.
Political Campaigns Coordinator Christopher Bangs explained some actionable projects that the motion could accomplish, including helping the student group Divest McGill.
“What would help [Divest McGill] the most is a letter to the Board or Governors of the Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility saying that SSMU has adopted this position … that [SSMU] feels that addressing global climate change is of the utmost importance,” he said at the meeting.
Councilors found further issue with the motion regarding Support for Indigenous Peoples and Allies, which was debated lengthily in both substance and procedure. 
The motion also advocated that SSMU should divest its holdings in companies that did business on Native land without the permission of communities, and that SSMU should encourage McGill to do the same.
Councilors were divided over whether the motion should be labeled external, a procedure which would restrict the legislative council from voting on the motion.
Council voted to divide the motion into two separate motions. As one of the movers of the original motion, Rosentzveig likened the division of the motion to “going on a campaign without a position of support.”
The first newly-created motion asked to support the Idle No More movement, and for solidarity with the First Nations and Inuit communities. It was perceived as the most external, but the councilors remained divided over whether or not to commit the motion to the upcoming winter General Assembly (GA). 
In the end, the legislative council voted to commit the motion. It will now be addressed at the upcoming GA on February 4.
The second newly-created motion concerned SSMU and McGill’s divestment from companies that did business on Native land without the permission of Native communities, passed with 16 in favour and eight against.
The motion regarding an endorsement of a Yes vote for the Daily Publications Society’s Referendum Question passed with 21 in favour, and six abstentions.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
