The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Idle No More teach-in held at Thomson House
“How can this happen in a developed nation?” 
That was the question posed by Chelsea Vowel, a Métis writer, at the teach-in on Friday.
Since the passage of the Harper government’s controversial Bill C-45 in November, teach-ins nationwide have tried to address difficult questions surrounding the situation of Aboriginal peoples in Canada. 
A poll conducted by Forum Research for the National Post indicated that Canadian support for the movement is highest in Quebec. Demonstrations in solidarity with the movement, however, have been held across the country.
The First Peoples’ House and the Centre for Society, Technology and Development at McGill (STANDD) hosted the teach-in, with help from the Indigenous Students Alliance (ISA). 
“[This is] a huge teachable moment in history right now,” said Jessica Dolan, a PhD candidate studying anthropology and one of the event’s organizers.
The importance of educating Canadians, both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal, about the movement was a central theme. 
“A teach-in is what can mobilize us…it is [the basis] which will give us the background to know what were talking about when we go out to rallies and to round dances,” said Tiffany Harrington, a U1 Anthropology major and vice president of the Indigenous Students Alliance.
The teach-in featured three speakers who addressed issues relating to Bill C-45 such as indigenous law and misrepresentation of Aboriginal peoples in the media and in society. 
Focusing on tax exemptions, free housing, and free education, Vowel explained how these apply only to Status Indians (about half of Aboriginal Canadians), and even then with great limitation, or in the case of housing, not at all.
The second speaker was Jameela Jeeroburkhan, a lawyer who has worked on cases concerning treaty and Aboriginal rights across Canada. Jeeroburkhan discussed the three changes imposed by Bill C-45 that are likely to have the greatest impact on Native people.
Amendments to the Fisheries Act will reduce the ability of Aboriginal fisheries to partake in commercial activity; changes to the Navigation Protection Act (formerly the Navigable Waters Protection Act) will drastically reduce the number of sheltered from industry and development; and changes in the Indian Act will expedite the leasing of band property for commercial purposes, Jeeroburkhan said. 
All of the speakers and organizers agreed on at least one thing: non-Aboriginals have an important role to play in the Idle No More movement, and getting educated is the first step. 
“[One of the] best things settlers can do is seize this momentum and learn,” said Dolan. 
The next step, she said, is writing letters to our provincial and federal representatives.
“Our governments in North America are supposed to be democratic and are supposed to represent us, so it is up to us to say, ‘Don’t make this law that doesn’t represent how I want to live.’”
Harrington, like many others, is happy that Canadians are having these conversations. 
“It’s about realizing that we need to start privileging the ideas of Indigenous peoples…so that we can start talking…on own terms, with people instead of against them.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Additional classes cancelled at McGill
For continued updates, like our facebook page.
As water continues to pour down University, the city is denying the existence of a second break, saying instead that the last valves connecting to the broken 48-inch diameter pipe which unleashed yesterday’s flood have yet to be closed.
“We’ve stopped about 95 per cent of the flow, but there’s about 5 per cent left,” City of Montreal press representative Philippe Sabourin told The Daily. “We’re in control of the situation.”
The Montreal Gazette quoted another city official, Jacques-Alain Lavallée, as saying earlier that there was in fact a second, smaller break in a 54-inch diameter main connected to the McTavish reservoir.
A phone call to Lavallée by The Daily was re-directed to Sabourin.
McGill, on the other hand, has reported that the water flowing down University emanates from a break in an 8-inch pipe near the site of the original broken water main.
“We continue to have water flowing on to the campus from this second leak, which is being joined on the roadway in front of the Wong and Rutherford buildings by water being pumped from flooded buildings,” school officials posted to the McGill website this morning.
“I spoke to the Service de l’eau, to the borough of Ville-Marie, and I don’t have any information regarding a second break,” Sabourin said. “Maybe there’s confusion because there is still water flowing, but there is no second break.”
At McGill, classes were cancelled in both the Birks and Wilson buildings, and classes in the Wong building have been relocated elsewhere on campus. The north entrance to the McConnell Engineering building has been closed, although classes are not cancelled in the building. School officials warned students to avoid the Milton Gates entrance to campus, as University remained flooded, and to enter instead via the Roddick Gates.
Service Point, the Welcome Centre, and the James Administration building are closed, and the monthly Board of Governors meeting scheduled for today – where a new principal was to be elected – has been moved to February 12.
At a press conference on Tuesday, VP (Administration & Finance) Michael Di Grappa told reporters that the damage incurred by the flooding could result in costs of “hundreds of thousands of dollars.”
“Some buildings will be re-opened by the weekend, other buildings, such as the annex of the James building, might take months before people can [go back to work],” he said in French.
Approximately 80 classes were cancelled, according to Di Grappa.
SSMU has announced that the Shatner building is open today, and that a rescheduled SSMUfest will go on.
—with files from Laurent Bastien Corbeil
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
