The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Hike based on projected 3 per cent rise in household income
As the government’s Summit on Higher Education ended on a sour note on Tuesday, the Parti Québécois reiterated its plan to implement an annual 3 per cent tuition hike per year. It also established five committees to look into ways of improving universities in Quebec.
The 3 per cent tuition hike is based on the work of economist Pierre Fortin, a former professor at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM). According to one of his papers presented at a preliminary summit meeting in December, the 3 per cent yearly increase stemmed from the hypothesis that average household disposable income will grow at an average of 3 per cent a year from 2012 to 2018.
“In effect, we see that the indexation of tuition to household family disposable income…either maintains the financial contributions of students at its current level or increases it slightly,” he wrote in French.
By 2018, tuition will grow by around $421 and reach $2,589 per year, according to Fortin. Conversely, a tuition freeze would have kept fees at $2,168 and diminished students’ financial contribution.
“To freeze tuition in a world where the cost of a university education increases constantly would gradually bring the system toward free education over the long term,” he wrote.
According to Fortin, a tuition freeze would lower students’ contribution to 6 per cent of the cost of their education by 2022 and 4 per cent by 2032 if the cost of a university education increases by 3.5 per cent per year.
“Evidently, someone at some point will try to bring back their contribution to 8 per cent to solve the issue of underfunding and by doing so, create another social crisis,” he wrote.
The government has not specified whether the 3 per cent increase will remain in effect beyond the 2018-2019 period outlined in Fortin’s paper.
The committees are tasked with specific mandates, each reflective of the four themes discussed at the summit.
The first committee will be in charge of drafting a loi-cadre,  outlining the mandates of universities in the province, while the second will look into creating a mandate for the National Council of Universities, a new government body created during the summit. According to the government, the council’s role will mostly be advisory and will revolve around assessing the quality of higher education in Quebec.
In an interview with The Daily, Jérémie Bédard-Wien, a spokesperson for the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), a student federation representing 70,000 students, expressed skepticism toward the government’s plan.
“We’ll see for the council. It remains to be seen who will have a seat and whether or not it will be composed of exterior members,” he said in French. “The Education Minister loves to pepper his declarations with vague promises.”
According to La Presse, the committee tasked with defining a mandate for the council will be headed by Claude Corbo, the former rector of UQAM.
The other committees will seek to improve CEGEPs across Quebec, reassess university financing, and increase student aid and bursaries.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Faculty and students not consulted
The humanities and social sciences library (HSSL) reference collection is being downsized and moved from its current location to create study space, to the surprise of many students and professors.
By the end of the year, the collection will be removed from its current place in the southeast corner of the main McLennan floor. Its “essentials” will be moved to where the periodicals are currently displayed, and the rest redistributed to the stacks or Redpath basement, according to interim HSSL head librarian Sara Holder.
The decision was made without consultation with faculty or students, and has been met with “opposition” and “widespread dismay” according to history professor James Krapfl.
“It is unfortunate that there was no consultation before this to find out what students and professors do need and want,” he told The Daily.
The relocation of the reference collection comes after the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Improvement Fund gave the HSSL $68,255 to contribute to the refurbishment of the current reference area.
In total, the AUS Improvement Fund gave the HSSL $112,000 this year. $3,745 of this was used to purchase an online e-book collection of travel guides, and $40,000 was used to add 37 study spaces in the Cyberthèque in the basement.
AUS VP Finance Saad Qazi told The Daily by email that these amounts had been ratified by AUS Council after being allocated by the AUS Improvement Fund Committee.
However, for professors who use the reference collection, the situation is less than ideal.
“One of the benefits of having a good [comprehensive] reference section is that you go there looking for something, but then find other, very useful things because they are next to what one was looking for. If things are in the stacks then that possibility is diminished,” Krapfl said.
“It makes sense that all the reference books are in the same place in the library. Ideally they would be close to where there are reference librarians,” he added.
The space currently occupied by the reference collection is ideal for student study space, said Holder.
“That area is particularly nice because there are windows, so there will be natural light. It is a very nice space for students, which is why we wanted to use that space differently. By moving the reference section over, we will be able to make-over this space that students have requested and that they gave us money for,” she told The Daily.
However, professors and students have expressed concerns that the increase in study space should not come at the cost of such an important resource for research.
“If this is supposed to be one of Canada’s five major research universities, it seems absurd that we shouldn’t have a really good reference section in the humanities library,” Krapfl said.
“One of my colleagues compared this to going into a science laboratory and removing all of the equipment, and then still expecting people to do research,” he added.
Krapfl and his students make extensive use of atlases and other reference material that will potentially be moved from the reference section to the stacks.
“I ask students to do assignments within a couple of days with books from the reference section. Given there are eighty students, it’s efficient if the books are in the reference section. If the books were in the stacks and were able to get checked out, I wouldn’t be able to run the assignments anymore,” he said.
On Friday, a committee of English and history professors met with Holder and other librarians to talk about the reference section’s relocation. Joanna Schacter, who is the library committee member for the History Students’ Association, was the sole student present at the meeting.
“The meeting was very final,” Schacter told The Daily. “The conclusion was basically that [the changes would be] happening, and they don’t really have a choice because there isn’t enough space… They said that they spent a lot of money on these online sources, and because of that, they want people to use them more – mostly because they paid for them and they don’t feel that people are using them properly,” she said.
Krapfl told The Daily by email that he was not happy with the outcome of the meeting.
“The head [librarian] of McLennan made it clear that, despite the [English and History] departments’ opposition and widespread student dismay, the decision to downsize and relocate the reference section is not open to reconsideration,” he said.
Holder expressed a very different perception of how the meeting had gone. “There was no opposition expressed in that meeting. Everyone was in agreement that this was a good idea,” she said.
At the meeting, it was decided that professors and students would be able to contact their department’s liaison librarians to say which books they think should be included in the new downsized collection. By doing this, Holder, who as interim head inherited the planned relocation from her predecessor, said that the library was trying to make up for their misstep of not consulting with professors beforehand.
“I do agree with the professors that say that there should have been more consultation prior to this plan and that was a mistake on the library’s part. We are trying to make up for that while still providing the students with what they need,” she said.
Schacter believes that this is not enough.
“Not a lot of students know about this,” she said. “[The librarians] say they are consulting, but the library should find some way to get in touch with students to get their input.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Refugees detained unconstitutionally, say panelists
Students and law experts convened at Chancellor Day Hall yesterday to discuss Bill C-31, otherwise known as the Protecting Canada’s Immigration System Act, and its impacts on the asylum-seeking process.
Hosted by the Human Rights Working Group’s Immigration and Refugee Rights Portfolio at the Faculty of Law and the Montreal Holocaust Memorial Centre (MHMC), the discussion focused on the detention of refugees, asylum seekers, and immigrants in Canada.
Bill C-31 was passed on June 30 and impacts how refugees are treated in Canada in a variety of ways, including by limiting access to healthcare following changes to the Interim Federal Health Program (IFHP).
According to Idil Atak, a postdoctoral researcher at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM), while systemic detention of refugees is considered to be the norm in Europe, Canada is still a long way from the international exemplar it sets for itself.
According to Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers vice-president Mitchell Goldberg, someone can be detained only if that person is a danger to the public, has a flight risk, or the authenticity of their identity is suspected.
The main issue of clarity of identity is nebulous, says Goldberg.  According to current legislation, if an immigration officer of the Canadian Border Services Agency is not satisfied with the person is who they say they are, the person will be detained.
Another issue with  Bill C-31 is that it allows for the federal Minister of Citizenship and Immigration to deem some countries “safe.”  Refugee-status claimants from those countries are given a shorter time period to prepare their claims and are not entitled to an appeals process.
One such country is Mexico, which was designated safe a week ago.  “Most people are safe there,” said Goldberg, “but there are also people being killed there by drug cartels and corrupt police officers.”
“It is quite complicated to understand the law, even for people with backgrounds in law,” said Jenny Jeanes, program coordinator at Action Réfugiés Montréal, underlining the need for helping refugees understand their legal rights.
Once detained, the refugees are subject to a review after 48 hours.  If that review fails, another one is conducted seven days later, and then repeated every other thirty days, until the detainee is released.  But in the end it is up to the immigration officer, and not to the board member who does the review, to release the detainee.
When asked about the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs’ (CIJA) support of Bill C-31 by an anonymous speaker from the crowd, Goldberg said that he found it very disappointing as a Jewish person. He added that many other organizations, including the MHMC, had been critical of it.
Louis-Philippe Jannard of the MHMC told The Daily that he had asked the government to participate in the panel.
According to Jannard,  the officials responded, “we cannot be here, we are only applying the law so we cannot discuss the policy aspect of it.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Consultative body discusses ancillary fees, Idle No More
The SSMU saw lackluster attendance from the student body at its Winter 2013 General Assembly (GA) yesterday. The GA failed to meet its required quorum of 100 members from the beginning of its session.
The Winter GA was initially scheduled for February 4, with the motion deadline set for Monday, January 21. Due to a lack of submitted motions, however, the GA was postponed to Wednesday, February 27.
SSMU President Josh Redel told The Daily that despite low attendance, SSMU doubled their efforts in advertising for the GA this semester. “We did 85 Facebook announcements, 59 class announcements, 8.5 hours of flyering in targeted buildings, 9.5 hours flyering outdoors.”
Redel acknowledged that the timing of the GA left much to be desired, especially with that day’s snowstorm. “It was a very weird mood [at the GA],” he said in an interview. “I’m glad we had conversation on things, but it didn’t seem like there was as much energy.”
At the beginning, the GA had approximately seventy active voters, a number that dwindled down to around thirty by the end of the evening.
In his President’s Report, Redel mentioned: “lease negotiations are currently underway…. There’s an interesting new model that we’re looking towards that will be beneficial to SSMU and the students…Negotiations will be done in a month and a half – expect very big news in four or five weeks.”
The negotiation for the Shatner building lease with the administration has been ongoing for the last three years. The information has remained confidential to the student body thus far.
Lack of debate on motions
The motion regarding support for the Social Equity and Diversity Office (SEDE) was one of the two motions submitted in time for the prior date of the GA on February 4. VP University Affairs Haley Dinel explained that the GA’s approval would “[affirm] the work we want to do, and [are] doing.”
The motion seeks to secure a permanent funding structure for SEDE from McGill, and to ensure support from the university community. Dinel briefly alluded to concerns about the impact of the recent budget cuts.
“Where budgets are being cut, it’s always unclear what the status is of new offices,” Dinel said at the GA.
In the consultative forum, the motion passed with 55 votes for, seven votes against, and two abstentions.
The motion regarding support for Indigenous peoples and allies was also submitted before the original January 21 deadline. The resolved clauses in the motion were divided at the Legislative Council meeting on January 24, and only the first resolved clause was up for vote at the GA.
This clause asks SSMU to adopt a position in support of the Idle No More movement. At the Council meeting, the councillors deemed the clause “too external” for the body to simply rubber-stamp.
Although the motion passed in the consultative forum with 51 votes for and 12 votes against, it will be sent back to Council.
Neither of the motions inspired any debate in the dwindling crowd at the GA.
A motion submitted after the postponement of the GA regarding conflict minerals did manage to pique some interest. The McGill chapter of STAND Canada submitted a motion to mandate the Financial Ethics Research Committee to “consider the role of conflict minerals in current and future investments under [SSMU’s] Five Year Ethical Investment Plan.
Two representatives from the McGill chapter were on hand to clarify the intentions of the motion. Conflict minerals – specifically tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold – are traded in known conflict regions, fuelling rebel groups with their sale and export.
Recently, legislation was passed in the United States requiring companies to report whether their products contain conflict minerals. Canadian Members of Parliament are drafting a similar bill, and universities in the United States have passed motions on the subject of investment in conflict minerals as well.
The consultative body passed the motion with 54 votes in favour and three against.
Illegal ancillary fees at University of Toronto
An additional motion regarding “fair tuition and fee charges” was submitted from the floor by SSMU’s Political Campaigns Coordinator Christopher Bangs.
Inspired by University of Toronto’s recent review of its ancillary fees based on student research, and aligned with Ontario regulation regarding tuition, the Motion to Ensure Fair Tuition and Fee Charges urged SSMU to “conduct a thorough review of all tuition and fees charged in all faculties or schools…to ensure that all charges comply with regulations internal to the University and with the laws and regulations of Quebec…and to ensure that all charges are made known to students when registering for classes.”
Bangs explained that the motion also was a reflection of his own experience. “In a civil engineering class…there was a $90 fee to access the engineering lab. I reached out to the Dean of Students and…I was able to get the fee waived…They did not make [the fee] clear when we entered the class…A lot of people don’t have recourse to the administration.”
U1 Arts student Sam Gregory, a candidate for SSMU VP University Affairs inquired why the motion was brought up to SSMU, as opposed to the Senate or the administrative body of the University.
“I don’t believe that some sort of legal [motion] would go through the Senate,” Bangs explained. “Considering that student unions are here to make sure that we’re getting the most out of the University, and considering that we have mandates for [tuition], I think it’s important to make sure that the University is not getting more than what they’re legally capped at.”
The GA concluded with an interactive session regarding Space in the Shatner Building.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
