The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Profs say admin “clustering” will undermine departments 
An initiative aimed at restructuring the Leacock building by consolidating all administrative services on one floor, breaking up the current departmental structure, was presented at a Town Hall in the Redpath Museum on Monday.   The Arts Faculty’s People, Processes & Partnerships initiative, in development since Fall 2012, was put before students, faculty, and support staff.
According to Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi and Associate Dean Gillian Lane-Mercier, the initiative is a response to concerns that specific departments may be left without qualified administrators after a voluntary retirement program is put in place. This program, coupled with a recent provincial administrative cost-cutting initiative, Bill 100, will reduce the number of administrators in the faculty.
Two potential restructuring plans to be carried out by Summer 2014 were put forth by Manfredi.  The plans would group administrative officers (AOs) and services on the sixth floor of Leacock. A welcome centre and student service hub would be built on the third floor. The Faculty has estimated that this could cost up to $2.5 million.
The plans would also move the Jewish Studies department into Leacock, from its current location on McTavish. This building would subsequently be used to house Arts faculty course lecturer, TA, visiting scholar, and student association clusters.
The first of the two plans moves department chairs to the sixth floor, keeping them in close proximity to their AOs, moving a total of 68 people. However, the second plan, which would move a total of 57 people, would keep departmental chairs with their departments, but separate from their AOs.
The response at the Town Hall was one of concern. Art History professor Amelia Jones, who came to McGill from the University of Manchester  after similar centralization of administrative services, said that this restructuring would lead to a “dysfunctional noncollegial community.”
At Manchester she said, “students had no interface directly with the departments […] academic staff became the only possible interface with the students, [and are required to do] low-level administrative tasks.”
Manfredi said that the project team would attempt to avoid such issues and pointed to other faculties, such as Engineering, that have already implemented similar structures.
Professor Elsbeth Heaman noted that such a restructuring could change the nature of the university itself by removing departmental inertia.
“If I wanted to completely transform the university, to make it into a political creature, make it into a corporate university, […] I would begin by weakening departmental cultures,” Heaman said.
Manfredi responded by saying, “If there are serious risks to our current mission, we won’t do them. I don’t want to replicate bad mistakes made somewhere else.”
While many faculty members prefaced their concerns by acknowledging current administrative and organizational issues, Communications professor Darin Barney told The Daily by email that these changes would potentially have detrimental effects on important qualities of the university.
“These qualities include departmental autonomy and solidarity, collegiality, and personalized relationships among faculty, staff, and students. Losing these would be too high a price to pay for whatever economies or efficiencies might be gained – especially as it is far from certain that ‘clustering’ support staff and removing them from departments would make things more, rather than less, efficient,” he wrote.
VP Internal Affairs of History Students’ Association Laure Spake and other student association representatives present at the Town Hall criticized the lack of outreach to students, and the lack of clarity from the administration. While Manfredi had previously held eight poorly attended consultations on the new advising services that the Leacock space reallocation would provide, Manfredi told The Daily: “the Town Hall was the first opportunity to discuss the proposed Leacock space scenarios publicly and collectively.”
Spake especially took issue with the means of communication from the administration, pointing specifically to the inaccessibility of their website. “The administration is saying that they’re putting out this information for us, but they’re not putting it out in a way that we can easily reach,” she said.
She pointed to the miscommunication regarding the advising consultations as an example, suggesting that if students had been informed that the advising services would be linked to the Leacock space reallocations, “more than one or three students would have showed up.”
However, Manfredi told The Daily: “Department chairs and student leaders also have an obligation to keep their constituents informed, and to communicate the concerns of their constituents back to me and others.”
Lane-Mercier presented the two reallocation at the AUS Council meeting on Wednesday. In an interview with The Daily, Lane-Mercier stated that the consultations were and would be “ongoing.”
In response to a question as to the next step, given the recent feedback, Lane-Mercier said that the project team is “pausing to reflect.”  Particularly, she suggested that some of the previously rejected plans may now be revisited in light of student and faculty comments.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quorum lost before vote on tuition indexation
Correction appended March 21, 2013.
With a long-standing history of failure to reach quorum, and a year haunted by intersocietal tensions, the McGill Post-Graduate Students’ Society’s (PGSS) Annual General Meeting (AGM) passed motions calling for gender equity and tar sands divestment. The AGM lost quorum before voting against tuition indexation.
A special council meeting also appointed a new Chief Returning Officer (CRO), Colby Briggs, a former community assistant at Concordia University. The appointment comes after a tumultuous year for the organization that saw the resignation of three CROs, one due to very public tensions with council members.
The council laid out several motions prior to the meetings and succeeded in reaching quorum for a few – notably, motions regarding gender parity on its Board of Directors and divestment from McGill’s tar sand holdings.
The AGM voted to establish a recommendation to increase diversity on its Board of Directors, with consultation of the Equity Committee. Although PGSS’s membership consists of 53.3 per cent of self-identified women, the board has historically  skewed male.
Originally proposed as a motion to ensure gender parity, Cora-Lee Conway, Education Graduate Students’ Society (EGSS) councillor, emphasized the motion as a means to open further discussion on diversity, rather than institutionalizing strict quotas.
“What does it say about our society when the occurrence of white male normativity goes uncontested?” Conway said to the AGM.  “It’s about bringing more perspectives and more voices from diverse backgrounds around the table.”
This year’s third female Board member, Danielle Meadows, was approved at the AGM, to an otherwise all-male board.
The debate turned to McGill’s tar sands investment, with Divest McGill present to field members’ questions on the benefits of divestment.
Some questioned the feasibility of the motion, while others pointed to McGill’s direct role in industry investment as problematic.
“As students at McGill, we are subsidizing the tar sands,” said Nora Hope, a PGSS member. “It’s time to send an important message that we do not want to be a part of these unethical practices that are going on there.”
The motion regarding tar sands passed.
Members then debated a motion against tuition indexation to inflation, with many arguing that PGSS needs to complete its research before deciding on the matter. PGSS’ by-laws state that all policies must be “evidence-based.”
“It doesn’t really matter what the researchers find, because they will not find that indexation increases accessibility to education,” one PGSS member stated.
However, the AGM lost quorum during debates on indexation and adjourned immediately.
PGSS will work with its researcher on the topic of indexation.
A censure motion against Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney and Academic Affairs Officer Adam Bouchard was brought forward at the start of the meeting by PGSS members, but was voted to be removed from the agenda. The motion took issue with Mooney and Bouchard’s failure to complete an audit of private security on McGill’s campus.
In a previous version of this article, The Daily incorrectly stated that the PGSS “saw three CROs leave the position due to tensions with the council.” In fact, only Brock Rutter resigned due to tensions with Council members. The article also incorrectly stated that the PGSS “board has historically been all-male” and that Danielle Meadows was their first female director this year. In fact, two women have sat on the board this year, though they have both resigned.  The article also stated that PGSS will work with an appointed researcher, in fact, it will work with its own researcher. The article incorrectly stated that a censure motion “was brought forward at the start of the meeting by PGSS councillors, but failed in a general vote.” In fact, the motion was brought forward by PGSS members and was voted to be removed from the agenda.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Operating procedures only presented for information
Senate voted in favour of adopting the administration’s Statement of Principles yesterday. The document, brought forward by the administration, proposes definitions for freedoms of expression and peaceful assembly to respond to dissent at the university.
The document arose from modifications to the protest protocol, which was met with fierce opposition earlier this semester. The protocol was then divided into two documents: The Statement of Principles Concerning Freedom of Expression and Freedom of Peaceful Assembly, and the Operating Procedures Regarding Demonstrations, Protests and Occupations on McGill University Campuses.
Provost Anthony Masi presented the Statement of Principles for Senate approval at their meeting yesterday. The Operating Procedures document, however, was only presented for information.
Masi opened the discussion by stating that the community has been discussing the “fundamental matters” regarding dissent on campus for over a year. The Statement of Principles, according to Masi, “is an overarching document… this document [that] inform[s] the operating procedures and the people applying those procedures.”
The administration’s rationale behind the adoption of the document is that “the McGill community will be best served by an agreed-upon Statement of Principles which would protect the rights of freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of peaceful assembly,” according to the document presented to Senate.
“The Statement will contain the overarching principles that guide decisions concerning the rights of members of the McGill community as they relate to these freedoms,” the document read.
Some Senators, however, questioned the existence of the documents altogether. SSMU President Josh Redel questioned the necessity of having those documents and added, “I feel it is a bit lofty for the University to attempt to define our fundamental rights in two mere sentences.  Furthermore, the attempt to define peaceful is, in my mind, ideologically dangerous.”
Faculty Senator Derek Nystrom urged Senate to vote against the document and stated that the body should have also voted on the approval of the Operating Procedures document. “[The Operating Procedures] is where the rubber hits the road. Where we’re going to be defending our principles of freedom and peaceful assembly.”
Masi agreed that resolving specific conflicts using the Statement of Principles is a “question of judgment.” He also stated, however, that the separation of the two documents was an outcome of the consultation process.
Arts Senator James Gutman criticized the consultation process because of its failure to bring together all actors on campus, citing campus unions who “are very upset about this.”
Campus unions held a demonstration against the documents on January 23.
“If you didn’t take part in the consultation, quite frankly, that is your problem,” said Masi.
PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney, on the other hand, questioned the drafting process and committee. Pointing to the representation of students, staff members, faculty, and administrators in the Senate, he stated: “if Senate is going to vote on the adoption [of the document], why was a committee not struck with the same broad constituency to write the document?”
Masi said that the people involved in the drafting of the document came from the offices most involved in the consultation process this semester.
Following a failed motion to table the discussion, Senate approved the motion to adopt the Statement of Principles.
Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael DiGrappa then presented the Operating Procedures that will accompany the Statement of Values. The document is set to “provide a framework for determining whether or not action or intervention is necessary in the case of demonstrations… and actions that contravene internal policies or the law.”
“Tolerance is expected for the expression of dissent, and for a certain degree of inconvenience arising from the means by which dissenting opinions may be expressed. At all times, decisions will be sensitive to context and will reflect the exercise of sound judgment by those in charge,” the document reads.
The document continues on to give benchmarks to decide whether demonstrations, assemblies, protests, and occupations are peaceful.
Redel questioned the role of the document.
“To define direct action is to restrict it. To restrict it, regardless of intent, defeats the purpose of having direct action in the first place, which is in direct contradiction to the statement that opens the documents.”
“Finally, it mentions that action takers are responsible for their actions, but it is crucial further that it mentions that McGill is as well responsible for its actions.  This is clearly required as per the Manfredi report in regards to proper management of hired security agents, where it was made clear that security agents did not handle certain situations appropriately,” Redel said.
When asked by Nystrom why the Operating Procedures were not up for approval, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum replied that operational procedures are not usually approved though governance structures like Senate.
Senators also discussed the process surrounding McGill joining edX and the implementation of Massively Open Online Courses, (MOOCs) as well as changes to the student code of conduct to be voted on next time Senate meets.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
