The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Infrastructure, Charter of Values discussed
Around 200 students, journalists, and citizens gathered on October 9 at Redpath Hall to hear what mayoral candidates Mélanie Joly, Richard Bergeron, Denis Coderre and Marcel Côté had to propose for the next four years. The four, considered the main contenders for the mayorship, answered questions  in French from the public in a debate moderated by Radio-Canada’s Patrice Roy.
This debate, the first to be broadcast in French for this election, allowed candidates to contrast their ideas a month in advance of the municipal election, set to take place on November 3.
Among the issues debated, the proposed Quebec Charter of Values held a consensus among the candidates, as all four were strongly opposed to it.
“The Charter, as presented, tarnishes the image of Montreal as an international city,” said Côté. Bergeron agreed and emphasized the division that the Charter could create between Montreal and rural Quebec.
However, only Joly and Coderre explicitly raised the possibility of a legal battle against it.
Candidates talk infrastructure 
The question on public transit and infrastructure brought out the differences between the candidates and their approaches. Bergeron proposed the construction of 10 to 15 kilometres of tramways and wanted to speed up various construction sites by the Quebec government.
“130 kilometres of BRT [bus rapid transit] is 8 times cheaper than Mr. Bergeron’s proposal and 40 times cheaper than the same distance on trams. This is our great project to unify Western and Eastern remote areas,” replied Joly, who favors rapid transit buses.
BRT is a system that includes reserved traffic lanes and a high frequency of buses along the routes. Montreal offered one BRT line until 2002, when it was done away with.
Coderre suggested that the solution to public transit debates needed to be discussed with suburban cities such as Laval or Brossard. Côté addressed the reliability of existing infrastructure and called for realistic expectations concerning deadlines for existing projects.
‘Revival’ of Montreal also a major topic 
When questioned on how to revive Montreal, all the candidates’ responses – except for Bergeron’s – focused on ethics. Côté – who is running his campaign on targeting corruption at city hall – proposed a code of ethics and stronger promotion of integrity within the administration, as well as the nomination of someone to control public expenditures.
Joly challenged Coderre on the topic of transparency and ethics in municipal politics. She cited New York City’s Mayor Michael Bloomberg as an example of enhancing transparency and asserted that there was “no need for an inspector general like Mr. Coderre proposes.”
In the past, Coderre has proposed the creation of the role of inspector general, an individual who would target corruption within the government, especially in light of the recent Charbonneau Commission. His proposal also favoured the expertise within the administration, rather than sub-contracting out the position.
“There is an inspector general in New York,” said Coderre in response to Joly’s comment.
Unlike the other three candidates, Bergeron’s top priority was to stop the family exodus toward the suburbs, an issue addressed later on in the debate. As an urbanist, Bergeron insisted on the careful planning of new developments “to avoid a repetition of what happened in Griffintown.” Côté and Bergeron agreed to improve existing programs subsidizing access to property for families.
Coderre specifically targeted programs that would help families purchase their first property on the basis that it can “apply to new constructions as well as existing households.” Joly proposed a Land Tax Transfer break for families and reiterated that the “BRT would allow the creation of new neighbourhoods dedicated to families.”
The candidates will face off once again in an English-language debate on October 22, which will also be hosted at McGill.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student body unable to take stance on Charter of Values
The first Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) General Assembly (GA) of the academic year failed to meet quorum, a common pattern for GAs in the past few years. With 52 students in attendance at the peak of the GA, SSMU was unable to pass a proposed motion in opposition to the Quebec Charter of Values or approve a revised SSMU Constitution.
Quorum for a GA is defined as 100 undergraduate students from four separate faculties, with no more than half from a single faculty. If quorum is not met – as so happened – the assembly becomes a Consultative Forum. Votes are no longer binding, but act as ‘recommendations,’ and any motions passed are sent to the next session of SSMU’s Legislative Council.
However, the lack of quorum proved a unique challenge, as it was impossible to approve the nominations to the SSMU Board of Directors (BoD), or to greenlight an auditing firm for the 2013-14 fiscal year. Both of these approvals were tabled until the next GA.
According to SSMU President Katie Larson, the lack of a BoD will not affect SSMU policy presently; however, Larson conceded, “It’s truly a problem for future situations that may arise, when we’ll legally need the Board to pass decisions.”
A motion to amend the SSMU Constitution – to be more legal under Quebec’s laws, according to Larson – was proposed at the GA, but not without confusion. Clause 28.1 in the old Constitution states, “A general assembly may establish, amend or rescind any policy of any society except […] this constitution.”
According to Larson in an e-mail to The Daily, the Constitution was brought to the GA as the next best option because of the current lack of a legally acting BoD.
In addition, although the motion initially resolved for online ratification, Larson said that the SSMU Executive “realized after we submitted the motion to the GA that the clause asking the GA to approve and replace was out of order.”
The motion was amended to reflect a need for a referendum. Because of the lack of quorum, the vote that passed the motion was only a suggestion, and the motion was passed along to Legislative Council.
The second motion of the GA resolved that SSMU adopt an official stance in opposition to the proposed Quebec Charter of Values, which VP University Affairs Joey Shea, one of the movers, called “completely discriminatory legislation.” The motion initially resolved for SSMU to send a letter against the Charter to Premier Pauline Marois, McGill Principal Suzanne Fortier, and multiple media outlets, in addition to creating a committee to campaign against it.
“Although [the Charter] is technically an external matter, it is something that will stand to directly affect students at McGill,” said Arts Senator Claire Stewart-Kanigan, who helped draft the motion.
Medicine Representative David Benrimoh also voiced his dissent, saying that he had talked to at least two people in his faculty who would be directly affected by this law.
“[This Charter] is intended to alienate people, it is intended to make people want to leave Quebec […] it’s not a Quebec for everybody, it’s a Quebec for certain people,” said Benrimoh. “This is racism, this is xenophobia, this is ridiculous. It is a stupid, ridiculous law.”
“Even if we could [opt out], having this law on the books is a slight to every [value] we hold dear,” he added.
Shea explained that although McGill can opt out of the proposed law as it currently stands, neither SSMU nor the SSMU daycare would be exempted.
The motion was divided, so the external resolved clauses – such as the letter-writing campaign – were not included in the motion passed along to council, as they could only be passed by a GA and not by a Consultative Forum.T
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Safety, environmental racism discussed
On October 10, CKUT 90.3FM and the McGill Sustainability Projects Fund hosted the second installment of “Under the Weather,” a monthly series focusing on climate change.
This month’s panel focused on Line 9, a pipeline owned by Enbridge Inc. that runs across Ontario and Quebec. The panel came a day before National Energy Board hearings on Enbridge’s proposal to reverse and expand the flow of Line 9 wrapped up in Montreal.
Line 9 was originally built in 1976 and flowed eastward to Montreal, but was reversed in 1998 to flow westward. It was built to transport traditional crude oil, but the proposed reversal will include the transportation of bitumen from the Alberta oil sands.
“[Bitumen] is already even more corrosive than traditional oil [and] the superheated pipeline system used to transport it makes it unconventional,” said Cameron Fenton, Director of the Canadian Youth Climate Coalition. Fenton also pointed out the allegedly elevated cancer rates in citizens living near the pipeline.
Reports have found that Line 9 is prone to spills, a fact that Amanda Lickers, a member of the Onondaga nation, the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, and an organizer at SwampLine 9 – a project that aims to stop the construction of Line 9 – is an act of “genocide and climate change” against Indigenous people. The pipeline is primarily constructed within and around Indigenous lands in Canada.
Cindy Spoon, campaign director for the Texas Tar Sands Blockade against the Keystone XL Pipeline, offered similar concerns, arguing that pipelines “disproportionately affect people of colour.” Spoon explained that companies reach out to poorer communities in order to achieve what she called a “facade of consent” in order to legally seize communities’ property to build pipelines.
These communities are less likely to resist such actions, said Spoon. She also designated the actions of Canadian and American oil companies – toward Indigenous people and minorities, respectively – as environmental racism.
“Oil and everything that is supported by oil is so ingrained in our lives that we don’t realize all the ways that we pay for it. When we keep saying that oil is just more convenient, I think we are disconnected from the fact that we’re all here to increase our well-being, but oil is not it.”
According to Fenton, the environmental impacts of the pipeline will be immense – a statement that the panelists agreed on. “It could hold upwards of 400 gigatons of recoverable carbon, which is almost the planet’s entire carbon budget,” Fenton stated, adding that this was over 25 times Canada’s carbon budget. “[Enbridge’s pipelines] have already spilled and broken over 800 times over the past decade, which comes out to about ten spills per month.”
Fenton also raised concerns about the nature of bitumen spills. “There is actually no proven way to clean up a bitumen spill, especially in a body of water.”
The panel discussion shifted from condemning the pipeline to condemning the oil and tar sands in general, and how energy is acquired in a capitalist society. According to the panelists, the current method simply secures too much profit to be changed.
“Oil and everything that is supported by oil is so ingrained in our lives that we don’t realize all the ways that we pay for it,” said Melissa Fundira, a McGill student and programmer at CKUT. “When we keep saying that oil is just more convenient, I think we are disconnected from the fact that we’re all here to increase our well-being, but oil is not it.”
Another student, Marie Dageville, was optimistic, stating, “We can come together and find a solution [but] it is just a matter of making that first step.”
Lickers said that mobilization was the way to divest from oil usage. “Direct action costs them money, and the more expensive we make it for them, the closer we get to winning.”
The panel was also broadcast on CKUT. The next event of the series will be held on November 14.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Divest groups pressure universities to stop investing in fossil fuels
On October 9, the Concordia Student Union and Divest McGill hosted the first stop of the Canada-wide Tar Sands Reality Check Tour. The event, organized by Fossil Free Canada, brought together different personalities from the environmental movement against tar sands and fossil fuels, who recapped their progress and considered further action.
Fossil Free Canada is a partnership between 350.org and the Canadian Youth Climate Coalition that urges “universities, religious institutions, city and state governments, and other institutions that serve the public good” to divest from companies involved in the extraction of fossil fuels, such as oil or coal.
Cameron Fenton from the Canadian Youth Climate Coalition started the event with a brief history of the movement against tar sands, and discussed the relevance of the growing divestment movement.
“The fundamental goal of this is not simply stopping pollution – it’s achieving justice, and building a more just and sustainable world,” Fenton noted during his speech.
The Tar Sands Reality Check Tour took place during the same week as National Energy Board hearings concerning the Enbridge Line 9 pipeline. Enbridge wants to increase the line’s capacity from 240,000 to 300,000 barrels per day, and reverse the flow from westbound to eastbound. If reversed, the pipeline would carry crude oil from the tar sands in Alberta to refineries in Quebec.
The proposed reversal of Line 9 has sparked a backlash from environmental groups and concerned citizens, especially over a potential for spills. A report published earlier this year by pipeline safety expert Richard Kuprewicz concluded that there was a “high risk” of Line 9 rupturing due to a combination of cracking and corrosion.
According to the Toronto Star, Enbridge’s current response time to spills is between 90 minutes and 4 hours, meaning that the municipalities along the pipeline would most likely be responsible for emergency clean-up.
“Any pipeline that comes out of the tar sands allows for the tar sands to be expanded. It is an imperative that we block each and every pipeline. [Line 9] is not the biggest one, but it’s the one that’s coming through here, so it’s our job to stop it,” said Curtis Murphy, a member of Divest McGill, in an interview with The Daily.
Divest McGill, one of the hosts of the Tour stop in Montreal, is 1 of 14 university divestment groups in Canada. Although concentrated mainly in North America, there are over 300 divestment groups on campuses worldwide.
One of the speakers, former McGill student and activist Audrey Yank, underlined the importance of students and young people in the movement. “Our generation is in an interesting situation. We’re already facing [environmental] change, but we are young enough to actually be involved in it too, to fight it. And it’s not everybody that is in this position. It’s an opportunity for our generation to make this change.”
Anthony Garoufalis-Auger, one of the speakers, and an organizer at Divest Concordia – the newest divest group on Canadian campuses – spoke about strategies for the divestment movement to attract more supporters.
“One step that the divestment movement at Concordia is taking is talking to different student associations, actively […] trying to get the General Assemblies – if there are General Assemblies – to talk about our movement,” he said. “If we can get student associations to talk about this, we can get a lot of people to start getting involved.”
Fenton also emphasized the influence of student activism in the divestment movement. “Last year, a campaign to get campuses to divest from fossil fuel started off in the U.S. and took off faster than anything I’ve ever seen. […] This is happening in so many different places in so many different ways, that we have this new front that we want to pursue.”
In May 2013, Divest McGill presented a petition with 1,300 signatures to McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG), asking McGill to divest from companies that profit from the extraction of fossil fuels or tar sands, as well as the “North for All” plan (formerly known as Plan Nord).
McGill currently invests in a total of 645 publicly-traded companies, of which 35 are involved with fossil fuels, while 14 extract crude oil from tar sands. The stocks and bonds from these companies comprise about 2.5 per cent of McGill’s endowment, according to Divest McGill organizers, which is valued at over $1 billion.
The petition was rejected after the Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility – a body that steers University investment toward socially responsible options – recommended against divestment.
Lily Schwarzbaum, one of the organizers of the Tour stop and an organizer with Fossil Free Canada, remained optimistic about the future of divestment at McGill.
“When there is so much visibility and momentum around this idea, I think that the McGill administration will see that there is not even an option about whether or not we should take climate change seriously for the future of our students and our community,” she told The Daily.
Divest McGill continues to pressure McGill to stop investing in fossil fuel industries, according to members.
“Where there is money, there is power,” Murphy said. “[The divestment movement] fundamentally is trying to redistribute power, because there is a lot of power in the hands of some industries and politicians and not enough power in the hands of ordinary people, like students and Indigenous communities. We need to empower those communities because they have not only the skills and the capacity to change things, but the motivation to do so.”
Heather Milton-Lightening, the co-director of the Indigenous Tar Sands campaign in Alberta, and one of the speakers at the event, agreed that there is a fundamental power imbalance when it comes to fossil fuels.
“All the environmental legislation, all the changes in Canada were pushed by petroleum producers. That says a lot. That says that the petroleum producers and the people that have money run our country,” Milton-Lightening said. “That is why I really appreciate divestment campaigns and students critically thinking about where the money is.”
“Because at the end of the day, here in Canada, a lot of our strategies need to change. We need to think about who has the money, who’s really controlling the government here in Canada, and who has the ability to give us what we want. And what we want is a new livelihood, a new vision, a new paradigm to move forward.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
