The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Department recognizes need for “female role models”
A number of Physics students at McGill have an “underlying belief that there is a difference in intellectual capacity between genders,” according to a report on gender equity authored by the McGill Society of Physics Students (MSPS). “Socio-cultural conditioning” and “innate differences in interest” between genders were also cited by respondents as potential causes for female underrepresentation in Physics.
Women only represent 21.9 per cent of the undergraduates in Physics at McGill and about 13 per cent of those enrolled in Honours Physics.
The report follows a 14-question survey conducted by MSPS in response to a Commentary article published in The Daily in October (“Fine Men, Sexist Pigs” October 11, 2012, page 7), which highlighted the negative experiences of a female Physics student at McGill.
“The MSPS made it its objective to investigate further to see if other females and/or students in the department were experiencing similar situations,” read a statement provided to The Daily by the MSPS executive.
The survey was conducted online over a three-day period, and a total of 124 of 346 undergraduate Physics students responded. Twenty-eight of the respondents were female.
The MSPS report also noted that “several students referenced the hypothesis of [former] Harvard University President, Lawrence Summers, that there is an innate difference in mathematical and computational ability between genders.”
Citing confidentiality concerns, the MSPS declined to share the results of the survey with The Daily.
According to associate professor Tracy Webb, who sits on the department’s newly-formed Women in Physics Committee, and who has seen both the survey results as well as the report, the outcome is of no surprise.
“These are issues that women in undergraduate Physics face everywhere,” she told The Daily. “These problems, like a lack of female role models, aren’t just at McGill.”
Webb is one of the six women in the Physics department – a number which she says is actually quite high compared to other universities – and according to her, the department is making a concerted effort to be female-friendly.
The department “recognizes a need for more female role models,” and “all things being held equal,” this is being implemented in its hiring practices, she told The Daily. “Offers are being made and accepted.”
The Women in Physics Committee has begun a mentoring program, hosts talks, and plans events aimed at building a better community for women in the department.
Despite the department’s efforts, the survey indicates to Webb that the culture among undergraduates – and certain undergraduates in particular – needs some updating.
“A few people are clearly making the atmosphere unpleasant,” she said. “There also seems to be an issue with the student lounge, which should absolutely be a safe space.”
According to the report, several female students responded in the survey that they had been the victims of “obnoxious” behaviour in common areas, particularly the Physics students’ lounge.
“In reference to derogatory language and gender specific comments in common areas, the MSPS believes it can be addressed by increasing the awareness of acceptable conduct followed by peer reinforcement,” the report says.
The report, which identified gender equality as being a “social issue,” rather than an “academic” one, concludes that “the MSPS believes there are no official actions required by the Physics Department or the [MSPS] in response to the article ‘Fine Men, Sexist Pigs’.”
A problematic methodology? 
SSMU Equity Commissioners Justin Koh and Shaina Agbayani take issue with the survey’s methodology.
According to Koh, it is problematic that many of the questions were “ideological,” and not instead aimed at investigating “personal experiences of discrimination.”
In equity surveys such as these, “you need to look at people’s particular experiences in order to get the bigger picture,” he told The Daily.
Questions from the survey included “Do you think males and females have a different capacity of intelligence?” and “Which gender do you feel is the cause of sexism?”
“The survey was not constructed to be informative, but rather to identify a general opinion [among undergraduate students] to decide if corrective action by the department and/or the MSPS was necessary,” MSPS executives told The Daily by email. “It is for this reason that not all of the questions were formulated with extreme diligence.”
The report presents “generalized conclusions” made by the MSPS about the survey, but not “rigorous statistical analysis” of those findings.
This is another problem for Koh and Agbayani. “There is no presentation of the overall statistical findings, just selective presentations of what the MSPS deems, from their perspective, the most notable or ‘shareable’ results,” they told The Daily in an email.
The report says that uniformly negative answers to the question “Has a sexual or gender directed comment led to a decrease in your self-confidence at school?” reveal that students’ academic self-confidence has not been impacted by “gender-related remarks.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Mohammad Mahjoub suffered “abuse and humiliation” from Canadian officials
Canada’s security apparatus has a long history of unfairly targeting minorities and subjecting them to abuse, a panel of activists at McGill’s Faculty of Law said Friday, calling for a halt to the government’s issuing of security certificates to non-citizens living in Canada.
Security certificates grant the government power to deport foreign nationals suspected of posing a threat to national security with limited review from a federal court. 
Mohammad Mahjoub, one of the panelists, was arrested in 2000 after the Department of Justice issued a security certificate against him for his alleged ties to the Vanguards of Conquest, an Egyptian Islamist group. A federal court ruled in December, however, that the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) had obtained its evidence against Mahjoub through torture.
“A day after September 11 [2001] happened, I was taken from the general population and put in segregation for two months and a half,” he said. “I was on suicide watch, in a dark cell without windows […] it was severely cold.” 
Mahjoub alleged that he was subject to abuse and humiliation from his jailors and said that he was regularly strip-searched, sometimes “up to ten times a day.”
“The Canadian official tried to sexual[ly] assault me, they strip searched me at any moment. I kept fighting for my rights,” he said. “When they tried to sexual[ly] assault me, I went on hunger strike for 24 days.”
A GPS system attached to his ankle was cut off on February 1 after five years of surveillance.
“My family couldn’t take the house arrest any longer. My eldest son tried to commit suicide,” he said. “His phone was tapped, his mail was tapped, his internet was tapped. They didn’t leave anything to us.”
“My family told me, ‘we can’t accept you anymore.’ I became like cancer. We ended up separating, divorced,” he added.
The Canadian government has issued five security certificates in the last ten years, according to Patil Tutunjian, a panelist and a lawyer involved in a security certificate case. Two certificates were struck down in 2009, and the remaining two are currently subjects of a court case, she said.
Mohamed Harkat, a native-born Algerian and permanent resident of Canada who was arrested in 2002, has a certificate pending review before the Supreme Court.
“You can’t imagine the amount of money they spent [on me],” Mahjoub said. “They tortured me for 15 years mentally. It’s worse than to torture physically, because the pain doesn’t go away.” 
Tutunjian noted that staff at the Department of Justice seized documents belonging to Mahjoub’s defense, and that CSIS had admitted to wiretapping conversations between him and his lawyer. 
David Austin, another panelist, said the security certificate controversy is linked to a system of racial profiling that is endemic in Canada. 
“We’re living in a dark moment in the history of humanity, especially for Arabs and Muslims or people who can be confused of being both,” he said. 
The harassment and profiling of black people by police is “not separate” from Mahjoub’s case or the experiences of detainees at Guantanamo Bay, he added.
“We need to understand the continuity, [the] different forms of a similar process, which are not new by any stretch,” he said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Winter Referendum period postponed
Correction appended February 11, 2013.
The SSMU Legislative Council created a referendum question to create an opt-outable $0.50 Equity Fund fee and discussed the re-scheduling of the upcoming Winter Referendum at its meeting on Thursday.
Council began with a report from SSMU Equity Commissioners Justin Koh and Shaina Agbayani regarding the recent activities of the commission.
The SSMU Equity Committee is currently working with McGill’s Diversity and Equity Lab and its research on racial micro-aggression on campus.
Micro-aggression  is defined as subtle forms of intentional and unintentional racism, sexism, homophobia, and heterosexualism.
Led by two post-graduate students, this initiative seeks to quantify and qualify experiences of racial discrimination to better establish a foundation for projects to foster equity.
The Diversity and Equity Research Lab has conducted investigations with students identifying as visible minorities and First Nations, and found that within the research group, a majority of students of colour surveyed often felt uncomfortable on campus. Their research also found that a number of respondents described Concordia as a significantly less discriminatory environment.
Underrepresentation of Aboriginal and visible minority faculty members is an ongoing issue at the University. The researchers noted that this is especially alarming as professors and teaching assistants have been documented inaccurately portraying distinct cultures during classroom lectures.
Currently, the Diversity and Equity Research Lab seeks to conduct additional focus group studies for various campus demographics including religious minorities, queer and trans* students, graduate students, and faculty members. The presentation recommended that all campuses incorporate formal mechanisms to influence dialogue that address implicit biases.
Though SSMU’s Equity Commission is active, McGill does not have a universal equity policy and does not provide permanent financial support to any equity-related projects.
The motion to create a referendum question for an opt-outable Equity Fund was moved by Clubs and Services representative Zach Rosentzveig, Arts representative Colleen Morawetz, VP University Affairs Haley Dinel and Senate Caucus representative Max Zidel.
The motion passed by 22 for, 0 oppositions, and 5 abstentions.
Changes in electoral schedule
SSMU was forced to change its electoral schedule for the upcoming Winter Referendum period to better adapt to the current financial context of the University, according to SSMU President Josh Redel. The Council tabled motions regarding the increase or creation of ancillary fees for Student Services, Athletics, and the McGill Writing Centre.
“Since the fee questions were written, several big changes have occurred, and we want to make sure that we are making the best decision possible,” Redel told The Daily in an email.
The Motion Regarding Environment Fee Referendum Question, and the Motion Regarding Charity Fee Referendum Question both passed in the meeting. Redel explained that these questions were managed “directly and solely by students,” rather than by McGill, and so were not affected by the electoral timeline changes.
The Sustainability Projects Fund (SPF) Fee Referendum Question motion was tabled as well. “The University is no longer able to match the dollar amount provided by students for the fund, so we are looking [into the] alternatives,” Redel said in Council.
Previously, the SPF charged a non-opt-outable fee of $0.50 per credit for all SSMU and Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) students, and this money was then matched by the university.
The SPF has funded 91 projects since its inception in 2010.
In a previous version of this article, the SSMU Equity Committee was incorrectly referred to as the SSMU Equity Commission. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Canadian economy still built on migrant labour, say activists
Migrant justice network Solidarity Across Borders (SAB), a QPIRG Concordia working group, announced recently that significant inroads have been made in two immigration cases that they have been fighting for.
Sami Sheikh, a 24-year-old resident of Parc Extension, who was facing deportation due to an error his parents made on their declaration when they first arrived in Canada 12 years ago, learned in January that he has been approved in principle for permanent residency.
Sheikh’s parents were deported to the U.S. in 2009 after being denied refugee status. The family feared threats from members of Pakistan’s Muttahida Qaumi Movement, due to Sheikh’s father’s involvement in the Pakistan People’s Party, a centre-left political party that was headed by Benazir Bhutto until her death in 2007. Their claim was rejected because they had not declared living in Dubai for twenty years prior to moving to Canada. 
“We were able to separate [Sheikh’s] case from the rest of his family because he was now an adult, so he was able to make a claim separately,” Jaggi Singh, an organizer with SAB and No One is Illegal, told The Daily in a phone interview. 
The Ghotra-Singh family, who have been in Canada for more than ten years, were told that they were being deported after their refugee claims were denied. On January 15, after their lawyer, Stewart Istvanffy, presented a motion to suspend the deportation order to the Federal Court, they received a stay of deportation, meaning they would be able to stay in Canada for a few months longer while a judicial review is carried out on their case.
Reetu Ghotra, who arrived in Canada in 2001, and her husband, Shimbi Singh, who arrived in 2002, filed for refugee status after Ghotra’s father, who spurned their marriage, threatened her husband. 
“He could have killed the guy. He was telling him, you keep away from my daughter, or you’re going to die,” Istvanffy told CTV in January. 
According to a press release published by SAB, Kamal – one of Ghotra and Singh’s two children – attends a class for special needs children as he has a severe language disorder and Global Developmental Delay; attending school in another language would be impossible for him. 
The Ghotra-Singhs were only given a month’s notice to leave the country after they were served their deportation papers. Their stay of deportation means there is hope that their refugee claim might be successful in the future.  
However, Jaggi Singh told The Daily that SAB is wary of being too optimistic. “It’s about the fight,” he told The Daily. “The point for us is the struggle. We try to avoid the success failure dynamic…It’s about avoiding this case-by-case dynamic and having an ongoing comprehensive regularization program for all non-status folks who are living in Canada,” he said. 
SAB also argues that the Canadian economy is built on migrant labour. 
“[Migrants] are here without full status which makes it easier for them to be exploited in the workplace. That’s not something that is just by chance, it is a deliberate outcome of [the government’s] policies – to create an immense pool of people who are easily exploited,” according to Jaggi Singh. 
SAB, through programs such as Solidarity City, tries to help immigrants feel less isolated, and more part of the local community. This has helped in cases such as Sheikh’s to garner support from local political figures. 
“We made a point that there was community support. In the end, all of the political figures in the neighbourhood came out and supported him,” Jaggi Singh said. 
Sheikh was thankful that the community rallied around him. “It’s because of their support that I received this positive response,” he said during a meeting with supporters in Parc Extension last month. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
