The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Goals include decriminalization of sex workers
Red umbrellas – a symbol for sex workers’ rights – were seen scattered across Place de la Paix in Montreal this past Saturday, but not because of the rain.
Around 80 sex workers and allies gathered at the park at 2 p.m. as part of a national series of demonstrations in recognition of sex workers’ rights and the decriminalization of sex workers. The demonstrators celebrated their cause with sparklers, music, and dance.
The demonstration was organized by multiple groups, including Stella; Projet Travailleuses du sexe, Émiss-ère; Action Santé Travesti(e)s et Transsexuel(le)s du Québec; l’Alliance Féministe Solidaire pour les droits des travailleuses et travailleurs du sexe; Pink Bloc; and PolitiQ.
The family friendly event opened with rallying speeches given by representatives from different organizing groups, followed by a dance-a-thon. A speaker system blasted dance music as demonstrators broke out into song and lit sparklers. The demonstration dissolved naturally by 3:45 p.m.
The action was organized the same weekend as the Formula 1 Grand Prix du Canada racing event in Montreal, further pushing the safety of sex workers to the forefront of people’s minds. With the influx of Grand Prix attendees each year, Montreal sex workers see a rise in clients.
In addition, the upcoming Bedford v. Canada case has made the issue very relevant. The Supreme Court of Canada will hear the case on the constitutionality of Canada’s prostitution laws brought forth by Terri-Jean Bedford, Amy Lebovitch, and Valerie Scott, who claim Canada’s prostitution laws are unconstitutional as they infringe on the rights guaranteed in the Canadian Charter. Their claim was upheld by an Ontario judge in 2010 before being appealed by the federal government and brought before the Supreme Court.
“We are talking about people’s lives right now,” explains Anna-Aude Caouette, Clinical Coordinator of Stella, a community-based sex worker justice group. “This case is about people’s right to security and life. We are in support of that.”
As laws governing prostitution stand now, the act of prostitution is itself not illegal, however many of the acts around it are, such as communication for the purpose of prostitution in any place open to public view. This means that sex workers have limited options for communicating and coordinating with clients, which can contribute to the lack of security sex workers may face on the job.
Article 213 of the Criminal Code of Canada details the restrictions of prostitution practices, limiting solicitation in ‘public places’ and by way of stopped motorized vehicles. In addition, sex workers may not receive clients in the same place more than once.
“The Criminal Code 213 of Canada criminalizes both the clients and the sex workers,” Caouette explained. “With this article, we cannot communicate what we are going to offer, how much it will cost, and safer sex negotiations. We are more vulnerable to aggressors or bad clients, and even [the] police sometimes.”
“We cannot organize with sex workers to improve our security,” she added, “None of this is possible in the legal context of Canada. It forces us to be very vulnerable.”
 The Supreme Court of Canada will begin to hear the case on June 13. Demonstrators hope that the Supreme Court will strike down three major criminal provisions that criminalize sex workers. Concordia’s Simone de Beauvoir Institute was granted official intervener status in the Supreme Court case.
[flickr id=”72157634027190159″]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Calls for struggle against “parasites”
Over the last week, the Anti-Capitalist Convergence (CLAC) has organized numerous protests targeted at special events in Montreal related to the Formula 1 Grand Prix. These protests were labelled as part of an “International Week of Struggle against Parasites.”
The first protest, on June 7, called for the “extermination of turbo-capitalism,” and aimed to disturb the Grand Prix. Around thirty protesters gathered at both Laurier Park and Hochelaga Park. The total sixty protesters left their respective parks, all on bicycles, at around 6 p.m.
The protesters rode through various streets where the Grand Prix activities were held in an attempt to disrupt the events. They claimed that the Grand Prix promotes the commodification of women – due to the increase in sex work – capitalist excess, and environmental destruction – as promoted by car culture.
The protest was not declared illegal, despite a heavy police presence, and no arrests were made. This was the first CLAC protest of the year not to be declared illegal. Last year, hundreds of protesters took part in demonstrations against the Grand Prix, and numerous clashes between protesters and police officers occurred.
The second protest organized by CLAC this past week called for the “extermination of financial capitalism,” and took place on June 10 alongside the Conference of Montreal. The conference, hosted by the International Economic Forum of the Americas (IEFA) has occurred annually in Montreal since 1994. This year’s event saw numerous speakers, including economists, chief executive officers of oil companies, and political leaders.
The meeting took place at the Hilton Bonaventure hotel. Just over thirty protesters stood to the side of the entrance to the hotel’s parking lot, which was heavily guarded by over ten protesters, as well as a few of the hotel’s security guards. Police officers were also stationed at the corners of the nearby intersection.
As onlookers across the street gathered, the protesters began to make their grievances with the IEFA clear. Norman, a member of CLAC who was holding one side of a large black banner which called for the destruction of capitalism, told The Daily the meeting was “all about these people making money off of everyone’s back.”
When asked by The Daily who “these people” referred to, Norman claimed, “We’re talking about the government; the provincial and federal government. These people are creating austerity everywhere.”
Various protesters, including Aaron Lakoff, a community organizer and DJ at CKUT, had dressed up in extermination suits. One by one, they called out the names of some of the members in the IEFA meeting, prompting another protester wearing a mask with that member’s face on it to come forward. The CLAC members dressed in extermination suits then introduced each IEFA member as a type of insect, and described how they could be fought.
For example, Christophe de Margerie, the Chairman and CEO of the multinational oil and gas company Total, was introduced by Lakoff as a “nasty parasite” that can be found “lurking around wherever there’s oil money to be made.” Lakoff also cited “class war” as a “good method of prevention and extermination” to fight this so-called “parasite.”
Regardless of the theatrics, the conference behind the line of police officers was not disrupted by the group gathered outside, and no arrests were made. Last year CLAC held a similar protest against the meeting, and while the turnout was approximately double, that protest was not disrupted by the police either.
CLAC Extermination Speeches – recorded by Davide Mastracci
[soundcloud url=”http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/96757934″ params=”color=ff6600&auto_play=false&show_artwork=true” width=” 100%” height=”166″ iframe=”true” /]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
