The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Over 250 staff members take retirement package
Over the summer, the University announced that McGill has reached 95 per cent of their $43.5 million cost reduction target, following provincial budget cuts that started last winter. The remaining 5 per cent of cuts will be made by individual faculties, mainly through the abolition of some positions, according to Provost and Acting Principal Anthony C. Masi.
The information comes after a winter semester full of uncertainty. In early December 2012, the current Parti québécois (PQ) government revealed that they would be cutting $250 million between December 2012 and April 2014 from universities across the province.
The move meant that McGill found itself out close to $38 million for 2013 and 2014, and left the University scrambling to reduce their operating budget. One of the approaches taken by the University to reduce their budget was a Voluntary Retirement Program (VRP), which aimed to avoid widespread staff dismissals by giving staff the option of a retirement package.
According to the press release sent out on July 16, over 250 staff members took advantage of the VRP, leading the University to approach their goal. The VRP was in effect from April to August 2013, and was available for university employees sixty years or older.
The majority of the 250 positions emptied by the VRP will not be replaced due to a one year hiring freeze also put into effect by the University as a cost-cutting measure.
However, Masi said, there would be “moments of thaw” throughout the year to ensure that “mission-critical services” are maintained – such as health services, and courses and educational programs – and “key positions” are protected.
In addition, the freeze only applies to staff paid from the operating fund, and does not include jobs paid for by soft funds such as research grants, which do not affect the University’s operating budgets.
Still, according to Masi, due to the size of the cuts McGill has had to absorb, students should watch out for changes in how services are provided, such as longer wait times at peak periods and changes in operating hours.
Other cost-cutting avenues pursued by McGill include 3 to 5 per cent reductions in the operating budgets of all Faculties, and a salary freeze for senior administrators.
In an interview with The Daily, Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi explained that the VRP was one of the major ways the Faculty of Arts was able to reduce costs after huge budget cuts. “The remainders [of the cuts] were met primarily through not filling vacant positions and reducing non-salary expense items.”
Despite the fact that the Faculty of Arts saw the loss of approximately 100 “low enrolment” courses, as dubbed by Dean Manfredi, the faculty will see a 15 per cent increase in the budget for teaching assistants (TAs).
The Dean explained that the money for these extra TAs came from the reallocation of resources from cancelled classes.
Despite the challenges faced by the university, Masi still expressed optimism. “We are moving in the right direction, we just need to keep our eye on the target and continue plowing ahead.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Even though most classes were out for the summer, McGill and Montreal saw its fair share of shake-ups and change. Here’s what you should know:
New DPSLL
After Morton Mendelson’s seven-year term as the inaugural Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) (DPSLL), Ollivier Dyens was appointed to the position. The DPSLL oversees aspects of Student Life (such as Athletics and Recreation, and Student Services) and Learning (including quality control for programs and courses, and Exchanges and Study Abroad). The position has been controversial, but Dyens is determined to make amends and deal with budget cuts.
Life Sciences Library closure
The Life Sciences Library, formerly housed in the McIntyre Medical Building, will be moving all of its books – excluding reserve books and the books in the Osler Library – along with its librarians to the Schulich Library of Science and Engineering. This comes after a $1.8 million budget cut, which has also caused the number of support staff to dwindle and 24-hour access to the McLennan, Schulich, and Law libraries to be cut, with the exception of final exam periods.
Preferred name policy
As of June, students are now able to have their preferred names on unofficial McGill documents such as exam rosters, class lists, and ID cards. This policy change doesn’t extend to official documents like diplomas, e-bills, or official university transcripts. As for email, students may create an alias, but must still log into portals using their legal first name. Name changes can be done online over Minerva, but hurry up: the $25 fee for a new ID card will only be waived until September 30.
Montreal’s Mayor resigns
In June, former Montreal mayor Michael Applebaum resigned amidst 14 charges of corruption. Applebaum had been elected as interim mayor after former mayor Gérald Tremblay resigned in November 2012. Laurent Blanchard was elected to serve as interim mayor until November 3, when Montrealers will take to the polls for municipal elections.
Campaign McGill
After eight years, Campaign McGill, the University’s fundraising campaign, came to a close with the announcement that just over $1 billion was raised. This money will not cover losses from budget cuts, but will instead fund student aid, the renovation of infrastructure, teaching and learning spaces, and research. Over 60 per cent of the funds are earmarked by donors – both Quebec-based and international – to go towards support for students.
AUS VP Academic resigns
At the end of July, the AUS Executive announced to the McGill community that former VP Academic Colleen Morawetz had resigned from her position due to personal reasons. The AUS Executive Committee has been fulfilling the responsibilities of Morawetz’s position since her resignation. A new VP Academic will be appointed during the first AUS meeting on September 4.
AGSEM ratifies contract for invigilators 
On May 15, after over 2 years without a contract, the university’s 800 invigilators ratified an agreement between the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) and the administration. The invigilators are unionized under AGSEM, which also represents teaching assistants at the university. The contract establishes important improvements, including a paid 15-minute break for every four hours worked, and paid overtime and training. It will be in effect until April 2015.
Lola Rosa Xpress leaves the second floor cafeteria
Lola Rosa Xpress has closed up shop in the Shatner building after only a year. According to its owner, problems such as delayed repairs, high rent, and poor communication led to a year-long loss of $30,000. In the end, Lola Rosa’s focus on made-from-scratch vegetarian food proved incompatible with the space and ethos of the second floor cafeteria. By the time The Daily went to press, SSMU VP Finance and Operations Tyler Hofmeister reported that there was no information available on a replacement.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The fight for trans* rights in Quebec 
When Akiko Asano brings her daughter Mat to their local clinic for a routine appointment, she’s never sure how they’ll be treated.
Once, Asano said, when Mat was seven years old, a new receptionist took Mat’s medical card, which had a little “M” marked down beside the sex designation. “You’ve given the wrong card,” the receptionist replied dismissively, “this card is for your son.”
Mat merely rolled her eyes, but Asano was anxious and frustrated. There was a line of people behind Asano in the office, but she explained anyways: Mat was female, as her name on the card indicated – it was just her body that was assigned male. “Oh,” the receptionist said. “So she’s intersex.”
“No,” Asano replied, frustrated. “She’s transgender. Physically she is male but psychologically she is female.” The receptionist’s only response before finally processing Mat’s information was, “That’s weird.”
Although gendered documents may seem inconsequential in day-to-day life to those whose assigned sex, gender, and self-identified gender match up, the little “F” or “M” glaring up from official identification can be the difference between a pleasant experience and a dangerous situation for trans* people.
* * *
“[In Quebec], trans* people are structurally marginalized,” Gabrielle Bouchard, trans* advocacy coordinator at the Centre for Gender Advocacy, told The Daily. “There are laws in place that will have a negative impact for sure for all trans* people, regardless of the type of transition they want to make.”
That marginalization has severe consequences for the trans* community. In 2010, a study done by Trans Pulse found that 43 per cent of trans* Ontarians had attempted suicide at some point in their life. In Montreal, local women’s shelters made headlines last winter during a severe cold snap when it was revealed that they were turning trans* women away.
Article 71 of Quebec’s Civil Code states that to change one’s gender markers, an individual must have “successfully undergone medical treatments and surgical operations involving a structural modification of the sexual organs intended to change [their] secondary sexual characteristics.”
Currently, Ontario is the only province in Canada that doesn’t have a surgical requirement. In 2012, the Ontario Human Rights Tribunal ruled that requiring the surgery was discriminatory.
Although it varies, for trans* women, the required surgery is usually a vaginoplasty; for trans* men, a hysterectomy. “The only thing these two surgeries have in common is that, at the end of the day, you’re sterile,” Bouchard said. “To be clear, [these surgeries are] important, and life-saving, for a lot of people […] But right now we’re talking about a question of choice.”
Sex reassignment surgery (SRS) – which, when mandated by law, some activists call forced sterilization – has come under fire around the world for its implications. In February 2013, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture (SRT) distributed a report calling for all countries and states to “outlaw forced or coerced sterilization in all circumstances and provide special protection to individuals belonging to marginalized groups.”
Apart from being tantamount to forced sterilization, the surgeries required are also astoundingly expensive. In Quebec, even a name change can cost up to $500. Quebec’s health care system covers the cost of the SRS if individuals have two letters from different psychologists, in addition to a doctor’s letter, asserting that the individual suffers from gender dysphoria – currently classified as a mental disorder.
A simple letter might sound easy to get, but in reality requires a lot of time and money. Just for the letters from psychologists, Bouchard estimated that an individual would “need to go see them between five and 25 times at $100 a pop.”
Even if an individual has the required surgery, if they are not legally a Canadian citizen, “it doesn’t matter,” Bouchard said. One of the requirements stipulates that you must be a Canadian citizen in order to have your legal gender marker changed; this requirement does not exist in any other province outside Quebec. Permanent residents who identify as trans* and have had surgery are prevented from full integration into Quebec society.
* * *
The third requirement of a minimum age of 18 years is especially problematic for kids like Mat. Mat socially transitioned, or began to live as a girl, when she was only three years old. In earlier years, the bullying was mostly teasing, but in middle school, it began to intensify.
Although Mat had been living “stealth” – essentially undercover as her preferred gender – for several years, Mat’s best friend accidentally let it slip that she was trans*. Classmates taunted her, telling her to pull down her pants to prove she was a real girl. The three-hour bus ride from her school to her Northern Quebec community became a nightmare.
After switching schools and even trying homeschooling, Asano and Mat moved to Montreal. Here, Asano began to meet with other parents of gender non-conforming or trans* kids for potlucks, picnics, and other informal meetings. Now, that once casual support group has blossomed into Gender Creative Kids.
Asano knows firsthand how important it is to abolish the minimum age to change the legal gender markers on her daughter’s identification. “When they’re young […] these kids don’t believe they’re trans*, they believe they are the other gender,” Asano said. “So it’s hard when they’re met up with resistance around them.”
“It’s like having a little girl who’s two years old, who says to you ‘I’m a girl’ – you don’t check her genitals to make sure she’s right.”
* * *
In April 2013, the Quebec National Assembly began to debate Bill 35, which aims at modifying part of the Civil Code. Originally, only the requirement to publish one’s name in a local paper and La Gazette officielle du Quebec upon a name change or sex change was up for debate.
In May 2013, the Trans Committee of the Conseil Québécois LGBT presented a report to Quebec’s Minister of Justice and the Commission on Institutions, outlining recommendations to abolish the surgical, citizenship, and age requirements for a legal gender marker change.
When the bill was put up for debate, the Minister for Justice proposed amending it to abolish the surgical and age requirements as well. However, this was met with fierce opposition from the Parti Libéral du Québec (PLQ) and the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ). The bill and its proposed amendments were never put to a vote, and were ultimately shelved for possible discussion when the National Assembly reconvenes this fall.
In Bouchard’s opinion, the PLQ and CAQ “clearly showed their colours, their transphobia.” Although she admitted it was possible that the surgical requirement might still be abolished through the legislative process, she was adamant that the Centre keep fighting to abolish the age and citizenship requirements.
“Either way, we will have to go to court,” Bouchard said. “Because there’s no way that we will leave behind kids, teens, and people who are trying to make Quebec their home. […] So even if we win one small portion, we’re not going to leave those people behind.”
On August 11, the Centre submitted a discrimination complaint to the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse, alleging that the requirements for  changing a legal gender marker infringe on the rights of trans* people.
Although she was optimistic about the complaint, which will be either recognized or dismissed in a few weeks time, Bouchard noted that it is possible that it might be thrown out on technicalities.
In that case, the Centre and its allies are prepared to mount a legal challenge. A top human rights lawyer, who wishes to remain anonymous at this time, has already agreed to take on the case pro bono. Bouchard has also started a GoFundMe campaign to raise money for potential administrative costs associated with a trial, as well as compensation for trans* people and allies volunteering their testimony.
It will be a long and drawn-out fight, but Bouchard and her allies are up for it. As for Asano and her daughter Mat, they are ready as well. “There is negative attention,” Asano said, referring to going public with Mat’s identity, “but at the same time [… these things] actually save people’s lives. [That] makes up for all the negative comments and backlash.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
No conflict despite police presence 
Critical Mass, a collective bike ride held in cities around the world, took to the rainy streets this past Friday for its monthly “rolling celebration of urban cycling.” Tensions were high due to both the arrests and fines at July’s Critical Mass event, and the heavy police presence at this month’s event.
The ride was declared illegal by the Service de police de la ville de Montréal (SPVM) at 6 p.m., as soon as cyclists took off from Square Phillips. Cyclists moved through the downtown area heading east before finally dispersing at the Fullum and Hochelaga intersection. Despite police tailing the cyclists on motorbikes and in cars, no arrests were made, and the ride remained peaceful.
Critical Mass aims to make a statement in favour of sustainable transportation, but reasons for individual participation vary. “I think it’s really bad what’s happening in the city right now with the police,” Nellie Briar told The Daily. “I am here to send the message that police intimidation should not work.”
Participant Fannie Dulude offered a similar sentiment. “The more people there are, the more festive it is and the safer people feel. There’s the idea that we are looking out for each other.”
Last month’s Critical Mass sparked an outcry in the media and among cyclists after an unexpected police crackdown landed some participants with a $500 fine, while 23 others were arrested.
Cyclists were ticketed under article 500.1 of the Highway Safety Code of Quebec, which prohibits the obstruction of vehicles on a public road without authorization of, and control by, the police.
Ian Lafrenière, Commander of the SPVM, told Le Devoir that cyclists were arrested in July for zig-zagging between cars, cycling against traffic, running through red lights, and, in two cases, trying to bike on the Jacques-Cartier bridge.
Darren Becker, Director of Communications for the city of Montreal, told Le Devoir that the city supported the intervention of the SPVM at the Critical Mass in July.
“I have the impression that police were profiling some of the participants last month because they thought they might have been involved in the student strikes. They don’t have a tolerance and I don’t think it is a good enough reason for their intervention,” Briar told The Daily.
The police crackdown on Critical Mass is part of a larger picture: the SPVM has been paying special attention to enforcing highway safety code provisions more strictly as part of a summer-long cyclist safety campaign.
“The issue is that we gave privilege to a police force and they’re abusing it,” participant Katie Nelson told The Daily at July’s Critical Mass. “At some point this isn’t just a cyclist issue, its an issue for everyone.”
News sources and Montrealers have taken very different stances on the crackdown. In an editorial, the Montreal Gazette supported the police crackdown, concluding, “Rather than seeing injustice in police enforcement of rules of the road for cyclists, or trying to frustrate it, cyclists would best be served by strictly obeying reasonable rules enforced in a reasonable manner.”
In contrast, the Link’s managing editor Erin Sparks published an opinion piece in June decrying the “outdated laws” for cycling in Montreal. In the Gazette’s editorial, they referred to Sparks’s piece as “the cycling lobby complaining bitterly about the crackdown.”
“The majority [of tickets] appear to be misguided attempts to criminalize cycling in a city oriented towards car travel,” Sparks wrote, adding, “Considering the increase in cyclists in the city, as well as how easy it is becoming to travel by bike around the city, the law should be adjusted to reflect these changing realities.”
A crowd-sourced Google Map created by Montrealer Dominik Richard has also garnered significant attention; it allows Montreal cyclists to mark locations where police have been seen ticketing cyclists.
Those critical of the crackdown have pointed out that many of the offenses are petty and obscure, such as $37 fines for missing pedal reflectors. In response, police promised in mid-June to focus on more severe offenses such as running red lights, and promised to meet with Vélo Québec.
To avoid being hit with these potential fines, participants of this month’s Critical Mass came prepared with extra reflectors to give out to fellow cyclists.
Statistics from both the city of Montreal and the SPVM show that accidents are not increasing, but instead decreasing, even with more cyclists on the road. In recent years, according to statistics provided by the SPVM on their cyclist safety campaign page, the total number of injuries (both minor and serious) as well as deaths has fallen from 733 in 2009 to 641 in 2011. According to Le Devoir, the number of cyclists has increased by 10 to 20 per cent each year.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
