The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Montreal Against Misogyny summer program reports back
Speakers, participants, and members of the community met on October 7 at the Centre for Gender Advocacy to report back and reflect on this summer’s Montreal Against Misogyny project.
Montreal Against Misogyny, an eight-session summer project organized by Akki Mackay and funded by McGill’s Union for Gender Empowerment, aimed to strengthen feminist allyship among cisgender men involved in radical activism. Through reading, discussion, and presentations, the group of eight men reflected on the patriarchy and their role within it, as well as its relationship to other forms of oppression.
The attendees at the reflection session discussed the goals of the project and the project’s effectiveness at reaching them, and put forward general strategies for contemporary feminist organizing.
According to Mackay, the program was successful in that it deepened the participants’ knowledge regarding social justice, and expanded their worldview. “Strengthening our analysis of patriarchy, I think, happened fairly well,” they said.
Participants expressed similar sentiments at the reflection session. Alex, a group member, described a workshop on transmisogyny as “illuminating.”
“In fact, I was really upset with myself that it was so illuminating,” Alex added.
Building skills to be an effective ally was also a major aspect of the project. Participants learned tactics to change oppressive behaviours in oneself and to challenge them in others.
According to Alex, the role-playing exercises were particularly helpful as he has been able to apply these skills in social contexts.
Although a volunteering component was planned as a part of the project, its application was inconsistent due to logistical issues. Consequently, according to Mackay, the participants had fewer opportunities to interact with members of oppressed groups and apply their knowledge.
Some attendees expressed concern that the program focused too much on theory, and questioned the effectiveness of panels and presentations in changing behaviour. Lena Palacios – an activist with the Life after Life Collective, who gave the group a presentation on transformative justice during the summer – stressed the importance of applying theoretical knowledge.
“If you want to create that kind of action, that kind of movement building, you have to be able to theorize on the ground,” she said. “What does it mean to you, in your family, in your community, on your street, in your neighbourhood? I think it’s very important to throw it back on the level of the local: what are you doing to keep people accountable?”
One attendee criticized the decision to make all presentations and discussions closed to those outside the group, and cast doubt on the transformative potential of “cis men talking to each other.”
Mackay noted that the closed group provided a level of comfort that allowed the members to reflect, without shame, on the harm that they may have caused in the past. They also explained that this method avoids placing an emotional burden on members of oppressed groups.
“My inspiration came first and foremost from feminist writers, who have written a lot about how they want cis men to work on these issues ourselves,” Mackay told The Daily.
As a closed group, the participants also had the opportunity to actively practice support for each other in a way that is often made difficult by social ideals of masculinity. “We [cis men] don’t know how to lovingly challenge each other,” said one group member.
Mackay plans to continue working with the group, and to write a zine detailing their experience. “There were things that didn’t go well, but the important thing is to learn from them and change them in the future, we’re going to keep trying,” they said. “We’re going to continue to meet once a month and maybe get some different types of groups going.”
Participants are also looking forward to continuing the discussion. “There’s a lot of really important work to be done,” said Alex.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Form McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union 
On October 17, course lecturers and instructors, previously unionized as Unit 3 of AGSEM: McGill’s Teaching Union, voted to split from the union and form their own independent body during AGSEM’s Annual General Assembly (AGA). The new union will be known as McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union (MCLIU).
According to the MCLIU President Raad Jassim, the move was a unanimous one, with almost every member of the three units of AGSEM in attendance agreeing to the separation. According to MCLIU’s website, 95 per cent of those at the AGA voted in favour of the creation of a new union separate from AGSEM.
“There are time issues, functionality issues, and grievances issues that are a little bit different, so we thought being autonomous as a unit would strengthen our positions in front of the University, inter-union councils, and certain committees,” Jassim explained to The Daily.
“We are all still in the same classroom, there is no separation there, there is actually more unity there,” Jassim continued, “but we will not be looked at by McGill as one unit. We are three different units, three different functionalities.”
“Unit 3 as its own separate union is something we have been talking about at delegates council, and with executives for 1 and 2, for quite some time. I know Unit 3 have debated it in a previous [General Assembly] of just Unit 3 members,” said Sunci Avlijas, Vice President for AGSEM Unit 1 and 2. “We all have decided that Unit 3 has given interest in running their own affairs autonomously, and Unit 1 and 2 are okay with that.”
“Unit 3 has already been autonomous within AGSEM and they have always had their own executive committee,” Avlijas explained. She noted that this created a more bureaucratic structure for AGSEM, with executives meeting, then having a coordinating committee meet before being able to come to a decision for the entire Union.
“It was all getting a little bureaucratic, it necessitated having a lot of meetings,” Avlijas said. “As well as having an executive committee meeting [every two weeks], we would also have to have a coordinating committee meeting. It just created a lot of time drain for a lot of executives and actually cost [AGSEM] quite a bit of money.”
Course lecturers and instructors became unionized under AGSEM as Unit 3 in August 2011, and have been operating without a collective agreement since then. MCLIU is currently in negotiations with the University for their first collective agreement, and have now moved to conciliation.
“McGill has stopped giving us certain things, and we are not moving because we had a consensus from all our members, so we reached a point where a conciliator has been brought in,” said Jassim.
Major terms that MCLIU is pushing for, according to Jassim, include being able to teach a higher number of courses per year, a system to determine how courses are allocated, and how seniority is calculated.
“There are a lot of detailed issues that we have put forward and we still haven’t concluded the [agreement] – that is why we are seeking the advice of a conciliator,” explained Jassim.
The union, according to Jassim, is filing the request to separate with the Commission des relations du travail, and is awaiting the decision, which could take two weeks to two months to be made.
“At the end of the day, we have three collective agreements, so it was seen and [has] been approved by all the executive committee of the three units, by the bargaining committees of the three units and by the delegate councils of all the three units as ‘this is the best way to go forward, being stronger by each own looking after their own business,’” Jassim explained.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
