The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Provost Masi visits, PPP debated, SSMU sustainability coordinator discussed
Last week, at the last bi-weekly council meetings for the Fall semester, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) discussed austerity issues.
Provost Anthony Masi attended the council meeting as well to answer questions from the councillors.
Additionally a motion, regarding the instatement of North American Studies Student Association (NASSA) motion, was passed unanimously. The motion formalized the creation of the association.
Provost Masi talks academics and finances
Councillors asked questions regarding the funding and financing of various operations and programs at McGill.
“It’s very difficult to fund things that are usually funded off of soft funds; because that means making another choice to cut something else,” Masi said, regarding the funding of Indigenous Access McGill, a resource centre in the School of Social Work for First Nations and Inuit Students, in response to a question raised by Arts Senator Claire Stewart-Kanigan.
Classics Students Association (CSA) Representative Sebastian Alexander Grant asked, “How is the budget working in regards to research for the Arts Faculty, and how do we make sure that research remains an important part of Arts?”
Masi replied that universities like McGill do not support research directly, but make sure their professors are eligible for applying for and receiving grants.
“The grant budget is actually separate from the university’s operating budget. So the operating budget allows us to hire professors, allows us to educate students. It allows us to put professors in a position to be able to apply for grants to support their research. […] The big ticket items have to be won by professors,” Masi explained.
AUS to increase student participation in Arts staff reorganization
Philosophy Students’ Association VP External Agatha Slupek and McGill Industrial Relations Association (MIRA) Representative Matthew Crawford-Appignanesi presented a motion for AUS to oppose the displacement of support staff in the Faculty of Arts.
The original motion asked for the AUS to take action before December 14, and at the beginning of Winter semester, to inform AUS members about the issue, and to draft a letter opposing the reorganizations.
“Although we have made conversation in the AUS council about the PPP [People, Processes and Partnerships] and restructuring efforts, there hasn’t been, I think, a unified positive response from the students, staff, or faculty, with respect to the proposed changes made to the Faculty of Arts,” Slupek said to the council.
One concern regarding the motion was voiced by Arts Representative to SSMU Ben Reedijk, who said, “Whenever you are opposing change, I think you are either implicitly supporting the status quo, or proposing another alternative. […] Is the idea that we are happier with the status quo?”
“A primary concern raised […] is that this is symptomatic of the larger climate of austerity that’s being implemented on Arts programs and the university as a whole.  [The motion is] definitely not to support the status quo, but it’s definitely to oppose the infringement of the rights guaranteed by collective agreements,” Slupek responded.
Crawford-Appignanesi cited labour and legal issues as his main concerns about the currently proposed reorganization plans. In addition, he also said that the potential benefits of the plans were not worthwhile.
AUS President Justin Fletcher said that he could not support the motion as it was and voiced his concern about “making a statement opposing the restructuring when we have been so involved since the beginning.”
The original motion failed to pass, however Crawford-Appignanesi drafted a new motion, which would later be passed, during the Council meeting which asked the AUS to hold a Town Hall in January about the reorganization, rather than outright opposing it.
AUSec to respond to SSMU’s abolition of the sustainability coordinator position
Additionally at the meeting, representatives of the AUS Environmental Council (AUSec) informed the Council of the abolition of the Students Society of McGill University’s (SSMU) sustainability coordinator position, a development blamed on its budget balancing.
“The spirit of the motion is that, we are making a statement that we are disappointed that this position has been eliminated,” AUSec representative Courtney Quinn said to the Council.
General consensus among the councillors was to refrain from commenting on SSMU’s budgetary decisions.
Reedijk stated that the sustainability coordinator was not cut on the whims of the executive members, and that they agonized over this decision.
Crawford-Appignanesi said that the Council should take these sentiments into consideration; however that they should urge SSMU to calculate priorities.
AUS approved the motion with two votes against and six abstentions. AUSec stated that they will convey the Council’s sentiments to SSMU.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Discusses the potential of an upcoming financial surplus
On November 28, the Board of Governors (BoG), the highest governing body at McGill, convened for the second time this semester. During the open session of the meeting, the BoG discussed research funding, other financial issues, the ongoing sexual assault case, and the proposed Quebec Charter of Values.
According to Jonathan Mooney, Secretary-General of the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) and a governor at the BoG, “this was one of the Board meetings […] in the last years that had the most items in open session.”
“There has been a lot of discussion at the Board level […] about increasing transparency. [This is] something that the Principal and the Board chair have really made an effort to do, and so I am proud of that and really happy about that,” Mooney said to The Daily, after the meeting.
Financial Planning
One issue on the BoG’s agenda was the financial report presented by Provost Anthony Masi and Vice Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa.
According to Masi, McGill is in the early stage of planning next year’s budget, and is looking at what it will do now that there has been some re-investment from the government.
“It’s predicted that there’s going to be a surplus over the next four to five years, and it is because Minister Duchesne made an announcement where he said that there is going to be an additional $1.7 billion invested in Quebec universities,” Mooney said to The Daily.
The BoG discussed three potential ways in which McGill could use the surplus money. One idea was to use it to address the deferred maintenance problem, as there are buildings that are crumbling.
Other members mentioned that McGill had an additional $100 million in debt, and the surplus should be used to pay that off.
Another idea, proposed by Mooney, was to invest in hiring more professors in order to maintain a low student-faculty ratio.
“One of the things that has been said at the Board over and over again, is that one of the reasons we’re slipping in the rankings in some cases is because we’re seeing the ratio deteriorate,” Mooney explained. “It’s just a question of […] so many things pulling at us, in terms of where we need to spend money.”
Sexual assault case
The open session started with Principal Suzanne Fortier’s remarks. Fortier mentioned the sexual assault charges against three McGill students, and said “We have to make it clear that we take allegations of that matter very seriously.”
Deputy Provost (Student Life & Learning) Ollivier Dyens (DPSLL) had sent an email to the McGill community on November 21, in which he stated that the overall response of the University did not meet the expectations of the community, and that the University would hire a full-time coordinator, who would work with Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS).
When asked by governor Kenneth Hastings about the financial aspects of this new position, Dyens said that the first six months of the position would be funded through savings the University had made, with the DPSLL budget funding the majority of it.
 Quebec Charter of Values
Also discussed at the BoG meeting was the Quebec Charter of Values (Bill 60). The motion that was brought to BoG’s attention was the same as one that was passed unanimously by Senate on November 20.
In January, McGill will participate in the public hearings at the Committee on Institutions of the Quebec National Assembly and will present its position on the Charter.
“The Board will see it wise to have a resolution, as we did in Senate, so we can go to the hearings with the support of our Board,” Fortier said while presenting the motion.
Governor Ronald Critchley questioned the secular spirit of the Charter, which the resolution said to uphold, and commented that the Charter could be the “thin end of a wedge that invades the freedom of a semi-independent university.”
“If we are neutral, and truly secular and we accept the so-called secularism of Bill 60, does this bode well for the future of affiliated institutions that teach Presbyterianism, that teach the Anglican creed, that teach United Church theology?” Critchley asked.
The student observer of McGill Association for Continuing Education Students (MACES), Amine Arezki said, “What is expected of us it that we respond to what is good for the environment. I think if there is a problem with the niqab, it should be handled internally, and not necessarily in response to the government.”
“I feel it was strange that the university employees were treated like government employees. We are independent here,” Arezki continued.
The BoG unanimously approved the motion, and an email on behalf of the BoG was sent to the McGill community on November 29.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
