The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Long wait times cited as concern
McGill Student Health Services is considering cutting coverage for spouses and partners of students to reduce long wait times at the Health Clinic.
Currently, the Student Health Clinic offers its services to dependants – spouses or partners, and children for emergencies only – of international or out-of-province students.
In the past, services were offered to other groups on and off campus, such as students visiting from other universities over the summer, or visiting for a conference. Now, apart from dependants, the only extraneous services offered by Health Services are occasional public health initiatives, such as the H1N1 clinics offered in 2009.
Director of Student Health Services Dr. Pierre-Paul Tellier explained that these extra services were designed to keep physicians busy, but that the situation had changed.
“We’re overwhelmed with the demand, and we have fewer physicians,” Tellier said, adding that it was harder to recruit new physicians due to government restrictions on healthcare policies.
Other time-saving initiatives have been implemented in recent years. Nurses are trained to do certain exams, such as gynecological exams, and write initial prescriptions for contraception that are valid for a year.
However, Tellier told SSMU at a Legislative Council meeting on February 12 that Health Services is still unable to meet the needs of students. “We see the waiting lines, we hear the complaints,” said Tellier.
Tellier stressed that offering services to spouses, partners, and children was “a courtesy” that was “curtailing the service that we can offer to people who have paid for those services.”
Tellier emphasized that the cuts would mainly affect spouses and partners, as very few children are seen by the Health Clinic.
Even if the service was cut, it would not disappear automatically. “It’s not like we’re going to cut the service [overnight],” said Tellier, “We [would] continue offering it for at least one year, so people [could] then transition and hopefully find other places.”
Currently, if out-of-province, international students or dependants use health services outside of McGill, there are extra costs – that is, if they can find a physician.
“[In the case of cuts] we would look for other places to go, we’re not going to leave them high and dry,” Tellier said. “But that’s a big promise to try and fill because we know there are not many physicians across the city.”
The number of extra physician availabilities that would be created with the discontinuation of this service is hard to pinpoint. Health Services is currently in the process of implementing an electronic records system that would be better able to track who is using health services at McGill – something the current paper system can’t do.
Tellier has been talking to student groups about the possibility of this initiative since last spring. “My intention [at this point] is to get a little bit more information and make the decision now that I know how the students feel, after talking to the student leaders,” Tellier said.
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Health and Wellness Committee said in April that “a balance needs to be found between accommodating students with dependants (particularly international students whose [spouses have] accompanied them to Montreal) and prioritizing students who pay for the services.”
In the end, PGSS decided to continue lobbying for the continuation of services for dependants, but also moved to investigate the implementation of an opt-in fee for spouses and dependants.
In an email to The Daily, PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney wrote that members of the PGSS executive committee are currently looking into the matter.
When Tellier spoke at SSMU Council, he stated that health coverage was an added incentive that “helps recruit the best students,” but emphasized, “bottom line, we’re not there to make McGill’s life easier…we’re there to serve the students.”
At the meeting, SSMU Council members spoke in favour of continuing services for dependants.
“Student spouses have a huge effect on how students operate on campus,” said Clubs & Services Representative Zachary Rosentzveig. “[I think] it’s great we offer them services.”
Tellier stressed that the possible cuts to health coverage for dependants was a more long-term, flexible decision, and that other initiatives – such as administration turnover and the implementation of the electronic records system – were priorities at the moment.
However, in the end, he said, “[the decision] might not necessarily be in my hands. I might be told, ‘I’m sorry but you can’t offer that service’.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Upper administrative and dean salaries to take 3 per cent cut, employees say.
 
The McGill administration met with representatives of employee groups from across the university last week to discuss a series of cost-cutting initiatives, including hiring and wage freezes, and early retirement packages.
According to interviews with employee group representatives, the administration is seeking across-the-board wage freezes for the 2013-14 fiscal year.
The McGill Association of University Teachers (MAUT) executive has met with the administration regarding a wage freeze for professors. MAUT President Alvin Shrier declined to comment further until the matter had been brought back to the association’s council.
Several employee group representatives interviewed by The Daily, however, said that human resources had told them that faculty had already accepted a wage freeze for 2013.
The McGill University Non-Academic Staff Association (MUNASA) executive met with human resources on Tuesday.  Because the meeting took place “in the strictest confidence,” according to MUNASA President Ron Critchley, he would not comment on the details of the administration’s proposal.
Neither MUNASA – which represents roughly 500 workers across campus – nor MAUT are unions, which means that they do not have the legal protection afforded to campus unions through their collective agreements.
Their only recourse, according to Critchley, will be “moral suasion.”
For unions, wage freezes would mean re-opening collective agreements in order to cancel or defer previously negotiated scheduled pay increases.
The McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), which represents 1,700 workers across campus, met with the administration on Tuesday. According to MUNACA VP Finance David Kalant, the board of representatives has already decided to refuse to re-open the collective agreement.
The administration’s proposal would have cancelled a 1.5 per cent wage increase due in June, as well as scheduled pay-step increases.
“They want employees to take this wage freeze, and certainly the cuts from the government are ridiculous, but on the other hand, McGill has become top-heavy in the last few years,” Kalant said.  “The number of layers of upper administration seem to be growing […] when they say there’s no fat at the top. There is.”
Those with job security will be protected, according to Kalant, but those roughly 100 MUNACA members who don’t “are very vulnerable.”
AGSEM – McGill’s Teaching Union’s Teaching Assistant (TA) unit was also asked to re-open their collective agreement. Their membership will vote on the proposal during their March 27 general assembly, though AGSEM Vice-President Justin Marleau said the AGSEM executive will recommend they reject the proposal, which would have cancelled 1.2 per cent wages increases due next January.
“The admin are saying that everyone needs to be contributing equally to sacrifices. But we did not benefit during the good years – our pay rates have barely kept pace with inflation,” Marleau said. “Why should one of the poorest employee groups be making the same sacrifices?”
The Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) was asked last Friday to re-open their collective agreement to cancel the 2013 pay increases.  Though she “doesn’t want to speak for their membership,” the union’s president, Jaime MacLean, said that it’s “highly unlikely” that will happen.
According to several employee group representatives interviewed, the administration is offering a 3 per cent cut on all upper administration and Dean salaries.
Director of Internal Relations Doug Sweet declined to confirm the 3 per cent cut, saying only that “a message about this package of measures will be sent to the entire McGill community, and that message could come as soon as early next week.”
In late February, the province rescinded a monetary penalty for not trimming university budgets immediately, extended the timetables for administering cuts over five- and seven-year periods, and promised a $1.7-billion reinvestment in 2014-2015.
The McGill administration is saying that this will make little difference, and that waiting to implement cuts later rather than sooner will only further balloon the University’s accumulated deficit.
Citing that this reinvestment is contingent on economic conditions in the province at that time, VP Finance Michael Di Grappa said that the University “cannot responsibly count on this investment,” in an internal memorandum to the community.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council discusses ‘Vision Board,’  Leacock restructuring, Orientation Innovation Fund
Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) councillors convened Wednesday to discuss motions regarding the Equity Policy, Fine Arts Council funding to the Mosaica dance group, among others.  All tabled motions were passed and adopted.
In October, Council had passed a motion to create an ad hoc committee to look into creating an Equity Policy. On Wednesday, a motion to adopt the policy created by this committee passed with a single opposing vote.
According to Article 3, the AUS Equity Policy allows for the establishment of the AUS Equity Committee, which will be a standing committee of the AUS Council.  This committee will consist of two Equity Commissioners, at least two members-at-large and the AUS VP Internal.
The Committee will deal with equity complaints through the informal method of mediation, or where it’s not applicable, through the formal method of investigation.
Three presentations were given to councillors: on the restructuring of the Leacock building; a new vision for AUS presented by Senator Max Zidel to provide better communication between the Society and the administration; and a proposal by Student Life Coordinator Mitchell Miller and former AUS VP Events Josh Greenberg about an Orientation Innovation Fund.
Associate Dean Gillian Lane-Mercier started the Council meeting with a presentation on two plans for the restructuring of the Leacock building. The plans would group administrative officers (AOs) and services on the sixth floor of Leacock. A welcome centre and student service hub would be built on the third floor.
The initiative is a response to concerns that specific departments may be left without qualified administrators after a voluntary retirement program is put in place. This program, coupled with a recent provincial administrative cost-cutting initiative, Bill 100, will reduce the number of administrators in the faculty.
“[We] are very very worried that within six weeks that voluntary retirement packages will be accepted,” Lane-Mercier told Council.
Zidel then presented a new initiative he dubbed the “AUS Vision.”
“I think it would be great if the AUS had a better relationship with the Arts administration; one that is more organic, more fluid, and that naturally fits into the structure right now,” said Zidel, while introducing his proposal.
Currently there are many committees in the Faculty of Arts that have spaces for student members, however it is difficult for the AUS to track the progress of all these.
“The primary purpose of this vision board would be to track committee representation and plan strategically at the faculty level,” said Zidel in an e-mail to The Daily. “[The initiative] will be subject to extensive consultation, AUS council amendments and another year of feedback before we even begin the process of bylaw or constitution change,” he said.
Miller and Greenberg made another presentation, about the creation of an Orientation Innovation Fund, which, if created, would be used to provide funds to create new orientation initiatives.
Miller and Greenberg asked the AUS to invest $17,000, the amount that was declared as budget surplus by the AUS in February, into this fund.
AUS VP Finance Saad Qazi had said to The Daily that this money would be put into the AUS’ savings account.
AUS VP Internal Justin Fletcher said that AUS might want to reinvest the money into Arts Frosh, to help students who wanted to attend Frosh but found it too expensive.
Miller responded by saying that the money could be used to diversify the overall orientation week experience for all students, and not just Arts students.
Of the three motions discussed, two were procedural ones that did not undergo debate, but were voted on immediately. These two, Fine Arts Council funding to the Mosaica dance group, and an addition to the President’s budget regarding an advising event were both passed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
