The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Correction appended January 12, 2014
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) has seen its share of challenges this past semester, but these have resulted in little tangible action on political issues. Attempts to campaign against issues such as the Charter of Values and cultural appropriation failed to gain significant clout. SSMU did finally open up the long-awaited student-run café, but it fell short of expectations. General assemblies have been poorly attended and poorly organized. Although the Legislative Council and the executive are internally cohesive, they have remained distant from the student body.

Katie Larson’s first semester as President has left much to be desired. The SSMU executive has presented a united front, but has accomplished little in the way of political stances. Larson herself has not been particularly vocal in Senate or the Board of Governors, and fails to connect with the student body about relevant issues.
Communication with campus media is also a weakness for Larson, and should be improved upon to better provide information to the student body.
Unlike her predecessor, Larson hasn’t made improvements toward the dismal attendance of the General Assemblies (GAs), and has been criticized by both campus media and Legislative Council for the lack of advertising. However, Larson recognized the GA as a weak spot in an email to The Daily, and said that open discussions on changes to the GA format will be scheduled for this semester.
Lease negotiations continue to stretch on into their fourth year, and although Larson told The Daily that the negotiations were progressing well, due to their confidential nature, it is difficult to know if they will wrap up by the end of this school year.
Larson pointed to the amendment of the out-of-date SSMU constitution, to ensure it was still legal in Quebec, as a success for her and the executive. However, this success did not come without some confusion over the by-laws surrounding the constitution’s approval.
As for next semester, Larson told The Daily she was looking forward to a discussion about SSMU’s sustainability mandate. However, part of this discussion was spurred by the abrupt departure of the Sustainability Coordinator – an issue about which SSMU has not been transparent.

One of the main duties of VP Internal is Orientation Week, including Frosh. For yet another year, SSMU and other groups introduced small initiatives that aimed to make Frosh more inclusive of underage and non-drinking students, as well as more sustainable and with more equitable events.
However, one of the biggest failures on Brian Farnan’s part was the $21,000 lost on Frosh. According to Farnan, simple budgeting mistakes – such as failing to calculate PayPal commission, miscalculating taxes on sponsorship, and overspending on new initiatives – accounted for most of the loss. To avoid a similar situation in the future, the responsibility for Frosh’s $200,000 budget will be put into the hands of SSMU’s accounting department instead of students.
Farnan’s communication with The Daily has been poor at best, and he often fails to respond to emails and phone calls. As an elected and paid official, Farnan needs to seriously improve his communication with campus media if he wants to be transparent about his duties.

The VP External portfolio is usually the most politically charged of SSMU’s executive positions. As this year’s VP External, Samuel Harris was tasked with working with the Montreal and Quebec community through various campaigns and associations. One ad hoc campaign, in opposition to the Charter of Values, was slow to get off the ground, though Harris told The Daily that it was limited by the lack of quorum at the Fall GA.
Harris continued the street team project started last year as a part of a community relations initiative during Frosh. Although Harris called Frosh a “mixed bag,” he stated that he believed that there were less noise complaints this year than last.
However, Harris hasn’t followed through on some of his campaign promises, such as opposition to the indexation of tuition and the integration of students into the Milton-Parc community. Although Harris did work on the issues in the beginning of the semester, any further work since that time has not been visible.
Instead, Harris has focused on the Table de concertation étudiante du Québec (TaCEQ), one of the main student lobbies in Quebec, of which SSMU is a founding member. Harris told The Daily that the promotion of TaCEQ became a case of damage control after the failure to host a TaCEQ congress. However, TaCEQ has faced criticism in the past from campus media, SSMU Legislative Council, and SSMU executives.
In the upcoming semester, Harris told The Daily he would be hosting a forum between Montreal student unions, something that failed to happen last semester.

The VP University Affairs portfolio is primarily in charge of negotiating student affairs at the University level, among other responsibilities – sitting on Senate and University committees, Equity at SSMU, library improvement, and research. Shea has been noticeably vocal at Senate, and has also been transparent and open with campus media.
Shea’s biggest accomplishments of the term include the creation of an ad hoc mental health committee at SSMU with the goal of creating a substantive mental health policy by the end of the year – which Shea expects to see at Council by late January or early February. As well, Shea drew attention at Senate to a surplus in the Student Services budget. Plans to spend the surplus on administrative affairs instead of student services were soon corrected.
Additionally, Shea saw an unexpected turn of events – the sexual assault allegations levelled against three Redmen players in November – as an opportunity to start an important campus conversation about rape culture and sexual assault.
Shea considered one of her bigger failures to be Legislative Council’s failure to pass a motion banning the song “Blurred Lines,” as well as SSMU’s much-criticized Costume Campaign, which ended up misusing cultural appropriation in an attempt to denounce it.
Next semester, Shea will be focusing on passing a mental health policy, as well as following up on the sexual assault allegations, and potentially terminating lease negotiations in conjunction with SSMU’s president.

While not as politically active as his predecessor, Stefan Fong has steadily dealt with the myriad challenges of the Clubs & Services portfolio. Fong told The Daily that he focused on the logistical and administrative aspect of the job, rather than the sometimes problematic dynamics between clubs. Fong has revamped many logistical aspects of the portfolio, including club audits, the room booking system, activities night, and the fourth floor of the SSMU building.
The changes to the room booking system allow rooms to be booked earlier. Fong told The Daily that the new system has received mixed reviews, but that it eased the pressure on both groups and the administrative side of SSMU.
The allocation of offices on the fourth floor of SSMU to clubs faced some problems. According to Fong, problems with a mice infestation and fire hazards complicated the allocation, causing delays and frustration with clubs.
Fong’s most ambitious project for the next semester is the creation of ClubHub, a management portal. Due to the length of SSMU executive positions, it is almost sure that it will not be finished this year, but the initiative is a crucial foundation for the future VP Clubs & Services.

Tyler Hofmeister’s first semester has largely been marked by lease negotiations, SSMU’s budget, and the financial questions surrounding the opening of the new student-run cafe (SRC). Hofmeister’s communication with campus media has been reliable but tenuous, as the VP Finance and Operations requests that all communication be done over email.
Hofmeister faced a deficit of $90,000 in the 2013-14 SSMU budget due to the uncertainty of lease negotiations and utilities expenses, but managed to rearrange it so that the operating budget broke even. This was largely achieved through cutting costs in the General Administration category, as well as executives’ personal budgets, Building, Club, and IT budgets. Hofmeister also outlined a long-term project that he has been working on in which SSMU is doubling the rate of interest on its account holdings, projected to save SSMU thousands of dollars per year. Hofmeister is also working on institutionalizing this approach in order to continue the process.
However, many long-term expenses were shifted, putting forward the possibility that SSMU will face a deficit in the future.
Hofmeister wrote to The Daily in an email that his biggest accomplishment was the opening of the SRC in the cafeteria space formerly occupied by Lola Rosa. The SRC, while certainly a step in the right direction, reneges on former promises by SSMU to create a student space with the new opening, instead opting for a lunch counter. The true success of the SRC in the future will hinge on an ability to create and expand into a space for students.
In an earlier version of this piece, The Daily stated that Tyler Hofmeister rearranged the SSMU budget to project a $50,000 surplus. In fact, this money was transferred into the Capital Expenditures Reserve Fund, and the operating budget broke even. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Implications of ruling yet to be determined
On December 20, the Supreme Court of Canada made a landmark ruling in the Bedford v. Canada case by striking down three core provisions of Canada’s sex work laws. The unanimous decision leaves the federal government one year to provide new, legally viable legislation.
The case, brought forward by current and former sex workers Terri-Jean Bedford, Amy Lebovitch, and Valerie Scott, challenged three anti-sex work laws: the “bawdy house law,” which prevents the owning, managing, or occupying of a “brothel”; “living on the avails,” which prevents any third party from profiting off of another person’s sex work; and the “communicating law,” which prohibits any communication for the purpose of sexual services for money in public.
Chez Stella is a Montreal-based organization that advocates for the decriminalization of sex work. Their website outlines that the laws in question make it illegal for sex workers to work from their own homes, hire bodyguards or drivers, or speak in public with clients about specifics such as condom use and which sex acts they consent to.
The organization has advocated for the laws to be invalidated, arguing, “Any law that contributes to the number of deaths, confinements, thefts, physical assaults, and sexual assaults experienced by one group of people – in the name of decreasing street noise, unwanted advances, and moral discomfort experienced by another group of people – is not acceptable and must be struck down.”
“What the court is saying very strongly with its interpretation [of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms] is that Canadians have a right to policies that are demonstrably shown to protect their interests, rather than policies that are based on moral convictions.”
Concordia University’s Simone de Beauvoir Institute gained intervener status in the Bedford case in June 2013. According to Viviane Namaste, of the Institute, the decision is a step in the right direction.
“The recent ruling is quite a symbolic victory in saying that sex workers that are engaged in the exchange of sex for money – which is entirely legal in the Canadian context – have the right to do so safely,” Namaste told The Daily.
According to Namaste, despite the ruling, there are still sub-articles of the Criminal Code that criminalize activities related to sex work. Namaste explained to The Daily that new legislation should take into account those it affects, stating, “The next step needs to ensure that sex workers are involved in every step along the way to all solutions.”
“For us at the Simone de Beauvoir Institute, we really considered the Supreme Court decision a feminist victory […] because it has struck down laws which were proven to increase violence against women,” maintained Namaste.
However, the notion that this ruling will promote the safety and protection of sex workers is contested. Claudette Dumont-Smith, Executive Director of the Native Women’s Association of Canada (NWAC), condemned the ruling in a press release on December 20.
“The NWAC is very disappointed with [the Supreme Court decision] as it fails to protect Aboriginal women and girls who are among the most vulnerable population in Canada,” she stated. “The state has pushed Aboriginal women from one institution to another – residential schools, foster homes, group homes, and prisons, to name a few. NWAC refuses to accept brothels as the new official institution for Aboriginal women and girls and we refuse to accept that prostitution is the solution to addressing women’s poverty.”
The NWAC has expressed concern that decriminalizing sex work will attract human traffickers and pimps, which would increase the sexual exploitation of, and violence against, Indigenous girls and women.
Instead, they support the Nordic model of sex work regulation, which only criminalizes pimping and the purchase of sex. The NWAC plans to be involved in the federal government’s discussion of new sex work legislation.
“Any law that contributes to the number of deaths, confinements, thefts, physical assaults, and sexual assaults experienced by one group of people – in the name of decreasing street noise, unwanted advances, and moral discomfort experienced by another group of people – is not acceptable and must be struck down.”
The policy impact of the Bedford decision is up in the air. The three provisions were struck down because they were deemed inconsistent with other legislation concerning sex work and the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Speaking to The Daily, Professor Daniel Weinstock of McGill’s Faculty of Law explained that the government has a variety of regulatory options.
“One response could be for [the government] to say ‘Fine, it will be illegal to sell sexual services for money in Canada,’” said Weinstock. “They could also allow the provisions to lapse in full […] ideologically, I think that [the current] government would be inclined to do something more restrictive.”
The fact that the Supreme Court’s decision was unanimous is significant, and could impact future rulings in other areas of the law. Weinstock suggested that there are similarities between Bedford v. Canada and the controversy surrounding assisted suicide and euthanasia.
“What the court is saying very strongly with its interpretation [of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms] is that Canadians have a right to policies that are demonstrably shown to protect their interests, rather than policies that are based on moral convictions,” said Weinstock.
Parliament resumes on January 27. Weinstock expects the federal government’s future decisions to be impacted by the outcome of Bedford, arguing, “This government is predisposed to govern with an ideological hand, and I think the Supreme Court is saying that won’t pass. We have to see that with respect to these crucial issues – the most fundamental life, liberty, and security interests of Canadians – that we have policies that are governed by the best available evidence.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Four sites will help reduce infection, overdose among drug users
It was announced in December 2013 that Montreal will soon be home to four supervised injection sites. The sites will include three permanent locations in already existing clinics across the city, as well as one mobile clinic to serve the Montreal area.
The news comes after a decade-long struggle between the Canadian federal government and the Quebec-based organizations that have been advocating for supervised injection sites (SIS) in Montreal ever since the first site, Insite Vancouver, was established in 2003.
SISs are places where injection-drug users can go to obtain clean needles and dispose of used ones. Additionally, social workers and on-site emergency medical attention are available to users if needed. These sites are part of an approach known as harm reduction, which involves programs that provide safe spaces and medical services for drug users in a non-judgemental and non-coercive manner.
Since its inception, Insite has operated under an exemption to the Controlled Drug and Substances Act, allowing it to legally provide help to drug users.
Inspired by Insite, Montreal-based organizations, such as Association pour la Défense des Droits et l’Inclusion des personnes qui Consomment des drogues du Québec (ADDICQ) and CACTUS Montreal, began campaigning for SISs in 2003. However, they were unable to obtain the same exemption that Insite was given, and thus had little hope of creating the sites. In 2011, the Supreme Court ruled that Insite was a necessary service, according to Sylvain Côté of ADDICQ, a community-based organization that provides support for injection drug users.
“It was a decision that said that Insite should be not only implemented but continued as an essential service for drug addicts that saves lives and that could prevent overdoses and HIV,” said Carole Morissette, public health doctor for Montreal Public Health. “For us, in Montreal, that judgement was a real boost in this situation and then gave us an opening.” This decision fueled a huge campaign for SISs in Montreal.
“We campaign,” said Côté, “we did some protest[s], we wrote letters…we demand to be included on the committee that was working on SISs, such as the public health committee of Montreal.”
Côté noted that such sites are important as they create services for drug users that allow them to perform injections in a safe space, dispose of their used needles properly, and obtain medical services if needed. Both they and the surrounding community benefit, with lower instances of both common diseases in users and drug usage in public.
“What we see is that […] people who would use the safer injection sites are people who have no place to go to inject themselves safely,” said Amélie Panneton, community organizer with CACTUS Montreal. “[This] means that usually they consume the drugs in the street, in the public domain, which is dangerous for them because we know there are lots and lots of overdoses in public spaces.”
One important aspect of SISs is that they provide on-site access to medical care and give users access to a social worker if they decide that they want to stop using, or need support.
“We have lots of evaluations and research projects that can demonstrate the efficacy of safer injection sites to prevent death to prevent overdoses, and to prevent HIV […] and that help drug users to be related to the rest of the health network and have access to other services they need,” said Morissette.
“The main obstacle is from the Conservative government,” said Côté, “but public health departments from major cities […] are really supporting the idea.” The federal government’s policy on drug prevention does not favour supervised injection sites, Côté noted. They have instead chosen to focus more on increasing funding for law enforcement and preventative education, while decreasing spending on harm reduction. “They simply consider drugs as evil – people who use drugs as criminals,” Côté added.
Some opposed to SISs argue that sites like these promote illicit behaviour and can lead to increases in crime and drug use in the area, a major reason behind the Conservative tabling of Bill C-65 (also known as the “Respect for Communities Act”) this summer that sought to make it harder to have such sites.
Panneton noted that the sites are awaiting the go-ahead for funding from the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux (MSSS), a process whose length CACTUS cannot fully predict. Additionally, the sites would have to receive an exception from the federal Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, such as Insite did in Vancouver.
For organizations like CACTUS, the creation of these sites is a step towards reducing the harm caused by illicit drug use in Montreal. “We’ve been giving out material,” said Panneton. “We’ve been doing intervention with these people, trying the best we can. But we see that we would really need a safe injection site to help even more, that’s why we find it really really important to have multiple sites in Montreal.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
