The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS Equity Commissioners discuss equity with The Daily
On March 20, 2013, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) adopted its Equity Policy, which allowed for the creation of an AUS Equity Committee. Nearly a year later, on February 22, the AUS Equity Committee held its first ever workshop-based conference on equity.
Despite featuring workshops based on sustainability, Indigenous feminisms and anti-capitalism, and transitioning, the conference, entitled “Mythbusting,” did not have a high turnout, with around 15 attendees.  
Speaking to The Daily in an interview, Equity Commissioner Hannah Sinclair tied the low turnout to the fact that it was the Equity Committee’s first year in action.
“But we had really fantastic speakers, and people who did come really enjoyed it,” Sinclair added. “We had great discussions.”
The Mythbusting conference is not the only thing the Equity Committee has done over the course of the past year. According to Sinclair, the Committee’s main goal has been trying to get off the ground this year.
“Not a lot of people know about us. It’s definitely about getting the word out that we are a resource, that we are available to people,” Sinclair explained. “We’d love for somebody to come and ask us for help or for information.”   
AUS Equity Commissioner Josh Falek told The Daily, “We’re really just trying to institutionalize equity within the AUS, so that later other Equity Commissioners don’t have to be facing the same kind of barriers that we necessarily are.”
One such attempt at institutionalizing equity was a motion adopted on February 12 that aimed to increase equity presence at AUS events. The Equity Policy was amended so that Equity Officers could attend AUS-affiliated events, such as student orientations, without expense to the Commissioners.
Both Falek and Sinclair agreed that the main function of the Equity Committee is to create a culture of knowledge around what equity is supposed to be.
“The best thing to do when we discuss equity is to compare it to equality, because that’s the term most people understand. And equality is usually making everything fifty-fifty; putting everyone on the same level,” Falek explained. “Equity really is understanding the context, in which different people are coming from, and so it means that different people need different things.”
Falek further explained that most students on campus do not know how equity processes work in various student associations. According to him, it became especially visible through Students’ Society of McGill University VP Internal Brian Farnan’s apology, which sparked campus-wide criticism.
“It’s definitely as a result of all of the issues that we’ve been having on campus that people feel like they are being infringed upon, but it’s a false impression,” Sinclair said.
Sinclair explained, “There is a difference between freedom of speech and hate speech. You’re not going to go ahead and say something horrible to a person, right? You want to remember the context that you’re in, whom you’re speaking to.” Sinclair continued, “What we are trying to do is to remind people of what their context is, and where they’re speaking, and to whom they are reaching, and any issues that might bring about.”
“To be fair, though, we’re not calling for censorship,” Falek said. “But we think that it is preferably in line with SSMU and University guidelines, to feel that there are certain words and sentiments that should not be shared on campus.”
“At least in an official capacity,” added Sinclair.
Falek and Sinclair both agreed that if people have complaints about, or do not completely understand, equity, they should be more willing to seek information.
“I always think that the best thing the people can do for equity, if they want to get involved, they want that kind of information, is to contact us, contact SSMU Equity, contact [Engineering Undergraduate Society] Equity, if they want to have a talk, if they want to deal with what they have complaints about, if they want to deal with what they feel is not happening,” Falek explained. 
“We have to understand that equity is a process,” Sinclair said. “So we have to see ourselves as being parts of that process, right now. Things, I hope, will continue to improve, and will continue to be more accountable, more transparent, and more equitable.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Approves new SSMU lease, discusses federal and provincial budgets
On February 27, the McGill Board of Governors (BoG) met for the first time this semester. Highlights of the open session included discussion of the implications of the federal and provincial budgets and the approval of the new Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) lease.
The BoG, McGill’s highest governing body, is led by Principal Suzanne Fortier and Chair Stuart “Kip” Cobbett, with the board comprised of McGill alumni and members of the Montreal community. It also has two student representatives, Katie Larson, SSMU President, and Jonathan Mooney, Secretary-General of the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS).
The highlight of the meeting was the renewal of the lease with SSMU. Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens outlined the ten-year lease, noting a $5,000 yearly increase in rent and a negotiated agreement to share energy costs. “I personally think it is a good lease for both parties,” said Dyens.
Mooney questioned how the administration determines “what is fair” for this type of lease without market rates. Dyens explained that the law requires the University to provide student groups with “a space and furniture,” which is met by the provision of space for the SSMU executive in the Brown building. For the rest, “they need to participate in the costs of the building.”
The BoG approved the lease, finalizing years of work from multiple SSMU executives.
Fortier also spoke during the meeting, commenting that the federal budget, released on February 11, was a “very good budget for the university sector,” noting an investment of $1.5 billion over the next ten years and a focus on creating internship opportunities for students.
Fortier said that the provincial government intends to look at the tuition policy for out-of-province students, but has not released any further details. According to Fortier, the provincial government has been looking at reducing its investment in, and grants for, out-of-province students. 25 per cent of McGill students are classified as out-of-province.
Fortier then brought forward the conclusions and outcomes of McGill’s Strategic Reframing Initiative (SRI). Launched in 2010, the program involved the launch of 35 improvement projects.
According to Fortier, the program may have been overly ambitious with 35 projects. Due to unforeseen budgetary constraints, not all projects were completed.
Presenting the report of the Building and Property Committee, committee chair Peter Coughlin emphasized the need to change the way McGill approves major projects, stating that the current method allows projects to be approved before they can be costed properly.
The presentation of the Finance Committee’s report revealed that the University is tracking toward a $10 million deficit, which is what had been previously budgeted.
Provost Anthony Masi presented the committee’s second budget planning report for 2014-15. He noted that difficulties interpreting the provincial budget are making predictions difficult.
According to Masi, proposed provincial investment of $20.3 million is essentially a reinstatement of the $19.3 million in cuts from last year, but with four conditions: that the money goes toward improving the quality of undergraduate teaching, providing outreach to communities underrepresented at the university, raising at least $6 million in philanthropy, and that $3 million is contingent on “balanc[ing] our books.”
Masi maintained that McGill performs well in spite of financial difficulties. “We’re punching above our weight in terms of resources, but we can only do so for so long.”
The meeting closed with a presentation from Mohammed Ashour, Gabriel Mott, and Jesse Pearlstein, members of the team of McGill students who won the $1 million Hult Prize last September. The team is currently interested in doing research to validate the health outcomes of consuming insects, and is working with the McGill Faculty of Medicine to build a study.
The next BoG meeting will take place on April 2.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
