The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students disappointed with administration’s reaction
McGill can expect an additional $4 to $12 million in cuts to the provincial government’s 2014-15 operating grant, Provost Anthony Masi announced at an open forum on McGill’s financial situation on October 27. The grant was already $15 million lower than projected in the budget approved by the Board of Governors in April, which also included a $7 million deficit. In the worst-case scenario, McGill’s deficit for the 2014-15 financial year will be $34 million, which amounts to about one third of its current total accumulated deficit, Masi said.
In order to deal with the cuts, McGill has imposed a hiring freeze for administrative and support staff, postponed all non-essential equipment purchases, and stopped all non-emergency unplanned funding allocations. These measures add to those undertaken last year after a $38 million cut to the government’s operating grant, such as a voluntary retirement program, a salary freeze affecting a portion of the administrative and support staff, the non-renewal of contracts, and a reorganization of the workforce.
Although the measures have reduced the workforce and increased the workload for many employees, Masi said that the administration has instituted a secondary review process for all requests for job reclassifications as another cost-cutting measure.
“We have to […] try to understand how we can do without all of those people. They all were doing important jobs at McGill, no one doubts that, but we have a cut we have to live with,” he said.
The government’s operating grant also comes with a mandated 2 per cent reduction in the money allocated to salaries of administrative and support staff. However, it is unclear where exactly this reduction will come from.
In response to a question about how teaching assistantships will be affected, Masi said that changes “have to be on the table.” Most teaching assistants are unionized under AGSEM: McGill’s Teaching Union.
“It’s difficult to say how the cuts will affect our members, but we are certainly wary that McGill might make cuts to our members’ hours,” AGSEM President Justin Irwin told The Daily in an email. “Provost Masi […] really did not give any indication what the impact on our members might be.”
“The administration is charged with representing the interests of everyone in the McGill community, and in being complicit with these cuts has failed in doing so.”
Masi also spoke to the effect of the cuts on students. “It’s likely that these [cuts] will have an effect on students. We can’t increase tuition or fees without a referendum or permission from the government, but that means that some services will have to be cut,” said Masi. “We don’t want it to affect our classrooms, and we don’t want it to affect graduate funding.”
In an email to The Daily, Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan noted that cost-cutting measures have a disproportionate effect on students in certain faculties.
“[C]uts to contract academic staff have been a tactic of absorbing budget cuts in the past; however, a cut in this area will translate to the loss of many more courses in faculties that employ contract academic staff widely versus those that do not,” said Stewart-Kanigan.
“[The University’s plan] to deal with the differential impact on students across faculties is also unclear. For example, Arts students have less privately funded internship opportunities than Management students, and would hence be more affected by the loss of government funding.”
Despite the magnitude of the cuts and the fact that more cuts are expected in 2015-16, Masi refused to characterize the situation as a “crisis,” distinguishing McGill’s budgetary choices from those of other Quebec universities.
“Since 2009, McGill seems to have chosen to implement budgets that were much more austere than those of other Quebec universities, and […] I think that’s right – we have been much more cautious, and we’re trying not to run up huge deficits. We’re trying to be responsible because we don’t know when things could turn around.”
Other universities such as Université de Montréal and Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) have publicly condemned the cuts; McGill did the same after the 2013 cuts from the Parti Québécois government.
This time, however, McGill has not denounced the cuts to Quebec universities, and has focused its lobbying efforts on demands for “flexibility” in sources of funding, Masi explained. For example, increased tuition for certain international students is one avenue that is being considered.
“We know that the government of Quebec is broke – we’ve actually not complained about that,” said Masi. “We don’t think the system can get much more from the Quebec government, so we’re asking only for flexibility to […] allow us to help ourselves out of this situation.”
“Quebec is burdened by debt, and the government is trying to be responsible in reducing it, so we recognize that,” added Masi. “We’re just being realistic about it.”
In an email to The Daily, SSMU VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette expressed concern that the University’s position does not represent the interests of the McGill community.
“I would have liked to see the administration take a firm stance in opposition to the cuts,” she said. “The administration is charged with representing the interests of everyone in the McGill community, and in being complicit with these cuts has failed in doing so.”
Echoing Moustaqim-Barrette’s sentiment, Irwin was not surprised by the administration’s reaction to the cuts.
“It is disappointing, but not surprising, that McGill’s response to cuts is one of happy acquiescence,” said Irwin. “The administration wants to lobby for more options as to how to squeeze money out of students, and international students in particular, rather than to oppose these austerity measures.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Annual event series aims to dispel myths and foster dialogue
From November 5 to 9, the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill will be holding its annual Culture Shock event series. The events – including workshops, panels, film screenings, and discussions –  are meant to “explore the myths surrounding immigrants, refugees, Indigenous people, and communities of colour,” according to the Culture Shock website.
Initially run solely by the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), Culture Shock has been co-organized by QPIRG McGill and SSMU since 2006. This year, McGill’s Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE) also participated in organizing the series.
QPIRG Outreach and Promotions Coordinator Kira Page spoke with The Daily about the foundations of Culture Shock. “SSMU used to run an event series of a multicultural affair, and it was poorly attended and wasn’t working out well. So in 2006, we jumped in and offered to co-organize it with them, but with a mandate […to] focus on social justice issues specifically.” 
Page emphasized that Culture Shock now looks at issues not through the lens of multiculturalism, but in terms of lived experiences. The event series is framed “with an understanding of issues of racism and the very messed-up ways in which the migration system works, understanding colonization and what that means for Indigenous people living here,” said Page. 
In an email to The Daily, SSMU VP Clubs and Services Stefan Fong spoke to the impact of the event series on students. “A lot of the topics that will be discussed stem from personal experiences. […] A lot of different people will typically come to these events with different expectations in mind, and end up with a more holistic understanding [of the topics discussed at Culture Shock].”
According to Page, it is particularly important to have events like Culture Shock to provide an alternative to the academic treatment of the issues discussed. “People [at McGill], especially people who are already interested in these issues, will seek out courses and teachers who deal with these questions, but it happens in such an incredibly restrictive space.”
“There’s also a goal of broadly doing educational work on campus but with a focus on forms of learning that are different than what people would get at McGill,” said Page. According to Page, this includes having workshops taught by people directly affected by issues, instead of academics, and the inclusion of communities involved in grassroots organizing.  
Organizers are also hoping that Culture Shock will help bridge the gap between McGill and Montreal. “On Saturday November 8, we’re organizing a one day convergence called ‘Healing Rage’ which is for Indigenous people and people of colour in Montreal and McGill to come together and talk about their lived experiences,” Kama Maureemootoo, Finance and Administrative Coordinator at QPIRG McGill, told The Daily. The event will also provide a platform for attendees to share expertise and skills pertaining to the broader anti-racist organizing in Montreal.
Culture Shock will feature its keynote event, “#ItGetsBitter: An Evening of Poetry, Polemic and Healing,” presented by Dark Matter, a trans South Asian art and activist collaboration, on November 7. 
“Their work is so interesting because they really work at the intersection of race, migration, and gender […] which opens up a lot of discussion because those issues aren’t single issues,” said Maureemootoo on why Dark Matter was chosen to give the keynote event. 
“[Dark Matter] fills both of the two goals of Culture Shock, one of them being to create spaces that are caring and nurturing for people who are directly affected by the issues that we’re talking about […] and they kind of bridge that space between creating spaces of love for people who need it in those experiences, and really pushing people to be better,” added Page.
Visit qpirgmcgill.org for the full schedule.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New initiative seeks public acknowledgement of Indigenous territory
Efforts to have the Hiawatha Belt Flag raised at McGill on certain significant days of the year remain stifled by bureaucracy, with the University failing to address a proposal to that effect submitted by both the Subcommittee on First Peoples of the Joint Board-Senate Committee on Equity and the Aboriginal Affairs Working Group. The relocation of the commemorative Hochelaga Rock, originally proposed in 2012, has also not happened yet.
The Subcommittee has begun work on a third initiative, which calls on McGill to publicly acknowledge that the university is built on Indigenous land. “The way we see it now is pulling our resources together to have a sound package to present to Senate, probably in the late spring, of the traditional territorial acknowledgement,” said Kakwiranó:ron Cook, the chair of the Subcommittee and McGill’s Aboriginal Outreach Administrator, in an interview with The Daily.
“It would be great to see it acknowledged on our website. Other universities embrace their host Indigenous communities. Here, we’re not there yet. It’s proving to be a longer process than any of us expected,” Cook said.
Cook told The Daily that he wrote to the Secretariat in February asking that the Hiawatha Belt Flag be raised on National Aboriginal Day in June and on the day of the annual Pow-Wow in August, but his request was unsuccessful. The Hiawatha Belt, Cook explained, is “a symbol of unification and peace.”
André Costopoulos, the Dean of Students and the chair of the Aboriginal Affairs Working Group, explained that, given that flying the flag is a “bureaucratic process,” other avenues might be preferable. 
“I think there are equivalent symbolic gestures that we can make that would be more visible and that would be more meaningful,” said Costopoulos. “For example, we could put a banner on the front of the Arts building, and that would be much more visible. We could have an exhibit in the Arts building lobby or the library. […] So we’re exploring more alternatives right now.”
Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan also noted that there are legal complications with raising the flag. 
“Most institutions in Quebec are only allowed to fly the Quebec and Canadian flag. However, McGill has been flying their flag for so long that they have an acquired right to fly that additional flag,” Stewart-Kanigan told The Daily. “[McGill is] concerned that, if they fly the Hiawatha Belt Flag, they will lose their acquired right to fly the McGill flag.”
The relocation of the Hochelaga Rock to a more prominent location was also proposed by the two groups. The rock, which is currently situated on Lower Field, commemorates the Haudenosaunee village of Hochelaga that once stood at McGill’s current location.
According to Cook, the proposal was presented to the Senate Committee on Physical Development in 2012, but there was no funding available to go through with the project.
“One of the biggest problems at McGill right now is the challenge of resources,” Allan Vicaire, Indigenous Education Advisor at the Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE), told The Daily. “[McGill] is faced with a lot of cuts, so all of those projects we’d like to see come to fruition, they don’t happen because of the [lack of] financial resources.”
Legal issues surrounding the ownership of the rock further slowed progress on its relocation. Costopoulos said that the rock does not technically belong to McGill, but instead to Parks Canada, and so moving it would involve a lengthy process of navigating through different levels of bureaucracy. 
“From my understanding, it’s been communicated by […] Campus and Space Planning [that] the rock will never move,” said Stewart-Kanigan. “Back in 2012, they drew a sketch of where the rock could potentially go, right in front of the James McGill statue by the Y-intersection. […] More recently, it’s come down that a location in front of [the] James McGill [statue] would be too prominent.” 
While the actual status of the Hochelaga Rock’s relocation remains undetermined, minor changes have been made to improve the situation, such as redoing the rock’s plaque, cleaning the area, and planned additions of benches and some traditional Haudenosaunee plants around the rock.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
