The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student aid, transit passes also discussed at PGSS Council meeting
At the McGill Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Council meeting on October 8, councillors and departmental representatives passed a motion to endorse a union drive by the Association for Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), McGill’s labour union for teaching assistants and invigilators, and another motion on universal public transit passes for students. Council also discussed a joint statement on student aid by PGSS and other student associations.
During the announcements period, AGSEM president Justin Irwin told Council that the union was seeking to expand membership to teaching support workers doing similar work to post-graduate teaching assistants (TAs). Isabel Harvey, History and Classics Graduate Student Association representative, put forward a motion for PGSS to endorse the union drive.
Irwin explained that teaching support workers, such as graders, markers, tutors, notetakers, and course assistants, are not currently unionized, meaning that these employees must represent themselves if labour disputes arise.
AGSEM also hopes to introduce equitable pay conditions for teaching support workers. “Essentially, people in these positions […] do very similar work to graduate TAs,” said Irwin. “While they’re doing very similar work, and oftentimes identical work, especially in the case of undergrads working these jobs, they’re being paid very different sums of money.”
Irwin added, “We’ve spoken to plenty of people working as graders or as undergraduate TAs who are basically paid minimum wage for something I can be paid $15 more an hour to do.”
A departmental representative asked Harvey to explain whether higher salaries for undergraduate teaching support workers would have repercussions on the wages of post-graduate TAs.
“We don’t have a way of knowing exactly what the effects will be. But it is quite clear that these types of students are necessary to the functioning of McGill,” responded Harvey. “[TAs are] not just hired for fun, the[se] are necessary positions, and as such it is likely that the[se] would be carried forward.”
The motion to endorse AGSEM’s union drive passed with a large majority, but with several abstentions.
The PGSS executive moved to create a student card which would serve as both a McGill identity card and a reduced-rate public OPUS card, in partnership with Je Vois Montréal, a movement that aims to stimulate development in the city.
“It will be like a new universal pass: it will be a student ID pass, on top of that it will serve as a public transit pass, [and] as a rebate coupon,” said PGSS External Affairs Officer Julien Ouellet. “It’s basically like Montreal’s student master card.”
The proposed transit pass generated particular interest among PGSS Council members and departmental delegates because it would be made available to all McGill students, regardless of age. As it stands, students over 25 years old are not eligible for reduced fare in public transportation in Montreal.
“What we want to push is [for] graduate students who are over the age of 25, [to] have the same rebate on the fee,” Ouellet explained.
All delegates who spoke to the issue expressed their support for the motion, and the only questions raised related to points of clarification. The motion passed with an overwhelming majority.
In cooperation with a number of other Quebec student associations, PGSS co-signed a memoir on student aid in September, which was presented to the Commission d’examen sur la fiscalité québécoise, an agency that reviews tax expenditures within Quebec.
The memoir recommends that tax credits to student savings accounts be cut and that the savings be funnelled into direct student aid instead. Co-signing student associations argue that the current tax credit system only benefits middle-class students and does not promote access to higher education.
However, former PGSS president Jonathan Mooney raised the concern that, if the student aid memoir is adopted, international students – who can seldom access provincial aid – will feel the pinch.
“This is a very, very complicated issue that we’ve been working on. Unfortunately, [though] it is true that 90 per cent of this memoir is good for our students, 10 per cent could be affected,” said Ouellet.
Referring to the recommendation that affects international students, Ouellet admitted that it was “a bit controversial.”
“[The recommendation] allocates about $48 million, take[n] away from the tax that you get from tuition and student fees, and puts it into bursaries and scholarships. According to the equation that Jonathan [Mooney] and I made, about $15 million of that money could potentially go to international students if they know about this program, and meet certain criteria, and if they choose to stay in Quebec.”
“I want to make it clear to international students that we’re not abandoning them,” he continued.
During his statement, Ouellet emphasized that the PGSS External Affairs Committee was also working on getting access to provincial health care plans for international students. However, he admitted that if the memoir on student aid is adopted, he was unaware of how many international students it would impact.
“[We] still don’t have the information to know how many of our international students will be affected.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Motion to support AGSEM union drive passes at Council meeting
The Students’ Society of McGill University’s (SSMU) Legislative Council met on October 9 to discuss the adoption of a traditional territory acknowledgement statement, cycling on campus, councillors’ employment at SSMU in contravention of SSMU’s bylaws, and AGSEM – McGill’s Teaching Union’s campaign to unionize undergraduate teaching support workers.
VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan brought forward a motion for Council to recognize that SSMU operates on the traditional territory of the Kanien’kehá:ka (Mohawk) nation, and to acknowledge this fact with a statement before every Council meeting and major SSMU event. The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Council passed a similar motion a few weeks ago, which Stewart-Kanigan co-drafted.
“The AUS motion and this motion are part of a broader movement of increasing accountability to Indigenous communities on campus,” Stewart-Kanigan told The Daily. “By saying it every council, it’s acknowledging that decolonization is an ongoing process that requires ongoing commitment and ongoing recognition of the situation as settlers on the territory that we’re on.”
The motion passed.
Stewart-Kanigan, VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette, and VP Clubs & Services Stefan Fong motioned to include a plebiscite question on cycling in the second Fall referendum, asking whether cycling should be allowed on campus and whether SSMU should lobby the administration to allow it. A plebiscite question differs from a referendum question in that its purpose is to consult students rather than to take action on an issue.
“[When McGill put in the dismounting policy] there was no consultation done with students,” said Moustaqim-Barrette, arguing for the motion. “It was an administrative decision done by McGill higher-up administration, just as there was no consultation when the bike gates were installed.”
“[The current policy] is really hard to enforce, and McGill has hired extra security to enforce it and it ended up being really expensive […] bikes just kind of go by anyway,” added Moustaqim-Barrette in an interview with The Daily.
Council also approved a referendum question seeking to modify the structure of the TVM: Student Television at McGill’s fee levy from $0.10 per credit per student per semester – up to a maximum of $1.50 – to $1.50 and $0.90 per student per semester for full-time and part-time students respectively.
Motions were put forth for Science Representative Zacheriah Houston and Arts Representative Alexander Kpeglo-Hennessy to be allowed to be employed at The Nest and Gerts respectively. SSMU’s bylaws prohibit councillors from being SSMU employees, unless explicitly allowed by a vote at Council.
General Manager Pauline Gervais, a non-voting member of Council, opposed Houston and Kpeglo-Hennessy’s employment. “There could be potential situations where […] you place me into a position where I have to reprimand, fire, talk to – whatever the reason is – to an employee who is also above me and has authority over my position,” said Gervais.
When asked whether they knew they would be seeking employment at SSMU at the time of their candidacy, Kpeglo-Hennessy said he did not, and Houston said he had been told “it would not be a problem.”
“If people feel that there are issues with councillors working these positions […] it might be worth examining whether or not that bylaw should exist that allows us to grant councillors special permission to work for SSMU,” said Houston.
Council approved Houston and Kpeglo-Hennessy’s request, but they will be required to “abstain from voting on matters with material impact or connections” to The Nest and Gerts respectively, as per the SSMU Conflict of Interest Policy.
Moustaqim-Barrette introduced a motion to support the AGSEM unionization campaign, which was presented to Council at the previous meeting and seeks to unionize undergraduate teaching support staff, including notetakers, graders, tutors, and teaching assistants (TAs).
Engineering Representative Anikke Rioux spoke against the motion, arguing that a survey conducted among members of the McGill Engineering Facebook group found that 60 to 70 per cent of students were against it.
Services Representative Rachel Weaver also argued against the motion.
“In [the Science] faculty, many benefit just from the experience,” said Weaver. “In the science courses, there aren’t a lot of TAs to go around and this would cut it down even further.”
Stewart-Kanigan spoke in favour of the motion. “We need to realize the implications of this structure for financial accessibility of these TA positions; not everyone can afford to work that many hours as volunteers or work at half-pay,” she said.
The motion passed, with Arts, Education, and Music representatives voting in favour. Engineering and Arts and Science representatives voted against it, while Management, Science, and Nursing representatives abstained from the vote.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
