The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Call for an end to military research at McGill, more direct action
“A rational dialogue with the administration will not solve the issues at hand.”
These were the words of a protester at the disturbance of McGill’s Institute of Air and Space Law (IASL)’s five-day Strategic Space Law Intensive Program on October 28. The program is meant to train lawyers in how to navigate space law. About ten people, mostly McGill students, disrupted the conference taking place at the Best Western hotel with chanting and condemnations of the program before pushing past security and escaping arrest.
Students entered the conference equipped with noise-makers and a large banner that read “demilitarize,” chanting “a, anti, anti-impérialiste!” as they walked. Interrupting a presentation titled “Law on space exploration and exploitation,” they stood opposite the presenter and continued to make noise and chant more slogans such as “Colonizing outer space, fuck your bullshit arms race!” Attendees of the conference appeared bemused and put-off; many recorded the disruption on their phones, making a point of documenting the faces of each of the demonstrators.

Some in the conference room began to engage protesters. One man asked why they had come, to which one demonstrator responded, “We want military research off [the] campus. We want the IASL to stop [its research].” One man from the conference room asked the students to leave, saying that they should be conducting themselves in a more orderly manner.
Eventually, the hotel’s security was called. Security guards blocked the doors of the room, effectively detaining demonstrators while police were on their way. At this point, protesters moved to leave the conference, pushing past security and running down the stairs into the hotel lobby, where more security guards were waiting for them. The group was able to push past, and everyone escaped with the exception of one protester, who stayed to attend the conference and was allowed to leave later.
According to one protester, who wished to remain anonymous, the purpose of the demonstration was to “disrupt their workshop sessions, and have a presence that they weren’t able to ignore in opposition to the ideological project of the training week.”
“[O]ther forms of action, such as lobbying and symbolic protest, have proven ineffective and disempowering in the past, particularly at McGill,” the student protester told The Daily in an email. “[T]he University is economically and ideologically invested in the continuation of its complicity in warfare, with little regard for ethics or the objections of students.”
“With the Strategic Space Law Program, McGill is equipping the U.S. Air Force and other military interests to establish weaponized control of space, multiplying their capacity to kill and terrorize targeted populations on earth. This takes place behind the well-worn imperialist facade of promoting ‘rule of law,’” the protester told The Daily in an email.
IASL’s Strategic Space Law Intensive Program is a week-long event, running from October 27 to 31, and seeks to teach participants legal policy and “problem-solving skills” related to space law, as well as how to “broadly understand the interests and stakeholders in a variety of contexts associated with strategic space law,” according to McGill’s website. The program at McGill will be complemented by a graduate course on strategic space law in Winter 2015 at the University of Adelaide in Australia.
Both the Strategic Space Law Program and IASL have been condemned by campus group Demilitarize McGill, which has criticized these initiatives on its website for promoting the rule of law as a tool for the U.S. and its allies to exert control over outer space and better compete with “rival imperialist powers on the diplomatic level.”
Professor Kuan-Wei Chen, who works for the IASL and was present at the conference during the disturbance, found the demonstration ineffective. “[The protesters] were invited to come, they came, and what did they do? They shouted, they swore, they made a lot of noise, and then they left,” said Chen. “I really don’t see the purpose of that.”
According to Chen, the protesters misrepresented the strategic space law program. “This workshop that’s happening right now […] we want to emphasize to the military officers that there are certain things that you are restricted to do by the law.”
“What we’re trying to emphasize here is, there are tensions that are happening up there, there are extensions of conflict or tension on earth, we need to constrain those tensions with use of existing laws, but [the protesters] don’t want to hear this,” said Chen.
The protesters called for a larger movement to combat the expansion of military research.
“By showing that this form of action is possible, we also invite others to join us in building a movement capable of not only disrupting but shutting down this type of event, to realize a campus free of military collaboration,” the protester said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Building fee, 4Floors safe space, services funding also on agenda
On October 23, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held its bi-weekly Legislative Council meeting. Council discussed the use of the Library Improvement Fund, the Shatner building fee, and safe space at 4Floors, and passed a motion in support of the #ConsentMcGill campaign.
Council held a discussion on the Library Improvement Fund, particularly its use to cover the cost of 24-hour library access. According to Library Improvement Fund Coordinator Erin Sobat, around $250,000 of the fund’s total $650,000 goes toward this cost. 
“One of the biggest things that I want to have addressed by bringing this forward to Council is that from my impression, at least, students are not widely aware that it’s student money,” said VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan.
The Library Improvement Fund, supported by a fee of $8.50 and $4.25 per semester for full-time and part-time students respectively, as well as matched alumni donations, is meant to improve students’ experiences with McGill’s libraries. Many expressed concern that the university was using the fund’s contribution as a means of paying for something that should actually be a regular operating expense.
Councillors also emphasized that students should know that their fees fund 24-hour library access.
“It really seems like if we don’t fund it, 24-hour access will end. I would hate for that to be the way that students find out that their student fees are paying for 24-hour access,” said President Courtney Ayukawa.
Council passed a motion approving the creation of the University Building Fund as a result of the building fee having passed in the Fall referendum. 
However, a separate motion to hold a plebiscite question regarding the rent of the Shatner building drew intense discussion form councillors. The motion would be a non-binding referendum question to solicit student opinion on whether or not they would like to see a symbolic $1 lease with the University.
Some spoke in favour of the question, arguing that student opinion on the building fee and the lease was important and that soliciting this opinion would be good for SSMU’s relationship with students.
Former Services Representative Élie Lubendo argued that a lack of institutional memory has contributed to rent increases in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. “The very least we can do is ask students about it, as we should have done a year ago.”
Stewart-Kanigan disputed that the question would lead to a positive reaction from students. 
“This is going to create the impression that it is possible to do something about [the lease] right now. […] If we break the lease, McGill will sue us.”
Engineering Representative Scott Conrad also expressed concern about the clarity of the question. “I’m really afraid of this motion because reading it the first time it was really confusing. […] I sit on Council and I’m confused, and we’re going to send this to students?”
“McGill has a huge power dynamic over SSMU and they exercise that in this regard. […] The question is whether [a $1 lease] is feasible – and it is absolutely not,” said VP Finance & Operations Kathleen Bradley. 
The motion failed to pass.
Bradley and VP Clubs and Services Stefan Fong brought forward a motion to amend the Clubs and Services Portfolio By-Law Book to ensure that SSMU services’ discretionary funding – funding given by services to a third-party organization – goes to projects that have a direct impact on students and fall in line with the services’ mandates. The motion was amended so that the VP Clubs and Services and the VP Finance and Operations would have to present a breakdown of discretionary funding usage every semester.
Some councillors voiced concern about services losing autonomy over their funds. However, Bradley emphasized that accountability to students is key. 
“As far as policing [the services], I have to say: I don’t care. It’s not their money, they are responsible to a body of people that pays them. They have a responsibility to be accountable to that body and to show them what they’re doing with that money. I don’t think it’s an unreasonable step at all,” said Bradley.
Arts Representative Patrick Dunbar-Lavoie expressed reservations about the effectiveness of the proposed change. “I think that many of us have little to no expertise in the area, and something that may be good in [theory] can be very unproductive and a waste of time. […] Accountability is only good when it is effective.”
The motion was tabled until the next Council meeting.
Council also discussed security pat-downs for the upcoming 4Floors event, to be held by SSMU on October 30. Arts Representative Lola Baraldi said that, when discussing the possibility of having one male and one female security guard form two separate pat-down lines, security was not very receptive to the idea of having students choose from either line regardless of their own gender or gender presentation, due to potential risk or discomfort for security personnel.
At last year’s event, there were separate lines for men and women, although VP Internal J. Daniel Chaim pointed out that they were not enforced very strictly.
Stewart-Kanigan was not pleased with the security’s response. “This is an extremely poor standard for SSMU and I am extremely disappointed with this outcome,” she said, noting that gendered pat-down lines undermined the SSMU Equity Policy, and that gendered lines were not the standard at other venues like airports and concerts. 
Chaim said that Council’s concerns would be relayed to security.
A motion was passed in support of the #ConsentMcGill campaign, held from October 20 to 24. While the motion itself did not include a mandate, Stewart-Kanigan noted that she would be happy for SSMU to mandate her to put aspects of the motion into a policy.
A motion to include a fee levy for the Black Students’ Network in the second Fall 2014 referendum was approved. If the fee passes, the group will be supported by the fee and will refund its SSMU subsidy.
Councillors also took time to discuss the previous day’s SSMU General Assembly (GA), generally agreeing that the GA went well considering the high number of attendees and the Shatner building’s capacity. Many expressed concern over the confusing nature of Robert’s Rules, and a popular suggestion for the next GA was to have councillors and other SSMU representatives made more visible during the event in order to field questions from students.
A motion regarding the inclusion of a plebiscite question on a preferential ballot system for SSMU elections – also discussed at the GA – for the Winter 2015 referendum to gage student interest also passed.
—With files from Sabrina Xuan
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
