The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student society prepares for upcoming Winter referendum
On February 6, one day after the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held its bi-annual General Assembly (GA), SSMU’s Legislative Council met for a double session that stretched past midnight. In addition to debating SSMU’s membership within the Table de concertation étudiante du Québec (TaCEQ), councillors approved questions for the upcoming Winter 2014 referendum period.
A Motion Regarding Freedom of Dress in the SSMU Building was brought to Council after the Winter 2014 General Assembly (GA), where it was presented, failed to meet quorum, and instead passed in a Consultative Forum.
The motion was moved by a petition and originally stemmed from a ban on the lab coats of the Plumbers’ Philharmonic Orchestra (PPO), an Engineering student group, due to offensive writing or drawings on the coats.
VP University Affairs Joey Shea pointed out that although the motion claimed freedom of speech was an integral part of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, “In Canada, one’s freedom of speech and freedom of expression is limited […] so for example, hate speech is not allowed.”
The motion was divided into three separate resolved clauses – one which stated that freedom of dress should not be infringed upon, one which stated that bans should proceed on a case-by-case basis, and one that overturned the standing ban on the PPO’s lab coats. All three resolved clauses passed.
On January 24, 73.2 per cent of the University of Sherbrooke’s graduate student association, Regroupement des étudiants de maîtrise, de diplôme et de doctorat de l’Université de Sherbrooke (REMDUS) voted to disaffiliate from TaCEQ, a result that was later ratified by a GA of its members. The departure of REMDUS leaves SSMU without its main ally, SSMU VP External Samuel Harris told The Daily in an earlier interview.
When asked by a councillor about alternatives to TaCEQ for SSMU, Harris responded, “I don’t feel any other association right now suits the needs of SSMU members, especially because of the cost – we’re paying upward of four to five dollars per person, that’s around $80,000 [total].”
A motion regarding the creation of a referendum question to disaffiliate from TaCEQ passed.
Science Undergraduate Society (SUS) VP Internal Sahil Kumar was on hand to present the Motion Regarding Gerts Retainment of Cover Charges. Currently, Gerts collects 50 per cent of cover and coat check charges. However, Kumar argued that groups hosting charity events that planned to donate 100 per cent of the proceeds of the cover and coat check charges to charity should have this commission waived if they advertised sufficiently in advance.
SSMU VP Finances and Operations Tyler Hofmeister disagreed strongly with the motion, adding that Gerts is also facing a $26,000 deficit – $13,000 over the budgeted deficit.
The motion passed after being amended to require that Gerts make its booking procedures more transparent and simpler for charities who wanted to book an event.
A Motion Regarding SSMU First Year Council (FYC) Fee Referendum Question resolved that a referendum question be asked to levy a $0.50 opt-outable fee to create a First Year Fund. With around 6,000 first year students, the FYC has a budget of only $3,000, limiting its ability to provide events and help, according to Services Representative Élie Lubendo.
Lubendo explained that due to exchange, transfer, and U0 and U1 students, it was “impossible” to charge only first-years, and pointed out that although the FYC targeted first-years, it technically serves the entire McGill student body.
The Motion Regarding Athletics and Recreation Facilities Referendum Question, which resolved to renew the non-opt-outable Athletics and Recreation Facilities Improvement Fee of $10 per semester, faced some frustration from councillors.
Arts and Science Representative Courtney Ayukawa expressed concern that this fee came on top of the already-existing $127.75 fee per semester for Athletics. Farnan explained that the $10 fee paid for various updates and renovations.
Due to the financial cost of complying with Quebec labour laws, Organic Campus brought forth a motion asking for a referendum to create a $0.22 opt-outable fee per student per semester. According to calculations by Organic Campus, its prices would have to rise threefold to compensate without a fee.
Arts Representative Ben Reedijk objected to the fee levy on the grounds that, as a business, Organic Campus should be able to satisfy its own financial needs.
However, VP Clubs and Services Stefan Fong pointed out that Organic Campus is in fact a service, not a business.
As the potential end of the four-year long negotiations for the lease of the Shatner building looms, the cost of rent and utilities is projected to increase immediately with the new agreement and on a yearly basis afterward. To deal with the increasing costs, Council approved a referendum question to ask for a University Centre building fee of $6.08 per full-time student, which will be indexed to increase at a rate of 5.6 per cent per year.
All three motions passed, and will be asked as referendum questions in the Winter 2014 referendum period.
Motions regarding the renewal of the SSMU Access Bursary Fund, the SSMU Ambassador Fund, the SSMU Campus Life Fund, and the SSMU Library Improvement Fund all passed, and will appear in the Winter 2014 referendum period.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A photo essay in memory of Alain Magloire
On February 3, Montreal police shot and killed 41-year-old Alain Magloire. The justification given for the shooting was that Magloire, a homeless man who was said to have mental health issues, was wielding a hammer. Police shot Magloire before a senior officer with a taser arrived at the scene. Quebec’s chief coroner has ordered a public inquiry into Magloire’s death, examining the emergency protocol used for interventions for those with mental health issues. On February 4, a vigil was held for Magloire at Place Emilie-Gamelin.



Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Workshops seek to initiate discussion on safe space
In a bid to start a conversation on safe space and equity in the Faculty of Engineering, students in the class Introduction to the Engineering Profession (FACC 100) took part in a workshop on safe space and diversity on February 6 and 7.
The workshop, organized by Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) Equity Commissioner Christopher Tegho, was led by former McGill students Nampande Londe and Fiona Ross. It was included as part of a more general discussion about sustainability in the intro-level course.
The interactive discussion aimed to facilitate conversation in the faculty about creating safer space, an ongoing effort of Tegho, who became Equity Commissioner in Fall 2013.
According to Tegho, the faculty has had equity and inclusivity problems, including problematic event titles and Frosh chants that promote rape culture, as well as social activities that do not include non-drinking options.
The workshop covered topics such as gender identity, racism, microaggressions, and consent, among other issues, and ended with scenarios and classroom discussion. Clicker surveys were also included as part of the presentation, with 79 per cent of students responding that before the presentation they were unfamiliar with the concept of safe space.
Tegho has been working toward an event like this since November. “Students in [FACC 100] are all first-year[s], and I think such an initiative is very important in first year,” he said. “Professors, the dean [of Engineering, Jim Nicell], and EUS executives [all] support this idea. The EUS wants this to happen every year.”
Ross thought that the workshop was a good introduction to the process, and spoke to the difficulty of discussing safe space and other equity issues.
“This [class was] a group of 100 people who [had] no idea what safe space is. But even when people know what it is, people still say shitty things,” said Ross. “In terms of learning new things, you’re never always aware of everything that is out there. We’ve got to do some more easing in.”
Gabriel Veilleux, a U1 Chemical Engineering student, thought the workshop was a positive step.
“You really do have to be careful – you can hurt someone deeply with a comment that you don’t always think about,” Veilleux said. “I think having [these] workshops helps people to realize, ‘Okay, I’m in the public space now, I can hurt someone.’ I think there was a good debate at the end. You’re never going to agree with everything, but it’s good to hear people’s opinions on these things.”
The EUS is currently reviewing its equity policy to make it more proactive, and Tegho was pleased to see that events like this can continue.
“I appreciated that the workshop was with other presentations about sustainability,” he said. “The EUS believes that social equity is part of sustainability.”
“People really tune out of these discussions because they don’t think it’s relevant to them, so we try to make it relevant to them,” said Londe in a debrief after the first workshop.
“In all my years doing workshops, it’s really easy to want everybody to walk out and go, ‘That’s a microaggression!’ or ‘You’re a microaggressor!’ But we forget that all of this learning starts with a seed,” she said. “So, if we went in there, and some people started thinking about this, that’s enough for me.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Recent incidents call attention to lack of resources
Trigger warning: this article contains discussion of sexual assault.
On February 26, McGill will host a Forum on Consent. The Forum, open to the McGill and Montreal communities, will include keynote speakers, panel discussions, and small breakout groups.
SSMU VP University Affairs Joey Shea, who will co-chair the Forum, explained to The Daily that diverse attendance is important to the Forum’s effectiveness.
“I would encourage students to go to the chairs of their departments and lobby for them to attend the Forum because [… it] is not going to do anything if people don’t end up showing up, or if key players don’t end up showing up.”
“Trying to engage students who wouldn’t normally come to this type of event” is important, noted Shea.
Shea is also working on a document to be released and circulated around the same time as the Forum. “There will be a number of recommendations [in the document such as] the fact that there should be a policy specifically regarding sexual assault.”
Part of Shea’s document will look at how different Canadian universities handle sexual assault. In the last six months, McGill, the University of British Columbia (UBC), the University of Toronto (U of T), and St. Mary’s University (SMU) have made national headlines with sexual assault controversies.
In light of the recent incidents, The Daily investigated the various disciplinary mechanisms for sexual assault at these universities to evaluate how they compare to McGill.
Recent incidents
In November 2013, the Montreal Gazette published an article that detailed the 15-month-old sexual assault charges brought against three then-members of the McGill football team.
This sparked widespread outrage and debate, and prompted an email several weeks later from Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens to the entire student body responding to the charges.
In the first week of September 2013, SMU was the subject of outrage when videos surfaced of students performing a Frosh chant that advocated non-consensual sex with underage girls.
That same month, UBC faced media attention after its Commerce Undergraduate Society performed a similar chant.
Both Frosh controversies occurred at a time when concern was growing about a series of sexual assaults on the UBC’s campus.
Later in September, SMU’s media attention continued when a SMU student was suspended after pleading guilty to sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl.
In December 2011, U of T professor James Payne was charged with sexual assault by the police, but continued teaching until the complainant informed the university of the charges in August 2013.
Students at U of T expressed concern in the Varsity, one of U of T’s campus newspapers, that Payne was able to continue to teach students for two years with the sexual assault charge pending, arguing that there should be protective mechanisms in place for students.
Codes of conduct
McGill’s Code of Student Conduct and Displinary Procedures does not explicitly mention sexual assault, instead defining generalized assault and sexual harassment under the “Physical Abuses, Harassment and Dangerous Activity” category. The first clause of the category reads that no student shall “assault another person, threaten another person or persons with bodily harm or damage to such person’s property,” and the third reads that no student shall “harass, sexually or otherwise, another person or persons.”
In an interview with The Daily, Dean of Students André Costopoulos explained McGill’s disciplinary procedures.
“The allegation goes to a disciplinary officer. The [disciplinary officer] investigates and decides whether to bring formal allegations forward, and then decides whether it’s going to be handled at a discipline interview, or handled in a committee, or a student discipline hearing. And [then] there are potential sanctions.”
“Discipline is not the only possible response,” added Costopoulos. “It may be that we have discipline going forward, a criminal complaint going forward, and a civil complaint going forward all at the same time.”
At UBC, sexual assault is not explicitly mentioned in the Student Code of Conduct. Similar to McGill, assault is included under section 4.2.1 in UBC’s Code: “Misconduct against persons, which includes: physically aggressive behaviour, assault, harassment, intimidation, threats, or coercion.”
U of T’s Code of Student Conduct lists sexual assault as the first type of “offense against persons,” reading: “No person shall assault another person sexually or threaten any other person with sexual assault.”
SMU’s Student Code of Conduct does not deal with sexual assault, only harassment. The university instead has an explicit policy that deals solely with sexual assault.
The policy outlines the appropriate responses for university officials and outcomes for a sexual assault report. Outcomes range from “a written warning or letter of reprimand,” to “suspension, probation or expulsion in conjunction with existing disciplinary procedures and/or collective agreements.”
Crisis and survivors’ resources
The Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) has been active at McGill since 1991. The Centre is volunteer-run and is solely funded by student fees. SACOMSS provides drop-in hours, runs a crisis line, and provides advocacy for students, staff, and faculty.
UBC’s Sexual Assault Support Centre is run by their Alma Mater Society, and is supported by $3.25 from student fees. The Centre provides services such as crisis support, advocacy, outreach and education, and service referrals.
U of T does not have a sexual assault centre. Instead, their Counselling and Psychological Services office has specific provisions for sexual assault survivors to access counselling, and also provides education, workshops, and consultation.
SMU, like U of T, also does not have a separate sexual assault centre. Sexual Assault survivors can seek assistance from a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner, as outlined in the university’s sexual assault policy.
Specialized staff
Costopoulos stated that McGill is in the process of interviewing candidates for a Harm Reduction Coordinator. “We’ve had quite a bit of interest. We’ve had lots of applications and we’re interviewing for the position, so the position should start very soon.”
The Coordinator, according to Costopoulos, will oversee the various initiatives on campus that tackle sexual assault, and help answer the question: “Is what we have now enough?”
Despite a student referendum in which UBC Commerce students rejected the proposal to fund a sexual assault counsellor position with student fees, the university will be adding the position to its staff as a response to the string of campus assaults and the Frosh chant controversy.
U of T has counsellors available to students. Sexual assault counsellors, in particular, can be reached through a confidential voicemail system.
Beyond the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner, SMU has little in the way of specialized staff.
SACOMSS was not available for comment as of press time.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
