The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Culture Shock events give students an opportunity to engage with the issues
From November 5 to 9, the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), and the Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE) held events in and around the McGill campus exploring issues related to race, immigration, Indigenous resistance, and more through workshops, panels, movie screenings, and other events. The workshops held throughout the week were, for the most part, widely attended, and generally received positive feedback from attendees. Three highlighted workshops are presented below.
On November 6, Solidarity Across Borders (SAB) held a workshop titled “Immigrants With Disabilities In Canada: Discrimination, Segregation, Suicidal Deportation.”
The workshop was facilitated by Farhana Haque of the soon-to-be SAB Committee for Immigrants with Disabilities, a project currently in development that will attempt to address the specific issues faced by immigrants with disabilities. The purpose of the workshop was to “debunk what it really means to be an ‘excessive burden’ in Canada, [and] debunk the supposed global initiatives for people with disability,” according to the event description.
Haque opened the workshop by challenging common themes often associated with Canada. “What do we think of when we think of Canada? We think of democracy, we think of freedom, we think of multiculturalism, we think of equality, peace, humanitarianism. What we don’t think of are discrimination, segregation, and suicidal deportation that immigrants with disabilities face.”
The workshop included an overview of Canadian immigration policy, from the Chinese “head tax” of the 1880s (a fee charged to each Chinese immigrant entering Canada) to today’s restrictive provincial immigration quotas. Haque noted that, as current Canadian immigration law effectively does not allow for disabled immigrants, people with disabilities must enter the country as refugee claimants.
While Haque noted that many disabled people support themselves, an emphasis was placed on the crucial role that families play for many immigrants with disabilities in terms of access to education, employment, and support; according to Haque, being deported and separated from this family network can lead to poverty or other dire circumstances. “[It] is like being sentenced to a suicide for the crime of having a disability,” said Haque.
After the event, attendee comments were made available on the SAB committee’s website. People gave suggestions for future workshops and actions by the committees, such as putting more emphasis on debunking what it means for one to be considered a social burden. “This will affirm, though to different degrees, how everyone is a burden and not just people with disabilities,” said the commenter.
—Janna Bryson
On November 6, a workshop titled “Migrant Workers in Canada: Why Everyone Should Care” gave McGill students the opportunity to meet three people who wanted to share their experiences with temporary work in Canada, while exploring the history of temporary foreign workers and migration in Canada.
The speakers were Noé Ricardo Arteaga Santos, a temporary worker from Guatemala; Kike Llanes, who was a temporary worker with International Experience Canada and is now active at the Association des travailleurs/euses temporaires d’agences de placement (ATTAP); and Viviane Medina from ATTAP and the Temporary Agency Workers Association. They emphasized that the Canadian government focuses on creating an underpaid labour force that is easily exploitable. Llanes also stated that the program through which he got to Canada from Spain is “deeply colonial and deeply racist.”
The speakers highlighted that while temporary workers take on innumerable jobs and positions within Canadian society, from working on farms, to childcare, to retail jobs, the Canadian immigration system denies them access to healthcare, education, basic labour protections, and residency.
“The employer has a myriad of rights over the unprotected worker, and the worker becomes a commodity. […] The worker becomes objectified,” said Llanes.
According to the panel, temporary workers live in extreme isolation within Canada. Due to language barriers and a lack of knowledge of Canadian laws, many migrant workers are not aware of their rights, said Llanes. Oftentimes already indebted before coming to Canada, the workers are left to labour in much harsher conditions. They are at the mercy of their employers without the ability to lodge complaints, as they fear losing their jobs and being sent home with no money.
Medina said that women face different issues than men: about 70 per cent of the complaints that women bring to her organization concern sexual harassment.
Llanes explained that the conditions of temporary workers are not improving, with the federal and provincial governments passing bills that impede the rights of migrant workers and make it more difficult for them to unionize.
Llanes added that, as they stand, the temporary worker programs prove to be “a prolongation of colonialism, but with legal paper.”
—Joelle Dahm
Last Friday, Kanahus Manuel, a mother and a warrior from the Secwepemc Nation in British Columbia (B.C.) who has been involved in actions to resist colonialism and corporate developments projects, facilitated a workshop on building a culture of resistance to colonialism. The workshop was attended by roughly twenty people, most of whom were students.
Manuel began by highlighting some of the direct action that is currently taking place in Indigenous communities, such as actions to resist the Mount Polley mining disaster in B.C., anti-colonial hip hop and street art, the use of traditional midwives, and the choice to eat traditional foods.
Manuel also screened a short, yet-to-be-released film that depicted the resistance of Manuel, her family, and her community against colonialism. In her community, many people, including Manuel herself, have chosen not to register their children with the Canadian government. These children, called “freedom babies,” will not have social insurance numbers, access to Canadian healthcare, or be in any way recognized by the Canadian state.
“By not registering our children and having these freedom babies, it’s really pushing our people to say what independence and what autonomy look like in our nations,” explained Manuel.
The unregistered children will grow up completely independent of Canada, and learning traditional methods of survival, and will go through traditional ceremonies. Manuel said that they are in the process of training and making alliances with doctors and dentists so that their children will have the care they need without requiring help from the Canadian government.
The film also highlighted the intense police reaction to the resistance that took place at Mount Polley.
After the video, participants were asked to move their chairs into a circle, and Manuel invited everyone present to share their name, home, ancestral lineage, intentions in attending the event, as well as any skills they might have to offer, following the protocol used by the Unist’ot’en Camp (another resistance community in B.C.) whenever new people come to their territory.
“This is enough people, with all those skills combined, to take down the country of Canada if we needed to right now, here in this room,” Manuel said.
“We’re smart enough to do that as human beings with these skills, we are smart enough to do that, it’s just about getting together strategically – that’s the best way to utilize these people’s skills in order to accomplish some of our goals.”
Robin Reid-Fraser, a recent Environment graduate from McGill, told The Daily that the event was refreshing. “I do always come out of these kind of events feeling hopeful and excited because there are so many people who are interested in these kinds of things, and having more of those connections with each other is really great.”
—Jill Bachelder
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council discusses fee bundling, communication with constituents
On November 6, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council convened for its bi-weekly meeting to discuss the possibility of fee bundling and methods for better communication with constituents, and to continue its previous discussion on library improvements. SSMU VP Finance and Operations Kathleen Bradley also presented the revised 2014-15 SSMU budget to Council.
Bradley was optimistic about the budget, saying that SSMU is “doing well as far as long-term financial sustainability.” She also announced that Frosh ran a $950 deficit, which she called “a really awesome number.”
A glaring hole in the budget was the student-run café, The Nest, which is projected to operate at a $76,000 deficit. Bradley cited this loss as a consequence of the “disconnect between the low food costs that students want and the original mandate of The Nest,” which specifies that The Nest must be “local and sustainably oriented.”
“This year we’re waiting to see how [The Nest] operates over a full year because last year, we didn’t have very much data to go on,” said Bradley in an interview with The Daily. “And if it’s still facing the same high-cost, high-labour, low-price problems, then we’ll have to address [these issues].”
The Club Fund has been set to $86,000, up from $30,000 the previous year. The VP External portfolio budget has been substantially increased to $16,100 to fund a yearly speaker series. Additional funding was also allocated to equity and mental health, the latter being an addition to the University Affairs portfolio this year. The full $50,000 annual transfer to the Capital Expenditures Reserve Fund has also been made for the first time in three years.
The budget presentation and the line-by-line breakdown are available on SSMU’s website.
SSMU President Courtney Ayakawa brought forward a discussion on fee bundling, which would group all of the small student fees payable to SSMU on Minerva into sections such as “service fees” instead of listing each fee individually. Ayukawa said that Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens told her that McGill “really wants this [fee bundling] to happen.”
Arts Representative Lola Baraldi spoke against fee bundling, citing “the easiness of seeing this big fee and having someone just click to opt out of all of those services” as her concern.
Echoing Baraldi’s point, Medicine Senator David Benrimoh also stated that he was “very worried that people may opt out of all the fees, even the fees that they may benefit from.”
“Having a big bundle of fees is completely counter to the sense of transparency in government,” added Benrimoh.
Ayukawa also expressed her dissatisfaction with fee bundling. “A lot of these fees are things that students run […] which arguably the University should probably be doing,” she said. “I fear that bundling, with the limited information on the bill itself, may not give credit enough to all the students that are doing work that the University should be doing.”
A straw poll was taken to gauge Council’s position on fee bundling; the councillors were unanimously against it.
Arts Senator Kareem Ibrahim brought the problem of communication with constituents to the floor, citing a Facebook event supporting a facetious motion to “turn SSMU into a giant Chuck E. Cheese,” created after the October 22 General Assembly, as a concern. The name of the event page has been changed since its creation.
Ibrahim asked councillors for their opinion on creating a Facebook group to “poll constituents about issues.” Arts and Science Senator Chloe Rourke spoke in favour of the suggestion.
“Using online forums such as Facebook is worth considering, because really the communication channels we have right now are inadequate,” she said. “There is a huge disconnect between SSMU and its constituents, a lot of the time there is misinformation about what SSMU does.”
Ayukawa was a bit more hesitant about the idea. “This often devolves into personal attacks and I don’t think that it’s fair to put […] any of us into a situation where we are going to be personally attacked,” she said. She suggested that instead, each set of faculty councillors create their own Facebook pages that “could be passed down from year to year.”
VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan brought up the discussion of extended library hours, which she had previously brought forward at the last Council meeting.
Engineering Representative Anikke Rioux reported her constituents’ feelings to Council. “A lot of people care more about having the hours than who pays for it,” she said.
Arts and Science Representative Saurin Shah echoed this sentiment, saying that his constituents “would very much like McGill to fund extended hours, [but] if it came down to it they would rather SSMU fund it than not have it at all.”
VP Internal J. Daniel Chaim brought to discussion the funding problems of the Old McGill Yearbook that SSMU publishes every year. “It’s very important that we figure out a sustainable way to fund [the yearbook] for the future, because as it stands right now the SSMU loses over $23,000 a year in the publication of the yearbook,” he said.
Chaim said that nothing could be changed this year, but suggested the implementation of a publications fee which would also cover “the handbook, the website, and other improvements that we’d like to make in the future in terms of technological publications.” He estimated that the fee would be around $2.50 per semester.
Baraldi spoke in favour of this approach. “Creating a fee opens up possibilities for students for what they want to see in the yearbook, and I definitely also think it should be opt-outable.”
A motion to amend the Clubs and Services Portfolio By-law Book to allow services to use leftover fees to fund projects was criticized by councillors due to its restrictive nature. The motion stated that services could not use discretionary funding for capital expenditures “whose use and value exceed the timeframe in which the project or event takes place.”
Bradley defended this provision. “I don’t think it’s fair to ask students of today to be funding services that donate to projects of tomorrow,” she said.
The motion passed, along with a motion to create an Ad-hoc Club Hub Committee. The committee is to review the current club structure and make recommendations to Council on changes to this structure by the end of the academic year.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Community engagement should be need-driven, participants say
Community engagement through research and innovation was the theme of this year’s joint meeting of the Board of Governors (BoG) and Senate, which took place on November 4 in the ballroom of the McGill Faculty Club. Student representatives present at the event criticized the focus on enterprise, claiming that the discussion focused on what McGill could gain from community engagement, instead of what it could give back.
The joint meeting has no immediate decision-making power, but a formal report will be created and presented to Senate on November 19 and to the BoG on December 2.
The meeting began with a short panel discussion that explored the relationship between “innovation projects and engagement,” after which attendees participated in roundtable discussions on the topic of community engagement. Mostly speaking in generalities, four panelists – two professors, a student, and the acting senior director of Hydro-Québec’s research institute (IREQ) – focused on their interpretation of innovation and their experiences with entrepreneurship and industry partnerships in the context of research at McGill.
“The way innovation is linked to society is to create wealth,” said Gaétan Lantagne, acting senior director of IREQ. “We expect that this will benefit companies, but it’s a benefit to society as well.”
Cécile Branco-Côté, an International Development student who won the McGill Dobson Cup entrepreneurship competition with her idea to build a business incubator in Lac Mégantic, disagreed.
“My conception of innovation doesn’t necessarily mean increasing money at all, but increasing values,” she said.
Although a period for questions to panelists was planned on the agenda, the moderator, Associate Vice-Principal (Research and International Relations) Sarah Stroud, decided not to take questions. Vice-Principal (Research and International Relations) Rose Goldstein, who led the planning of the event, explained in an email to The Daily that this was done because “the event started late.”
In an interview with The Daily, Medicine Senator David Benrimoh deplored the focus of the panel on entrepreneurship and industry partnerships.
“When we got into the meeting, there was a large industry focus, there was a large focus on what we could gain from community engagement […] from the innovation [and] research side of things,” said Benrimoh. “There wasn’t a very clear idea of what community engagement meant [or] why it was important.”
Sharing Benrimoh’s concerns, Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan expressed frustration at the fact that the panel had been, in her opinion, disingenuously presented to participants as centred on community engagement. She also spoke against the cancellation of the question period.
“They eliminated the question period without notice […] that was very disappointing,” said Stewart-Kanigan. “Particularly given the drastic shift in what we were led to believe this conversation was going to be about versus what it was actually about, a space for questions would have been very much apprecited.”
“This [focus] severely limited the conversation that was had here. There was very little space for critical dialogue on what community engagement should mean,” she added.
Benrimoh said that students had planned to ask Lantagne about Indigenous resistance to Hydro-Québec’s projects. “We thought it would be good to ask a partner of McGill about their social justice record, which we think is totally relevant – it’s only fair that if we’re going to partner with someone, we hold them to account on what they do.”
After the panel, attendees broke out into discussion groups. At each of the ten tables, a student senator facilitated the discussion and later reported back on it. Although the discussion questions were pre-selected, most groups discussed community engagement more broadly than in the panel. An overarching consensus among all the participants was that applied research at McGill should be responsive to the needs of the community, and not done solely for the sake of innovation.
“[We] talked a bit more about having problem-driven research in the community. We [need to] make space for communities to define their own needs, to make sure that when we’re creating solutions, they’re for […] the community members,” said Stewart-Kanigan, reporting on her table’s discussion.
“We also discussed service to the community,” said SSMU President Courtney Ayukawa. “It is in McGill’s mission statement, and there is a call for recognition of this from […] specifically the upper administration.”
Some attendees noted a contrast between the background readings and the panel, both of which focused on business and industry partnerships, and the discussion.
“Interestingly enough, every single table of the ten tables that reported their discussion, they didn’t focus on [business and entrepreneurship] – they focused on what McGill could give to the community,” said Medicine Faculty Senator and Senate Representative to the BoG Edith Zorychta in an interview with The Daily.
For Stewart-Kanigan, however, the tone of the discussion did not alter the overall framing of the event. “[The discussion] does not assuage my concerns about the definition of community engagement that McGill is currently operating on, and seems to seek [to legitimize] through this forum,” she said.
Stewart-Kanigan also noted the level of commitment necessary to truly engage with the community.
“It takes a lot of work to engage in that kind of approach to community engagement, it takes oftentimes years of relationship building,” she said. “I hope to see it organized in a way that acknowledges that that is a long-term project, and not something that you can deal with by setting up a forum one time a year.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Committee extends smoking policy to e-cigarettes, review to continue
On October 20, the University Health and Safety Committee (UHSC) began discussion on a review of McGill’s recently updated smoking policy, which may eventually include a campus-wide smoking ban. The review comes approximately one month after the committee extended the policy to cover e-cigarettes in the ban on smoking in certain areas of campus.
According to the current smoking policy, which complies with provincial law, smoking is prohibited within nine metres of doors and windows leading into McGill buildings. Last winter semester, Redpath terrace was designated as a smoke-free area. The recent addendum, effective September 22, includes e-cigarettes, or electronic cigarettes, in the ban.
E-cigarettes are personal vapourizers that commonly produce nicotine vapour rather than the smoke of conventional cigarettes. Associate Director of University Safety Wayne Wood told The Daily that the policy was revised following inquiries from staff about whether e-cigarettes were included in the ban.
Music Senator and Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) representative on the UHSC Maximillion Scebba spoke to The Daily about the addendum. “I honestly was pretty surprised that the policy didn’t already include e-cigarettes,” he said.
However, some students didn’t agree that e-cigarettes should be treated the same way as cigarettes.
“Extending e-cigarettes, which are supposed to be kind of a non-chemically-oppressive way to smoke cigarettes, as being subsumed under the [smoking restrictions], that just kind of defeats the point of people smoking e-cigarettes,” said U3 student Alice Feldman.
It’s possible that even bigger changes may be in store for the smoking policy. Scebba noted that “some discussion of a blanket ban of smoking on campus” was a possibility for future UHSC meetings.
“[The committee] did seem quite eager,” he said. “They’ve noticed that some universities in Canada […] have banned smoking across all campuses.”
When asked about a campus-wide ban, however, Wood replied, “I’m not aware that the UHSC is considering a campus-wide ban at the moment. Someone may have mentioned it at the last meeting, but it is not on our current agenda.”
In the meantime, Scebba says the committee will meet twice over the next two months and discuss the policy.
“It will consist of an evaluation of the resources the University has at its disposal to enforce the current policy, with the goal of determining ways in which it can be improved,” Scebba told The Daily in an email.
According to Scebba, the discussion will focus on a “review of the role security services play in the current policy,” as well as on the assessment of the success of designated campus smoking areas. The committee will be “exploring options for new sites, physical improvements to the sites themselves, and issues of accessibility,” he said.
Scebba raised concerns about whether the community would be adequately consulted on such decisions.
“The committee is very open to student consultation, I just don’t think they’re always good about following through with that,” he said. “Out of concern that the members of the UHSC may not follow through with this responsibility to an ideal extent before that discussion takes place […] the committee needs as much input as it can get.”
Reactions to a campus-wide ban among students who smoke were mixed, with many students supporting a smoke-free campus.
“I wouldn’t mind that much, to be honest,” said U3 student Kevin Dejean. “I understand how it can be uncomfortable for the non-smokers.”
Feldman, however, voiced concerns over the fairness of the policy. “Telling us ‘you have no place here in which you can, you know, be yourself and smoke,’ that’s just kind of ridiculous to me,” she said.
“I think that if there were workshops, like how to smoke better, how to dispose of your cigarette butts, what kind of impact it has on the environment, who you should be conscious of smoking around, then people would be more mindful instead of instituting this blind ban,” Feldman said.
Whether the discussion will bring about any concrete changes to the policy remains to be seen. “I do not know whether any policy updates or new items will be implemented, or merely discussed,” said Scebba.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students disappointed with disruption to student-run snack shop
The sandwich shelves of SNAX’s fridge remain empty about one month after the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) received an email calling into effect a cease-and-desist order on sandwich sales.
According to AUS President Ava Liu, the email, sent on behalf of Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens, stated that AUS was violating its Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the University by selling sandwiches at the student-run snack shop. “It has come to our attention that the AUS is selling sandwiches at SNAX in Leacock. Please note that […] AUS is not permitted to sell sandwiches,” read the email.
“We asked to meet with them about our options, and they said, ‘first, comply,’ so we did,” said Liu.
Appendix E of the 2010-15 MOA, which is the document that defines the legal relationship between AUS and McGill, bars SNAX from selling “any kind of processed or prepared foods, such as sandwiches or any kind of hot food.”
“The MOA is a little confusing,” said Liu. “[But] for as far as I can recall, SNAX has been selling sandwiches. It’s not a new development.”
According to Dyens, the sandwich sales were previously unknown to the University. “We acted when it was brought to our attention, as we always do,” Dyens said in an email to The Daily. “The AUS has an obligation, per the agreement they signed with the University, to not sell sandwiches.”
The present MOA, which the current AUS executive has inherited from its predecessors, comes up for renewal this year. “Though I don’t want to speculate, this was called into question right before the negotiation period,” said Liu.
“It just feels… fishy. Could [the administration] really not have noticed [the sandwich sales] this whole time?”
In speaking with The Daily, some SNAX customers hypothesized that the University was trying to use sandwich sales to bargain for a more expensive lease. Sandwiches garner a fair portion of SNAX’s revenue – about 20 per cent – and generate the margin used to pay employees, according to Liu. 
“The fact that they’re trying to use rent as a point of contention is possible,” said Liu. “[However], in my understanding, SNAX may have faced rent increases regardless.”
The University denied that the cease-and-desist email was prompted by complaints from competing food outlets on campus.
“This is in no way related to complaints from Première Moisson, or any other food suppliers at the University, including student-operated food outlets or commercial outlets in the [University] Centre,” Mathieu Laperle, Director of Food and Dining Services, told The Daily in an email. “And there’s no foundation to the speculation about this being some kind of bargaining chip.”
Director of Internal Communications Doug Sweet clarified Laperle’s comment, saying it “might leave the impression that there have been complaints from other outlets. There have been no complaints.”
Another speculation is that SNAX, because of its health-conscious fare, might be cornering a market the University hopes to tap. According to Liu, SNAX manager Hasan Nizami was offered a meeting with Food and Dining Services to discuss how it could improve its food offerings. Nizami was unavailable for comment. 
“We think there’s an interest for McGill and others in SHHS [Student Housing and Hospitality Services] to consolidate food options on campus,” Liu said. “We’re not interested in helping them develop their suppliers […] market share can always be consolidated by the University.”
“It seems petty, honestly,” said one SNAX customer, who asked to remain anonymous, to The Daily. “This is one of the few places to get sustainable, organic foods.”
“I recognize that correlation does not equal causation,” confided another anonymous SNAX customer, “but the timing of everything is off. It just feels… fishy. Could [the administration] really not have noticed [the sandwich sales] this whole time?”
Comment sheets have been posted around SNAX where students can share their opinions about the absence of sandwich sales. Some comments drew parallels between this situation and that of the closure of the Architecture Café, another student-run outlet that the administration shuttered in 2010.
One critic wrote on a comment sheet, “[This] seems like a desperate, last-ditch attempt to get people to buy at Première Moisson. Ugh, McGill, this does not make you look good. Long live Architecture Café.”
Marc-André Levesque, a second-year Education student, was disappointed when he learned of the change. “I detoured to buy here – it’s delicious and affordable. And [it’s] healthy stuff. I don’t understand why this happened.”
U3 Economics student Zach said that the change affects him because “I am a consumer of sandwiches, and more options are always better.”
A common concern raised in the comment sheets is that SNAX is one of the few student-run spaces left on campus. One note on the bulletin board read, “Please bring back affordable, student-run food!”
The importance of maintaining student-run space was also highlighted by Liu. “As it is right now, [SNAX is] entirely managed by a student team,” she said. “What we do is tied to sustainability on campus, a lot of our initiatives are related to that. We also offer options that are not really offered [elsewhere] on campus.”  
“We feel that if this chunk of offerings, vegan offerings, were moved to within SHHS, the cost would obviously increase,” she added. “They might be able to have some of these premium products, but they […] would be offered at an expensive price. That’s my opinion as student, that’s why I [advocate] for us to keep things within our control.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SPVM under fire for response to sexual assault, mental health crises
In late October, the Fraternité des policiers et policières de Montreál (FPPM) sent a formal report to police chief Marc Parent stating that the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM)’s firearms training and maintenance is seriously lacking – so much so that it poses a serious threat to public safety.
On October 6, the FPPM also published a press release demanding that the Commission des relations du travail take all the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the members of the police force. According to the press release, a majority of the Montreal police has been deprived of training in weapons handling since the closure of four SPVM shooting ranges in 2013.
“This neglect has ensured that the qualification rate of Montreal police in the use of service weapons was about 5 per cent at the end of 2013. The current rate is higher but remains unknown to the Fraternity,” the press release stated in French.
Firearm use and maintenance is not the only area where SPVM training has been said to be lacking. The Quebec coroner’s report on the January 2012 shooting death of Farshad Mohammadi, who was homeless and struggled with mental illness, stated that there needs to be more effective training for police officers in handling mental health crises. The SPVM also recently came under fire for its response to four different womens’ reports of being sexually assaulted by taxi drivers.
In October, an SPVM spokesperson warned that women should “limit their alcohol consumption and stay in control” after a series of reports from women of being sexually assaulted by taxi drivers. This response was widely criticized as an example of victim-blaming and indicative of the SPVM’s insufficient response to sexual assaults.
Indeed, police departments are often criticized for the way in which they handle sexual assault. In an email to The Daily, Frances Maychak, External Coordinator at the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS), outlined a few of the many factors that prevent survivors from reporting to the police.
According to Maychak, a fear of further violence, concerns about the legal process, trauma, relationship to the perpetrator, and issues of language, citizenship, and immigration can all impact a survivor’s decision.
“[Survivors may] fear violence from the police and/or negative/ violent experiences with the police in the past,” said Maychack, adding that many also fear being blamed for their own assault.
Communication barriers can also impact the ability and willingness of assault survivors to report to police. “Survivors may not speak the language(s) necessary to report their assault(s),” stated Maychak.
Preparation and sensitivity in other issues, such as language, can play a role in the use of force by police. According to Maycheck, attention to the specific needs of sexual assault survivors is crucial.
“It is extremely important that the police are educated on issues of sexual assault, take all reports of sexual assault very seriously, never disbelieve a survivor, and never blame a survivor for being assaulted,” she said.
SACOMSS has recently begun training a team of volunteers to accompany assault survivors to the police, as well as court dates and medical appointments.
The Collective Opposed to Police Brutality (COBP), an autonomous group that aims to combat police brutality, argues that the SPVM’s inefficacy at responding to sexual assault is a product of the patriarchy.
A COBP press release about police violence against women read in French, “Men dominate the army and the police, particularly in positions of command. Men generally have more money than women. Although there obviously are some women who occupy better positions than men, it is possible to speak of Quebec as a patriarchal system that divides society into two classes of unequal genders.”
Despite the implementation of initiatives that sought “to better respond to the many aspects of mental health and homelessness problems” detailed in the SPVM’s 2013 annual report, the homeless population remains a target of police brutality in Montreal. There have been reports of threats from the police for panhandling. Earlier this year, a member of the Montreal police shot and killed Alain Magloire, a homeless man who faced mental illness, after hitting him with a police cruiser.
In order to learn more about the relationship between Montreal’s homeless population and the SPVM, The Daily spoke to the Old Brewery Mission, an organization that works with Montreal’s homeless population. The Old Brewery Mission tries “to work with people to find better solutions, depending what issues they are dealing with.”
Old Brewery Mission Emergency Services Coordinator Neila Ben Ayed spoke with The Daily about the relationship between the SPVM and Montreal’s homeless population.
“Most of the time, it’s not violent; [however] sometimes [the police] lose patience, they can be verbally more aggressive with these kinds of people,” said Ben Ayed. “Homeless people need – how can I say that – they need a human approach.”
“[The Old Brewery Mission] has a great relationship with the police,” said Ben Ayed. However, she conceded that “they have to improve communication.”
“Maybe the SPVM has to improve their workers with more training with specific population issues, like homelessness,” concluded Ben Ayed.
SPVM media relations would not comment on the current training process for officers.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
