The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Downtown hotels to be converted to residences
When the Holiday Inn on Sherbrooke and the Delta Centre-Ville hotel on University re-open this fall, they will be home to hundreds of university students, joining the recent trend of converting hotels to student housing in the area around McGill campus and the downtown area.
Despite the recent news, the neighbourhood around McGill hasn’t always been so student-laden. Over the years, it morphed from a working-class neighbourhood to a home for hippies, draft dodgers, and counterculture. Finally, in the mid-1990s, it became the expensive, student-filled ‘McGill Ghetto’ that we know today.
According to an interview published in Satellite magazine in 2012, Phyllis Lambert, founder of the Canadian Centre for Architecture, said, “In the [19]70s through the [19]80s, there was a huge not-for-profit cooperative housing project for about 600 to 700 people just to the east of the McGill campus, in the downtown.”
Lucia Kowaluk, president of the Milton Parc Citizens’ Committee, said that she has lived in the neighbourhood since its ‘hippie’ days in the 1960s, when she was a student at McGill’s School of Social Work. “McGill was small at the time,” she said in an interview with The Daily. “Not many students lived there.”
Now, with almost 40,000 students enrolled at McGill as of 2013, student housing has become a central issue in the neighbourhood. Notably, private investors, rather than university residence systems, are currently the most active in the student housing market. Campus Crest Communities Incorporated – one of the investors in both the Holiday Inn and Delta transformations – is a major player, with a 35 per cent stake in the Holiday Inn project and a 20 per cent stake in the Delta project.
In an e-mail to The Daily, Ted Rollins, CEO of Campus Crest, wrote, “We have big plans for Canada. We believe that the Canadian market is in need of this type of project. We have already experienced a tremendous amount of interest from students.”
As the McGill student population continues to grow, the University has also been rapidly expanding its residence network. Three hotels have been converted to residences in less than ten years: New Residence Hall, Carrefour Sherbrooke, and La Citadelle, in that order. In addition, private investors from Toronto and the United States have plans to convert the Quality Inn on Parc to a student residence in the near future.
According to Éric Michaud, coordinator at the Comité logement Ville-Marie, a housing advocacy group in the downtown core, the flood of students into the areas around the McGill campus has made it less accessible for families to live there.
“[The growth of the student population] diminishes the accessibility of housing for families because students can split the costs and pay more than a family could for the same space,” he said in French in an interview with The Daily.
Conversely, Kowaluk isn’t worried about the ongoing hotel-student residence conversions. “That’s fine,” she said. “From the board chatting about it, we’re glad that students are moving into hotels so they don’t take over [the neighbourhood’s] Victorian houses.”
Michaud somewhat agreed, saying, “Unfortunately, there’s not enough student housing built by the universities,” he said. “We think that it’s a good thing to have student residences built by universities because [then] students pay less [for it].”
For an individual student, the average rent for a double room, shared with an assigned roommate, at New Residence Hall, Carrefour Sherbrooke, or La Citadelle, is $1087.67 per month, with La Citadelle the most expensive at $1112 per month.
Rollins declined to specify exactly how expensive the converted Holiday Inn residence would be, writing only, “We aren’t the cheapest, but we believe that students will receive a compelling value.”
“McGill is a terrible landlord. There are things you have to pay for that would never stand up if they had to face a renting board,” said Fred Burrill, community organizer at Projet Organisation Populaire Information et Regroupement (POPIR) of the St. Henri, Petite Bourgogne, Côte-Saint-Paul, and Ville-Émard areas.
In recent years, McGill has turned to hotels to build cheaper residences, with all three of its most recent residences the product of such renovations. While these residences may take students out of the renting pool for private apartments, it won’t necessarily drive rent down in the apartments they would be leaving behind.
Paule Provencher, a real estate agent in the McGill area for around 25 years, said that after the renovation that turned the former Renaissance Hotel into New Residence Hall several years ago, there were far fewer students looking to rent, but that the dip in demand had little impact on rent prices in the neighbourhood.
“[The prices go down] a little bit, but not that much,” she told The Daily. “You have to understand that people have purchased their condo at a high price and they really cannot just give it away.”
“Families and professional couples don’t want to [live in the McGill area]. When I tell them that it’s in [that] area, they say ‘no thank you.’ They hang up,” she said, adding, “Just a few families live in the area, but really not that much.”
“A trend that has been happening in the last couple years in Montreal, roughly since when McGill opened up Solin Hall [in 1990], is that universities – and McGill is on the forefront of this – are becoming developers, even if not for-profit, making the neighbourhoods more upscale,” said Burrill, adding that, “The university as developer is a phenomenon that McGill started but is no longer the only participant in the process.”
A soon-to-be-released study, conducted by the Comité in conjunction with the Université du Québec à Montréal, indicated that in the borough of Ville-Marie (which includes most of the Golden Square Mile), property prices have soared since 2004.
“They have doubled between 2004 and 2011, which has had an impact on, among other things, [property] taxes and rent [in the neighbourhood],” said Michaud.
It’s not only renters who pay the price of the shift to private investors in the residence market. “I think that as universities like McGill and Université de Montréal are moving increasingly toward the corporate model, they need revenue streams. That comes with increase in tuition, increase in ancillary fees that McGill has students have to pay,” said Burrill.
It’s unclear exactly what impact private investment will have on the situation, but Provencher said that if it will impact rent prices in the neighbourhood, it would most likely drive them up even further.
“If it’s a private [company], of course they’re making an investment; they want money, and [residences] they develop will probably be more expensive than McGill’s,” Provencher said.
Despite the dizzying climb of rent prices in the McGill area since the 1990s, a typical feature of gentrification, both Provencher and Kowaluk argued that the neighbourhood hasn’t been gentrified.
“I don’t see students moving in as gentrification,” said Kowaluk, although she wasn’t happy about the change.
Provencher agreed. “I don’t think [of it as gentrification]. Because the families with kids, they don’t want to come [to the neighbourhood], the professionals, they don’t want to come,” she said.
“The number of students is overwhelming the demographic mix,” Kowaluk added. “It’s not the majority of students, but enough who don’t have a sense of living in a neighborhood [and] don’t know how to behave or hold their liquor […] I know people who say their neighbours have left because they were tired of the noise.”
Burrill described McGill’s view on incoming students as a “captive tenant population,” saying that “[The University] is targeting them as a revenue source.” Burrill believes that the conversion of hotels to residences downtown do contribute to a form of gentrification, pushing lower-income tenants out.
“The main way students can not contribute to gentrification is living a certain way, getting to know their neighbours,” he said. “There are certain legal things student[s] can do. You can transfer your lease, insist on having repairs done.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Program supports First Nations and Inuit students at McGill
Correction appended February 10, 2014
In its ongoing search for permanent funding, Indigenous Access McGill (IAM) continues to provide mentoring and tutoring services to First Nations and Inuit Students in Social Work and other programs. Despite its financial uncertainty, the program has garnered support from other Indigenous student groups and support services at McGill over the years.
Since IAM started up in 2007, Arts Senator Claire Stewart-Kanigan told The Daily in an interview on January 16, the program has “seen an increase in Indigenous graduates and students coming into the School of Social Work. […] So, Indigenous Access McGill has been a concrete help for Indigenous students in making McGill seem like a more inviting environment [for them], and also [in] providing skills and support to help [Indigenous] students succeed when they get here.”
In its seven years of existence, IAM has kept in contact with, and has been supported by, the First Peoples’ House and other Indigenous student organizations throughout campus.
IAM Project Coordinator Courtney Montour told The Daily in an email that IAM has also been instrumental in developing the Aboriginal field studies course (IDFC 500) in 2013, which was offered to both Indigenous and non-Indigenous students in Social Work, Medicine, Anthropology, and Law. The course was initially run in 2010 as a slot course and then formally recognized by McGill in 2011 as IDFC 380.
“The idea for an Aboriginal field studies course grew out of IAM. We did the initial research and developed the framework,” Montour said, adding that she visited the Nicola Valley Institute of Technology to gather ideas. “We took what we learned through this experience and tailored it to the needs of the McGill and Kahnawake communities.”
IAM was born out of a research study – conducted from 2005 to 2008 by the Director of the School of Social Work Wendy Thomson, and funded by the Ministère de l’Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport du Québec – on current and ongoing educational and professional needs in the Kahnawake and Kanehsatà:ke communities, and the region of Nunavik.
The study found that “Indigenous students are underrepresented in undergraduate and graduate programs,” Montour said, adding that the study also found “participants had myriad concerns around their ability to succeed in a mainstream social work program. It was clear that a range of support systems needed to be put in place.”
In 2007, IAM was founded by the Director of the School of Social Work Wendy Thomson, Social Work professor Nicole Ives, past IAM Coordinator Oonagh Aitken, and Social Work Academic Associate Michael Loft, in order to speak to these issues within the study’s findings.
Since its inauguration, IAM’s funding has come through grants –one from Health Canada between 2007 and 2010, and one from the Counselling Foundation of Canada between 2010 and 2013. However, since September 2013, Montour stated in an email to The Daily that IAM “[has been] without any concrete funding” and that “the Dean of the Faculty of Arts is currently providing IAM with some bridge funding.”
Following the January 22 McGill Senate meeting, Stewart-Kanigan asked Dean Christopher Manfredi whether the Faculty of Arts would continue to fund IAM until permanent funding is found for the program.
“I asked, ‘Will bridge funding continue if additional funding or university funding isn’t found?’ And he said, ‘Yes it would. For next year if external funding isn’t found then they will continue to receive funding from the Faculty of Arts. The staff positions won’t disappear.’”
When asked about the amount of money that is required to run IAM, Montour refused to comment. “It is minimal, and right now with that bridge funding, the three of us at the university [are] capable of using our manpower to do any support service. But if anything costs money out of the physical realm of our ability, we can’t do that right now.”
Once IAM receives sustainable funding, Mary Shem, a McGill Social Work student and a student supported through IAM, told The Daily that, in addition to maintaining the current Aboriginal Field Studies Course that IAM was instrumental in creating, she would like to see IAM push for and offer more courses related to Indigenous Studies.
“I know there are other programs in Indigenous Social Work that they could offer. The First Nations program is just starting out at McGill, so I know they could offer a lot more [in terms of courses].”
Stewart-Kanigan added on January 16 that with permanent funding, IAM could “get a bit more outreach and joint events with other organizations. I think that could help with their visibility because I think there’s space for them […] within the Faculty of Arts.”
“But things are slowly moving,” Loft said to The Daily. “And I think they’re moving in a Native way. […] We want to make a better day for our youth for the future, and that’s what it’s about.”
In an earlier version of this article, The Daily incorrectly named Mary Shen as a member of IAM; in fact, Mary Shem is a student supported through IAM. In addition, The Daily misstated the titles of Nicole Ives and Michael Loft as an assistant professor and professional associate, respectively; in fact, their titles are professor and academic associate. In addition, The Daily incorrectly referred to the Nicola Valley Institute of Technology as the University of British Columbia. Lastly, The Daily stated that Claire Stewart-Kanigan spoke with Christopher Manfredi at AUS Council; in fact, they spoke at the January 22 Senate meeting. The Daily regrets the errors.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizations push for rights of migrant workers
On December 31, the federal government’s latest amendments to Canada’s Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) came into effect, including a change that prevented employers who had criminal convictions in human trafficking, sexually assaulting an employee, or causing the death of an employee from participating in the TFWP; however, the change was later dropped.
The TFWP was introduced in response to Canadian employers who claimed they could not find sufficient qualified workers in Canada, and allows employers to bring non-Canadians to work in the country for a limited time under temporary work visas.
However, the Immigrant Workers Centre (IWC) of Montreal, whose mandate includes educating workers about their rights and improving their living and working conditions, believes that the TFWP is a ‘revolving door’ immigration policy that breeds precarity among the workers in the program. As such, the IWC assisted with the creation of the Temporary Foreign Workers Association (TFWA), which had its first general assembly on November 23, 2013.
“It is a form of indentured slavery, which becomes more prominent when the worker gets into a labour dispute with an abusive employer.”
“The best people that can fight for our rights as temporary foreign workers [are] the same temporary foreign workers,” said Helena Sanchez, head representative for TFWA Montreal and a temporary foreign worker, in a phone interview with The Daily.
Sanchez came to Canada from Spain under the Experience Canada program, which provided her with a temporary open work permit. Even though it is a work-holiday program, Sanchez said that most Europeans come to Canada for the work and not for the holiday.
“It was super difficult to find a job, just because of the visa. I got this special number, which starts with a nine, that says that you are a temporary foreign worker,” Sanchez explained. “Employers don’t want to employ you, because they know that you would be obligated to leave the country in a year.”
“It’s cool that you have an open visa, but when you have an open visa not associated to any employer it means that you’re not going to have services. And [even] after a year I couldn’t go to [the] hospital. I paid all my taxes all year, like a normal Canadian [resident, but I had] no services, health insurance. I [had] absolutely nothing,” she added.
According to Neil LaDode, a representative from TFWA and a migrant worker who is not working under the TFWP, another problem workers like him face is the isolation they encounter in the workplace.
“We want to have equality; not only equal [in] the system, but also [free] from the stigma. We want the confirmation that temporary foreign workers need to be welcomed well, from the government as well as from the society,” LaDode said in an interview with The Daily.
Other than an open temporary work visa, workers can also have closed visas tied to specific employers; however, Sanchez said that the closed work permits seem to give an unfair advantage to the employers with regards to controlling the rights of their employees.
“You are in the hands of your employer. He or she decides when you are coming, when you are leaving, what are your rights, and what aren’t your rights,” she added.
Adrienne Gibson, associate researcher at Migrant Workers’ Rights Quebec (MWR), believes that the Conservative government has decided to prioritize the demands of employers through the TFWP, rather than immigration programs which bring foreign workers and families on permanent status.
“I have the right. It’s just that they try [to make sure you do not] know what your real rights are in Canada.”
Although on paper all temporary foreign workers are supposed to have access to all the same protections as Canadian workers, Gibson told The Daily that, in reality, that has never been the case for about 50 per cent of them.
“The fact that some of these workers can be sent home at any time upon the employer’s request, without access to an impartial review of the decision to repatriate them, is a huge obstacle and is an example of how the TFWP seems to be unconstitutional, in our opinion,” Gibson said in an email to The Daily.
According to Joey Calugay, community organizer at the IWC, even having closed work permits could be problematic for temporary foreign workers.
“Most have closed work permits which tie them to one employer. Their ability to stay in Canada is tied to that employment. It is a form of indentured slavery, which becomes more prominent when the worker gets into a labour dispute with an abusive employer,” said Calugay in an email to The Daily.
“The worker is immediately faced with the choice of fighting for their rights and perhaps losing their employment, and thus their right to stay and continue to have an income to support themselves or their families, or to remain silent and simply endure the abuse and exploitation,” Calugay continued.
Sanchez explained to The Daily that when she went to renew her visa, she encountered problems at the Canadian border. “I [got] to the border, because in this program, you have to get out of the country, and then come back to process your visa. [Border services] told me that I should have private health insurance, because without my private health insurance, it would be impossible to get into the country. […] But in [IWC], they told me […] if you have a permit, if you have a job, you have a right to have public health insurance,” Sanchez explained.
“I have the right. It’s just that they try [to make sure you do not] know what your real rights are in Canada,” Sanchez continued.
In December 2011, the Quebec Commission on Human Rights and Youth Rights issued a legal opinion stating that various aspects of these programs violate the Quebec Charter of Human Rights. Apart from that, while organizations like the IWC and MWR are investigating the legality of the TFWP, to date, no legal action has been taken against it.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students, ombudsperson recommend more supervisor training
As part of an ongoing initiative to improve the relationship between graduate students and supervisors, something that the University has struggled with in the past, McGill recently launched a new webpage that outlines the roles and responsibilities of the supervisory relationship.
In an interview with The Daily, Martin Kreiswirth, Dean of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and Associate Provost (Graduate Education), explained that attention to the relationship between supervisor and supervisee is relatively new.
“In graduate education in universities, [the relationship] was something that had been pretty much ignored for many years, up until the mid-1990s or even later,” said Kreiswirth. “I don’t think McGill has been particularly late [to address the relationship], but it wasn’t at the forefront. McGill has been in the middle, and I think we’re now giving it a kind of attention that other universities aren’t […] the attention that it needs.”
In December 2012 and January 2013, Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (GPS) and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) distributed a survey to both graduate students and supervisors on the state of the supervisory relationship.
In the survey, 66 per cent of students across faculties thought that McGill should train all graduate supervisors; however, only 39 per cent of surveyed supervisors agreed that this training was necessary.
“Unfortunately, […] at times one gets the impression that those supervisors who would benefit most from these resources do not use them.”
This discrepancy, according to Kreiswirth, is largely due to the importance of the relationship to the student’s career relative to the supervisor’s. Training new professors and holding workshops for supervisors has been consistently recommended by Spencer Boudreau, the student ombudsperson, in the Ombudsperson’s Annual Report since the 2010-11 academic year.
According to Kreiswirth, the GPS is acting on these recommendations despite some faculty resistance.
“We’ve improved our [supervisor] workshops, we get more people to attend. […] There’s a pretty general agreement that new professors need to get training [before becoming supervisors],” he told The Daily.
The focus on training new professors, rather than all supervisors, stems largely from concerns about the feasibility and practical concerns of such a project.
Another important change will be the explicit statement of the roles and responsibilities of both graduate students and supervisors. Kreiswirth emphasized to The Daily that “establishing and maintaining the relationship between supervisors and supervisees, and articulating expectations and agreeing upon them early,” are arguably the most important factors to improving the relationship between graduate students and their supervisors.
Jonathan Mooney, PGSS Secretary-General, agreed with Kreiswirth, adding, “PGSS wants there to be clear expectations and accountability on both sides for the students and the supervisor. We think that is the best way to build a positive solution for the relationship.”
According to Kreiswirth, expectations will be clarified through adjustments to the mandatory progress tracking system already in place at McGill.
Kreiswirth also explained that the new mechanism should not require additional Senate approval as it is simply an add-on to the system that is already in place.
Boudreau’s 2012-13 Ombudsperson’s Annual Report, released online on January 31, acknowledged the progress that has been made. “There are regularly scheduled supervision workshops, as well as a website, and resources available to all supervisors,” reads the report.
However, Boudreau also emphasized that future implementation of mandatory training will be critical to the improvement of the supervisory relationship.
“Unfortunately however, at times one gets the impression that those supervisors who would benefit most from these resources do not use them. Consequently I wish to repeat my recommendation from my [2010-11] Annual Report that all new academic hires without prior experience of graduate supervision be expected to attend a supervision workshop,” Boudreau stated in the report.
The Daily was unable to reach Boudreau for further comment before press time.
Overall, there is still work to be done on the relationship between graduate students and their supervisors. “It’s generally good, but that doesn’t mean it can’t be better,” said Kreiswirth.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill’s changes would have created strain on union workers
In a positive development for the University’s relationship with labour unions, both the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) and the Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE) have reached a compromise with McGill administration over issues related to the changes in payroll frequency.
The problems initially arose when McGill announced its plan to standardize the pay periods of all McGill employees by changing its payroll schedule to every two weeks, with a payment delay of one pay period. According to information released by McGill Human Resources, this change was meant to make the task of paying McGill employees easier, as the previous system had different employee groups on different pay schedules.
However, unions were unhappy with the change, as the new schedule would have resulted in a two week delay in payment.
“The problem with this delay is the first paycheque we received on January 16 was for work that was done January 1 to 3,” Sean Cory, the president of AMURE, told The Daily in an email. “This would have resulted in skipping almost a full paycheque.”
To make up for the delay in payment, the University offered to issue interest-free loans to employees at the beginning of January to be paid back regularly over the course of the year.
However, this solution still would have created problems for MUNACA and AMURE workers. “The end result would have been salary deductions for almost a year to pay for McGill’s pay frequency change,” noted Cory.
In addition, the fact that the loans offered were interest-free meant that they would be subject to tax, resulting in further loss of wages. The overall effect would have been a loss of $15 per pay period for MUNACA and AMURE employees.
Initially, when confronted with resistance in negotiations from Principal Suzanne Fortier and Vice-Principal (Administration and Finance) Michael Di Grappa, the unions encouraged their members to submit complaints concerning the payroll delays.
MUNACA and AMURE members filed over 300 complaints in a court case planned for December 2013, but they were withdrawn when the compromise was reached at the end of November.
Cory told The Daily that the basis of the complaints was initially that “we felt that unions were targeted as they were the only ones that were having this delay introduced and thus salary deductions.”
However, according to Doug Sweet, McGill’s director of internal communications, both unionized and non-unionized employees faced this change.
Just a few weeks before the changes were scheduled to take place, MUNACA, AMURE, and the McGill administration were finally able to come to a compromise. McGill agreed to allow workers to pay back their interest-free loans when they leave McGill, instead of deducting the loan from the workers’ paychecks.
“It resulted in an almost seamless transition to bi-weekly pays with a delay,” said Cory. “It is a difficult time financially for the University. We are not sure what the real benefit [of] a two week delay is to the University or whether that justifies this loan of hundreds of thousands of dollars, but we recognize that a two week delay in pay is essentially standard in large companies.”
“I think a lot of it got resolved once the upper administration understood what kind of impact it would have on our membership,” Kevin Whittaker, president of MUNACA, told The Daily. He added that the complaints were withdrawn “because the University came to an agreement [and understood] that what they were doing would be a hardship for our members and they adjusted the process [so that it] suited us.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
