The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Amendments to Equity Policy to increase Equity presence
Convening last Wednesday, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Council adopted five motions and tabled another until its next meeting.
The first motion concerned the AUS Equity Committee. The motion aimed to amend the AUS Equity Policy so that when Equity Officers attend AUS-affiliated events, including student orientation activities, it would not be at the expense of the Officers.
“Because it is the Equity Committee’s first year in existence, there [are] a lot of things that just needed to be sorted out in the bylaws. A lot of things didn’t really make sense in terms of implementation. So the goal of this was to be able to institute the things that the Equity Committee is supposed to be doing,” said AUS Equity Commissioner Hannah Sinclair in an interview with The Daily.
“It’s not fair to make someone pay $100 for Frosh, if they are going there in an official capacity,” Sinclair added.
AUS Equity Commissioner Josh Falek told The Daily that the lack of institutional support for equity during orientation week activities proved to be problematic, citing the fact that Equity Officers could not find out whether they could go to Frosh until two days before as evidence.
“We want to make sure that when the future administrations come through, Equity Officers can still go to all these events,” Falek said.
The motion was passed with four abstentions.
AUS McGill Environment Council (AUSec) representative Maggie Cascadden brought forth an issue concerning endorsement of candidates by standing committees.
“AUSec just wanted to have this discussion to discuss whether or not it’s possible for different departments […] to endorse candidates in any of the upcoming elections,” Cascadden explained to the Council.
According to AUS electoral bylaws, departmental associations may be allowed to endorse candidates through their mailing lists; however, at the time of the discussion, there was no specific bylaw regarding standing committees like AUSec.
AUS VP External Kareem Ibrahim expressed concern over the idea. “As a faculty association, I don’t think it’s the best idea to address candidates, especially given that there will be a lot of bias involved in it,” Ibrahim explained.
“We should try to avoid becoming so politicized in such a small network that is McGill campus,” added AUS VP Events Paul Laughlin.
“I think there is a certain merit to endorsements considering that our communities are supposed to represent student interests, and there might be situations in which certain candidates may be more into these interests,” AUS VP Internal Enbal Singer said to the Council.
Cascadden later explained to the Council that the reason she brought up the issue was because AUSec wanted to endorse candidates based on their environmental platforms.
After the discussion, Cascadden and Singer drafted a motion to amend the AUS electoral bylaws to state that standing committees are able to publicly endorse candidates in AUS elections.
In an email to The Daily, AUS President Justin Fletcher said, “I think it’s a good idea that some of our committees have a guaranteed ability in our bylaws to endorse candidates on matters pertinent to their portfolio’s mandate.”
“However, as with any endorsements, they must exercise caution and ensure that the endorsement is decided on in a fair manner, as endorsements can send a strong message to candidates and to the AUS membership,” added Fletcher.
The motion was adopted with four votes against and two abstentions.
The other motions passed included the adoption of the revised constitution of the McGill Psychology Students’ Association, an amendment to the Arts Undergraduate Improvement Fund Bylaws, and the adoption of the budget of the Arts Computer Lab Fund Committee.
The motion regarding the adoption of an ethical purchasing policy was tabled due to the absence of AUS VP Finance Samuel Higgs, and will be discussed at the next Council meeting on February 19
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Questions about Midnight Kitchen, increased application fee approved
With their referendum period coming up, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) met on February 12 to discuss referendum questions and debate problems with funding for post-graduate students’ associations (PGSA).
McGill Graduate Association of Political Studies Students representative Lorenzo Daieff presented a motion at Council to include a question in PGSS’s upcoming referendum regarding a fee levy for Midnight Kitchen. The proposed opt-outable fee would be $0.50 per student per semester, a lower fee compared to the undergraduate fee of $3.25.
Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney noted that PGSS already makes yearly transfers to SSMU for the usage of SSMU’s building and services by PGSS members. A representative from Midnight Kitchen responded that Midnight Kitchen does not have access to that money and is funded exclusively by student fees. Some confusion arose over the purpose of this transfer.
The motion passed with around ten votes against, and the question will be in the upcoming referendum period.
To mitigate the costs of uApply, a new graduate applications system that will be ready for the Summer 2014 term, Council voted to include a question in the upcoming PGSS referendum to increase the current graduate application fee for all new applicants to $120.
uApply costs $5 million to develop and will require $320,000 in maintenance and support over the coming years, according to the motion submitted to Council. Mark Quinsey from uApply pointed to several benefits of the new system, including ease of document submission, electronic reference letters, and more communication with applicants, among other things.
According to Martin Kreiswirth, Dean of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and Associate Provost (Graduate Education), McGill did a survey in 2008-09 to find out the reasons why students didn’t come to McGill. One of the reasons was that “it took too long [for students] to get their offer.”
Application fees will also be eliminated for students who ‘fast-track’ to a PhD without completing their Masters degree. However, students who get a PhD separately, or those in the qualifying year of their Masters, will still have to pay a fee.
Hanno Erythropel, Chemical Engineering representative, brought up concerns about “stricter rules” surrounding the funding process for PGSAs. Currently, all events must be approved by the PGSS before funding is granted, which has become increasingly burdensome for the associations, according to several different Council members.
Mooney explained that this process has been put in place because PGSS has unlimited liability for any of the actions of the PGSAs, and so they had been legally recommended to pre-approve all expenditures and events. This is due to a memorandum of agreement (MOA) signed with the McGill administration in 2012 and set to expire in 2016.
Ge Sa, Mining and Materials Engineering representative, brought up the possibility of incorporating a student association independently so that it could manage its own fees. Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens noted that, while indeed possible, this would impose a heavy administrative burden.
Dyens added that negotiations for a new MOA regarding fee management were underway, but that PGSS and the University had yet to come to an agreement.
Council also adopted a new fee structure for PGSS, which did not increase the total amount of fees paid but reallocated the money. The changes were split into three separate motions, with the first addressing the need for a $1.51 increase per student, per semester for the PGSS Regular Membership Fee.
Mooney explained that the increase was due to negotiations between PGSS and McGill over a new lease for Thomson House, which McGill owns. “One of the things that will change between the current lease and the one that we will sign would be that we would be responsible for paying a portion of the utilities cost. [… However] we have the Sustainable Thomson House initiative, and we plan to make upgrades to Thomson House to make it more sustainable and consume less energy.”
The PGSS Grants Program saw an increase of 81 cents, per student per semester while the fee for the Needs Based Bursary Fund decreased to $1.01 to reflect a shift to an endowment fund.
Council also approved a referendum question regarding the renewal of the PGSS Health and Dental Plan and a referendum question asking for a non-optoutable fee of $3 for the Athletics Building Improvement Fund, which will go to toward a turf improvement project on the McTavish reservoir.
Council additionally endorsed the proposed PGSS member code of conduct and harassment policy, and a proposal from the University and the Library that the McLennan Redpath Terrace be smoke-free.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
