The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Journalist chastises Canada on foreign policy in forceful speech at McGill
Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Glenn Greenwald denounced Ottawa’s plans for military action in the Middle East last Thursday at McGill, warning Canadians that continued involvement in the region could provoke more attacks against the West. 
Delivering this year’s Beaverbrook Annual Lecture in a packed Pollack Hall, Greenwald, who won a Pulitzer Prize this year for his coverage of Edward Snowden’s leak of government surveillance documents, said Canadians shouldn’t be surprised by Wednesday’s shooting in Ottawa. 
“There is a huge gap between how a citizenry perceives of its own country and the reality of what its government is doing in the world,” he said. “The [citizenry] has been led to believe some pleasant version of the truth about itself that is actually completely at odds with the reality of what its government is engaged in.”
“When you don’t hear anything about who your government is killing […] then it is very easy to believe that most of the violence is directed at you, and that you are the victim of that violence and not the perpetrator.”
Greenwald said Wednesday’s reaction to the shooting echoed the U.S.’s response in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Canadians, like Americans, he said, should question their government’s policy in the Middle East rather than speculate about the motives of the perpetrators. 
“If you go to the Arab and Muslim world and ask people which country poses the greatest threat to peace […] they say overwhelmingly, two countries that are among the staunchest allies of Canada: the U.S. and Israel,” he said, referring to a worldwide opinion poll conducted last year by WIN/Gallup International. 
Greenwald sparked controversy this week when he wrote about the October 20 hit-and-run attack on two Canadian soldiers for The Intercept – an online publication founded by Greenwald, filmmaker Laura Poitras, and journalist Jeremy Scahill, and funded by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar – arguing that Canadian military action was to blame for the attack. He acknowledged at Thursday’s talk that his comments might have been seen as offensive, but said that his role as a journalist wasn’t to “comfort people.” 
“I wrote what I wrote as a corrective to this very distorted discourse,” he said. “When you don’t hear anything about who your government is killing […] then it is very easy to believe that most of the violence is directed at you, and that you are the victim of that violence and not the perpetrator.”
Greenwald also spoke at length about the importance of privacy and described the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA)’s mission as storing and “collecting all human communication.” A series of investigative articles has revealed the massive scope of the NSA’s surveillance program, with the information coming from documents leaked to Greenwald by Snowden over 15 months ago.
More documents would be published soon, Greenwald said. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Speaker argues that sustainability is multidimensional 
On October 21, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) environment committee held a talk titled “Green Capitalism: Can businesses really be sustainable?” as part of a monthly event series put on in collaboration with Green Drinks Montreal, an organization that hosts environmental discussions.
This month’s discussion was led by Shona Watt, a sustainability educator and consultant at TinyHomestead.ca, and former PGSS Sustainability Coordinator. Watt runs workshops on ecologically and socially responsible living and does consultation on sustainable business.
The talk focused on the question of whether capitalist companies – which value pursuit of profits over the environment – can ever be sustainable.
“I am really interested in sustainability, but I’ve never really thought about how businesses could be sustainable – it’s really interesting to see that side of things,” said Emily Helgerson, a grad student in Education at McGill.
Watt began by differentiating between weak sustainability – the idea that “natural capital can be replaced with human capital” – and strong sustainability – the idea that “economic and environmental capital are complementary but not interchangeable.” According to Watt, most businesses practice weak sustainability, but need to move toward stronger forms of sustainability.
“Sustainability incorporates social justice, ecologically responsibility, and economic equality.” – Shona Watt,
sustainability educator and consultant
An important aspect of the presentation was the notion that sustainability does not merely include being ecologically conscious; Watt defined the three pillars of business sustainability as economic, ecological, and social equality.
“Businesses have an amazing opportunity to be leaders in sustainability, but they often only focus on reducing environmental impacts, like waste or greenhouse gas emissions. […] It’s equally important to integrate social sustainability (e.g. increasing accessibility and equitable opportunities) and economic sustainability (e.g. paying a living wage, closing the wealth gap). Capitalism typically relies on the extraction of natural resources and production of cheap goods for profit, often the expense of marginalized groups like communities of colour or the global south,” said Watt in an email to The Daily.
When asked for examples of social and economic sustainability in businesses, an audience member pointed to Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor Company. “Ford had a system of providing wages where he paid the workers so that they could comfortably afford to buy one of his products – a living wage,” he said. After discussing steps that can be taken by businesses to be more sustainable, Watt brought forth a question about the concept of “greenwashing” to the audience. Greenwashing is a marketing strategy that disingenuously presents a product as being environmentally friendly. One example was the Hummer ad that reads, “Thirsty for adventure, not gas,” even though the vehicle burns fossil fuels.
“Is greenwashing at odds with sustainability? Or is it a step in the right direction?” asked Watt.
This question prompted a range of responses from the audience. One attendee argued that greenwashing was not meaningful action because “greenwashing doesn’t result in sustainability; it’s just a pretense.”
Another participant argued that, while greenwashing is simply a marketing technique, “It still creates awareness and puts pressure on competitors to be more sustainable.”
By the end of the talk, Watt had provided many discussion points for the audience to contemplate.
Watt later spoke to The Daily about the event’s success in questioning the meaning sustainability. “There was a great turnout at this event, and I think people walked away with a more holistic view of what it means for an organization to be more sustainable. Sustainability incorporates social justice, ecologically responsibility, and economic equality.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
