The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student group hosts panel on BDS, solidarity with Palestine
On September 25, the McGill chapter of Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR) hosted an informal panel discussion with three academics from the Institute of Islamic Studies – Associate Professor Michelle Hartman, Assistant Professor Ahmed Fekry Ibrahim, and Associate Professor Rula Abisaab – and the head librarian of the Islamic Studies Library, Anaïs Salamon. The event – the group’s first after being inactive for a few years – was centred on the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement and also served to introduce students to SPHR and its activities on campus.
Representatives of the group opened the discussion with a brief explanation of BDS and its objectives. “It’s basically an anti-colonialist call for solidarity with the human rights of Palestinian people in the OPT [occupied Palestinian territories], and with the diaspora as well,” said Nazim Elnur, an SPHR executive. “BDS espouses the tenets of non-violent political action in response to Israeli encroachment and transgressions against the life of Palestinian civilians in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Similarly, BDS raises the call for solidarity with those Palestinians abroad [who were] expelled in the numerous periods of violent campaigns in the region and forced to migrate without the right to return.”
While the origins of the tactic can be traced as far back as 1945, when the Arab League called for a general boycott of the Zionist community in Palestine under the British Mandate, the BDS movement itself was initiated by Palestinians in 2005. Since then, the movement has achieved substantial international attention and support.
Elnur acknowledged, however, that BDS also has many detractors. “Some say the BDS movement works to delegitimize Israel and its status as a nation. […] Others say that, although BDS is a non-violent organization, many of its protests have turned violent.”
“These [accusations of violence] are all deflecting the question,” said Abisaab, stressing the importance of contextualizing isolated incidents of violence, rather than using them as a basis to judge BDS as a whole. “We cannot generalize that the movement itself carries the seeds of violence,” she said. “This is a non-violent cause, it is a just cause, and it is the only way to go.”
BDS initiatives fall into three broad categories, according to the movement’s website: boycotts, which target “Israeli and international companies and institutions that profit from the violation of Palestinian rights”; divestment, which involves selling off business interests or investments linked to Israel; and sanctions, which aim to “mobilize government officials and bodies to denounce trade with Israel, and especially with firms located on settlement ground,” according to Elnur.
Elnur made a point of highlighting the relevance of BDS to McGill, noting the existence of “University investment portfolios profiting from corporations directly involved in the Israeli occupation, more commonly [known as] the building of settlements internationally recognized as illegal.”
“I myself am torn over some of the issues,” said Ibrahim, discussing the moral complexity of the academic boycott. “I mean, how do you deal with Palestinians working at Israeli institutions? […] Those kinds of issues are difficult to resolve, but I think institutionally […] there is some collateral damage that will be done.”
Highlights from the SPHR McGill Panel 
The discussion was well-attended, exceeding the capacity of the room where it was held. “The mood was just fantastic,” said SPHR executive Anas Shakra. “It exceeded all our expectations.”
Hartman was also pleased that the event had attracted so much interest. “It’s so wonderful to see this many students […] from McGill at a meeting for Palestine solidarity. For me, that’s so exciting.”
Addressing the frustrations toward the often slow progress of BDS and the struggle for Palestinian human rights, Hartman shared grounds for optimism. “There is a momentum, which someone like me has seen over time, of a building of solidarity around the world,” said Hartman, who argued that there was a similarity between BDS and struggles against apartheid in South Africa. “It’s not nothing to say, well, we’re working on this little by little in places around the world.”
Hartman told participants that she is interested in the idea of normalization, which, in this context, is linked to a certain perception of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. According to Hartman, it implies a certain equity between the two sides, and depicts the struggle as inevitable and age-old. “To me, that isn’t really the right analysis for this situation of colonialism.”
Salamon elaborated on the issue, sharing her experience of life in the OPT. “I lived in Palestine for two years in the early 2000s and this was really the moment when I realized that something needed to be done,” explained Salamon.
“I actually lived the daily effects of the occupation,” Salamon continued. “It made me realize how genuinely pro-Israeli we were in France. When you don’t know much about the conflict, you tend to oppose two equal sides without realizing that by doing that, you actually justify the Israeli occupation.”
One recurring theme was the actions McGill students should take in order to express their solidarity with Palestine and further the cause of BDS. According to Shakra and fellow SPHR executive Sara Ismail, one simple step would be to participate in the consumer boycott by avoiding Israeli products.
Another important demonstration of solidarity, said Hartman, is to seek information about the boycott. She stressed the value of challenging people’s misconceptions about BDS and spreading the word about the movement’s non-violent stance in day-to-day life. This, said SPHR executive Arezu Riahi, is one of the key objectives of SPHR at McGill. “Part of what we are trying to do is dispel this idea that resistance has to be necessarily violent. Awareness is a form of resistance.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Critics say march prioritized numbers over politics
Correction appended October 6, 2014.
On September 21, a group of about fifty people from McGill and Concordia joined more than 400,000 people who congregated in New York City for the People’s Climate March.
The march in New York was the main event in a global day of action, which saw nearly 2,700 solidarity marches all over the world, including in Montreal. This occurred in the days before the United Nations Climate Summit to send a message to world leaders about the importance of fighting climate change.
While many participants had positive experiences at the event, the march and the organization behind it has faced criticism from various social organizers.
“I think the march as a whole was really a way to show that something is wrong, and we need to do something about it,” Ella Belfer, a Divest McGill member who was involved in organizing McGill’s presence in the march, told The Daily.
She added that the organizers of the march had attempted to prioritize “voices that aren’t very often heard in the environmental movement.”
“I think that [finding ways to organize in solidarity] has been an ongoing struggle for us, and that’s something that’s obviously quite difficult when you’re organizing within a university context,” she said.
Anna Egerton, a second-year Arts and Science student who went to the march in New York, said that while it was at times hectic due to the sheer number of people, one thing she really appreciated was the wide variety of those who attended.
“Walking around the crowds, I was struck by the diversity of agendas that people had brought to the march and the huge number of organized groups that had come to the march,” she told The Daily.
She noted, however, that the distance the march covered, 3.2 kilometres, seemed a bit too long, as by the time it ended much of the crowd had dispersed and many seemed to have lost the energy they had at the beginning.
Several community organizers have criticized the climate march.
Amanda Lickers, an Indigenous organizer and member of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, said that the focus of the march organizers was too broad and too centred on ‘getting numbers.’ She cited the fact that 15 partners of the march are companies with strong ties to Israel, such as the Green Zionist Alliance, as an example of how blind inclusion can end up being inhibitory for marginalized groups.
“For me, that’s prohibitive for Palestinian participation,” she said. These sentiments have also been voiced by a number of local organizers, including Harsha Walia, a journalist and activist who founded the Vancouver chapter of No One is Illegal.
Similarly, Belfer said that the march didn’t have a set political focus.
“Because they were trying to be so inclusive, to make it very ‘a march for the people’ as I mentioned, it wasn’t necessarily a march with a mandate or a march with a concrete purpose; it wasn’t necessarily an ask for the UN to do something specific, it wasn’t a common set of goals around which everyone’s marching, which would have been nice to see,” she said.
“Traditionally, the environmental movement has been pretty divided,” added Belfer. “I think one of the biggest challenges of the movement is everyone has a different vision to a different problem.”
Lickers pointed out that the march had been organized for the exact same time as the African American Heritage Parade, the largest black parade in the U.S. according to their website, which takes place in Harlem every year to celebrate achievements in the black community and call for an end to racism.
“This just goes to show that they’re not looking at where they are – like if there’s this annual march in Harlem that has been done and their event is on the same exact day, it just shows right there what relationships are being made with the local community members, which is like, not very strong,” she told The Daily.
Montreal activist Jaggi Singh published a Storify piece in the days following the march that rounded up tweets from Bill McKibben, organizer at 350.org and one of the more visible faces of the climate justice movement, that claimed the march was “the biggest protest about anything in America in a very very long time.”
Singh called the tweets an act of “social erasure,” claiming that in saying this, McKibben was ignoring the activism and struggle of other social justice groups, such as the 500,000 who mobilized in 2006 in Los Angeles as part of migrant justice protests in the U.S..
Lickers also pointed to the fact that organizers of the march were promoting ‘green capitalism,’ or the idea that it is possible to solve environmental problems using market-based incentives within a capitalist framework. This could include the replacement of environmentally harmful practices, like fracking and the use of fossil fuels, with green technology such as solar panels and wind turbines.
“Oh look, the Rockefellers have divested from fossil fuels, all we need is green capitalism and we’re good to go, we can sustain colonial occupation, we can sustain capitalism, we can sustain colonialism,” said Lickers. “That’s not the kind of sustainability I’m interested in.”
“We have to try to look for contradictions within our own movements and within our own struggles, by ensuring that we’re building relationships with people who are directly impacted,” said Lickers.
One way to do this, Lickers suggested, might be for organizers to advocate for decreased consumption, and the destruction of systems that exploit natural resources.
“The issue should be about consumption, the issue should be about land occupation, the issue should be about how diasporic migrant communities are disproportionately impacted by environment violence, as well as Indigenous communities – about how Indigenous women’s bodies are seen as dispensable in a settler-colonial society that requires the extraction of lands for resources,” she said.
Lickers said that more should be done to meet the needs of Indigenous people, instead of merely making sure they are present in the march. She also suggested that organizers at the march could have acknowledged the fact that the demonstration occurred on colonized Indigenous land.
Finally, Lickers noted that movements like the People’s Climate March might do better to put their resources into supporting the many direct action resistance projects currently taking place in local communities.
“Our people are resisting. Our people are shutting down mining companies, this is happening and people can be part of this movement,” she said, in reference to Indigenous resistance projects, such as the Algonquin blockades of logging activities.
“My question to the divestment movement is, where [is] your support of those efforts […] that are taking that sense of urgency of the climate crisis and doing something about it?”
These issues were also noted by Belfer, who said that participating in the march had given her time to reflect on the possibility of collaborating more with the community. “I’m interested in different ways of doing solidarity organizing within the context of divestment, which is something I had the opportunity to think a lot about this weekend,” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
University refuses to acknowledge responsibility toward Six Nations
Last week, during a panel titled “Indigenous students at McGill: before and beyond graduation” that was held as part of the Indigenous Awareness Week, McGill graduate and Columbia University anthropology professor Audra Simpson spoke about a little-known aspect of McGill’s legacy: its link to a federal debt owed to the Six Nations of the Grand River Indigenous community.
“The common way of narrating the founding of McGill [is as one of] Canada’s most important and illustrious universities that came into being because of this 1811 endowment from this Scottish so-called merchant from Glasgow, James McGill. In other commemorative accounts […] that [detail] the financial problems of the first forty years of McGill, no mention is made of the crucial transfer of funds from the Six Nations of the Grand River in the 1850s that helped to save McGill from bankruptcy […] in fact, helped the university stay open,” Simpson said.
In the mid-1800s, amidst a financial crisis, the pre-Confederation government of the Province of Canada loaned money to McGill. The government funded the loan with money taken from the Six Nations’ Trust Funds, of which the government was the fiduciary trustee. The transfer of money was made without the permission of the communities of the Six Nations.
While McGill paid back this loan and a subsequent loan by 1881 to the federal government, the government never reimbursed the Six Nations’ Trust Funds. This was discovered by Philip Monture, previously the director of the Land Claims Research Office at the Six Nations of the Grand River.
“I was doing research into the history, and found out the government was misusing funds,” Monture told The Daily in an interview. “Using the Indian Affairs’ own records of their trust funds, we were able to trace the transfer of money to finance McGill [when the university was] near bankruptcy.”
After the discovery, Monture began litigation for the government’s accounting with the funds, which, if returned with interest, would now amount to around $1.7 billion.
Acknowledging that the Canadian federal government cannot afford the amount owed to the Six Nations, Monture has attempted since 1989 to form other arrangements to compensate for the federal government’s failure to repay the debt.
“The Crown at the time was acting as our trustees – to do the best for the beneficiaries of our trust – and they failed,” Monture said. “In reality, they were using any revenues that were created from our lands and our resources to finance the country. We were the only bank in town. They were given the power of fiduciary trust, and they were fraudulent.”
“We tried to set up an arrangement with McGill where we could talk and perhaps set up a subsequent arrangement with Six Nations to be able to give [Six Nations community members] education there,” added Monture. “It was unheard [by McGill].”
Monture hoped the University would at least acknowledge that Six Nations funds saved the University from bankruptcy. “I feel there’s a moral obligation to at least step up to the plate for the people of McGill to at least do something,” he said.
The McGill administration, however, disagreed. “[The loan was contracted] from the government, which was managing Aboriginal lands and proceeds derived from such lands, including rental and sale,” Vice-Principal (Communications and External Relations) Olivier Marcil told The Daily in an email. “McGill University has fully repaid its debts and owes nothing to the Six Nations.”
According to Social Work Academic Associate and Kahnawá:ke community member Michael Loft, there is little pressure or advocacy on this issue from within the McGill community. Loft said that while he had heard quiet musings about the conflict, no one he works with knows much about it, so “there’s no point in squabbling.”
Since McGill contracted the loan from the government, the majority of legal effort in this case has been directed toward the Canadian federal government.
The Six Nations, represented by an elected council, filed a statement of claim in 1995 against Canada and Ontario regarding the Crown’s handling of Six Nations property, money, and other assets before and after the Confederation.
In 2004, the Six Nations council put this action on hold, hoping that discussions with the government would be successful. They were not, and the 1995 litigation was reintroduced in 2009.
“The government of Canada has not made any public statements about this case, stating that these matters are in litigation and cannot be commented on,” Monture told The Daily in an email.
“I think that everyone knows about it – McGill knows about it, the Crown knows about it,” said Monture. “[They’re] denying it and delaying it, saying that ‘Canada should do that,’ and [then] Canada says ‘well, McGill benefitted from that loan.’ Whether it’s paid back, I don’t know. The only thing I know is that we don’t ever see that [money] coming back to Six Nations. We have never seen it come back.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel discusses experiences of domestic workers in Canada
Four panelists, two of whom were migrant workers, spoke about the obstacles migrant workers face in Canada at a panel held at Concordia last Wednesday. The panel focussed particularly on the experiences of domestic workers.
Delia De Veyra, who was a migrant live-in caregiver from 2004 to 2009, shared her experience with the audience. De Veyra found her sponsor absent when she arrived in Canada. The recruitment agency looked for another employer, but she had to wait six months for her next job. De Veyra said that her next employer deliberately neglected the contract, and did not pay her overtime wage.
“I was like a commodity to them,” De Veyra said. “I would go there […] take care of the kids, cleaning, cooking, and so on and so forth – ten hours, twelve hours a day, no overtime pay.”
De Veyra quit, but was also subject to abuse upon arrival at her following job, this time experiencing psychological harassment. Her employer’s wife would constantly shout and swear at her, De Veyra explained. With the help of PINAY, a Filipino women’s organization in Quebec, De Veyra filed a complaint, but did not receive indemnity. Instead, the employer demanded an apology for the complaint she filed.
Soon thereafter, De Veyra attempted to become a permanent resident as provided for by Canada’s Live-in Caregiver Program, but was rejected. She was advised to apply to become a permanent resident based on humanitarian grounds instead, and from 2006 to 2009 she worked on the application. This year, she finally received Canadian citizenship.
“Migrant domestic workers are placed in a very precarious situation, as their workplace is in a private household, behind closed doors, out of the public eye, which renders them invisible,” said panelist François Crépeau, a law professor at McGill and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Migrants.
In the presentation, Crépeau noted that domestic workers, who are largely migrant workers, work in the private sphere, and are thus often overlooked as part of the labour market. “They’re physically […] isolated, which makes it difficult for them to take collective action or even get information, contact, or support,” said Crépeau.
Crépeau emphasized that migrant domestic workers must be ensured access to education, vocational training, health services, food, and shelter; they should also be made aware of resources available to them in the country of destination, and possess a written contract in a language they understand, he said.
“We must empower domestic workers to fight for their own rights by ensuring that they have access to the information and protection mechanisms they need,” said Crépeau. “Nothing has ever worked better than empowering people to fight for their own rights. Only by empowering migrants to speak for themselves can we hope to have their voices heard and their rights respected.”
Enrique Llanez, a Spanish anthropologist and an advocate of immigrant rights in Canada, also shared his experience as a migrant worker, this time with Canada’s ‘work-holiday’ program known as International Experience Canada. According to Llanez, this program results in Spanish engineers, lawyers, and mathematicians emigrating to Canada, and leads to underemployment in Spain. Consequently, Canada has ready access to skill and cheap labour, as immigrant workers are often paid less than their peers.
The number of temporary migrant workers in Canada has grown by 70 per cent in the last five years, according to the Canadian Council for Refugees. “These people are being abused from the moment they set their feet in the country, and forced to sign papers not even written in their native languages,” said Llanez.
Llanez was not very optimistic about the situation as it presently stands. “What’s being enforced is keeping temporary foreign workers’ heads down […] an agency hasn’t been built to check that the conditions that these people live in are being respected.” He said that the situation for workers is becoming increasingly difficult, despite increased public awareness of the issues migrant workers face.
Audience members participated actively in the question-and-answer session that followed.
Maria Margarita Caicedo, a Concordia student involved with Journalists for Human Rights, found the panel illuminating.
“I thought it was really interesting from a human rights perspective […] it’s a human right, as opposed to citizenship,” said Caicedo. “I really didn’t know anything about the migrants issue in Quebec […] it’s shocking.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AGSEM presents undergraduate unionization campaign to Council
Last Thursday, the Legislative Council of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) convened for the second time this year. Council passed a motion regarding taking action in support of climate justice, and heard a presentation from AGSEM: McGill’s Teaching Union about its unionization campaign.
The only motion brought to Council this week was a motion regarding climate justice at McGill. The motion asked for SSMU to “reaffirm their support for Divest McGill,” an on-campus student group that calls on McGill to divest from tar sands and fossil fuel companies, and to take actions to support climate justice through various means, like working to create clean energy internships, having climate justice campaigns, and bringing the issue to the Board of Governors.
Vincent-Pierre Fullerton, VP External Relations of the Law Student Association (LSA), said that the LSA took issue with Article 1 of this motion, which stated that “the VP [External] shall, in association with other student unions and student federations across Quebec, create a student coalition demanding that pipeline projects in Quebec be blocked.”
Fullerton stated that “while [the LSA believes] that it is Council’s place to take stances on things of principle, it’s not necessarily Council’s place to oppose specific projects.” He suggested taking the motion to the next SSMU General Assembly to get “more representation from the constituents.” He argued that “the pipeline is really outside of McGill and does not affect us personally as an institution.”
Engineering Representative Anikke Rioux also noted that “a lot of [Engineering students] get their internships [and] get their future jobs from these companies.”
Ultimately, Article 1 was struck from the motion and tabled until the General Assembly for the student body to vote on it.
Arts Senator Kareem Ibrahim expressed his disappointment in the motion’s outcome. “We have been elected by our constituents to make these choices,” he said.
Benjamin Elgie, the Teaching Assistant (TA) Grievance Officer for AGSEM and former Daily Publications Society Chair, gave a presentation before Council on the association’s plans to unionize teaching support workers at McGill, including markers, graders, tutors, note-takers, undergraduate TAs, and course assistants.
Elgie stated that while graduate TAs are already unionized, these other workers are not, and they are receiving “$12 an hour to do a job that I [a grad student] get $26.83 to do.” He also stated that working conditions and getting paid on time were problems for these teaching support workers.
Elgie approached Council to ask for its support and help with outreach and distributing information about the campaign. He stated that AGSEM needs to get workers to sign memberships and if they reach a majority, they’ll have the legal means to unionize.
So far, the only response the campaign has received from McGill is that “[McGill Employee and Labour Relations Director] Robert Comeau told us not to put our poster on the AGSEM bulletin boards,” said Elgie.
“[McGill] has also suggested that it is improper for us to contact students and members using their McGill emails, or McGill listservs, because those are McGill resources and they claim we are soliciting people at work. Of course, the dual role of student workers as both students and workers means these email accounts are used outside of teaching support work, and in many cases these are students’ primary email accounts,” said Elgie in an email to The Daily. According to Elgie, AGSEM is confident that the objections are invalid.
VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan also briefly spoke on the arrest of a McGill football player late Wednesday night, and said that she has been speaking to various media outlets about “student response and how it ties into the progress we’re making on the sexual assault policy.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
