The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Ninth annual march and vigil highlights ongoing systemic violence
“How many missing, until you start listening?” chanted protesters on Saturday as they marched down St. Laurent, asking why, after almost a decade, the Canadian government has continued to overlook the disappearances and deaths of Indigenous women. Activists estimate that 60 per cent of the 3,000 women who have gone missing or been murdered in Canada since 1980 are Indigenous, with hundreds of cases still unsolved.
Braving the rain, over 1,000 people came to the ninth annual March and Vigil for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women – organized by Missing Justice, Quebec Native Women, and the Centre for Gender Advocacy (CGA) – to demand justice for missing and murdered Indigenous women and call on the Canadian government to investigate the violence against them. The march was one of around 100 Sisters in Spirit events held across Canada on Saturday to protest these issues.
Maya Rolbin-Ghanie, Publicity and Promotions Coordinator at the CGA, spoke to The Daily about the march’s significance. “This march was founded nine years ago by Bridget Tolley, an Algonquin woman, on the anniversary of her mother’s death. One of the main purposes of the march is to pay respects to and honour the many, many lives of missing and murdered Native women and girls across Canada,” Rolbin-Ghanie told The Daily.
Tolley initiated the march in honour of her mother, Gladys Tolley, who died in 2001 after being hit by a Sûreté du Québec (SQ) police cruiser. No inquiry was made into the case, and no officers were charged in her death.
The event on Saturday evening started off at Place Émilie-Gamelin with an opening performance by the Buffalo Hat Singers and with speakers from various groups discussing the government’s lack of action to end the violence against missing and murdered Indigenous women.
This was followed by an hour-long march, mostly on St. Laurent, during which protesters chanted slogans such as “Solidarité avec les femmes autochtones!” (Solidarity with Indigenous women) and “Bring our daughters home, bring our sisters home!” The march ended with a candlelight vigil and musical performances by members of the Indigenous community, some of whom were personally affected by the systemic violence against Indigenous women.
Podcast: An Interview with Monica van Schaik from the Missing Justice collective
 
Many at the march expressed their displeasure with Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s lack of action toward preventing violence against Indigenous women. Alison Hackney, a protester at Saturday’s march spoke to this frustration, telling The Daily she hoped that the march “[would] help bring better change in government, and I hope this government, or a future government, will initiate a national inquiry and seriously address the issue.”
McGill’s chapter of Amnesty International numbered among the many human rights groups that marched on Saturday. D’Arcy White, a U3 Political Science and Economics student and VP External for Amnesty International at McGill, told The Daily that he sought to raise awareness of the problem both at McGill and in surrounding communities.
“Our group came out to the march to express our concern over the disproportionate amount of Aboriginal women who have fallen victim to violent crime in the past two decades,” said White.
“In Canada, Aboriginal women are four times more likely than non-Aboriginal women to be murdered,” White continued. “Regardless of where you stand on the political spectrum, it’s clear that the institutions meant to protect human rights in this country are failing Aboriginal women disproportionately. It shouldn’t take more murdered and missing Indigenous women for greater initiative to fix the problem.”
Some activists also addressed the impact of the disappearances and deaths of Indigenous women on their families and communities. Saimata Manning, an employment counselor for Inuit people in Montreal, has met many such families, and believes that while a national inquiry is important, providing support for the families of victims is crucial as well. “Some families have been hurt so much that they turn to drugs and alcohol, family violence,” said Manning. “I think [the government] should implement something that gives back to the community, to [Indigenous people or others], to have programs, maybe open up things that people can go to.”
“There’s always the aspect of the march that aims to take up public space and to draw attention to the issue, and, we hope, to the deeply systemic nature of the issue, so that people aren’t just saying ‘Oh, poor Native women are going missing and being murdered’ without understanding the deeper root causes behind it,” Rolbin-Ghanie told The Daily. “The system is failing native women and children in their communities.”
At the end of the vigil, an Indigenous speaker led the closing prayer, who said, “Let’s bring our minds together, let’s bring our collective efforts together, let’s, in unity, do something for our collective good – not just the good of my community, not just the good of your community […] but the collective, human good.”
 
[flickr id=”72157647997894630″]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Porn Event speakers tackle the challenges of mainstream porn 
Closing the first day of the Centre for Gender Advocacy’s (CGA) week-long annual fall event series “Another Word for Gender,” the“Porn Event” made its way to Concordia on September 29.
The event featured speeches from two guest speakers: Baltimore-based Ignacio Rivera, an activist, filmmaker, kinky-sex-positive sex educator, sex worker, and performance artist, and Sarah Beall, a curator and community manager for MakeLoveNotPorn.tv. The speakers explored issues related to the porn industry, the definition of feminist porn, their personal involvement in the industry, as well as tackling politics pertaining to consent, gender, and race.
Rebekah Glendinning, a second-year Concordia student in Human Environment with a minor in Women’s Studies who was in the audience told The Daily, “I came here to learn more about the power structures in porn and how it could be more inclusive for everybody.”
Maya Rolbin-Ghanie, Publicity and Promotions Coordinator at the CGA, opened the talk by introducing the event series, including giving a brief overview of other events that will be happening throughout the series. She also acknowledged her excitement for having an event that explicitly “addresses porn and the issues surrounding porn, whether that be mainstream porn or feminist porn.”
Beall spoke from their experience from their website MakeLoveNotPorn.tv and its history, while Rivera drew from their personal life and achievements within their work with the porn industry. Both speakers were generally pro-porn, took the time to recognize the privileges and power they hold, and situated their perspectives within feminist dialogue.
Beall recognized the critique that their website is heteronormative and stated their intention to combat this flaw by including more gender-inclusive porn films.
In their discussion of feminist porn and real world sex versus porn sex, Beall also sought to emphasize the importance of embracing sex as it is, rather than its fantasy form in mainstream porn, in order to make porn more socially acceptable.
“The idea is that we want to make sure that videos on our [web]site reflect our belief that real world sex is the hottest sex there is.”
According to Beall, that includes seeing everything awkward before, during, and after sex – from putting the condom on to the clean up afterwards.
Rivera noted that Beall’s feminist conception of real world porn would also involve individuals with more realistic body types. “We get to see different types of bodies that we don’t get to see in mainstream porn,” they said. “We get to see everything, and we want to see all of that, stretch marks, et cetera.”
According to Rivera, a “radical, comprehensive” form of sex education is needed for people to have a more positive relationship with their own sexuality. “What the issue here is when we saw porn I was a kid – I thought this is how people have sex, how people cum,” said Rivera.
They emphasized that people should be able to embrace their sexuality, not fear it.
“It’s not about policing sexuality,” Beall stated, “but it’s really about celebrating sexuality.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
