The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student groups aiming for proactive, pro-survivor approach
A working group composed of representatives from several student groups is currently involved in the drafting of a new sexual assault policy for McGill in collaboration with the administration. The process follows the proposal introduced by the group at McGill’s Forum on Consent in February, seeking to address the fact that McGill has never had a specific policy that deals with sexual assault.
The student working group responsible for the policy’s drafting includes representatives from the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS), the Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE), the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill, and the office of Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan. The Feminist Collective of McGill Law and McGill Women and the Criminal Law are also participating as consultants.
“The reason that we wanted to work on a sexual assault policy was so that McGill would have a way to respond to [sexual assault] cases, such as the one [involving three McGill Redmen football players] that happened last year, in a responsible way. But it’s also to institutionalize a way to work against issues of rape culture and sexual assault on campus, so to recognize this as a broader issue,” explained Kai O’Doherty, a former member of the UGE and current board member of QPIRG, in an interview with The Daily.
SACOMSS External Coordinator Jean Murray noted to The Daily that, although the University’s initial response to the case involving the three McGill Redmen football players charged with sexual assault in July 2012 highlighted the need for a sexual assault policy, the need itself is not new.
“I would say it was more in direct response [to the fact] that McGill doesn’t have a policy than to the case. The case just sort of brought it to greater attention that McGill doesn’t have a policy,” said Murray.
The current draft of the policy roughly follows the structure of the proposal that was created and endorsed by the same student groups in February. The policy is meant to be pro-survivor and to have a proactive, as opposed to reactive, approach to sexual assault on campus through the institutionalization of awareness campaigns and education on sexual assault and consent.
According to SACOMSS External Coordinator Frances Maychak, the draft also requires the institutionalization of a sexual assault response coordinator position. The individual would be “responsible for coordinating awareness campaigns (such as the upcoming consent campaign) and acting more broadly as a resource for survivors on campus.”
“Essentially Bianca [Tétrault, Liaison Officer (Harm Reduction)] is currently in this position, although the details of the position are still being figured out and negotiated,” said Maychak in an email to The Daily.
Though the drafting of the policy is student-driven, there has been consultation with Tétrault and Dean of Students André Costopoulos, both of whom met with members from the student groups involved with the policy at the end of this summer.
“We’ve had a couple of meetings since then and Bianca and I have both given our ideas on [the draft]. The student groups have taken them back for a second round of drafting based on our feedback, and we’re very soon going to have the meeting to go through this second draft and give our feedback,” said Costopoulos in an interview with The Daily.
Murray explained that, in response to Costopoulos and Tétrault’s suggestions, changes to the draft have been made regarding the University’s ability to apply certain aspects of the policy.
“It’s often things that [Costopoulos and Tétrault will] say the University doesn’t have jurisdiction over, or the University can’t actually implement this thing that we want, and that the University doesn’t yet have the power to put a policy about that,” said Murray.
In addition to consulting with Costopoulos and Tétrault, the student working group will also be seeking input from the McGill community on the policy. It will take the policy to Senate by the end of the academic year, as a first step toward its implementation.
Costopoulos said that it might take a while before the policy is officially in effect.
“Things like new policies in a university take time to put together,” he said. “There’s a good reason for that; you have to get them right. They’re important documents, policies, especially if they affect a whole community, like a sexual assault policy. So you want to take the time to do it right.”
Despite the McGill administration’s efforts to help the working group to bring the policy forward, Stewart-Kanigan highlighted in an interview with The Daily that the group “want[s] to make sure that [the policy is] on [its] own terms and reflects the original spirit that was created and endorsed by the working group.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
ECOLE initiative receives positive feedback from residents
Correction appended October 19, 2014.
On October 3, the Educational Community Living Environment (ECOLE) project officially launched a sustainable housing initiative at a former MORE house on University. The project, which aims to promote sustainability in the McGill community, allows ‘facilitators’ interested in sustainability to live together and complete projects related to environmental conservation, and provides a space for sustainability-related events, workshops, and meals.
“I basically walked in and immediately started bawling because I was so happy and so proud,” Courtney Ayukawa, the current Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) president who has worked on the project since May 2013, told The Daily.
“It’s really amazing to be able to walk by now and see the chalk on the sidewalk in front of the house and see that it’s an actual real thing and it’s not some amorphous intangible project that people are working on – it’s an actual house where people are doing research and people are having meetings and workshops and trainings.”
Thomas Saleh, a Sustainability, Science and Society student, and Rachel Cross-Calvert, a Mechanical Engineering student, are two of the eight facilitators currently living at the ECOLE house. They say they each pay roughly $525 per month in rent and that their fellow facilitators are about half Sustainability, Science and Society majors, while the other half come from a highly varied, but majority science, background.
Each person living in the house has their own bedroom, and some of the rooms on the upper floors have been converted into meeting rooms that can be rented by student groups or used as study spaces.
According to Saleh and Cross-Calvert, the house itself is not built to be sustainable, nor are the appliances meant to be particularly environmentally friendly. “It’s got to do with our practices, and so […] our building is a normal MORE house, and all our appliances are pretty standard. We’re more looking at [sustainability] through our consumption – what we buy, what we eat – and then through practices: how we do things, how we live in the house,” said Saleh.
Residents of the ECOLE house are required to complete a project related to sustainability during their time living in the house, and some, depending on their program, will receive course credit. Many of the current facilitators’ projects are related to social sustainability; according to Saleh and Cross-Calvert, topics include healthcare for migrants without status.
Saleh explained that his project will look to document energy consumption within the ECOLE house. “I’m mostly looking at energy and I’m going to try and see whether we make progress in terms of our energy in, energy out, waste, things like that. And then try, as my own personal research project, to look into what the actual impacts of the ECOLE house are in terms of what that means from an ecological point of view,” he told The Daily.
Overall, Saleh and Cross-Calvert were pleased with their experiences at ECOLE.
“I really like how many people are in and out of our house all the time,” said Cross-Calvert. “It’s great because there’s people from all different organizations and clubs from McGill, using our space and coming into our house, and it’s exciting to meet all those people, and with all those people come a lot of ideas and creative energy.”
Saleh, on the other hand, cited the price of rent as a downside to living at the ECOLE house. “The downside is I think, obviously, I probably wouldn’t be living here paying this much rent if I wasn’t doing ECOLE. I would have liked maybe to live a little bit further out, see Montreal a little bit more, stuff like that.”
“I kind of like the fact that our work and our living situation, you can’t separate them, because if you believe these things about sustainability it can’t really be separated,” said Cross-Calvert. “It’s our way of living it out.”
ECOLE Coordinator David Whiteside told The Daily about the ECOLE project’s main goals.
“The aim of the project is to be an ongoing experiment in sustainability, and we want to get as many people thinking about that and engaging with that project as much as possible.”
Supported by SSMU, Student Housing and Hospitality Services, and the McGill Office of Sustainability, ECOLE has been in planning for approximately four years.
Ayukawa said she began working on the project in May 2013 because she was hired by SSMU to work as a coordinator for the project along with two other students. She worked on administrative tasks to get the project on its feet.
“My personal hope for the project is that it will be able to last, and in the very long term, as it finds a sustainable source of funding, it becomes a space that every student on campus knows, and is familiar and feels welcoming to go to,” said Ayukawa.
The project was initially brought to the table by the the Alternative University Project, which applied for funding from the McGill Sustainable Projects Fund (SPF). However, the request was rejected, and when the group applied for a second time, it was rejected again. After SSMU began supporting the project in 2012, it was finally able to secure funding from the SPF.
—With files from Jasreet Kaur
An earlier version of this article stated that ECOLE is funded by the Sustainability Projects Fund (SPF), Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), Student Housing and Hospitality Services, and the McGill Office of Sustainability. In fact, while ECOLE is supported institutionally by these organizations, and has received funding from SSMU in the past, it currently only receives funding from the SPF. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Event part of move to expand equity initiatives in the faculty
On October 9, the first Forum on Diversity and Inclusivity in Engineering was held in the SSMU ballroom, with about eighty attendees including students, faculty, and staff.
“This forum started because last year I had a discussion with some of the students about having a safer space in engineering, and one of the ideas was to have a bigger discussion to engage the faculty – professors – and the [teaching assistants] as well,” Christopher Tegho, former Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) Equity Commissioner, told The Daily.
As the event’s keynote speaker, Karen Tonso, an engineering professor at Wayne State University dedicated to engineering education and diversity, highlighted the benefits of diversity in engineering. She also explored how diversity can be promoted within the engineering environment.
“Without participation of the members of diverse communities, engineers run the risk of having a myopic view of the world and of their technological creations,” said Tonso.
Tonso argued that there needs to be a shift in how engineering deals with diversity. Currently, she explained, equity is treated with compensatory actions, where “you compensate for the disadvantages to enhance the capabilities of members of underrepresented communities, but you’re expecting them to assimilate to the existing culture.”
Tonso called for a transition to participatory action, “guaranteeing the participation as equals of members of diverse communities, the needs, interests, and perspectives of all included in making engineering a way of life that’s worth having by everyone.”
A panel followed Tonso’s address with panelists including a professor, a student, and staff working in admissions and counselling.
During the question period, one audience member brought up the concern of engaging the broader community, since audiences at the forum and events like it are often already interested and involved with the issues discussed.
Addressing the question, EUS Equity Commissioner Simrin Desai pointed out the value in having this type of forum in spite of the relatively narrow audience.
“People always say that about these events, ‘you are preaching to the choir’ […] and I think the conviction that Chris [Tegho] and I had to organize an event like this, if that conviction can be spread to other people […] they themselves can do something about it, and it becomes this whole big domino effect,” she told The Daily. “Like dye in the water.”
Other members of the audience also responded, pointing to the work of organizations and groups dedicated to spreading the message about diversity and inclusivity throughout McGill and the surrounding community, such as Promoting Opportunities for Women in Engineering (POWE).
EUS President Robert Forestell, who was also present at the forum, commented on the increased presence of and involvement with equity in general.
“I think that people are being more and more progressive in their thinking and realizing that there still are a lot of problems,” said Forestell.
Related to the event, a whiteboard was also put up earlier that day in the McConnell building dedicated to expressing thoughts on diversity.
“People were actually engaging. Every time someone walked in the building, they looked at it while they were walking by, so getting that in their minds is a start,” EUS equity committee member Emilie Froeliger told The Daily.
After the event, Froeliger said that while she was extremely pleased with how it had gone, she had hoped to touch on trans issues in engineering during the forum.
“I don’t think right now it’s a super safe space for transgender people,” Froeliger told The Daily. “[The] engineering community, [it’s] very cisgender [and] heteronormative.”
The EUS equity committee, which organized the forum, is an informal body that was newly formed this year. It evolved as a group of interested students around the Equity Commissioner, a position that was added to EUS two years ago.
Tegho said that when he was Equity Commissioner last year, he did not feel that the problem of equity in engineering could be tackled by just one person, and began calling on people to help with the position.
The committee has already started several initiatives to promote equity in engineering, including giving a presentation as part of FACC 100 – a mandatory first-year engineering course – on gender, sexuality, and safe space, which Desai and Froeliger said was an opportunity to speak to those not necessarily interested in equity.
“It was definitely interesting to see points of view of people that don’t necessarily think about these things, because then you are talking to a larger audience that doesn’t necessarily have the same opinions as most of the EUS equity committee,” said Froeliger.
“I think if we went into a FACC 100 class, and there were no bad comments, then no one would come out of that class learning as much as they would have [if] there were bad comments and we addressed them,” said Desai.
Overall, the organizers were pleased with the forum and said they would continue to work on the issue of equity in engineering.
“I think it went really well, there were lots of people, and people were able to express what they wanted. The forum was not just this event, but all the discussions that were initiated before […] and I think that the discussions will continue,” said Tegho. “We hope that [the forum] is going to happen every year – the purpose of it was to create support for people who want space to share their ideas, thoughts, experiences.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
