The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Email contact during working hours can violate labour code, University says
The McGill administration is challenging student associations’ right to freely promote AGSEM – McGill’s Teaching Union’s ongoing unionization campaign to their members, The Daily has learned. AGSEM’s campaign, which seeks to unionize undergraduate teaching support staff, including teaching assistants, course graders, and note-takers, has been endorsed by both the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), with SSMU having been further mandated to “assist in distributing information about the union drive to its members.”
According to AGSEM Grievance Officer (Invigilators) and Interim Union Drive Coordinator Jamie Burnett, McGill’s interpretation of Article 5 of the Quebec Labour Code, which prohibits any person acting “in the name or on behalf of an association of employees” from “solicit[ing] an employee to join an association” during working hours, would interfere with SSMU and PGSS’s ability to promote the campaign to their members via email.
“McGill indicated to us that their interpretation of the Quebec Labour Code was such that it was not possible for anyone to communicate about a unionization campaign – such as the campaign that we’re currently engaged in to unionize teaching support workers – that it’s not possible for anyone to use McGill emails to communicate about that campaign,” Burnett said in an interview with The Daily.
“We think that the interpretation McGill is putting forward has no basis, and we think it’s really troubling that they’re using this interpretation to try to prevent the free association of students who have independent student associations [that] are free to adopt the position they’re willing to adopt,” added Burnett.
McGill’s Director of Labour and Employee Relations Robert Comeau did not entirely dispute this interpretation, but clarified that contacting employees via email to promote a unionization campaign was only prohibited during working hours.
“You’re not allowed to contact the employees during the time they’re at work,” Comeau told The Daily. “Contact means physically, or [sending] them an email, or [calling] them if you want to recruit them to form a new union. That’s the labour code.”
Comeau also confirmed that, in the University’s view, the prohibition applied to individuals and organizations that are not part of a union, such as a student association.
“If you’re contacting somebody to invite them to form a union, the labour code does apply, whether or not you’re a member of the [union],” said Comeau.
Burnett argued that McGill’s interpretation of the code was not in the spirit of the law, and distinguished between interfering with an employee’s work and merely sending them an email during working hours.
“I don’t think that’s a reasonable interpretation of how email works. People send emails at any time, people receive emails at any time; the employees that we’re unionizing are people who can be working at all hours of the day,” said Burnett.
“The question is really about when does the activity involve the employee – and I think that it’s really not reasonable to claim that someone who’s a grader, who’s working maybe twenty hours during the semester, can’t use their email because they might be working.”
Comeau noted that it would ultimately be up to the Commission des normes du travail, Quebec’s labour board, to decide whether the union drive was conducted legally.
“If somebody doesn’t respect the labour code when they’re trying to unionize a group, that could mean that their motion, if ever they file one, could be rejected,” said Comeau. “Of course, the board would have to make that decision.”
Echoing Burnett’s concerns, SSMU VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette expressed unease with the fact the the University would attempt to interfere with SSMU’s communications to its members.
“I think that it is a bit disturbing that McGill is trying to limit the communications that [SSMU] is having with its constituents,” Moustaqim-Barrette told The Daily. “[SSMU] is just mandated to distribute this information so that people are aware, and we are held to high standards of accountability and transparency. I find that it is frustrating that McGill is trying to limit the Society’s ability to do that.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
PGSS executive, University keeping negotiations confidential
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) and the McGill administration are still negotiating over the terms of the Thomson House building lease. The current lease agreement is set to expire on May 31, having been extended by one year to accommodate the negotiations.
Under the present arrangement, PGSS pays $24,000 a year in rent to McGill for Thomson House. According to former PGSS Secretary-General Jonathan Mooney, the current lease does not require PGSS to pay any of the building’s annual utility costs, which total $50,000.
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) rents the Shatner building at $130,000 per year, and pays $100,000 per year in utility fees. Although SSMU and the administration concluded lease negotiations in the signing of a lease agreement in March 2014, the controversial student fee increases that resulted from the deal were only approved by undergraduates in the Fall 2014 referendum on October 1. A similar fee failed to pass in the Winter 2014 referendum period.
Mooney told The Daily that he thought PGSS’s financial situation would differ from SSMU’s after negotiations conclude, pointing out that Thomson House is smaller than the Shatner building and costs less to heat.
PGSS Financial Affairs Officer Nikki Meadows agreed. “I think that you’re talking about two very different entities.”
However, Lorenzo Daieff, a former McGill Graduate Association of Political Studies Students representative told The Daily in an email, “It is my understanding that we will definitely be paying for utilities […] which will up the price we pay substantially.”
“It seems counterintuitive that McGill could just raise fees by that much and we’d be happy,” he added.
At present, both PGSS and the University have agreed not to discuss the terms of the lease negotiations with the public.
Mooney, who initiated the lease negotiations when he was in office in 2013, said there is no need to hold negotiations in secret, but that the reason that PGSS and the University observe confidentiality is because of “an implicit agreement between the parties […] to respect the fact that negotiations will continue, that they’re ongoing.”
However, he explained that confidentiality is often not observed when other organizations negotiate with the University. “I know in other cases, for example when different unions negotiate with McGill, they will often publicize […] exactly what happened in each negotiation – and that’s a valid strategy,” he said.
SSMU VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan expressed concern over the opaque nature of negotiations with McGill. “My primary concern with the SSMU lease is the pressure from the McGill administration to keep negotiations private throughout,” she told The Daily in an email. “The demand for private negotiations further skewed the power balance between the administration and SSMU in McGill’s favour.”
“The PGSS lease provides the administration with an opportunity to adopt a higher standard of transparency in negotiations with student associations,” she continued. “Students deserve to be aware of, [and] provide input to, ongoing negotiations that directly affect them.”
Members of the PGSS executive gave no indication that the administration was pressuring them to maintain confidentiality, however. “It’s not good practice, seriously. […] It’s just the principle of how negotiation works,” said Meadows. “In poker, you’re not going to reveal your hand before you have to, are you?”
The fee increases that resulted from SSMU’s lease agreement with the University generated significant backlash among undergraduates.
“PGSS will [be] facing similar issues to SSMU with regards to the University’s aim for them eventually to take on paying utilities in Thomson House,” predicted Stewart-Kanigan, who added that transparency makes a difference to how students perceive lease negotiations.
“It’s possible that [PGSS] will ask for a fee increase and then people will debate whether that’s a good idea,” added Mooney, referring to the possibility of an unfavourable reaction of PGSS members to the lease. “But I think the magnitude [of the reaction] would be less.”
“I very much hope that there’s not a huge backlash […] I very much hope that whatever lease comes out of this [is] something that our members can see and understand and it’s something that makes sense to them,” said Meadows.
McGill’s representative in the PGSS negotiations, Vilma Campbell, declined to comment.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Project’s effectiveness questioned, student input lacking
On October 7, McGill announced that it would be launching a new mental health initiative in the spring, supported by a $1 million grant from Bell that will be split evenly with Université de Montréal. McGill’s $500,000 share is being used to develop a Wellness Portal, the main component of which will be an online tool for students to self-screen for mental health issues.
In a joint email to The Daily, Mental Health Education Coordinator Emily Yung and clinical psychologist Giuseppe Alfonsi, from McGill Mental Health Service, outlined the purpose of the portal.
“Students will be able to easily navigate to find more information on mental health topics, mental health services including peer support and resources both on- and off-campus, and calendar and gallery of events,” they stated. “[The grant] proposal was to develop online tools to help students in need with respect to mental health problems. The proposal included a screening tool.”
In an interview with The Daily, Director of Student Services Jana Luker said that, although the portal had undergone a test launch, further development is still underway.
“We are bringing in some other types of assessments that are already tried and true that other universities have been using. We’re trying to make [the project] bigger than what it is right now.”
According to Yung and Alfonsi, “A plan is in place to collect stakeholder feedback (from staff, students, and faculty) which will help inform [the portal’s] evolution before it goes live.”
For Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan, however, the level of student involvement in the project has been underwhelming so far.
“I have been told that student representatives on last year’s Mental Health Advisory Board were consulted regarding the website’s content as well,” Stewart-Kanigan told The Daily in an email. “However, no SSMU members have been included on the Steering Committee [for the project] since its inception. Student Services has expressed willingness to strengthen their partnership with SSMU since the website’s launch, and we hope to see that be upheld.”
Luker explained that, although the actual grant application was not written by students, it was informed, to an extent, by student input. “We have advisory boards that would have students [… and] ideas are coming out of student groups,” she said.
Luker did note a desire for more student input. “I think we could probably do better. We always try and strive to include more students, and what we had done in the process was have individual students that were involved in the services [relevant to the grant], but I think that what we’ve done now, which is even better, is involve the student unions or the student reps.”
Stewart-Kanigan emphasized that SSMU’s relationship with the project needs to be heightened. “The project was presented to myself and the Mental Health Coordinator several times prior to the October 7 announcement,” said Stewart-Kanigan. “However, the relationship was a consultative arrangement, not a partnership. Given that SSMU is named as a partner on the website, consultation is not enough.”
Given the current university atmosphere of budget cuts and austerity, questions have been raised about the efficiency of using the grant to build the McGill Wellness Portal as opposed to allocating the money to other services.
“Whether this is going to be worth $500,000 – I don’t see how,” Norman Hoffman, the former director of McGill Mental Health Services from 1995 to 2007, told The Daily.
“If you go online, there are hundreds of [self-screening tools], so I don’t know what [McGill is] doing with that money.”
Hoffman suggested that the money could have been used to hire a few additional staff, or to look more broadly at the mental health system at McGill. “People need access to care. The issue is how to provide that access,” he said.
According to Luker, the terms of the grant limit how it can be spent.
“[The grant] is very specific, we’ve tried to expand it as much as we could. One of the main things was that it couldn’t be for salaries because it’s sort of a one-time-only influx of money,” said Luker. She noted that the grant application was also required to include a tangible idea, have a direct and immediate impact on students, be relevant to current trends, be liked by Bell, and be backed up by logical reasoning.
“We’re trying to [increase staff] in parallel,” said Luker. However, a permanent increase in staff would require an increase in student fees, which is something Student Services is hoping to avoid.
Luker also noted that Student Services does vet their funding sources, and that the grant does not come with strings attached. “Bell’s name is branded on the actual tool, but the influence [the company has on the project] is nil.”
Concern with the portal was not limited to the financial realm. Stewart-Kanigan highlighted SSMU’s main reservations about the project.
“The consent of this year’s executive or [the SSMU] Mental Health Committee was not secured for all aspects of the website, namely the self-assessment tool. […] SSMU has expressed discomfort with the use of an exclusively diagnostic/illness-based approach to mental well-being, particularly within the context of self-assessment, and would be more comfortable with a more proactive, wellness-based approach,” she said.
SSMU’s Mental Health Policy, adopted in February and valid for five years, is meant to set the groundwork for “a new culture of community, wellness, awareness, and acceptance of mental health diversity at McGill.” It also dictates that “all students have a right to live and study in an atmosphere that promotes and facilitates wellness and mental and physical health.”
“A website centred around psychiatric self-diagnosis, rather than self-care, peer support, and stigma reduction surrounding mental diversity, does not meet the Policy’s aims,” said Stewart-Kanigan. “We hope to have these concerns met by the time the site is made available to students.”
Hoffman also expressed concern with self-screening, particularly how it fits in with diagnosis-focused mental health treatment. “There is little evidence that screening is of much value. One of the issues is that screening is all diagnosis-oriented,” he said. “Everybody is trying to fit people into these little boxes and that is not appropriate for students. There are other approaches [that] are much more appropriate and lead to much better health.”
Yung and Alfonsi noted that the portal is not meant to give a specific clinical diagnosis. “It is not a substitute for being seen by a healthcare professional,” they wrote.
The number of students seeking mental health resources at McGill has increased substantially over the last few years. According to a report released by McGill Counselling Services in October 2013, over 50 per cent of McGill students identified with symptoms of either anxiety or depression, while 10 per cent had considered suicide while at university. Currently, more than 3,000 students access mental health resources at McGill.
According to Hoffman, the university environment can have a major impact on students’ mental health. “The more student-centred the university is, the more it provides a kind of open emotional environment for students, the better students will be.”
“I do think the new principal is more in tune to [student needs] than [former Principal Heather] Munroe-Blum, who was clearly not student-centric at all, and was in fact quite dismissive of students, but hopefully there will be change,” added Hoffman.
“Mentorship with students is important, and providing that space, providing a support system. The more bureaucratic the university becomes, the less that is provided. There are problems right from the top that need to be addressed.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Indicator of tensions within the foster care systems of Montreal
On September 23, La maison Kangourou opened as a temporary house where parents or guardians can leave their children during a period of crisis. The project began in 2011 by Josée Fortin, and is run entirely by volunteers.
Fortin told The Daily that she initially started La maison Kangourou to serve as an emergency service to children whose parents are temporarily undergoing crisis situations at home.
According to Fortin, what differentiates La maison Kangourou from foster care services is that participation by families is completely voluntary; it is parents who decide whether they need some time away from their children and who reach out to the organization.
“It’s not a foster home; we don’t keep the children. We just keep them temporarily, [for] the time that the parent needs to resolve their problems. Sometimes, it’s not resolved, but they can take a pause. And that makes the whole difference,” said Fortin.
Fortin stated that La maison Kangourou is meant to be a preventive measure to relieve the stresses of family life that can lead to child abuse or other problems, which in turn might require youth protection services to intervene. A parent or guardian can leave their children for up to 15 days in order to give them time and space to deal with their own ongoing problems at home.
“We have cases where the father has committed suicide, and the mother has to deal with that. So, maybe you don’t want your kids to be in the house while this is happening, while you deal with the cops and whatever. We have a case where a mom was trying to kill her kids, and herself, in a dark moment. That mom in particular now has separated, and now she has met someone else, and she has a nice home in Quebec, and her life has totally turned around,” Fortin explained.

Youth protection and foster care services in Montreal have faced problems in the past.
In 2012, the Batshaw Youth and Family Centres, a youth rehabilitation placement service, faced criticisms for placing children into a foster home where they faced sexual abuse. According to CBC, the first child was placed in the home in the Laurentians in 2006, and the abuse started when the child was just six years old, lasting six years.
A young girl who also lived in the house became pregnant and gave birth at the age of 12. A Quebec Human Rights Commission investigation concluded that certain necessary steps were not taken by Batshaw, and said that background checks into criminal records were not done thoroughly.
Furthermore, many children in the greater Montreal area still face situations that require the intervention of youth protection and foster care services. For instance, Batshaw has 550 children under foster care in 350 homes.
Rubin detailed the reasons for the need of youth protection and foster care services for children in an interview with The Daily.
“[Batshaw] will be looking at emotional abuse, physical abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, and so forth. […] You may have a young parent, who maybe does not know how to be a parent, does not meet the needs of their children. We do not necessarily go in and remove the child. We look at how we can support this parent,” she said.
According to Fortin, it is required that someone report any situation in which the health and safety of a child are compromised to youth protection and foster care services before action can be taken to assess the family and investigate the situation.
Once a report has been made to youth protection and foster care services, it is then up to the individual agencies to decide whether or not a child’s health and safety has been compromised.
According to Robert Pagé, Vice President of the Fédération des familles d’accueil et des ressources intermédiaires du Québec (FFARIQ), the child may be placed under temporary care for periods that could last up to 12 months, in order to give time for the youth centre or the director of youth protection to assess the situation and to try to work out a plan with the family.
“The ‘youth protector’ does not take it onto [themselves] to take the child directly, [they have] to go to court for that. [They have] to prove that the family is not capable of taking care of the child,” said Pagé.
Pagé also stated that the agencies try to make sure that the situation with the biological family of the child can be improved, so that the child may eventually go back under its care.
On the other hand, Fortin says that it is less likely for youth protection and foster care services to intervene in situations where nothing damaging to the well-being of the child has yet occurred.
“You have to have somebody call in and say, ‘Look, we think something is going wrong with the family.’ That’s when foster [care] comes in, however. That’s when the state comes in, and they decide what to do with the child, if they feel that this child is neglected, or their security is compromised,” Fortin explained.
It is also possible, although rarer, for parents who are going through hardships to report themselves. In these situations, youth protection and foster care services are more reluctant to intervene, but still try to provide guidance so that families can access resources to prevent youth protection and foster care services from intervening in the first place.
“But they [social services] won’t intervene at that moment. But if the parent does not get support at that moment, well, maybe, [that] could bring to neglect,” said Fortin.
— With files from Emma Noradounkian
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Feedback to be presented during research conduct review
On October 16, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held an open forum on McGill research regulations surrounding weapons development on campus.
The forum, led by SSMU VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan, took place as McGill begins a triennial review of its research conduct regulations, which is due to be completed by the end of this academic year. Stewart-Kanigan organized the event to gather student feedback to bring to the review committee, where she is one of two student representatives out of eight members in total.
The question of whether and how the policy should be updated to impose restrictions on research with military purposes was central to the discussion.
“One of the issues that is going to be coming up [during the review] is the fact that the research regulation used to have a component that required any research that was funded by the military to disclose whether the research was for something that had directly violent purposes – because the military can fund flood relief technology, but can also fund missile development,” said Stewart-Kanigan.
Prior to 2010, McGill’s regulation on the conduct of research included a provision that required applicants for contracts or grants whose source is a government military agency to indicate on the approval form “whether this research has direct harmful consequences.”
The provision was introduced in 1988, largely prompted by a three-day occupation of McGill’s Vice-Principal (Research)’s office by seven McGill students. However, when the regulation was reviewed in 2010, the provision was removed.
“In my understanding, it was removed because the University stated that it wasn’t the norm amongst other Canadian universities to have something that specifically referenced military funding. They said it was unusual,” said Stewart-Kanigan.
“I would say that that’s total shit,” said SSMU VP Finance and Operations Kathleen Bradley in reference to the unusual nature of the provision being used as a reason to remove it. “Your justification for doing something should never be because everybody else does it. That’s not a very sound argument.”
The majority of those present at the forum expressed strong opposition to current procedures in place, both with regards to the fact that weapons development takes place at McGill, and to the University’s lack of transparency on the matter. In 2013, the University asked the Commission d’accès à l’information to grant it the power to deny access to information (ATI) requests, a demand that was challenged by student groups. Only after a year and a half was the suit settled and were the requested documents released, albeit heavily redacted.
“I don’t think it’s okay that the university is conducting this kind of research, and keeping it behind closed doors,” Arts Senator Kareem Ibrahim, who was present at the event, told The Daily.
“I think it’s shitty that our world is in a state where we use military activity to resolve issues, and that a major university contributes to that, is, in my opinion, really detrimental to our community,” Ibrahim continued.

Attendees discussed the value of academic freedom as an argument against regulation of military research. Kevin Paul – a member of Demilitarize McGill, a group that fights against military research at the university – argued that, because the companies funding the research influence its direction, academic freedom cannot be invoked to justify it.
“The situation now with military research at McGill is not one in which academic freedom prevails,” said Paul. “It’s long-term relationships [that] McGill [has] with defence contractors and military research agencies that made it so that the research options and priorities are shaped by the needs of those companies.”
An Engineering student who attended the event offered a different take on the matter.
“If you want to be a researcher in engineering, you have to get funding – engineering research projects aren’t cheap, and so oftentimes academic freedom also means that you need the ability to get funding where funding is available,” he said. “So if you have to go through red tape, to study flow over wings [for example], that becomes incredibly problematic for research grants for engineering.”
Stewart-Kanigan raised the possibility that McGill’s role could be to bridge between researchers’ interests and ethical ways to explore them.
“What the University’s role can be is [to be] more of a leader in directing professors and people interested in that type of research to more socially responsible measures,” she said.
“There certainly was a strong sense that stricter regulations on military research should exist at McGill, [that] the University should take a stronger stance in opposition to facilitating research whose express purpose is to affect violence on other peoples,” Stewart-Kanigan said.
“I do understand that the composition of the forum was not representative from a faculty perspective – I would like to make more efforts to specifically engage students who would be more directly affected by an increase in regulations or an alteration of regulations pertaining to military research [such as those in physics and engineering].”
Erin, a U2 History student, expressed similar concerns about the representation of the student body.
“I would’ve liked to see students from some of the more implicated faculties, such as Engineering. I think sometimes those students maybe don’t feel welcome in these kinds of discussions, or maybe they feel kind of written-off already. But I think it was very productive and it was great to hear some thoughts from some of those students, and one particular student in Engineering. So I would’ve liked to see a broader discussion with a much more equal representation [of both sides],” he told The Daily.
Cadence O’Neal, an organizer with Demilitarize McGill, spoke favourably of the event, but expressed reservations over the outcome of the forum and about the review in general.
“I’m glad [the forum] happened – it’s really important that we’re acknowledging this conversation,” O’Neal said in an interview with The Daily. “But looking at the history of this kind of activism on campus I’ve seen that McGill a) isn’t actually sticking to its own policies that it already has in place, and b) will probably not actually improve the current policies adequately anyway, so for me […] I don’t feel it’s something I’m putting a lot of hope into.”
The issue will be further discussed at SSMU’s upcoming General Assembly on October 22, as a motion regarding the matter is on the agenda.
“I look forward to seeing how these conversations play out at the General Assembly when the [issue] of military research is brought up there,” said Stewart-Kanigan.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Events to promote knowledge and the practice of consent in McGill community
From October 20 to 24 on the downtown campus, and from October 22 to 24 on the Macdonald campus, McGill will be holding the #ConsentMcGill campaign. Seeking to increase campus awareness and understanding of consent, #ConsentMcGill will include events throughout the week such as movie screenings, information booths, workshops, discussions, and much more.
#ConsentMcGill was created through collaboration with students, faculty, and staff working to spread understanding of the concept of the “yes means yes” model of consent, where silence or the absence of a ‘no’ does not mean consent.
“I think this campaign is targeting the youth at large,” Brighita Lungu, Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Member Services Officer and Graduate Student Liaison for #ConsentMcGill, told The Daily. “It is designed to challenge misconceptions and stereotypes about what consent means, when one needs to ask for it, and what are the limits one has to respect without giving it a second thought.”
The campaign initially started as a working group of about thirty participants, but is now a collaboration between student-led and university groups, such as the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS), the Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE), the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), the Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE), McGill Athletics, and Counselling Services.
The campaign is part of the University’s response to the controversy that occurred last year after it was revealed that three Redmen football players had been charged with sexual assault in 2012.
On Tuesday at 1 p.m., the UGE will hold a workshop on consent that will give people the opportunity to create their own zines, according to Leela Scott, the Co-op Coordinator for the UGE and facilitator of the workshop.
“The purpose is to expand on the discussion that’s going to be going on at the booth and tabling events around campus,” Scott told The Daily, referring to stations around campus where students will write a short statement about what consent is and what it means to them.
“We think that’s a really good starting point, but we think that there needs to be more,” said Scott.
Scott described the workshop as an open space where participants will be “free to come with any ideas that they have.” They said potential topics include personal reflections on consent or a description of what the world would be like if everyone practiced consent perfectly.
In addition, Scott said that there would always be an opportunity for participants to take their projects further. “If people are interested after that workshop in making a zine about consent, the UGE accepts stipend requests, so we can sponsor someone to make their own zine. And if it fits with our mandate, then we’re pretty down to fund that,” said Scott.
According to Bianca Tétrault, McGill’s Liaison Officer (Harm Reduction), #ConsentMcGill focuses on three main aspects of consent: asking, listening, and respecting. “Consent runs deeper than just sexual activity. It’s about asking, listening, and respecting the people that we’re with and interact with in our daily lives,” Tétrault told The Daily. “Instead of using a top-down approach, we really wanted to be an inviting campaign [… and] have people engage with us instead of us telling them what to do.”
#ConsentMcGill is structured as a kickoff event for many of the events, discussions, and workshops that will be held throughout the year. “The idea of the campaign is to be a platform to launch the other events that are going to be happening throughout the year,” said Tétrault. “So although the campaign is not going to be continuing out through the year, the conversation around consent and sexual assault will.”

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Measures to increase executives’ accountability adopted at Council meeting
On October 15, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council addressed the issue of equity within student life and government. Council was introduced to the Liaison Officer (Harm Reduction) Bianca Tétrault and received equity training from the Social Equity and Diversity Education office (SEDE). Council also instituted additional accountability measures for AUS executives.
Tétrault was invited by AUS VP External Lola Baraldi to update Council on various events that she will be involved with organizing this year.
As part of her work on campus to raise awareness of consent and sexual assault, Tétrault has been working with the Office of the Dean of Students on the educational campaign #ConsentMcGill. The event takes place this week, and features information booths at the Y-intersection, as well as educational workshops at both the downtown and Macdonald campuses.
“We’re really looking forward for everyone to come out, to get involved, to raise awareness around consent in regards to sexual activities, and in our day-to-day lives,” said Tétrault.
Recognizing that positive change within the Arts student body requires precedent from within its governing body, Council also received equity training from two employees of SEDE.
Equity Educational Advisor (Anti-Racism and Cultural Diversity) Sarah Malik and Equity Educational Advisor (LGBTTQ) Tynan Jarrett led Council members in a workshop discussion on the nature of power dynamics and the ways in which the negative aspects of these dynamics can be reduced.
Focusing on examples regarding the role of Legislative Council, Malik and Jarrett examined the equity considerations required to appropriately plan events, identify aggression, and address oppression.
Councillors also discussed the nature of terminology such as ‘inclusion,’ ‘empowerment,’ and ‘safe(r) space.’
In addition, councillors spoke positively of the equity training given during Arts Frosh, noting its crucial contribution to this year’s relative success. AUS VP
Communications Max Drabkin also cited the popularity of this year’s Frosh’s ‘after movie,’ which garnered 8,000 views in its first 24 hours on YouTube and 17,000 by mid-October, as further evidence of Frosh’s success.
“We couldn’t be more happy with it,” Drabkin told Council. “The feedback we’ve been receiving is overwhelmingly positive, and it’s wonderful to see it doing so well.”
Proposed amendments to AUS’s financial bylaws saw mixed opinions. The motion, which had been tabled at a previous meeting, sought to double the number of hours worked that can be compensated for work-study-eligible executives from ten hours per week to twenty in order to increase the positions’ accessibility. At the previous meeting, concerns were expressed about executives voting on a motion concerning their own pay, as well as about the changes in accountability that could result from higher pay.
Carribean and Latin American Studies & Hispanic Studies Association (CLASHSA) representative Vincent Simboli voiced his discomfort with voting for a motion in a room surrounded by the executives who would be affected by the motion.
“I do not feel comfortable voting ‘yes’ or ‘no’ right now in this room because it is very difficult to look any exec in the eye while they’re here and say no, I do not want you to [increase your pay].”
“I agree with CLASHSA representative [Simboli], we shouldn’t decide on this here,” said Arts senator Kareem Ibrahim.
The motion failed to gain sufficient support and was withdrawn by AUS President Ava Liu.
Council also saw the approval by councillors of a new motion instituting additional accountability measures for AUS executives. The motion requires the executives to make their timetables public and provides means to solicit feedback from constituents, such as a formal complaint process and a once-per-semester feedback survey.
Motions to adopt the updated constitution of CLASHSA, and a motion to approve Narmada Gunawardana and Christina Liu as AUS Deputy Returning Officers, who assist in the running of AUS Elections, were passed with nearly unanimous support from Council.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
