The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Green Party leader wants climate prioritized in 2015 federal election
On November 8, Green Party of Canada leader and Member of Parliament Elizabeth May spoke at McGill’s Bronfman building, emphasizing the necessity of “restoring democracy” in Canada. The event was part of the launch of May’s new book, Who We Are: Reflections on My Life and Canada.
“I had the good fortune of working in Parliament when things worked a lot better than they do now,” said May, who was the senior policy advisor to former Progressive Conservative Minister of Environment Tom McMillan in the 1980s.
May argued that the shift in the last decades from a more cooperative Parliament to a partisan one has impacted the quality of Canadian democracy, which now “more resembles an elected dictatorship than a democracy.” 
The boundary between the administrative and political compartments of government has eroded, she said, which has resulted in an increased concentration of power in the hands of the prime minister. May noted an increase in party discipline, an obstructive Senate, and Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s unprecedented decision to prorogue Parliament – which prevented a no confidence vote and the possibility of an alternative government being formed or an election being called – as indicative of the shift in Canadian political norms. 
“[In Canada] all power is very much centralized in the federal government,” commented Jordan, a Law student at Université de Montréal. “The case has been made that for true democracy to work, it has to be a more local form of government. Unfortunately, here in Canada, local government is very weak. […] Municipalities have very little power.”
May lamented the low voter turnout in both federal and local elections, and implored the audience to encourage their friends to vote. “No democracy lasts if its citizens give it up,” she said.

Speaking to The Daily, May also acknowledged the value of forms of political action that go beyond voting, and spoke positively of the prevalence of public mobilization in Quebec.
“There’s a tremendous value in public mobilization, [such as] movements like Idle No More,” said May. “Any action that’s non-violent, even if its civil disobedience, that’s a very sensible […] part of the framework of a democracy.”
“The political culture in Quebec is very different from the rest of the country, the student protests here made it really clear,” May told The Daily. “Quebec has a very different willingness to get engaged, but it would be much healthier for democracy across Canada if Quebec wasn’t the exception.”
May spoke to The Daily about climate change, arguing that tackling this issue is possible within a capitalist global order, instead naming “corporate rule” as the problem.
“Corporate rule [is] allowing the people who are supposedly democratically elected in our society […] to consider their primary goal as enhancing corporate profits,” said May. “The problem […] is not global capitalism – the problem is the failure of democratically-elected governments to hold corporations to account and to limit their greed and excess.”
May spoke to the need to decrease the financial viability of fossil fuels as investments and energy sources. “We have to fix the market failure that pollution represents by […] making it [costly], and creating the incentives so that corporations of all sizes […] can recognize that an investment in fossil fuels is lost money.”
“I think divestment campaigns are fantastic,” added May, referring to campaigns by Divest McGill and similar groups across North America that aim to make universities let go of their investments in the fossil fuel industry.
“Telling universities and other institutions to divest from investments from fossil fuels, which are destroying our future, is a very strong, tangible, specific thing to do – and it raises the awareness of investors outside of universities. […] Very interesting to see the Rockefeller family, that made its money in Standard Oil, deciding to divest itself from fossil fuels.”
May emphasized that it was crucial to make action on climate change a major issue in the upcoming 2015 federal election.
“We really do need to make sure that […] [New Democratic Party leader Thomas] Mulcair and [Liberal Party leader Justin] Trudeau are both forced to give really detailed answers about what they will do to have meaningful, deliberate cuts in our dependency on fossil fuels, [to work] toward the transition away from fossil fuels altogether.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Nahla Abdo’s new book examines treatment of Palestinian women in the Israeli prison system
Last Friday, author and Arab feminist activist Nahla Abdo launched her latest book, Captive Revolution: Palestinian Women’s Anti-Colonial Struggle Within the Israeli Prison System, at McGill’s Institute of Islamic Studies.
Co-sponsored by the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill, the Centre for Gender Advocacy, Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights Concordia, and Concordia’s Simone de Beauvoir Institute, the event was a part of Culture Shock, an annual series of events which, according to its website, is “dedicated to exploring the myths surrounding immigrants, refugees, Indigenous people, and communities of colour.”
Abdo, a professor of sociology at Carleton University, has published a number of other
works related to race, nationalism, and Middle Eastern societies. In Captive Revolution, interviews make up part of the primary research Abdo draws on to examine Israel’s treatment of Palestinian women imprisoned on political grounds.
The role of Palestinian women in the movement against Israel’s settler-colonialist policies, while of considerable significance, has been largely overlooked, Abdo explained. “To pay tribute to these women, to their struggle, to restore them in their proper place in the history of the Palestinian struggle – that was the aim [of this book].”
Abdo focused her presentation on the period from the 1960s to the 1980s, prior to the First Intifada uprising of Palestinians against Israeli occupation, noting that this time period was characterized by a proliferation of anti-colonial movements around the world. “There was a culture of resistance,” Abdo explained, “which was […] very much appreciated and learned by the [Palestinian] women who were part of the anti-colonial struggle.”
But what factors motivated – and continue to motivate – these women to join the struggle at the risk of their freedom and their lives? Too often, Abdo said, the true answer is misunderstood, and academics who do choose to examine the activism of Palestinian women misconstrue its causes.
“According to most of the literature – including feminist literature – in academia, Palestinian women did whatever they did because they were terrorists, or lacked implication, or had troubles with their religion, with their families, with their men, with their own patriarchy. And there is no mention whatsoever of colonialism.”
In fact, Abdo’s research has contradicted these claims. “The composition of the twenty women that I worked with was overwhelmingly secular,” she explained. “They all had great relationships with their families, especially with their fathers, and they all enjoyed growing up, and loved people in their own homes.”
One recurring theme among those interviewed was the collective memory of the Nakba, or the expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians from their homes before and during the Arab-Israeli war of 1948. “Most of these women […] remember stories from their parents, from their families, who were kicked out of their homes and of their land and became refugees.”
A number of them, said Abdo, cited a famous line by former Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser: “That which has been taken by force can only be restored by force.”
Abdo explained that many interviewees had witnessed acts of Israeli brutality at a young age, and that these experiences had later spurred them to resist. “When you live under colonialism, it is almost impossible not to become involved in freeing yourself.”
One issue central to Abdo’s book was the treatment of Palestinian women within Israeli prisons. Those interviewed described undergoing physical, psychological and, in some cases, sexual torture. Some women described being forced to listen for hours to the screams of other detainees before undergoing their own interrogation, while others watched their own mothers being tortured to encourage them to confess to terrorist activity. Abdo explained that in every case, detainees’ families had been targeted by Israel, and their homes destroyed.
Abdo stressed, however, that the women she interviewed did manage to resist their imprisonment. Educational lectures were given by prisoners on various topics, plays were put on, and detainees worked together to organize group activities and whatever small demonstrations of defiance they could get away with.
“These women struggled for every single right,” she said, adding that they achieved some notable victories. At one point, detainees coordinated a massive hunger strike to protest being forced to make uniforms for the Israel Defense Forces, eventually succeeding.
Speaking to The Daily after the event, Rula Abisaab, Associate Professor of Islamic History at McGill, highlighted the significance of Abdo’s work in calling attention to a relatively little-known issue. “To throw light on the women is crucial. There have been lots of studies, and even memoirs by Palestinian male prisoners, but not women.”
Abisaab also underlined the necessity of challenging the ‘colonial approach’ of certain feminist academics in the West. “We need more studies like this,” she said.
Scott Weinstein, who also attended the event and is a member of Montreal’s Independent Jewish Voices organisation, also praised Abdo’s work. He stressed the importance of holding events such as this one at a time when, all over North America, voices speaking out in support of Palestinians have been silenced, or falsely labelled anti-semitic.
Concerning the brutality described in Abdo’s book, Weinstein said, “This has been done in our name as Jews, and not only is it an affront especially to the Palestinian people, but it’s a sabotage of the Jewish experience. We, who for centuries have been struggling against oppression, are now becoming the oppressors.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
