The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Hundreds march against gendered and sexual violence
Warning: This article contains potentially triggering discussion of sexual assault.
On the evening of November 5, roughly 200 people gathered at Norman Bethune Square for the annual “Take Back the Night!” march against gendered and sexual violence. The event was organized by Concordia’s Centre for Gender Advocacy (CGA). A McGill contingent organized by the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) was also present.
“The first [goal] is to bring light to the fact that gendered violence is still an issue within Montreal and within communities everywhere. We’re here to advocate for safer spaces for everybody so no one feels unsafe walking home at night […] or being in any spaces at any time of day,” explained co-organizer and CGA volunteer Shayna Rosemarine, in an interview with The Daily.
“The other reason is basically to take back the Take Back the Night march. Because in the 1970s, when it was first organized, it was mostly just for women, and they weren’t very pro-sex work. So the idea here for us is to bring in all genders to oppose gendered violence, because we think […] unity is very important, as well as an understanding that sexual violence happens to all kinds of people,” Rosemarine explained.
“It’s important to show that people have power over institutionalized practices like rape culture.”
Speaking to The Daily in Norman Bethune Square, Roy, a first-year Chemistry student at Concordia, highlighted the persistence of gendered violence.
“I think a lot of people really think that it’s a safer world now, and that gendered violence really isn’t a big problem. But it really is, and it really shouldn’t be taken lightly. Yes, it is safer for, say, white women than it was twenty years ago, but for women of colour, and for trans women, and for [trans people] in general, it’s not that safe at all,” Roy said.
Another protester, Ryan, explained that xe had come to the event along with other members of a feminist collective at John Abbott College in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue. “As somebody who is concerned for [women] and for myself, because I don’t identify as male, and I don’t always present as male, it’s important […] to weed out societal cancers like harassment and rape,” xe said.
“It’s important to show that people have power over institutionalized practices like rape culture. It’s something that needs to be spoken about […] and this is the way that we begin discourse,” xe added.
After roughly an hour of introductory speeches and chants, the marching began shortly after 7 p.m.. Protesters took to the street at the intersection of Guy and Ste. Catherine, then proceeded east, through Downtown, before turning north on McGill College and marching through the Roddick Gates to gather in front of the Redpath Museum.
Several police vans maintained a constant presence, surrounding demonstrators and clearing the streets ahead of them, but at no point did they attempt to interfere with the protest. The event was not declared illegal under municipal bylaw P-6, even though organizers had not disclosed their itinerary to the police.
“How many of you feel safe to go to the police to report a crime? I don’t. My current case is open, nothing’s being done. […] They’re not pursuing the men that have raped me.”
Once participants gathered at the steps of the Redpath Museum, more speeches were made by organizers and community activists. One speaker, affiliated with the CGA campaign Missing Justice, described her experiences of seeking redress in the wake of repeated sexual violence.
“There [have been] many times I’ve had to deal with the justice system. Many times that I have been raped. Many times I have been abused, assaulted, had men try to murder me, and it took me a long time to realize it’s because I’m Indigenous, and a woman,” she said.
She continued, “How many of you feel safe to go to the police to report a crime? I don’t. My current case is open, nothing’s being done. […] They’re not pursuing the men that have raped me. They are not […] seeking justice on my behalf. Perhaps it’s because I’m just another Indigenous woman. Maybe they don’t believe me. Whatever it may be, I know what happened, and I know […] that it was real.”
She expressed hope, however, in light of the recent announcement that Canada’s new Justice Minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, is an Indigenous woman. “Having an Indigenous woman on the forefront, fighting on behalf of us, gives me hope that this abuse will stop, and change is possible for the future.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators protest provincial cuts
Over a thousand demonstrators took to the streets on November 5 to protest the Quebec government’s austerity measures, joined by contingents of university students organized by student associations, including the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU). The demonstration also brought together the student associations within the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ) who were collectively striking for the occasion.
The McGill contingent was organized by McGill Against Austerity, a newly formed student group whose goal is to mobilize students, spread awareness about austerity, and increase McGill’s involvement in the movement. Around twenty McGill students gathered at the Roddick Gates at 12 p.m. to participate in the march.
SSMU VP External Emily Boytinck, who participated in the march, told The Daily, “I think it’s really important for McGill students to stand in solidarity with the rest of the Quebec student unions, the Quebec student movement, and the workers. We’re all fighting together against austerity.”
“[Austerity measures are occurring] while tax rates for corporations are being cut and taxes for the rich are not being increased. So essentially, what we are doing is having policies which benefit the rich at the expense of the poor,” Boytinck continued.
“Mass mobilization has always been key to changing government policy and changing power structures.”
At 12:45 p.m., the McGill group was joined by a Concordia contingent of around thirty students, chanting “Avec nous, dans la rue” (“Join us on the street”). The two contingents walked east along Sherbrooke, accompanied by several police cruisers and motorcycles. Ignoring police requests to use the sidewalk, protesters chanted: “Étudiants, travailleurs, même combat” (“Students, workers, same struggle”).
The McGill and Concordia contingents arrived at the general meeting point, the Montreal Science Centre, at 1:15 p.m. More contingents arrived shortly thereafter.
Adam Mackenzie, a U3 Political Science and History student, told The Daily that “mass mobilization has always been key to changing government policy and changing power structures. […] Today I hope to build toward that goal.”
Before the march began, three speeches were broadcast from a stereo system mounted on a truck. A union representative criticized the Quebec government’s claim that there isn’t enough money to reinvest in public services and education, in light of the multinational aerospace and transportation company Bombardier’s recent $1.3 billion bailout.
One student emphasized how austerity measures particularly affect women, in the form of closures of women’s status bureaus, the loss of public sector jobs mostly occupied by women, the closing of regional medical centres, and the cutting of affordable health services among other things.
“I believe that if people want to feel protected by their country, their government, the government should feed into social services.”
Nicola Protetch, a U2 Anthropology student, explained that she was attending the march because she believes austerity is the root of larger problems.
“Hopefully there is power in numbers and hopefully through that power, our voices will be heard, and the government [will start] looking at reform,” Protetch said.
The demands of protesters centred on reinvesting in public services and the public school system, and halting the budget cuts that disproportionately affect the most vulnerable people in society. “I believe that if people want to feel protected by their country, their government, the government should feed into social services,” Protetch explained.
The demonstrators left the Old Port at 1:45 p.m., marching up St. Laurent accompanied by dozens of police officers dressed in full riot gear.
The march was largely peaceful, save for some intervals of tension when police forces walked through the crowd or prevented demonstrators from marching in the direction they wanted to. At certain points, officers forced the march towards the north and east, away from Downtown.
The march ended after around two and a half hours.
Boytinck said, “There’s lots of different solutions to austerity. […] For example, by increasing the number of tax brackets, or raising the corporate tax rate, or really cracking down on corruption, […] gathering money from alternative sources, and not cutting valuable social programs.”
“Austerity is not a necessity; it’s a political choice,” she added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
