The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU executive hopefuls answer questions
from the press, audience
Last Thursday, the candidates for the upcoming Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) executive elections convened at the Carrefour ballroom to participate in this year’s SSMU Press Debates. Candidates were invited to give an opening statement, after which they answered questions from student press and audience members.
The two candidates for the VP Internal position, Lola Baraldi and Johanna Nikoletos, both demonstrated an interest in accessibility and student awareness of events. In a statement read on behalf of Baraldi, who was unable to attend due to a personal crisis, the candidate expressed an interest in increasing the general awareness of what SSMU is doing, making information needed for event planning more accessible, and working with other non-francophone campus groups to expand the impact of the Francophone Affairs Commission (FAC) beyond the French-speaking community.
“I want to breathe new life into this portfolio, revive communications and outreach, propose dynamic initiatives, and institutionalize sustainability, accessibility, and inclusivity within event planning at McGill,” she wrote in her statement.
As VP Internal, Nikoletos said she would hold events accessible to everyone by increasing accommodations for non-drinking students at larger SSMU events, as well as creating smaller events targeted at smaller groups, to create a “common student identity.”
“We all do have one thing in common, and that is the fact that we are students,” stated Nikoletos.
She also plans to implement a “Frosh scholarship” to combat the financial inaccessibility of Frosh, as well as discuss with the FAC possibilities for making Frosh more accessible to francophones.
Regarding off-campus students, she expressed an interest in providing bus services for students who live far away from downtown, so that they don’t have to worry about transportation during Orientation Week. She also suggested that Rez Project be present in events such as Discover McGill for students who live off campus. Nikoletos noted that she supports current VP Internal Daniel Chaim’s proposal for a fee levy to fund SSMU publications, and would be interested in putting together a SSMU publication to better communicate with students.
VP Clubs & Services candidate Kimber Bialik cited consultation of clubs before policies are implemented as a top priority, and that if elected, she will continue to work on expanding Club Hub to be a resource for students organizing clubs.
She said she hopes to liaise with the VP University Affairs and the President to make sure that clubs and services are not overlooked in negotiations over SSMU’s Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the University, especially considering the loss of the use of McGill’s name in SSMU club names.
VP Finance and Operations candidate Zacheriah Houston made it clear that financial stability of the Nest, the student-run cafe, is one of his top priorities. He further stated that he intends to achieve this by increasing catering at events within the SSMU building, exploring the possibility of catering outside the building – currently prohibited by SSMU’s MOA – and increasing food offerings.
He voiced strong support for creating a campaign with the other executives to raise awareness about how student fees are used, thus increasing transparency. He also stated that he will do as much as possible to make the budget more comprehensible to students by holding office hours and making the documents more accessible on the SSMU website.
Chloe Rourke, the candidate for VP University Affairs, said that mental health will be a priority for her, as she finds the current lack of resources at McGill compared to the huge demand for mental health services disturbing. “That is an indication to me that there is a much bigger conversation that needs to happen on why that demand [for mental health services] is increasing so quickly and what can we do as a community to address it,” she said.
Rourke also said that she will take hard line stances in her negotiations on issues that, in her opinion, overwhelmingly benefit students, and that for other issues that are controversial or political, she will go through many consultation processes before adopting a stance.
The presidential debates began with opening statements from each of the two candidates, Kareem Ibrahim and Alexei Simakov. The statements were followed by general questions from the press and from each of the candidates, and ended with audience questions and closing remarks.
Ibrahim went first, highlighting “strong advocacy on issues students care about” as important to him, especially in light of impending austerity cuts that might harm student services.
“I really want to prioritize student interests,” Ibrahim said.
Simakov asserted that he will go against the grain and take a different approach to SSMU presidency. “If you want a student government that is beyond an Orwellian micro-aggression enforcement policy, then I want to be your president. If you want a student government that focuses on services, on fiscal responsibility […] then I want to be your president,” he said.
The ensuing portions of the debate focused on a number of issues, including addressing budget cuts and student needs, increasing communication with students, and representing student opinion in the case of a student body as large and diverse as McGill’s.
Audience questioning was heated, with spectators leveling questions at both candidates. In one instance, SNAX employee Vivian Feldblyum approached the mic and accused Simakov of “piggy-backing” on the efforts of others and of having a superficial understanding of the situation at hand.
Another student asked if their strong personal stances could affect the policies they choose to pursue as president.
Both candidates emphatically declared that their personal opinions would not impact their decisions as president. “I know that what I believe in is not going to be what the student body believes in,” said Simakov. “I swear to God, I will spend the next year as president, you guys will not know my opinion on anything. I will have that on top secret […] That’s the kind of president I want to be for you.”
Ibrahim also noted that, when it comes to political stances, he would make sure these are informed by student opinion and not his own. “I think all students’ opinions should be considered, and when it comes to SSMU taking stances, that is something that we should make sure represents the majority of the student body,” he said.
In regard to how he would do this given the “inclusion and accessibility” portion of his platform, Ibrahim said that some of the changes he would make as president would not necessarily be informed by majority opinion. For example, the accessibility changes he has proposed to the SSMU website would not affect the students who are not visually- or hearing-impaired, but would make the website more accessible for those who are.
Closing statements were brief, with Ibrahim saying, “I genuinely care about student life. I’ve found my passion, this is my passion. […] I have the experience, I have the drive, and I am not dedicated to my opinion, but yours, and I know I can do so because I am experienced in that field.”
Simakov reiterated the ways in which he is different from a typical SSMU president. “I’m going to answer your questions, I’m going to expose myself, my values, my beliefs. Look at my page, and it’s going upset some of you, and some of you will think I’m wrong, but I’m going to show my opinions and my beliefs. I have principles and I have stands, and I have very clear core positions that go beyond empty rhetoric.”
Following the debate, Nicholas Renzetti, U3 Arts student and member of Simakov’s campaign staff, said he felt the event went well.
“I feel that Alex demonstrated strongly the positions that he wanted to make on fiscal responsibility, on political neutrality, and what he thinks he would be able to do as a the president,” Renzetti told the Daily.
He continued, “Despite the fact that people claim he has not had the experience his opponent has, that he is still a strong presidential candidate. That the experience that Ibrahim has is not the most constructive or helpful in representing all of the students’ views equally.”
Francesca Humi, a member of Ibrahim’s election committee, felt differently. Humi stated, “I think in [Simakov’s] concluding remarks, a lot of the irregularities and a lot of the fallacies of his platform were made evident.”
Amy Miller, a U2 Arts student, told The Daily, “One of the candidates seemed incredibly condescending, which is not in the spirit of what you’d want to see from this kind of debate, but overall I found it incredibly informative for that reason.”
One student, who preferred to remain anonymous, told The Daily that instead of crystallizing his vote, the debates had left him undecided.
“I don’t know who I’m going to support at this time. I’m torn in between. That being said, for me, the most important thing is that they will be neutral in the sense of not letting their own opinions affect the policy that is made by SSMU.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quorum lost for motion on accessible education policy
On March 15, students gathered in Leacock 132 for the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Winter 2015 General Assembly (GA). Motions on the table concerned unpaid internships, an accessible education policy, and divestment from companies profiting from the illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories. The event was scheduled to begin at 11:30 a.m., but due to the high number of attendees, proceedings did not begin until noon.
The first motion discussed concerned the nomination of RSM Richter as the auditor for SSMU. VP Finance and Operations Kathleen Bradley explained that the auditor’s contract is renewed every three years, at which point a vote is necessary. The motion passed with 259 votes for, 6 against, and 4 abstentions.
The motion concerning divestment from companies profiting from the illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories sparked intense debate. The motion called upon SSMU to “divest and refrain from investing in companies that pose social injury by contributing to the continuation and profitability of the illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories.”
Moved by petition, this proposal was endorsed by several campus groups, including the Black Students’ Network (BSN), Divest McGill, Midnight Kitchen, QPIRG-McGill, the Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE), and the Pakistani, Jordanian, Syrian, African, Egyptian, and Arab student associations.
The motion proved contentious, with students speaking strongly both in favour and against.
A U2 Management student asked those in attendance to “[move] away from rhetoric and [look] at the actual words in the motion,” and said that “voting yes will institutionalize this deep divide.”
Several others opposed the motion on the grounds that it was affiliated with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, an international campaign that aims to put economic pressure on the state of Israel in protest against its occupation of the Palestinian territories in violation of international law.
U3 Arts student McKenzie Kibler said that to argue that the motion was unrelated to BDS was “insulting the intelligence of students.”
U3 Management student Dina El-baradie responded that the motion did not include an academic or cutural boycott of Israel, and added that the motion in no way questioned Israel’s right to exist, instead merely seeking McGill’s financial disassociation.
“We’ve picked a side – we’re invested in these companies,” she said. “Divesting means disassociating [ourselves from the occupation], and we’re going to be neutral afterward.”
“As McGill students, we are not neutral,” agreed Science student Zain Ali Syed. He cited SSMU’s constitution, which states, “SSMU commits to demonstrating leadership in matters of human rights [and] social justice.”
An anonymous U2 Science student said that as a Palestinian, he is directly affected by the issue. “As a Palestinian at McGill, I am complicit in oppressing my own people.”
Zahra Habib, a U1 student in Middle Eastern Studies and Urban Planning, called on students to question their reason for attending the GA. “I want people to do a lot of self-reflection on why [you are] here,” she said. “If you’re against violence against innocents, you’re for this motion – I have no doubt everyone here is.”
After roughly 45 minutes of debate on the motion, a motion to end debate passed. Syed motioned for a secret ballot, voicing concerns that students might face hostility from their peers based on their choices. This also passed.
After an hour-long voting procedure, the main motion was defeated, with 212 votes for, 276 against, and 9 abstentions. After the results were announced, the vast majority of students present left the GA.
Laura Khoury, member of the “yes” campaign for the motion, spoke to The Daily after the vote.
“Nobody was able to dismiss the fact that the occupation and expansion of settlements was illegal, and nobody could refute the fact that we are complicit in aiding illegal actions. I call on everyone to reflect on their vote to stay complicit, because while you do have a home to go back to every day, many Palestinians don’t as a result of our complicity.”
Jordan Devon, a member of the “no” campaign, also reacted to the outcome of the vote.
“After two failed motions regarding this particular topic this year alone, I hope that students who stand on the other side of this debate understand that two pages of ‘whereas’ clauses accompanied by 18 citations do not summarize the complex realities of geopolitical conflict, and that passing motions like these will change nothing in the Middle East.”
The assembly continued by addressing the issue of illegal unpaid internships with a motion calling on SSMU to stop promoting such positions and lobby McGill to do the same. The motion was brought forward by NDP-McGill and several SSMU councillors.
The final ‘resolved’ clause, which mandated SSMU clubs and services not to “promote, recruit for, or facilitate any internships that contravene applicable employment laws,” sparked considerable debate. Some expressed concern that this would provoke further frustration on the part of club members, some of whom already resent the breadth of SSMU regulations.
SSMU Engineering Representative Scott Conrad brought forward a motion to strike this clause, still expressing concern over the potential negative impact of such a proposal on SSMU’s relationship with its affiliates. He later changed his amendment to only strike clubs, not services, from the clause. This amendment failed.
Attendees eventually decided to divide the question, voting on the section pertaining specifically to clubs separately. Both parts of the motion passed with the first segment garnering 75 votes for, 8 against, and 19 abstentions, and the second also taking a clear majority.
The final motion on the table concerned the financial accessibility of education, calling on SSMU to adopt a policy in support of accessible education.
VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette spoke to the motion, noting that SSMU’s current accessible education policy is about to expire, rendering this proposal particularly urgent.
Several of those who opposed the motion mentioned the recent decision to raise tuition for students from France to the level of those from out of province. They argued that, given the provincial government’s current deficit, this measure had not been unreasonable.
Moustaqim-Barrette responded to these concerns, reminding those present that the decision to raise French students’ tuition had already been made, and that the current motion addressed the imminent prospect of tuition deregulation for all faculties and for out-of-province students.
Speaking against the motion, Kibler accused Moustaqim-Barrette of “fear-mongering.” Out-of-province tuition was unlikely to be raised significantly, he said, as competitive fees were useful for attracting students. He also argued that the clause mandating SSMU to mobilize against austerity was dangerous, as it would enable SSMU to create a mobilization committee, join the Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ) student federation, and eventually call a strike GA.
Moustaqim-Barrette dismissed Kibler’s allegations. The administration has already announced its intention raise tuition to the highest levels allowed by the market, she said. She also noted that an anti-austerity mobilization committee has already been formed within SSMU, and that SSMU is not eligible for ASSÉ membership because it lacks a “sovereign GA.”
SSMU Medicine Representative Joshua Chin also expressed concern, wondering if the motion would specifically mandate SSMU to organize a strike GA.
One Law student argued in favour of the motion. He noted that many other Quebec universities have taken action against austerity, and called the motion a “really benign” way for McGill students to participate in the collective struggle.
A motion by Chin to divide the question on the grounds that the resolved clauses were fairly unrelated failed. The main motion passed, but as there were only 97 voters present, the 100-person quorum requirement was not met. The motion will thus be brought to SSMU Council for debate and approval.
A motion to “stand in solidarity with students and protesters demanding democratic government worldwide, in particular, Hong Kong,” tabled at the Fall GA, was expected to be moved from the floor. However, some of the movers withdrew their support and the motion was not brought forward.
Most remaining students dispersed at this point, and the assembly adjourned at 5:00 p.m. after hearing the executive reports.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizers to hold another protest this week
Around 100 demonstrators gathered yesterday at the intersection of Berri and Ontario to participate in the 19th annual anti-police brutality march. Alain Magloire, a man who was homeless and mentally ill, was shot and killed by a Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) officer in February 2014 at this location.
“There is a [large part] of society that approves of police brutality, unfortunately,” one demonstrator, who wished to remain anonymous, told The Daily. “They think that it’s being done for them. It’s [as if] they live vicariously through the killings of others, carried out in their name by the authority.”
While the demonstration was planned to start at 3 p.m., more than forty police officers had already taken their places around Berri and Ontario by 2:30 p.m., including one squad of police on horseback and at least two squads of police on bikes.
At 3 p.m., the SPVM announced that the demonstration was legal because its location had been disclosed to them beforehand. However, the SPVM also declared that marching would be illegal, as a clear route itinerary was not provided.
Under municipal bylaw P-6, groups wishing to organize marches must provide their itinerary to the SPVM at least 24 hours in advance. During last year’s anti-police brutality march, nearly 300 demonstrators were kettled and fined $638 for participating in a march declared illegal under P-6.
Roughly ten minutes after the announcement that the march was illegal, the demonstrators attempted to march west on Ontario, but were forced to change their path as police had already blocked that route. The group then attempted to march north on Berri, at which point the SPVM announced that the demonstration was illegal.
Riot police trapped the demonstrators at the underpass nearby, where they were kettled for the rest of the protest. Two student journalists from The Link, Zach Goldberg and Jonathan Cook, were among those who were kettled.
As the kettling took place, two other demonstrations were happening elsewhere: one on the corner of Maisonneuve and Berri, and another on St. Laurent. A total of 95 people were arrested, 92 of whom were arrested under article 500.1 of the Highway Safety Code, which makes it illegal to “occupy the roadway […] so as to obstruct vehicular traffic.”
According to the SPVM’s Twitter account, the demonstrations were dispersed around 4:30 p.m.. The kettling on Berri had ended and the street was re-opened to traffic by 5:30 p.m..
The Collective Opposed to Police Brutality (COBP), which organizes the annual anti-police brutality marches, is planning to hold another demonstration on March 22, called La St-Patrak, to coincide with Montreal’s St. Patrick’s Day Parade.
According to COBP’s website, La St-Patrak will take place on the same day as the parade because the organization wishes to “denounce the fact that we no longer have a right to protest in Montreal.”
Speaking at a news conference on March 12, Montreal mayor Denis Coderre hinted at possible repression of the demonstration. “Let’s be clear, [the parade is] a celebration and nobody, nobody, will prevent this magnificent celebration,” he said.
“People who are going to attend the parade have nothing to fear from us,” COBP noted on its website in French. “But they should, maybe, be wary of the police officers, who are known to be armed and dangerous to the population, especially to those who are activists or marginalized.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panelists note similarities in police behaviour, resistance tactics 
A panel titled “Racial Profiling & Police Brutality from Ferguson to Palestine” kicked off this year’s Israeli Apartheid Week.
Held on March 10 and organized by the Centre for Gender Advocacy as part of its Thick Skin event series on race, gender, and political resistance, the panel discussed the connections between police violence in Palestine and in Canada and the U.S..
This was done by inviting the unique perspectives of three activists – Nargess Mustapha, activist from the Montréal-Nord Républik collective; Ahmad Abuznaid, a co-founder of the Miami-based Dream Defenders; and Cherrell Brown, from the juvenile and criminal justice advocacy organization Justice League NYC.
Two of the event’s organizers, Talia Joundi, a law student at McGill, and Maya Rolbin-Ghanie, from the Centre for Gender Advocacy, introduced the event and explained the importance of drawing parallels between these different experiences.
Joundi noted that “making the connection to people in North America is important to make the lived reality of Palestinians more understandable.”
Rolbin-Ghanie added, “We are by no means saying the struggle is the same – the differences need to be respected. But there are definitely parallels between who the police is profiling and what kinds of colonial mentality are produced by the police in general.”
As the audience filled the Moot Court room in Chancellor Day Hall, some were excited to learn practical skills.
“I came to increase my knowledge of racial profiling and get some tactics to apply to my own life,” explained U1 Biology student Alice Salim.
Others came out of curiosity. “I was in Ferguson in the fall, and saw the early solidarity with Palestinians,” explained Julie Norman, professor in the Department of Political Science, whose research focuses in part on prisoner resistance and prison and detention policies in Palestine.
“Though they are different contexts, there are definitely similar situations in terms of mass arrests, mass incarceration, profiling certain populations, difficult interrogation tactics, and the pressure to confess for a lighter sentence. All these things are very similar,” commented Norman.
Mustapha, speaking in French with live translation, began by discussing the difficult realities faced by Montreal North residents, saying that “police harassment and racial profiling [are] a part of everyday life.”
Mustapha next discussed how the murder of Freddy Villanueva in 2008 – who was shot by Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) officer Jean-Loup Lapointe, who confronted Villenueva and his friends as they were playing dice in Parc Henri-Bourassa – was an example of the worst of the SPVM’s practice of profiling in minority communities.
“In 2010, the internal SPVM report by criminologist Mathieu Charest, which La Presse acquired, showed how common [racial profiling] is,” said Mustapha. “Since 2001, identity checks in Montreal North had gone up by 126 per cent. In 2006 and 2007, 30 to 40 per cent of young black men were being stopped and frisked, while non-racialized Montrealers were stopped and frisked at a rate of 5 per cent.”
Brown spoke next, discussing state violence by sharing stories from a recent trip to Palestine with members of Black Lives Matter – a movement dedicated to combatting racist police violence against black people – and emphasizing the power of social media in sharing tactics.
“That’s the beauty of social media, we have people in another country [who] some folks in Ferguson [have] never heard of, but these are the people tweeting us and telling us how to survive this occupation right now, [with advice like] ‘walk with the wind and not against it,’ or ‘use milk of magnesia and not water when tear-gassed,’” Brown explained.
Having witnessed police brutality and profiling in Palestine firsthand, Brown stressed, “We have to imagine safety and security for ourselves. […] We must imagine something entirely different for ourselves and our children. It will probably be our greatest art project – to imagine a truly liberated world, outside of the scope, definitions, and parameters given to us by our oppressors.”
Next, Abuznaid shared his personal story of returning to Palestine, his birthplace, and rediscovering his roots after a childhood in the U.S..
“At Ben Gurion airport, I was seven years old, and we were taken to a back room where myself and my mother were strip-searched,” Abuznaid recalled. “There were guns and military soldiers everywhere. Immediately, alarms went off in my head that something was not right.”
A lively question and answer period followed, covering the problem of charismatic male leaders in movements, attitudes toward violent resistance, and the on-campus mobilization for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which aims to increase pressures on Israel to end its occupation of Palestinian territory.
After a standing ovation at the event’s conclusion, one student, beaming, told The Daily, “It was absolutely amazing. I loved it.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students call for university-wide commitment
The recommendations of McGill’s Mental Health Working Group (MHWG) regarding proposed changes to mental health and wellness services at McGill, submitted in June 2014, are currently being implemented by the administration. The general recommendations were to create a more supportive environment on campus, to optimize the use of existing resources, and to review and harmonize mental health service delivery.
The MHWG made its recommendations based on surveys given to focus groups of “stakeholders,” composed of staff members deemed to have constant interactions with students, as well as one graduate student. The stakeholders were surveyed to determine what they thought was lacking and what they thought had to change with regards to mental health services at McGill.
Marilyn Fitzpatrick, chair of the MHWG and an associate professor and program director of the Department of Educational and Counselling Psychology at McGill, spoke to the lack of student representation in the stakeholders surveyed.
“[Executive Director of Student Services Jana Luker] wanted to take something that they could begin to take action on quickly and to do a survey of students would have taken much longer than we had,” said Fitzpatrick. “So we surveyed people [who] we thought were stakeholders from the perspective of stakeholders in delivering services.”
According to Luker, the MHWG was initiated due to concerns expressed over the years regarding increasing wait times and inadequate staff to counter that issue.
“We didn’t have the staff to get a response in a timely way, the wait time was increasing, [so] we wanted to look at the whole structure and make sure that we had an idea of access to care,” she told The Daily.
Luker said that the goal is to “continually and sustainably maintain a two-week waiting time,” and recognized the importance of creating more of a “culture of wellness across the whole university proactively, so people aren’t waiting and going into crisis.”
“The big picture is to create a more supportive and proactive culture of wellness,” Luker added.

A timeline of recommendations publicly available on the Mental Health Service’s website outlines next steps and includes status updates of the projects for the month of February, with another update to be provided in April.
There are 36 projects to be completed. According to the projected timeline of implementation, at least 15 of these are currently underway, eight have yet to be started, and two have already been completed.
Luker expressed concern about the recommendations that would require faculty who do not meet certain standards to undergo a faculty mental health training program, saying that suggestions could be made instead of making training mandatory.
“It is hard to tell [faculty that] they have mandatory training for all faculty,” Luker told The Daily. “I can’t say you have to do it, but I can recommend it.”
Arts and Science Senator Chloe Rourke agreed with Luker that the topic of mental health should be tackled not only by the administration, but by the student body as well. Rourke added that the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) was also aiming to address the issue with its own mental health policy plan.
“Ultimately, student mental health issues cannot be addressed by Student Services alone. It requires a commitment from all members of the McGill community, the faculties, and administration,” Rourke wrote in an email to The Daily.
Luker noted that the issue of mental health is serious and relevant to the whole university. “Student Services of course is one of the primary drivers of this because this is our mandate, because that’s what we do, we support students in mental health – it’s a huge component in what we do. The feeling is really that everyone has a responsibility around this, and that’s what we are trying to do.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Arts Senators to attend Arts and Science assemblies for better representation
Updated March 17, 2015 with comments from former VP Finance Li Xue.
Last Wednesday, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council opened its bi-weekly meeting with a moment of silence for former VP Internal Roma Nadeem, who passed away recently.
President Ava Liu also announced that the VP Finance Li Xue had effectively resigned, as she has not been working since February 26. Liu mentioned that other members of Council have stepped up to fill the void left by the absence of a VP Finance, but made no mention of a concrete reason for the resignation.
In a letter to AUS councillors, Xue outlined the reasons for her resignation. “The work dynamic that I experienced within the AUS and the decreasing meaningfulness of the work I found myself having to do was very alienating. In the end, I could no longer justify such a large time and energy commitment to something that made me unhappy.”
The letter also noted that Xue had made logistical arrangements for the allocation of her portfolio, and asked Council to revisit similar concerns about AUS’s work dynamic raised by former VP Internal Leila Alfaro when she resigned in September.
Council discussed at length the endorsement of the sexual assault policy currently being drafted by the Sexual Assault Policy Working Group. AUS Equity Commissioner Isabel Lee said, “Although there is currently a sexual harassment policy [at McGill], this policy is quite weak. […] It is a purely bureaucratic approach.”
“We want to show that McGill University acknowledges that sexual assault is a unique kind of violence,” she continued.
Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Claire Stewart-Kanigan described to Council some of the main points of the proposed policy.
“What we’ve seen on campus is that the University’s attention to sexual assault comes in waves with the latest media scandal and disappears,” she said.
According to Stewart-Kanigan, the policy aims to institutionalize proactive measures. Another objective of the policy is to be of service to everybody, including McGill students, members of faculty, and people outside the McGill community who have been assaulted by a McGill student.
For example, the policy might provide resources for a student to transfer residences or drop a class, providing “immediate interim safety measures,” Stewart-Kanigan explained.
Council also discussed the recent controversy surrounding a proposal to have women-only hours implemented at the McGill fitness centre.
A Women’s and Sexual Diversity Studies Student Association (WSSA) representative expressed concern over the potential gender policing that could fall under the policy of women-only hours, and asked “if there’s a way that we can put policies for folks who identify as women.” Arts Representative to SSMU Eddie Lin responded that he supported SSMU’s “definition of ‘female’ [as] anyone who identifies as female.”
Lee also commented on the proposal. “It’s kind of sad, because it feels like a very huge compromise to say that there’s only one hour a day when you can feel safe going to the gym,” said Lee. Nevertheless, Lee supported the women-only hours.
Financial Management Committee Representative Rona Hunter voiced support for the women-only hours. “I have no religious needs to exercise on my own, but I would definitely utilize women-only hours in the gym,” said Hunter.
Representation in the Arts and Science assembly
Council passed a motion that “strongly recommends that the Arts Senator[s] attend bi-weekly Arts and Science assemblies for the 2015-16 academic year on a rotational basis with the Science Senator.”
As a result of the allocation process for Senate seats, Arts and Science only receives a seat during years in which other faculties leave an extra seat vacant; this past year, since all seats were filled, there was no Arts and Science representative at Senate.
The motion is meant to help increase communication between Arts and Science students and their representatives, making sure Senators are able to bring as many of the students’ concerns to Senate as possible.
Institute for the Public Life of Arts and Ideas Director Paul Yachnin addressed Council about a motion to support the proposed Masters program in Public Life of Arts and Ideas.
According to Yachnin, the new program would be a two-year research degree which “brings together the humanities with Arts management and cultural policy.” The motion passed with two abstentions.
The AUS Equity Committee presented a motion to amend equity policy bylaws. Per the motion, the term “officer,” which is currently used to refer to those on the AUS Equity Committee, is to be replaced by “commissioner.”
Lee said that the term “officer” “has a connotation of enforcement and authority.” Council voted to pass the motion.
Council also approved the Arts Student Employment Fund summer allocations, endorsed the formation of a “yes” committee to advocate for the Arts Internship Office fee referendum, and approved the imposition of a fee to help pay for the Panama Field Studies Semester program.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student pressure against austerity to escalate in the coming weeks
Twenty-nine Quebec student associations – representing over 32,000 students and spread over six campuses in Montreal, Quebec City, and Chicoutimi – have voted to go on strike in the next two weeks to protest the Liberal government’s cuts to education and other public services. Although start dates vary, most students will be on strike from March 21 until April 2, at which point strike reconduction assemblies will be held.
Attained last Thursday, the 30,000-student threshold is significant because many of the strike mandates include a clause making the strikes conditional upon reaching this level of support province-wide. Moreover, the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) Arts Faculty Student Association (AFÉA) was mandated to hold an early strike launch assembly in the event that the threshold was reached; the association, representing 3,843 students, could thus go on strike as early as today.
The strike votes did not go without resistance at UQAM, which houses over 20,000 of the to-be-striking students. In a letter sent to the UQAM community in late February, the dean of the Faculty of Political Science and Law, as well as 13 political science professors, claimed in French that acts like “disturbances of meetings and conferences” and “repeated strikes” create a “climate of intimidation” at UQAM and hurt the public image of the university. Students responded with an open letter denouncing the conflation of intimidation and political engagement, and law professors passed a departmental resolution distancing themselves from the views of their colleagues in political science.
A student in the same faculty also attempted to request a court injunction to prevent the holding of a strike general assembly, arguing that the obtainment of his degree would be unfairly delayed. The Superior Court of Quebec rejected the argument.
“[Austerity] is an issue that students want to mobilize on in the next two weeks.”
Intercampus communication and coordination during the strike votes was done largely through the Comité Printemps (Spring Committee) 2015 Facebook group and website, which includes an up-to-date strike vote tracker. The Comité Printemps – a decentralized hub to coordinate mobilization efforts between students, unions, and other community actors – has also called for a “popular demonstration” on March 21 to mark the beginning of the strike.
The Association pour une solidarité syndicale étudiante (ASSÉ), to which most of the striking student associations belong, has expressed support for the March 21 demonstration. In addition to the student associations with renewable strike mandates, over 14,000 students will be on a one-day strike for the ASSÉ-organized demonstration on April 2. An additional 125,000 students across the province are to be consulted on this matter in the coming days through strike assemblies or referenda.
“It’s not quite a surprise that there are that many people having strike votes,” ASSÉ spokesperson Camille Godbout told The Daily. “For us, seeing that many student unions mobilizing against austerity, it really shows that [austerity] does have a huge impact on the quality of our education and […] all public services, and this is an issue that students want to mobilize on in the next two weeks.”
A demonstration will also take place in Quebec City on March 26, to protest the presentation of the government’s budget planned for that day.
At ASSÉ’s February 21-22 congress, the federation’s member associations voted to frame the April 2 protest as an “ultimatum” to the Liberal government, demanding that the government roll back its cuts to public services and social programs. Based on developments in their local general assemblies, member associations are expected to crystallize ASSÉ’s course of action at the next ASSÉ congress on April 4 and 5.
“We want to send a clear message to the government that they need to reinvest in all public services – for us that should be a priority,” said Godbout. “After that congress, we should have a clear idea of what should happen in the spring.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Board officially reports CFS disaffiliation referendum results
On March 11, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) held both its March Council meeting and its Annual General Meeting (AGM) for Winter 2015.
The AGM included a general discussion of the proposal to institute women-only hours at the McGill fitness centre, as PGSS may want to take a stance on the issue in the future. Sebastien Forte, a PhD student in Economics, expressed emphatic disagreement, calling the idea “a step backward in terms of thinking about gender equality.”
“What’s going on here is that you have individuals that normally have access to the public space, and that’s taken away based on their gender,” said Forte.
“The [Canadian] Charter of Rights and Freedoms says that you can’t be discriminated [against] based on gender. The decision not to access the gym because there are men around – that’s a choice, whereas the decision not to access the gym because you are banned from it based on your gender is not a choice,” he added.
Stéphanie Bergeron, McGill Graduate Association of Political Science Studies representative, offered a different perspective. “I [think] some people feel they don’t have access to public space because of their gender or orientation, and that’s what we should focus on right now,” she said.
Postgraduate Philosophy Students of McGill University Association representative Frédérick Armstrong agreed, arguing that “a legitimate proposition […] should be phrased in terms not of withdrawing rights from people but allowing people to do things they wouldn’t […] be able to otherwise.”
“So if women and LGBTQ [people] feel threatened, feel uncomfortable, or feel they are in a male-dominated space,” said Armstrong, “they should have the right to voice their opinions, and they should be able to have whatever is given free to men, because they don’t have to deal with other things that LGBTQ [people] and women have to deal [with] constantly and daily.”
PGSS External Affairs Officer Julien Ouellet concurred, stating, “One of the reasons why the gym is available is to make sure that the student population is healthy. Chunks of the student population cannot benefit from the gym because they feel it’s an uncomfortable environment, and I think dedicating a sliver of time [to them] is not too much to ask.”
Other speakers noted that precedents exist for this proposal, citing the fact that the McGill pool already has women-only hours every week, and several other universities across Canada and the U.S. have instituted similar policies in their fitness centres. One student in attendance noted, “If it’s really illegal, we should have heard something by now.”
Ultimately, no conclusion was reached, and it was decided that an online platform would be created for PGSS members to voice their opinions on the subject.
During the AGM, the PGSS Board of Directors reported the results of the referendum held in January, during which over 95 per cent of participating members voted to leave the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS). They explained that while these results were certainly a positive development in PGSS’s ongoing struggle to end its CFS membership, the legal fees incurred during this process have been extremely high.
“We’ve got the amount that we paid to lawyers, and we’ve also got the very hefty amount of fees that we paid to the CFS under protest, in order to […] actually have this referendum and get the really awesome results that we did,” Financial Affairs Officer, Nikki Meadows, noted at the meeting.
Meadows said that she hopes to get back at least a portion of the fees in the future, and that currently PGSS is running a deficit. The ideal solution to this, according to Meadows, would be “to increase PGSS student fees for around five years.”
Meadows also reported on the ongoing lease negotiations between PGSS and McGill, explaining that the rent for Thomson House would be increasing incrementally, and that the administration had asked PGSS to assume part of the cost of the building’s utilities. PGSS’s building fees will be increased in order to help offset these new expenses.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
