The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Undergraduates discuss SSMU executive portfolio restructuring
On November 9, Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held the Fall 2015 General Assembly (GA). The GA failed to meet the required quorum of 100 students, despite SSMU having arranged the event in the SSMU ballroom to accommodate around 200 students.
There were no motions on the agenda, however, President Kareem Ibrahim brought up a discussion item regarding the restructuring of SSMU executive portfolios.
According to Ibrahim, SSMU is in dire need of restructuring. Ibrahim explained that over the past decade, SSMU’s activities have expanded exponentially, making the tasks of SSMU executives increasingly demanding. The exceptional circumstances caused by the resignation of SSMU General Manager Jennifer Varkonyi and VP Internal Lola Baraldi have only compounded the strain.
For instance, the VP External portfolio was recently expanded to include the promotion of a policy on accessible education and another policy on climate change. Additionally, the VP University Affairs portfolio was expanded to include advocacy for mental health on campus.
“Not this year, but every year, what we see is executive burnout. […] Our contract actually stipulates seventy hours a week. I’ll leave it to you to decide, but on top of a part-time course load, that’s probably not the healthiest. We have dialogues about mental health […] in the workplace and in our activities. […] It seems that it’s dissonant for the executives to be asked to work seventy hours a week.”
“Not this year, but every year, what we see is executive burnout.”
Ibrahim explained that there are multiple restructuring proposals on the table, which include adding a seventh SSMU executive position and/or creating Associate VP positions.
Ibrahim asked the participants of the GA to voice their opinions multiple times, however, the participants remained mostly silent.
Arts Representative Becky Goldberg asked about the financial feasibility of creating a seventh full-time executive position, considering SSMU’s ongoing financial difficulties.
In response, VP Finance and Operations Zacheriah Houston said that it would be possible, though it would be “a question of priorities.”
“A lot of different things would need to be considered. In terms of how it would affect current executive salaries, it’s unlikely that the executive salaries would be affected, because they already make, to be honest, about $5 to $6 an hour, if you divide the actual work they do by their salaries,” Houston said.
“I’m not confident saying that we could pay a […] seventh full-time executive the salary we pay the executives now, without significant cuts that would affect other services,” Houston continued.
The five SSMU executives also made presentations about what their jobs really entail and their progress in the year so far.
Houston explained that most of his time is spent figuring out SSMU’s budget, the audited financial statements of which were supposed to be approved at the GA. The budget was presented, but as the GA did not meet quorum, the budget will be brought back for approval in Winter 2016.
According to the financial statements, SSMU ran a surplus of approximately $214,000 in the 2014-15 academic year. However, after accounting for expenditures in restricted budgets, SSMU actually ran a deficit of about $50,000.
“We just have no way of predicting what clubs are going to spend over the year, so we don’t budget for it.”
Notably, the SSMU Services budget ran a surplus of $242,951 and the Clubs budget ran a deficit of $100,988. Regarding this, Houston said, “We just have no way of predicting what clubs are going to spend over the year, so we don’t budget for it. At the end of the year, we add up their expenses and revenues, and then we account for it in SSMU’s budget.”
Houston also reported on 4Floors, SSMU’s annual Halloween party held in the Shatner building, which was under-attended this year. While the numbers are not yet finalized, Houston believes that SSMU lost between $2,000 to $4,000 on the event.
VP External Emily Boytinck, who took over the planning duties of 4Floors in the absence of a VP Internal, explained to The Daily that ticket sales were moved online this year, “but we realized that the line itself was a major form of promotion.”
VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke announced that SSMU would be hiring its first ever Indigenous Affairs coordinator, “who will hopefully be spearheading [SSMU’s] reconciliation campaign in March.”
“And as well, [they’ll] be institutionalizing some Indigenous solidarity initiatives and the traditional territory acknowledgement.”
Boytinck talked about the two new provincial student federations that are currently being created in Quebec. She said that she would be consulting both SSMU Council and the student body in deciding between the Association pour la voix étudiante au Québec (AVEQ) and the Union étudiante du Québec (UEQ).
Speaking on the importance of provincial student federations, Boytinck said, “My job description […] says: ‘Lobby the government.’ That is extremely hard to do as a single individual and so it’s really really helpful to join up with other student unions.”
 

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Culture Shock event series promotes closed discussion workshops 
The Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill held its annual Culture Shock event series from November 5 to 8. Open to McGill students and the greater Montreal community, Culture Shock explored themes such as anti-racism, migrant justice, and Indigenous solidarity through workshops, discussions, and keynote events.
The series was organized by the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) in partnership with QPIRG-McGill. While many of the events occurred on campus, others took place at locations around Montreal.
Kama Maureemootoo, Finance and Administrative Coordinator at QPIRG-McGill, told The Daily that Culture Shock began 13 years ago, but strives to explore new topics each year. “I think one of the things that is very particular about Culture Shock is that we always address issues that are politically important at a given point, which is why we have the workshop on the Syrian refugee crisis.”
“It was also really important for us to create more spaces to talk about anti-Black racism,” Maureemootoo added. “That’s the thing that has been very relevant and prominent, and been needing a space for a long time.”
The theme of the year, Science Fiction, was inspired by keynote speaker Walidah Imarisha, co-editor of Octavia’s Brood: Science Fiction Stories from Social Justice Movements, an anthology of short stories about “radical science and speculative fiction written by organizers & activists.”
The event page for the keynote speech quotes Imarisha, who wrote, “whenever we envision a world without war, without prisons, without injustice, we are engaging in speculative fiction. Radicals and activists devote their lives to envisioning such worlds, and then go about trying to create them; indeed, all organizing is science fiction.”
“[We] don’t want to put the burden of education on people of colour, and on other [marginalized groups] because it is a lot of emotional labour for people to be constantly teaching others about their oppression.”
The event series featured three closed workshops, which provided spaces for participants of marginalized groups to explore topics of race and gender. For example, according to the event description, one workshop titled “Organizing at the Intersections of Black Lives Matter & Gender Justice” was closed to Black and mixed Black participants, and aimed to “push participants from organizing from a racial justice framework to a full-blown liberation movement.”
“Closed space workshops are extremely important to us,” said Maureemootoo. “McGill is a campus where this is not really talked about at all, and sometimes it’s about creating spaces to […] allow [marginalized groups] to talk about their experiences without filtering what they’re saying.”
Arabella Colombier, Culture Shock coordinator and U2 Philosophy student, told The Daily that organizers “don’t want to put the burden of education on people of colour, and on other [marginalized groups] because it is a lot of emotional labour for people to be constantly teaching others about their oppression.”
“Hopefully other people can take it upon themselves to come to these workshops and do further research and educate themselves on these issues,” Colombier continued.
Megan Shanklin, a U2 Political Science student, spoke to The Daily after attending a workshop about decolonization.
“There are some people on campus that see QPIRG as really radical, or out there, and distance themselves from these issues — even though if they went to this workshop, they could learn so much from it, and we could all relate to it,” Shanklin said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Alexei Simakov
Following the resignation of Lola Baraldi as VP Internal of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), a by-election was called to fill the position for the rest of the year. Campaigning began on November 5, and will run until November 15, with the voting period occurring from November 11 to 15. The debate will take place at 6:30 p.m. on November 11. The McGill Daily interviewed the two candidates running for election, Céleste Pagniello and Alexei Simakov.
The McGill Daily (MD): Why are you running for VP Internal?
Alexei Simakov (AS): I’ve been very passionate about McGill and being involved in McGill in various functions. Since my first year, [I’ve been involved in actions] against strike manifestations, and every year since then, I’ve tried to contribute in some small way.
I can, I think, make a meaningful contribution. When I first ran [for SSMU president] last year, that was obviously much more chaotic. […] During that experience and afterward, I’ve learned a lot about McGill, a lot about the student body. I’ve learned a lot about what people are thinking about SSMU [and] how they’re thinking about SSMU. I want to apply that experience to McGill in an executive capacity.
MD: What kind of experience will you bring to this role?
AS: I’ve worked, for example, in [the Moderate Political Action Committee (ModPAC)] in first year, that was during the strike manifestation. I’ve worked on various referendum questions; a lot of them were anti-BDS [Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions against Israel].
[…] I’ve filed a couple of [Judicial Board cases] against SSMU. I’ve been involved with, for example, the ongoing internal [regulations] review process. That’s something I’m excited to contribute, whether or not I’m successful in the election.
“I’ve been involved with, for example, the ongoing internal [regulations] review process. That’s something I’m excited to contribute, whether or not I’m successful in the election.”
MD: What do you think is the most important thing about the position?
AS: One of the things I’m talking [about] on my platform […] is the yearbook, [which] is definitely financially unsustainable right now. We need to [ask] a lot of difficult questions as to whether we want to continue that tradition – which I think is important. It’s going to probably include a student fee. […] If we don’t do that, will the student body be comfortable with cancelling the project? […] I’m usually enthusiastic about saying we should do this, I’m not reserved about that, but I think it’s definitely one of those situations where the student body needs to be able to decide that kind of question.
Beyond that, SSMU’s going through a period of reform right now. […] I think people from across all political opinions at McGill can agree that SSMU’s facing a lot of structural challenges that go [beyond simply] political divisions. […] I think the VP Internal would be able to contribute […]  by communicating what those challenges are and how we can solve them.
MD: What do you hope to improve on in your position compared to last year, or what Lola Baraldi did?
AS: I think [last year’s VP Internal] Daniel Chaim has done a fairly good job in doing his role. I think that the position has inherently been more like functional and administrative than something like the president’s portfolio. [Given that I’d have only one third of a term] it would be inherently difficult for anyone to be able to complete a full portfolio project, which would take me usually more than a year.
I think more important for me would be to lay the foundation for what the next year’s incoming executive would do. I don’t think this is necessarily selling myself short.
I think more important for me would be to lay the foundation for what the next year’s incoming executive would do. I don’t think this is necessarily selling myself short. […] This is realistic within the timeframe and the exceptional circumstances.
MD: How will you promote some of the bilingualism initiatives started by the previous VPs Internal?
AS: I think bilingualism [is something] that we have to maintain a focus on – make sure we don’t slide back, make sure we don’t forget our focus on bilingualism. […] In my experience, and I’m very open to seeing otherwise [… the McGill community] hasn’t been very vocal about [a lack of bilingualism]. […] It would be a matter of engaging with students who are bilingual and who are involved with making sure that their French is well-promoted on campus – listening to their voices.
MD: SSMU is undergoing a lot of trouble. Considering that, how would you help mitigate these problems?
AS: We have to be conscious of the fact that […] a lot of these [financial] challenges are [… due to] broader shifts in the national [and] provincial administrative relationships. […] The fact that McGill’s getting less money means that Student Services are getting less money, which means SSMU is taking on more responsibilities for itself.
I think I speak enthusiastically for being financially responsible, to make sure we use [the] limited resources we have to do more important projects. One of my strengths would be that I can more comfortably make the cuts that need to be made, if that’s the situation we’re forced into.
“The reality for SSMU is that any student government is inherently going to be overrepresented by students who are politically engaged.”
MD: Do you see SSMU as a political actor and how will your view impact your role as VP Internal?
AS: I mean they’re already very political. I don’t think it’s so much an opinion, I think they’re consciously, openly, institutionally oriented a lot toward political activism. And this is something I kind of learned last year. […] One of the pitches I made was that we need to stop this political radicalism, we need to stop this far-left kind of anarchy. […] What I’ve learned since then [is that] it’s not a matter of stopping those kinds of political spirits, it’s a matter of balancing them out.
MD: Given the wide variety of views in the student body, how should SSMU mitigate the tension between leadership and representation?
AS: The reality for SSMU is that any student government is inherently going to be overrepresented by students who are politically engaged. And those in [campus politics] are naturally those who are more on the left. That’s not necessarily a problem, that’s the reality of politics.
It’s like saying that Montreal’s cold. We’re not complaining about that. We shouldn’t try making it warmer, we should try to adapt.
You just have to ask the question, how can we amplify the voices of students that are affected by SSMU’s ideas but aren’t engaged in SSMU’s ideas. One of the things I didn’t like about the opposition last year was that they kept talking about consultation and listening to student voices. And the processes they were suggesting would simply be coming to SSMU and contributing your voice. But that’s, again, the same people over and over.
One of the things I’m suggesting is actually having formal engagements with Faculty associations, including Engineering and Science. There [are] obviously Science and Engineering [representatives] that come to SSMU, but they’re still very underrepresented and their voice can’t be as heard. […] We’ve seen [this] with the climate change motion.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. For more information about Alexei Simakov’s platform, visit his Facebook event page.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Céleste Pagniello
Following the resignation of Lola Baraldi as VP Internal of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), a by-election was called to fill the position for the rest of the year. Campaigning began on November 5, and will run until November 15, with the voting period occurring from November 11 to 15. The debate will take place at 6:30 p.m. on November 11. The McGill Daily interviewed the two candidates running for election, Céleste Pagniello and Alexei Simakov.
The McGill Daily (MD): Why are you running for VP Internal?
Céleste Pagniello (CP): After [former VP Internal] Lola [Baraldi] resigned, I was approached by a bunch of people asking if I would be interested. I [had] never thought of it before. […] After I was involved with Frosh this summer, I got to learn about how SSMU operates. I’ve been an executive on the Music Undergraduate Students’ Association [MUSA] for three years now, so I know my way around student politics a little bit. [While] SSMU is something that is fairly new to me, the VP Internal portfolio is not.
MD: What kind of experience are you bringing to the role?
CP: I was a Frosh coordinator for Science Frosh this past summer. I’m also a […] current executive on MUSA and I’ve been VP Communications for two years now, so that involves sending out listservs. I am bilingual, also, and I am a member of SSPN [Students’ Society Programming Network], which is the only committee under the VP Internal.
MD: What do you think is the most important part of the role of VP Internal?
“Even though I’m not from Quebec, I am still a francophone student and I do find that it’s unfortunate how English McGill is.”
CP: I think student engagement is incredibly important, especially because there’s a disconnect between SSMU and the students. Student engagement is in the VP Internal portfolio, but sort of has been lacking in the past few years. So SSMU has these events, but not everybody goes, as evidenced by 4Floors this year, which was not very well-attended, unfortunately. And that ties into communication with the students. The listserv is also incredibly important, and right now students are not interested in reading the listserv, so they’re missing out on tons of information that is super critical.
MD: When you say that people aren’t very interested in the listserv, what are you proposing to change that?
CP: I definitely want to explore new platforms for the listserv, so there’s MailChimp, things like that – just to make it more visually appealing, first of all, because it’s quite boring looking right now. Just make it a little more fun and less super formal – ‘here’s the information’ – so that it’s enjoyable to read. Maybe throw in some puns, things like that.
MD: How will you promote some of the bilingualism initiatives started by the previous VP Internal?
CP: As a bilingual student, French is my first language. Even though I’m not from Quebec, I am still a francophone student and I do find that it’s unfortunate how English McGill is. […] All of SSMU’s social media is done in English. [I’d like] to do that in both languages, first of all.
“SSMU is under a lot of financial problems right now, and I think the way a VP Internal could help toward that is by making a profit on events.”
MD: How will you help mitigate the problems SSMU is facing?
CP: SSMU is under a lot of financial problems right now, and I think the way a VP Internal could help toward that is by making a profit on events, first of all. Something that I want to do is expand Grad Frosh into normal Frosh. That might take a few years, but that’s something that’s definitely feasible.
I know that they’re planning on rearranging the SSMU structure, which was spoken about at SSMU Council [on November 5]. I think just participating in that conversation as someone who has been involved from the outside of SSMU […] gave me a perspective that is different than from candidates that usually run for this position.
MD: Do you see SSMU as a political actor, and how does that view impact your role?
CP: SSMU has definitely made a stance on political aspects before. Unfortunately the views of the SSMU executive and the Council don’t always reflect all of the students, because we do have a very broad student population. People [come] from all kinds of different backgrounds, so they have all kinds of different beliefs.
When SSMU takes one stance versus another, it sometimes excludes students who don’t stand the same way that SSMU does. Not to say that SSMU shouldn’t absolutely make a stance, but I think a greater conversation needs to happen with the student body before SSMU makes a stance. Unfortunately, the attendance at the general assemblies is not enough to get a good chunk of the students’ opinions.
MD: What sort of changes do you want to see in regard to SSMU’s relationship and engagement with its constituents?
“SSMU and its committees, groups, are a very exclusive group, I find. It’s hard to get involved, because the information is not always made accessible.”
CP: SSMU and its committees, groups, are a very exclusive group, I find. It’s hard to get involved, because the information is not always made accessible. Sometimes, applications for committees only go out to certain groups of people. I think everything needs to be sent out to all the students so that there’s a fair opportunity for everyone to apply and get involved.
I really think sending out polls and surveys and having people fill them out would take us one step closer to bridging the gap between SSMU and students.
The VP Internal position has notoriously been sort of inequitable and uninclusive, just because of the nature of the events that are planned. Faculty olympics, Frosh, things like that appeal to one crowd, and I definitely want to broaden that crowd, make everything as inclusive as possible, and make sure that everybody can enjoy themselves.
MD: What kind of culture would you like to see at Frosh, and what are the current problems with Frosh?
CP: Frosh right now is incredible, compared to what it has been in the past, but it can still be a bit better in terms of people not feeling pressured to drink or party too hard. I think another step that needs to continuously be taken […] is the leaders’ and O-Staff’s [Orientation Staff] training. […] Although we train them very well […] every year there are leader bracelets [and] O-Staff bracelets that get cut because people aren’t following the rules.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. For more information about Céleste Pagniello’s platform, visit her Facebook event page.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizers emphasize accessibility, closed discussion spaces
Between November 5 and 8, the Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE) held an event series dedicated to trans issues, titled Trans/Formations. The event series, organized entirely by UGE, was also partially funded by various campus organizations such as Queer McGill (QM), the Institute for Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies (IGSF), and the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) McGill.
Speaking to The Daily, QPIRG-McGill Finance and Administrative Coordinator Kama Maureemootoo, who hosted the keynote event, said, “I think [this] is super important, particularly at McGill. As far as I know, there hasn’t been a full series that is focused specifically on trans issues.”
Maureemootoo noted, “We tend to think about […] the ‘transgender tipping point’ because Laverne Cox had her cover on Time magazine, but we don’t necessarily discuss our everyday realities, what it means to be trans at McGill University, what it means to be trans in Montreal, in Quebec. I think those are conversations that need to happen, and they haven’t been happening in such a large-scale and public way.”
UGE event coordinator Lucie Lastinger told The Daily, “I think trans people don’t get a lot of space to talk about their own issues, or often [are] an add-on to other issues, and tend not to be centered in the discussion.”
The keynote event, titled “A World Without Cages: Reimagining Gender, Abolition, and Resistance,” featured Joshua Allen, an organizer at FIERCE, an organization whose mission is to build “the leadership and power of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) youth of colour in New York City.”
“Militaries from heavily imperialist countries are the ones that have been the biggest perpetrators of all transmisogyny, all kinds of trans violence, all kinds of gendered violence, all across the globe.”
In their talk, Allen addressed issues such as the relationship between marriage and capitalism, as well as leadership in the LGBTQ movement, but focused specifically on how state violence functions in relation to race and the ways in which state violence is perpetrated against gender non-conforming and trans bodies.
“Militaries from heavily imperialist countries are the ones that have been the biggest perpetrators of all transmisogyny, all kinds of trans violence, all kinds of gendered violence, all across the globe,” they stated.
Allen called the fact that trans people and gender non-conforming people are fighting for inclusion in the military “the height of irony,” because “what’s actually happening [is that] by agreeing to be a trans person who’s in the military […] you’re actually going to use your physical body, enact your labour, to perpetuate the same violence that leaves you oppressed wherever you are.”
When asked about the challenges of organizing the series, Lastinger identified ensuring accessibility as a main focus of the organizing committee, stating, “We wanted these events to be accessible to as many people as possible.”
Apart from ensuring wheelchair accessibility, the UGE also provided various resources in order to make the events accessible to more people, such as providing American Sign Language (ASL) and Quebec Sign Language (LSQ) translation and childcare at the keynote event and the panel.
The UGE also strived to make Trans/Formations a financially accessible event series. “If you had to buy a metro ticket or a bus ticket, you can bring your receipt and be refunded for that cost,” said Lastinger.
In addition to panels and workshops open to the general public, the series also included two closed events, the Trans People of Colour (TPOC) Discussion Group and the Closed Non-binary Discussion Group.
Lastinger noted, “Those two workshops [addressed] larger problems within the trans community of being really exclusive to white trans people and not making space for trans people of colour. That’s definitely a problem, and we didn’t want to ever let that happen.”
Speaking to The Daily, one student who attended the TPOC discussion group and wished to remain anonymous, said, “I think having it closed is a way to be like, ‘we’re all people who can talk about these issues, and talk freely,’ and […] it’s not like we’re going to be like ‘you can’t say that,’ on different issues.”
They mentioned that certain spaces can make them feel “uncomfortable” because “I feel like you have to be non-binary enough – that always feels weird.”
“Those two workshops [addressed] larger problems within the trans community of being really exclusive to white trans people and not making space for trans people of colour. That’s definitely a problem, and we didn’t want to ever let that happen.”
Despite this, they said, “I think it’s good to have that [closed] space, especially because there’s not a lot of spaces like that […] at least in Montreal, as far as I know.”
They also broached the problem of conflating identities within the term “people of colour” (POC). “I think it’s [interesting] to do stuff that is so broadly people of colour, when a lot of issues aren’t just about being not white. Like more specific things […] like people [speaking about] violence against trans women of colour, but they’re really referring to Black and Latino women,” they said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councillors discuss affiliation to Quebec student federation
Meeting on November 5, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council discussed the addition of a SSMU executive position and the affiliation to a provincial student federation. Council also passed a motion in support of the creation of a fall reading break, approved a set of clarified internal regulations for the Finance and Operations portfolio, and heard from Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens on mental health initiatives.
Council spent over an hour discussing two provisional proposals from the executive committee to add an executive position to SSMU. Both proposals would involve the separation of the VP Finance and Operations position into two positions – one for each portion of the current portfolio – as well as the elimination of the VP Clubs & Services position and the redistribution of duties among the remaining positions. The first proposal would also create a VP Student Life position, while the second would split the VP University Affairs position into a VP University Relations and a VP Student Affairs.
Executives noted that SSMU has seen significant growth in the executive portfolios since the structure of the executive committee was last modified in 1988. President Kareem Ibrahim argued that most executives are unable to fulfill the entirety of their mandates, despite working between 70 and 85 hours per week.
“Executive burnout is not unique to this year,” Ibrahim said. “There is genuinely not enough time in the work day […] to accomplish all these tasks.”
“If students really want a student association that’s able to do more and really expand its scope, we need more money and resources to back it up.”
VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke noted that most of the portfolio items added in the last ten years went to her portfolio, including the recent addition of mental health. Speaking in favour of the second proposal, she insisted that equity and mental health should stay with the VP or VPs who work most closely with the representation of student interests to the University.
VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik spoke against the second proposal, arguing that it was “setting up the VP Internal to fail” by making them responsible for events as well as clubs and services, which have multiplied “exponentially” over the past 15 years. She noted that the two positions’ responsibilities have similar timelines, and their combination would create an unbearable amount of work in the summer and the fall.
Several councillors raised the possibility of creating new administrative positions or “associate VPs” to help the executives instead of creating a new position. Rourke noted that this would impose training costs and lead to increased bureaucratization.
“You get the most work for your money with executives,” said Rourke, noting however that “if students really want a student association that’s able to do more and really expand its scope, we need more money and resources to back it up.”
In a straw poll taken at the end of the discussion, a plurality of councillors expressed their dissatisfaction with both proposals, though more were in favour of the first than the second. According to Ibrahim, the topic will be discussed again at the General Assembly (GA) today, and any change to the executive structure would eventually go to referendum.
VP External Emily Boytinck updated Council on her involvement in the two burgeoning Quebec student federations, the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ) and the Union étudiante du Québec (UEQ).
Boytinck explained that AVEQ is distinguished from UEQ by its lower proposed fee levy of $3.50 rather than $4.50, an equal vote for all member associations independent of the number of students they represent, and the presence of other anglophone associations as likely members.
“That’s a lot of money we’re giving, but our share of the vote is actually very little.”
Medicine Representative Joshua Chin expressed concern that, due to its large membership, SSMU would be paying more money to AVEQ than other member associations.
“That’s a lot of money we’re giving, but our share of the vote is actually very little,” said Chin.
Boytinck responded that each student should make an equal contribution as a matter of solidarity, since they share in the collective benefit of provincial representation.
“Our students should be paying the same amount as every student across Quebec pays for the exact same service,” said Boytinck, noting that the alternative option of joining UEQ would likely lead to “backroom politics” among the student associations with a greater vote share.
Several councillors spoke to the importance of representing the interests of international students at the provincial level. “While we can lobby McGill about [international tuition deregulation], it’s very much about government regulation,” said Arts Senator Erin Sobat.
Council expressed interest in hearing from representatives from both AVEQ and UEQ before putting a potential affiliation to referendum.
Addressing Council, Dyens detailed several areas for improvement in services to students. On mental health, Dyens suggested doing “more prevention,” merging McGill Mental Health Service and McGill Counselling Service in order to work in a “more holistic way,” assessing students in less stressful ways, and embedding counsellors in faculties. On accessibility, he noted that the Office for Students with Disabilities continues to struggle with budget cuts, and that “physical accessibility at McGill […] sucks, essentially.”
“Physical accessibility at McGill […] sucks, essentially.”
Dyens further noted that “the legalistic culture we have” is not “conducive to good relationships” with student associations, and that students do not feel like they are treated as individuals at McGill. Responding to a question, he added that “there are a lot of places where we could provide lower costs,” such as food and housing, but that this was currently impossible due to budgetary constraints.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS Council discusses VP Finance selection process
On November 4, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council met to discuss the questions that will be asked during the Fall referendum period, which will take place between November 22 and 27.
Councillors also discussed and adopted a motion mandating Arts senators to pursue the approval of a fall reading break at Senate before the end of the 2015-16 academic year.
Arts Senator Erin Sobat brought forward a motion regarding the endorsement of a fall reading break.
Sobat explained that this motion was building upon work done by previous student senators last year, which culminated in a survey conducted by McGill Enrollment Services in April. 5112 students responded to the survey, 71.5 per cent of whom were in favour of a reading break.
A proposal to add two days to the Thanksgiving weekend was brought to the Enrollment and Student Affairs Advisory Committee (ESAAC) on September 8. However, the proposal has not yet been approved.
At Council, Sobat said that there would have to be some trade-offs in terms of the calendar. “There would have to be exams on Saturdays during the December exam period. But that wouldn’t happen every year,” Sobat said.
The motion was passed with a single abstention. Sobat told The Daily that he expected this endorsement to strengthen the student senators’ case for a fall reading break.
“We heard some uncertainty from [professors on] whether or not students were in support of this, which was a bit surprising, considering we had a survey of over 5,000 respondents. So we just thought we’d really spell it out, in addition to everything else […] when we’re building our case,” Sobat said.
The motion to amend the position of Arts Representative to the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) via referendum proposes changes to the AUS Constitution that are expected to clarify the position’s mandate.
One of the core changes to the Constitution includes making Arts Representatives non-voting members of the Executive Committee. Despite becoming members of the committee, however, the Arts Representatives would not be allowed to attend meetings of the committee discussing confidential matters including, but not limited to, matters concerning human resources and legal issues.
Furthermore, according to the proposed changes, even if the Arts Representatives would be considered members of the Executive Committee, they would not be eligible for remuneration through the AUS Work Study Program.
“We’re not trying to change the role in any way. We just feel that it wasn’t exactly clear, when we started the position, what kind of role we were supposed to play.”
In addition, the changes would also require at least one Arts Representative be seated on the AUS Accountability Committee.
Arts Senator Alexander Kpeglo-Hennessy said, “You talk about taking on a more active role, as an Arts Rep, especially with serving as a check and balance of the AUS Executive Committee. There is an issue here though, that A, you can’t vote on anything and B, it’s very easy for four out of six executives to bar you from the meeting, just by saying it’s confidential.”
Speaking on behalf of the three Arts representatives, Arts Representative Lexi Michaud responded, “We do see it as sitting in on [the Executive Committee] to be aware of what’s going on, to make sure we have role in what’s going on. But the vote isn’t something that we feel Arts Reps should have.”
“We’re not trying to change the role in any way. We just feel that it wasn’t exactly clear, when we started the position, what kind of role we were supposed to play,” Michaud continued.
The motion was passed and the proposal will be brought up during the fall referendum period.
A motion to modify the AUS VP Finance screening process via referendum suggested three options, for the fall referendum period.
Presenting the motion to Council, President Jacob Greenspon said that the aim was “ensuring that future AUS VP Finances have some sort of baseline amount of accounting skills and other types of skills required for the position.”
Choosing from the three proposals, Council voted for the one involving a screening committee that would determine whether VP Finance candidates “hold sufficient qualifications for the duties and responsibilities required of the position, as determined by a two-thirds majority vote of a screening committee struck for these purposes.”
Speaking to The Daily, Greenspon said, “AUS finances in the past have been bad, but they also have been good. […] What we’ve found is that really when there’s someone in the position that has the proper skills and has the proper background […] the finances can be run very, very well by an Arts student.”
The other proposed referendum questions discussed at Council included a fee renewal question for the Arts Undergraduate Theatre Society (AUTS), another one for the Arts Undergraduate Improvement Fund (AUIF), and a constitutional change that would synchronize AUS’s fiscal year with its operating year.
Each of these questions was approved.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
