The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Activists criticize social control applications of surveillance
On August 3, campus direct action group Demilitarize McGill released a set of access to information (ATI) documents pertaining to the research done by Derek Ruths, an associate professor at the McGill School of Computer Science and the supervisor of the Network Dynamics Lab.
According to its website, the Network Dynamics Lab does research on measuring and predicting large-scale human behaviour. The lab receives up to $85,100 in funding from the federal government as part of the Kanishka Project Contribution Program, a multi-year investment in terrorism-focused research, to study “a system for measuring population response to a crisis in online social networks.”
Demilitarize McGill pointed to two particular sets of slides that have been released as part of the ATI documents. The slides, which Ruths has presented to Public Safety Canada (PSC) include the Montreal student protests of 2012 as an example of “uncoordinated mobilization.”
Demilitarize McGill alleges that Ruths’ research could be used by police and intelligence agencies not only to surveil social movements, but also to control them.
“The thing about Ruths’ research is that it’s not peer surveillance. We know that peer surveillance is already happening, we know the stories about the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP)] creating fake Facebook profiles and following activists, and we know that activist spaces get regularly infiltrated,” Mona Luxion, a PhD candidate in the School of Urban Planning and an organizer with Demilitarize McGill, told The Daily.
“What’s interesting and concerning about Ruths’ research is that it’s pushing the boundaries of what you can do with the surveillance and with that data.”
“What’s interesting and concerning about Ruths’ research is that it’s pushing the boundaries of what you can do with the surveillance and with that data,” continued Luxion. “Ideally, this work is not just about understanding people’s responses, but also about how the government can influence those responses by intervening in those social networks – especially virtual social networks, but also the real-world social networks that they represent.”
In an interview with The Daily, Ruths admitted that his research, which attempts to model and infer people’s characteristics based on their social media activity, could be used in ways other than originally intended.
“I fully acknowledge that there are nefarious actors out there, who could pick up and use this technology. […] You know, bad guys are going to do this. Bad guys, whether they be badly intentioned police officers, or government officials, or just bad governments… They’re just going to do this. The technology is fairly out there,” Ruths said.
“What I think is really important about this work is that it happens in the open. We are as transparent as you can get,” he continued.
Ruths also characterized the allegations made by Demilitarize McGill as “ridiculous.”
“There is nothing that I have provided [to the PSC] that is actually usable. I haven’t given them software, I haven’t actually conducted detailed analysis, there is no person that I’ve been in contact [with] who is in any way capable of picking up the systems in the form that I’ve built them and using them for this purpose,” he explained.
According to Luxion, however, “The point here […] is not only about what the researcher’s intent is with any one particular project, but the way in which that fits into broader trends and the potential applications once that technology or knowledge is available.”
“The police do not act as a neutral or quasi-neutral force in society.”
“The point is, academic research is to disseminate and add to knowledge and, to some extent, the point of governments is to consolidate that knowledge and implement it through policy and action,” Luxion continued.
Nevertheless, Ruths maintains that his research aims to help law enforcement engage with social movements in a constructive way, by making them understand the reasons why people engage in direct action.
Montreal-based community organizer Jaggi Singh said Ruths’ response was an example of “an astounding naivete about the police and how they operate.”
“If you believe the police are a neutral force within society that somehow [navigate] neutrally between governments and corporations and military and social movements, then that might make some sense. But that, of course, is not the reality. The police do not act as a neutral or quasi-neutral force in society,” Singh told The Daily.
“Unfortunately, it’s a naive point of view you often get [in] academia, where people, because they are within the framework of an academic setting, feel like they can make some sort of proclamation towards neutrality or objectivity.”
According to Brenda McPhail, the Privacy, Surveillance, and Technology Project Director at the Canadian Civil Liberties Association (CCLA), there is a major difference between monitoring a social movement and controlling it.
“Any effort to control citizens, preventing them from exercising their Charter-protected rights, I think, is profoundly troubling. That doesn’t seem to have a place in a Canadian society that believes in democratic process, that believes in the right to dissent, that believes in the value of free expression,” McPhail told The Daily.
Singh emphasized that surveillance is a widespread issue. “Already we know that the police and army are part of an apparatus [that is] involved in surveillance – that already exists,” Singh said, adding that the criticism of the Network Dynamics Lab’s work shouldn’t distract from existing repressive surveillance.
“Knowledge is power and knowing how these things work can be used for either good or ill.”
“There are already clear structural ways in which this level of surveillance and repression operates within our society and, unfortunately, it’s widely accepted.”
McPhail believes that “knowledge is power and knowing how these things work can be used for either good or ill. I think that it is problematic if the purpose of the research is to provide tactics for law enforcement or surveillance intelligence bodies to exercise social control.”
For Luxion, law enforcement’s interest in Ruths’ research represents “a desire to co-opt movements, [and] direct people’s thinking without ever having to get into physical altercations.”
“Being transparent about what it is you’re doing doesn’t eliminate that risk [of co-option],” said Luxion.
“Is it ethical to do research that you know will have that result of enhancing states’ capabilities to repress movements? It’s not just the states that you agree with. At some point, that capacity is available to anyone regardless of who is in power, regardless of what the government is.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Former Dean of Arts Christopher Manfredi chats with The Daily
On August 26, McGill’s new Provost and Vice-President (VP) Academic Christopher Manfredi sat down with The Daily to talk about his new position, McGill’s budget, and dealing with the troubles caused by provincial budget cuts.
The McGill Daily (MD): Provost Christopher Manfredi, you held the position of Dean of Arts last year and for a while before that. As provost, what is your vision for the position?
Christopher Manfredi (CM): So you are right, I was Dean of Arts for nine years, from 2006 until I took this job. That was a very rewarding position. […] I want the provost – the office of the Provost and the VP Academic – to be really integrated into the community, be connected with the community, in a really full way. I am at heart a university professor and a researcher, who just happens to have a set of administrative responsibilities. So I want to maintain the office’s close connection to the community and make sure that it’s really integrated into everything that the University does.
MD: How much more do you think the Provost position is, compared with your previous position as the Dean of Arts?
“I want the provost – the office of the Provost and the VP Academic – to be really integrated into the community, be connected with the community, in a really full way.”
CS: One of the challenges, of course, is that, although I’ve been at McGill for over a quarter of a century – and I’ve had some senior administrative roles – as provost […] I’m going to have to learn more about the different parts of the university than I had to as Dean of Arts. That will be a challenge, there will be a bit of a learning curve. […] Obviously, it’s a bigger job. Volume of work will be higher.
MD: One of the most important portfolios of the Provost is managing the budget. That said, do you have any specific plans for the budget right now? What are some of your priorities in terms of directing McGill’s funds?
CM: We have a budget already set for [the 2016 fiscal year] by [ex-Provost Anthony] Masi, approved by the Board [of Governors], which we’ll follow through on. There’s also a five-year plan, which we will adjust incrementally as we see what’s happening on the government side. […] And this year we’ll be engaging in a lot of consultations with the community, with the deans, with students, with the rest of the university community.
One of the things I think Provost Masi did extremely well was keeping open the lines of communication around the budget and particularly being very transparent about how our budget is constructed. […] And that’s something I hope to be able to continue, to make sure […] that we continue to let the community know very well what’s going on with respect to the budget.
MD: Provost Masi would go to various student council meetings and Senate and talk about the budget.
CM: Yeah, so I plan on doing that too. I did that as dean. One of the things [I] asked the staff to set up when I was Dean of Arts – I used to hold regular office hours in the lounge, the Arts Student Lounge, in the basement of the Leacock Building. So I’ve actually asked my staff to do that this year, of course, at a bigger scale, at the SSMU building. See if I can spend an hour once a month, […] for students to come and drop in and talk to me. So that’s something I’d like to do this year.
MD: I want to talk more about the budget, because that’s a very big issue, considering the provincial budget cuts. Are there any updates?
“We’ve got another $70 to $73 million in cuts for this year that the government has announced.”
CM: Well, I hope we’re getting to the bottom of the trough of budget cuts. We’ve got another $70 to $73 million in cuts for this year that the government has announced. Fortunately, they haven’t given us any news that it is going to be higher than that. So that’s good news for us.
You know, Quebec’s fiscal situation is difficult. There is a government policy trying to get back to a balanced budget and all sectors of Quebec society are being asked to do their part: the health sector, the educational sector, and so on. So we can expect, you know, not having a whole lot of injections of new money from the province, at least.
What McGill would like to see is some flexibility with respect to how we build our budget. And one of the things I’ve been surprised by, in the two months I’ve been here, is not so much about the cuts or the budget, but the kind of erratic nature of how the government informs the University of our budget, the rules being changed in the middle of the game, and so on and so forth; that makes planning very difficult.
MD: Even though the University has been asking for more flexibility, it hasn’t really taken a stance against the budget cuts imposed by the provincial government. So, do you think it would be within your vision for the position, or rather, within your purview to maybe lobby the Senate or the Board of Governors to take an explicit stand against the austerity measures?
CM: Well, I think that’s a question for the principal, [Suzanne Fortier]. I mean, she’s the one who’s the most responsible for our relationship with the provincial government. So I think that’s her decision as to how we develop that relationship.
MD: Still, as a professor of political science yourself, and as a person who has a lot of control over McGill’s budget, I am wondering if you would like to talk about your opinions on this.
CM: Well, certainly, we’d welcome a re-investment into education by the government of Quebec. We’d welcome greater flexibility with respect to how we develop our budget. And I think that those are the things we’ve been working on in terms of our relationship with the government.
“On the course cuts, what we actually did was – those were sort of expenditure neutral cuts.”
MD: There are many side effects of the budget cuts on McGill and some of the most ostensible ones […] have been on the Faculty of Arts. There were the course cuts, which got a massive reaction from students. There’s a general feeling amongst students that courses within certain disciplines, such as those in the humanities, are the first to get cut. How would you respond to this?
CM: First of all, on the course cuts, what we actually did was – those were sort of expenditure neutral cuts. The idea was to try to find efficiencies with respect to how we delivered courses, so we could free up money to increase the amounts we could provide for teaching assistantships (TAs). That’s what we did. We in fact were able to increase our TA budget in the Faculty of Arts by somewhere between 10 and 15 per cent. So, what we want to do is to find the best way to reallocate resources from one area to another, because, you know, it’s a bit of a zero-sum. If you want to do more of X, you have to do less of Y. And thatís the choice that I had to make as dean, and that’s the choice that we took.
If you actually look at where professors were hired in the Faculty of Arts, […] you’ll actually find that the percentage of professors in the Humanities disciplines have actually increased at a faster rate than the proportion of professors at the social sciences discipline.
“With respect to principal, former principal, Munroe-Blum, I think she was provided with […] what she was permitted to get under her contract.”
I guess I wouldn’t agree with the idea that courses are getting cut in the humanities more than they were in the social sciences. And, in fact, one of the things we were very careful about was maintaining our ability about delivering language courses. Because those are critical to our humanities disciplines. And those are the ones that tend to have fairly, relatively small courses, because they have to be taught in small sections. So I think we did a pretty good job in protecting that, and we made a significant re-investment in our languages, literatures, and cultures area, with new tenure track faculty and protecting graduate funding and our ability to deliver courses in that area.
MD: I’d also like to ask you about certain allegations surfaced over the summer. It is alleged that former principal, Heather Munroe-Blum, received a full-year’s salary for two years after leaving McGill. In addition, the Montreal Gazette recently reported that McGill has been raising executive salaries in a manner that could be deemed illegal under Quebecís Bill 100. How would you respond to these allegations?
CM: Yeah, so I think, with respect to principal, former principal, Munroe-Blum, I think she was provided with what her contract – what she was permitted to get under her contract. On the other issue, I think the best person to talk about that is [Vice-Principal (Communications and External Relations) Olivier Marcil], who has been working on that field.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU mandated by resolution to remove commercial tenant activity
Following extensive renovations, the privately owned Bocadillo has been pushed out to make way for a new student-run food service, which opened August 24. Together with the Nest, the new food service will make up the student-run cafeteria (SRC) on the second floor of the Shatner Building.
The new food operation will serve salads, soups, pizza, burgers, french fries, sandwiches and more. Burgers and sandwiches cost between $6.75 and $8.50, depending on the toppings, while soup and salads run in the $3 to $4 range. Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP Finance and Operation Zacheriah Houston explained that the food will be affordable, underscoring that the mission of the SRC is “to provide high-quality meals at an affordable price.” However, McGill meal plans are not accepted.
The decision for a new student-run food service follows a mandate set out by a motion passed at SSMU Council in March. Confidentially discussed, the motion resolved that “the SSMU remove all commercial tenant activity in the University Centre,” in an effort to “prioritize student endeavours above any other taken up in the SSMU space.”
At the moment, however, the extent to which this motion will be implemented is unclear. SSMU VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik explained to The Daily that “the motion had no established timeline outlined when it was originally passed,” and that “any plans for logistics or implementation would also need to be reviewed and discussed by Council prior to making any decisions.”
With regards to commercial activity in the Shatner Building and the corporatization of campus in general, Bialik said she would not be able to comment at this time.
Houston argued that the new initiative has both positive and negative financial consequences. In an email to The Daily, Houston explained, “The removal of the second-floor commercial tenants had an unfavourable impact on the building budget, as it resulted in decreased revenue. In February, ‘business rent’ was budgeted for $216,000 in revenue. Now, in the July revision of the 2015-16 budget, it is budgeted for only $145,000 in revenue.” Still, Houston believes that the decrease can be offset by revenue generated from the new food operation, which is budgeted to earn a profit of $64,000.
“It allows us to be a more tight-knit community, it allows us to give things to students, allows us to improve.”
Edward McCrady, a cashier among the approximately 35 staff members which include Gerts kitchen staff, welcomed another student-run food initiative on campus. “It allows us to be a more tight-knit community, it allows us to give things to students, allows us to improve,” McCrady told The Daily.
On implementing the SSMU Council resolution and removing the remaining commercial tenants, McCready argued that “as long as they’re good business, I wouldn’t say anything about having them removed. As long as they’re making money for SSMU and McGill, and being successful businesses that provide students with healthy options and cheap options, that’s good.”
According to information from a presentation to Council by last year’s VP Finance and Operations Kathleen Bradley, commercial tenants account for approximately 86 per cent of annual sales in the building. Now that Bocadillo and Bamboo Bowl have left the Shatner Building, La Prep (approximately 55 per cent of annual sales) and Liquid Nutrition (approximately 8 per cent of all sales) are the only commercial tenants left, excluding the vending machines.
Jonathan Taylor, the owner of Liquid Nutrition, when asked about the place of private commercial activity in student-run spaces, said, “Franchises like ours have a lot to offer. […] I think it would be a shame if we [were] pushed out.”
“At the end of the day, people like diversity. […] If you force something on somebody, you’re going to end up with a pretty empty building […]; that’s my gut feeling,” Taylor said.
Taylor would like to renew Liquid Nutrition’s lease, which expires in June 2016, but has yet to begin negotiations with the incoming SSMU executive. La Prep’s lease is also set to expire in June.
For now, the future of the SRC remains unclear. Given that the renovation of the second floor of the Shatner building “required a significant capital investment,” Houston “would like the SRC to remain for the foreseeable future.”
Houston noted that ultimately, “as is the case with all other SSMU projects, the future of the SRC is still contingent upon positive feedback from students and the financial feasibility of the cafe.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Former principal paid for two years after leaving position
Correction appended, September 1.
On July 27, Quebec’s Ministry of Education announced that McGill’s funding may be further cut for violating provincial Bill 100, which restricts the way in which pay raises can be given in order to combat provincial debt.
According to Bill 100, “no bonus, allowance, premium, compensation or other additional remuneration based on personal performance for either of the fiscal years beginning in 2010 and 2011, may be granted to […] a senior executive or the management personnel in the education network or a university.”
According to the Montreal Gazette, Julie White, spokesperson for Education Minister François Blais, believes that the performance-based bonuses provided to McGill administrative staff in the last five years may have been illegal.
In addition, this June, the Journal de Montréal reported that McGill’s former principal Heather Munroe-Blum allegedly received two years’ worth of paychecks – amounting to more than $750,000 – from McGill after leaving the university in 2013, while being a member of McGill’s faculty on leave, but doing research at Stanford University. Munroe-Blum’s term at McGill was marked by student strikes against an attempted tuition hike and the exacerbation of an already tense relationship between students and administration.
Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE), one of the campus unions, has found both of these allegations concerning, especially as McGill continues to face unprecedented budget cuts as part of the provincial austerity measures.
“It’s sad that the Quebec government, which has a reputation as being one of the most corrupt in Canada, has to be the one to call the McGill administration out on its illegal pay raises,” Molly Swain, president of AMUSE, told The Daily.
Swain further explained that it would be concerning for AMUSE, if the allegations about McGill’s decision to continue paying Munroe-Blum for two extra years were true, despite the mass cancellation of Arts courses in the 2013-14 academic year and other austerity measures.
In an email to The Daily, McGill’s Director of Internal Communications, Doug Sweet, responded to the allegations regarding Bill 100 and Munroe-Blum’s post-employment salary. Sweet stated that the administration believes it “[has] been following Bill 100 directives. In a recent meeting with the government, we realized we are using different definitions of terms and therefore more clarification is needed by both parties.”
Regarding Munroe-Blum’s continued pay, Sweet said, “It is normal practice for a senior academic administrator to earn a one-year leave following a five-year term in office. Additionally, faculty members are eligible for the academic retirement program, to which the Principal Emeritus was entitled.”
“In the current economic system, a decent wage is one of the few things that shows an employer’s respect for workers, and the low wages support staff receive show a serious lack of respect from the administration.”
According to Swain, McGill has a history of poor treatment of its faculty and support staff. “[McGill] is, and always has been, a factory for the elite – and the administration [is] very proud of this,” Swain explained.
As an example, Swain pointed to the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA)’s strike in 2011. Notably, during the strike, McGill filed two injunctions against MUNACA, which restricted the union’s picketing ability on campus and around senior administrators’ houses. In addition, there were reports of scab labour – workers going to work despite the strike – though the university was cleared of all charges.
“The administration dismisses, downplays, and ridicules those who try to change things. In the current economic system, a decent wage is one of the few things that shows an employer’s respect for workers, and the low wages support staff receive show a serious lack of respect from the administration,” Swain explained.
According to AMUSE, many of its union members, especially students in the work-study program, are paid at or barely above the provincial minimum wage of $10.55 per hour, which the union does not consider a living wage in 2015.
AMUSE is also part of the 15 and Fair McGill campaign, which calls for a $15 per hour minimum wage on campus. Other unions that are participating in the campaign are the Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE), McGill’s teaching assistants’ and invigilators’ union AGSEM, McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union (MCLIU), and MUNACA. In addition, the campaign is supported by the McGill Chapter of the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG).
One way by which the McGill administration has implemented provincial austerity measures is the institution of a hiring freeze on non-casual positions. According to 15 and Fair McGill’s website, this means that “full-time employees with benefits are slowly being replaced with casual employees with unpredictable hours and little job security.” The effects of these measures are especially drastic for students, coupled with their low wages and student debt, and dramatically decrease the accessibility of education for students in the work-study program.
Swain explained the two options McGill has: “Either the administration must suddenly realize that their pay system is flawed and change it on their own, or we, the workers and support staff who really make the university run, must try to change things and work for a more ethical and fair pay system.”
An earlier version of this article incorrectly suggested that former Principal Heather Munroe-Blum was paid a salary by Stanford University. In fact, she was a member of McGill’s faculty on leave while doing a research fellowship at Stanford. The Daily regrets the error.

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Headlines from the summer
As always, the summer has been full of action in Montreal and at McGill. The city witnessed unions launching their new campaigns, police cracking down on protests, a petition to fight the patriarchy, and we even saw a scandal regarding the McGill Faculty of Medicine. If you weren’t paying attention over the summer, now is your chance to catch up on the news.
On July 24, approximately twenty demonstrators gathered at Roddick Gates to show support for the Unist’ot’en Camp in British Columbia. The camp is located in unceded Wet’suwet’en territories, which are currently endangered by 11 different pipeline proposals, including Chevron’s Pacific Trails Pipeline project.
An organizer who wished to remain anonymous explained that the Unist’ot’en have been practicing “free prior and informed consent protocols.” This method entails asking potential visitors about their intention when they access the territory. “If [the visitors] are not approved by the hereditary chiefs, then they’re not allowed on the territory,” stated the organizer, adding, “[the Unist’ot’en have] made it very clear that […] Chevron is not allowed in the territory and the RCMP [Royal Canadian Mounted Police], who is just acting to enforce this capitalist agenda, is not allowed on their territory either.” The Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) responded to the protest with several arrests and tickets.
On August 26, the members of the camp announced on their Facebook page that they were “on high alert and if [their families didn’t] hear back from [them] in 24 hours, it means [they were] unable to get word out” about their situation. They later made other posts about increased police activity around the territories.
Over the summer, McGill’s undergraduate medicine program was placed on probation by the Committee on the Accreditation of Canadian Medical Schools and the Liaison Committee on Medical Education. The announcement came in the form of a letter, dated June 15 and addressed to McGill’s Principal Suzanne Fortier. While the letter expressed that “probation is an action reflecting the summative judgment that a medical education program is not in substantial compliance with accreditation standards,” McGill’s undergraduate medicine program has not lost its accreditation. Amongst reasons cited for the probation was inadequate instruction in women’s health and family and domestic violence. The faculty has until 2017 to address the issues mentioned in the letter in order for the program to be taken off probation, and it has already begun to do so.
On May 1, McGill’s Inter-Union Council (IUC) organized a rally at Community Square in front of the James Administration building to celebrate International Workers’ Day and to stand in solidarity with the university’s academic and non-academic workers. Following the rally, which included speeches by community members, the organizers of the rally delivered a letter to the University, signed by the event’s participants. The letter condemned many of the University’s policy decisions in response to the provincial budget cuts.
McGill worker Agatha Slupek, speaking on behalf of the IUC, announced that unions at McGill would be joining their “comrades in the fast food and retail industries [in calling] for a $15 campus-wide minimum wage.” As the collective agreements of most unions, such as the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), are about to expire, it is expected that the campaign will affect the re-negotiation processes.
Earlier this spring, a petition was launched demanding that the Quebec government make it mandatory for alcohol bottles to have the slogan “alcohol does not equal consent” written on them, as well as for establishments with alcohol permits to display the same slogan at their bars and restrooms. According to Kharoll-Ann Souffrant, one of the people behind the petition and a social work student at McGill, the petition sought to make the message visible and create awareness about the issue of sexual assault. Mélanie Lemay, an administrator at the Centre d’aide et de lutte contre les agressions à caractère sexuel (CALACS) Agression Estrie, the first step to fight rape culture is admitting that it exists. “That’s the biggest test, and most people don’t do it, because it’s hard to believe that actually everything’s made up so that women [are not even the owners of their own bodies],” Lemay told The Daily.
By the petition’s deadline on July 24, 574 people had signed the online petition; however, the organizers claimed that the total number exceeds 1,000 if paper versions of the petition are included.
The Front d’action populaire en réaménagement urbain (FRAPRU), an affordable housing group, took to the streets on May 21 to denounce the limited funding for social housing from the federal and provincial governments and protest housing inaccessibility. Several hundred demonstrators joined the march in downtown Montreal.
Around 2:30 p.m., the congregation arrived at the Quartier des spectacles, where approximately sixty campers from Montreal and surrounding regions who were either facing housing difficulties or were tenants of social housing intended to stay in tents.
At approximately 4 p.m., the SPVM intervened, making three arrests and seizing some of the protesters’ tents. Eventually, police surrounded the camp from multiple directions and by 5 p.m. had dismantled the protest.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
