The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New socialism will be better, more capable, Miguel Figueroa says
Miguel Figueroa has been leading Canada’s Communist Party since 1992 and fighting for socialism in Canada for over 40 years. In the upcoming 2015 federal election, Figueroa is running in the Ontario riding of Davenport. The Daily interviewed Figueroa while he was in Montreal to campaign.
The McGill Daily (MD): Could you talk a bit about your party, your program, and how it’s different from other parties?
Miguel Figueroa (MF): The main point of departure is that we consider the crisis situation of capitalism, not only in Canada, but internationally. […] The Harper Conservatives are probably the most reactionary, pro-war, misogynist, anti-Aboriginal government in Canadian history, so obviously there needs to be an alternative. But the alternatives that are being offered are really quite feeble and tepid, and all within a narrow box of neoliberal economic dogma – the primacy of the market, the idea that business is what creates employment.
We’re the only party in this election campaign that’s talking about the ‘s word,’ about socialism. […] Even the Greens, with respect to transitioning our economic model toward a greener economy, are within the context of finding market-based solutions to this problem, basically upholding the status quo.
Canada’s fundamental transition to a greener economy will involve massive investments in renewable energy and transportation systems to move toward high-speed rail and other forms of massive transit. […] All of these things can only be done, first of all, if the Canadian people own, control, and develop our energy resources socially, as opposed to [these resources] being developed by the private oil monopolies. Secondly, we’ll need that wealth [from nationalizing energy] in order to finance that kind of significant transition in our economy. […] So we call for nationalizing energy.
“The Harper Conservatives are probably the most reactionary, pro-war, misogynist, anti-Aboriginal government in Canadian history, so obviously there needs to be an alternative.”
MD: How do you see the way to move forward in this kind of direction in Canada? What do you see as the best way to put these issues back into public consciousness?
MF: Even one communist in Parliament would change that institution – we could raise things in Parliament that right now aren’t being discussed at all. […] The corporate-run media virtually blacks us out, so it’s very tough, but what we’re finding is that where we do reach people, people have the sense that the system is in crisis and the problems are systemic. People are really searching for alternatives, perhaps more than they have been in a long time.
MD: What is your vision for a socialist or communist Canada? How do you envision it as different from those experiments that might not have been successful in the past?
MF: If you measure capitalism today by its early days, when there was the slave trade, child labour – well, that’s not capitalism today, that was a long time ago. […] But for socialism, that’s [usually] the end of the debate – tried it once, didn’t work. […] The next wave of socialism will be rather different from the earliest experiences, for no other reason than we’ve learned a lot of lessons about the importance, for instance, of working people truly having control and a sense of ownership over the building of a new society. It shouldn’t be built on their behalf, passively.
“The next wave of socialism will be rather different from the earliest experiences.”
MD: What is your party’s position on Canada’s role in colonialism, for instance, as it relates to the occupation of Palestine?
MF: In general, it’s a shameful role that Canada’s playing internationally, a very aggressive, pro-imperialist role. […] We’re the only party in this election campaign that says that Canada should get out of [the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)]. […] We call for a truly independent foreign policy based on peace and disarmament.
Our party unreservedly supports and is in solidarity with the struggle of the Palestinian people for their right of self-determination, and for the right to have a viable independent state and an end to the occupation, tearing down the wall, ending the seizure of Gaza, the release of political prisoners.
MD: What about Canada’s relationship with Indigenous communities here, on whose lands it’s built?
MF: The Truth and Reconciliation Commission report says that the [Canadian government’s] policy against the Aboriginal peoples constitutes cultural genocide, and yet our government won’t even recognize that, much less implement the 94 recommendations that the commission proposed. That’s outrageous, so we’re also obviously in solidarity with the struggles of Aboriginal peoples, for the just resolution of their outstanding land claims, for their right to self-determination in the sense that they should be recognized as nations within Canada in the constitution – and so should Quebec and the Acadian peoples.
“In general, it’s a shameful role that Canada’s playing internationally, a very aggressive, pro-imperialist role.”
MD: Earlier, you mentioned democracy, mass participation in the building of a new society and worker participation [in its building]. This is something that goes deeper than just electoral democracy, so what kind of work does your party do between elections and what can other people do to create those conditions today?
MF: We don’t believe in coups or conspiracies, we think that socialism will only come when the majority want it to come and are prepared to act to bring it about. […] We think it’s likely that there will be a convergence of social forces and political forces into a kind of people’s coalition, including the Communist Party, but other left forces as well. For us, the battle of real social change is the battle of ideas, and getting working people particularly to start becoming conscious of their place in society.
MD: Is there something you’d like to say to us specifically as university students? What is our role in this broader struggle?
MF: You have your whole future ahead of you, and it’s a future that is pretty bloody bleak. The cost of housing has exploded, the cost of getting an education, it’s completely out of control. If anybody should be voting en masse it should be young people, because you have the most at stake. I think it’s really important for students to be conscious about what their interests are, but then to go out and express it everywhere: at the polls, but also in your communities, on your campuses, and in social struggles.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.

Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
New directorship transitions service to an “autonomy-based model”
Correction appended on October 16.
McGill Mental Health Service (MMHS), formed fifty years ago, treated over 3,500 student patients last year. According to a 2005 review of MMHS, its primary mandate is “to provide easily accessible, high quality clinical services to the McGill student body.” But in recent years, spikes in student use of MMHS and stagnating numbers of staff have posed a challenge to MMHS in terms of both accessibility and quality.
In August 2014, Nancy Low, a psychiatrist at MMHS, became the clinical director, working alongside associate director Giuseppe Alfonsi, a clinical psychologist.
Low and Alfonsi are moving MMHS toward an “autonomy-based” model of mental health services provision. “In practice that means that the majority of the choices with regards to students should remain with the student […] and the psychologist or psychotherapist is only there really as a facilitator, as a guide,” explained Low in an interview with The Daily.
Each year, more students are accessing MMHS in greater numbers. “If our demand has seen an increase of 30 per cent in the last five years, definitely our staff and resources haven’t increased as a result of that,” Low explained.
“If our demand has seen an increase of 30 per cent in the last five years, definitely our staff and resources haven’t increased as a result of that.”
“Even when we have funding we don’t have the space,” added Alfonsi.
During the last academic year, the University decided to eliminate a $112,000 transfer to the Student Services budget, which was already reduced from $443,905 in 2009-10.
In a Post-graduate Society of McGill University (PGSS) Council meeting on May 20, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens had expressed that the University did not want to “create unsustainable expectations.”
“There is a limit to how much healthcare services we can provide – we are not a hospital,” Dyens had said.
Notwithstanding the apparent funding and resource problems, however, students have criticized MMHS regarding staff-student interactions.
One student began therapy at MMHS after being sexually assaulted by a fellow student. “I ended up internalizing a lot of victim blaming ideology,” they said. “My therapist asked me what I was wearing, why I didn’t scream, why I let this person assault me.”
“I was in an intensely vulnerable position, seeking help after trauma, and not only did I not receive that help, but [MMHS] inflicted a lot of emotional harm that I am still dealing with today,” they continued.
“I was in an intensely vulnerable position, seeking help after trauma, and not only did I not receive that help, but [MMHS] inflicted a lot of emotional harm that I am still dealing with today.”
Alfonsi explained that clinical directors cannot directly fire a staff member, but rather are asked to try to mediate relations with the client or reassign the staff member to different tasks. “Cases where we would really be talking about termination would be gross negligence, [or] inappropriate behaviour with students,” Alfonsi continued.
Out of the six students to which The Daily spoke, none had filed complaints about their negative experiences with MMHS. When asked, they all expressed that they did not know how to file a complaint. This year, Alfonsi and Low have created an online feedback form to encourage students to share their complaints or praise.
Lucie Lastinger, a U2 Women’s Studies and Anthropology student, also accessed MMHS after being sexually assaulted. They explained that, because their assailant was a man, “from the get-go, this therapist was telling me that I really should not be seeing a [therapist who is a man …], which is pretty fifties kind of thinking,” Lastinger said.
Lastinger said that despite their insistence that they felt comfortable with the patient-therapist relationship, Lastiger’s therapist eventually insisted on referring them to another colleague, who is a woman.
“Some of the staff are older and so they didn’t get training more recently, so they’re not necessarily completely fluent and competent in the most modern psychotherapies,” explained Low. Under Low and Alfonsi’s new model, therapists are being trained in groups alongside students with lived experience.
“It’s interesting to have a psychiatrist sitting next to a 24-year-old psych undergrad, and have an open conversation about the nature of how to treat mental health,” Alfonsi commented.
“Some of the staff are older and so they didn’t get training more recently, so they’re not necessarily completely fluent and competent in the most modern psychotherapies.”
Another student, who wished to remain anonymous, told The Daily that she spent five months on the MMHS waiting list and contacted the office four times before receiving an appointment.
Low explained that the long waiting list leads to a catch-22. “Once [a student is] in this clinic […] they want to stay for a long time, because they feel like if they exit, that they won’t be able to be seen again,” noted Low.
Low and Alfonsi envision more peer support groups and group therapy to lessen the demand for one-on-one therapy. “If we change our model to have a breadth of what students will come in for, that will help us a lot,” said Low. “Because maybe one student needs sixty hours, and maybe one student needs ten, fifteen minutes.”
Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke expressed her adamant support for developing a breadth of wellness projects, and argued that investing in clinical staff is an unsustainable option.
Speaking at the Students in Mind panel on October 11 Rourke commented on the University’s efforts. “It’s been a long time that students have been filling the gap that the University has provided, and in my opinion that’s a really great thing to see […] but the University simultaneously can be providing more support,” Rourke said.
Low explained that the high demand “causes [staff] to feel more hurried in their treatments of people.” As a result, students feel like their therapy is rushed, their experiences are trivialized, and their conditions are being misdiagnosed, Low explained.
Many students are shocked by the brevity and brusqueness of their initial consultation at MMHS, where a professional quickly determines the severity of their situation.
Nancy Heath, a professor in the Department of Educational and Counselling Psychology, shed light on the stresses that triage (a process by which a therapist quickly identifies the ailment of the patient) places on staff. “You’ve gone into a field in order to help students, you’re very dedicated to it, and suddenly you’re swamped,” explained Heath.
“If we change our model to have a breadth of what students will come in for, that will help us a lot.”
“The procedure that you follow at any university, hospital, community mental health service is triage. [… The professional] feels very stressed by this experience, so what happens then is that the interaction deteriorates in the sense that the student is astonished that this breakthrough for them is being responded to in such a cavalier manner.”
Alfonsi, however, insisted that “even with this demand, everybody should be getting a reasonably good quality of therapy.”
“The wait list is not acceptable to us. I don’t know if we’ll ever beat it, but we’re not ever going to say to ourselves ‘oh, it’s okay that we have a wait list,’” he continued.
With numerous criticisms of MMHS being inaccessible and providing sub-par care, Low and Alfonsi expressed that they are working to optimize their limited resources and change the face of MMHS.
“We have a culture in place of the powerful, strong psychiatrist, and the passive student,” said Alfonsi. “The whole narrative is broken. First of all, because we don’t have the resources to fulfil that narrative, but then on top of that it’s not the best way to be delivering mental health care,” he added.
The article “Students dissatisfied with  McGill Mental Health Service” (October 15, News, page 3) incorrectly implied that Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke felt that investing in clinical staff is far more important than a breadth of wellness projects. In fact, Rourke adamantly supports developing a breadth of wellness projects and believes that investing in clinical staff is not a sustainable option. The article also failed to contextualize Rourke’s quote. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Green Party unequivocally against pipelines and tar sands
On October 10, hundreds of people marched through downtown Montreal to protest the Energy East and Line 9B pipelines. The demonstration was organized by the Étudiant(e)s contre les oléoducs (ÉCO), and as such, most of the participants were students, including a contingent from the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU). Also present were supporters of the Green Party of Canada, including the party’s leader, Elizabeth May.
The Daily spoke with May on the street as the demonstrators marched and chanted against environmental degradation and pipeline projects.
The McGill Daily (MD): Why are you here today?
Elizabeth May (EM): I am the leader of the only party in Canada that opposes every pipeline and [that] has candidates running in every province. To show support and solidarity with the movement here in Quebec, I was thrilled that I was able to organize my schedule to be here.
MD: From what I can understand and what I can see, this is more than just about the environment. Could you talk a bit in regards to that?
EM: I don’t think there is anything more important than dealing with climate change, and every single pipeline would result in an expansion of the [tar] sands [in Alberta] and increased greenhouse gases from Canada. But there are other reasons. […] There is the risk of spills all along the route. We know that bitumen mixed with diluent is impossible to clean up. We didn’t know that from studies, we found out from the first big accident when Enbridge pumped bitumen and diluent into the Kalamazoo river. And that was years ago – now, they still haven’t cleaned it up. […] So there is that risk, but there is also of course economic [problems]. […] The whole point of every pipeline currently being proposed is to ship bitumen to refineries in other countries. […] It ships jobs out of Canada, and works against the goal of stopping the growth of the oil sands. So, we’re also the only party that says we have to stop expanding the oil sands and start the process of phasing out fossil fuels.
“I am the leader of the only party in Canada that opposes every pipeline and [that] has candidates running in every province.”
MD: And there are also the matters of Indigenous rights and women’s rights.
EM: Oh, absolutely! […] Every pipeline being proposed crosses through the unceded territory, or protected title and treaty rights of First Nations. The First Nations have not been engaged [by the government] in this discussion. And after [the 2014 Supreme Court decision that granted land title to the Tsilhqot’in First Nation], it’s clear that First Nations don’t just require consultation, they actually have the right to make the decision about what happens on their territories.
And here I’m marching with the [Mur des femmes contre les oléoducs] – it’s an organization of the women of Quebec standing against Energy East. So I was very honoured they invited me to join to carry this banner.
MD: As the leader of the Green Party, you were saying that yours is the only mainstream party that actually takes a stance against environmental degradation.
EM: We have the strongest policies. The Liberals and the [New Democratic Party (NDP)] – either one of them is better than Harper. But they don’t really grasp the urgency or the kind of choices we have to make. We know that Justin Trudeau is in favour of Keystone, but against Enbridge; in favour of Energy East, and probably in favour of Kinder Morgan. Mr. Mulcair is against Keystone, but for Energy East; against Enbridge, but apparently prepared to accept Kinder Morgan, but [with] a different review process first.
“The Liberals and the NDP – either one of them is better than Harper. But they don’t really grasp the urgency or the kind of choices we have to make.”
We’re unequivocal and we stand on the principle that we have to have policies that ensure we’re moving off fossil fuels, that we stop the growth in the oil sands. We’re against every single one of these pipelines, because they carry a dangerous material that’s impossible to clean up. And you could produce the bitumen in Alberta and refine it there, as you phase out dependency on fossil fuels across Canada and around the world.
Canada, I hope, [after the elections] will be back in [the World Climate Summit in Paris in December 2015] as a completely different country than we’ve been under Stephen Harper. Because the rest of the world in climate negotiations has grown to, well, really to hate us. We need to restore our reputation in the world by actually going into negotiations with real climate targets […] instead of dragging the negotiations down, as we have under Stephen Harper for the past nine years.
MD: I suppose it’s really unfortunate that you won’t be able to talk about these issues in an English language national debate.
EM: I think it’s unfortunate for all Canadians that Mr. Harper and Mr. Mulcair have managed to get the debates cancelled [as a result of their refusal to participate], because a lot of Canadians have not yet made up their mind, how they plan to vote. […] In every election for more than thirty years, we’ve had an English language national debate. The last election, 11 million people watched the English language debate.
“No one’s holding Harper to account […] for contempt of Parliament, for gagging scientists, and for passing [Bill] C-51.”
But beyond that, no one’s holding Harper to account […] for contempt of Parliament, for gagging scientists, and for passing [Bill] C-51. These are not issues Canadians are hearing discussed because the English language debate was cancelled. So I think it’s really an affront to democracy to have such an important part of our elections cancelled.
And I’m sure hoping that youth vote turns out this election, because youth turning out to vote is going to change everything. Harper will be sent packing, we’ll have more Green MPs, and we’ll find a way and I will force this issue. [It] may not sound cooperative to use the word force, but I will force cooperation among the more progressive voices in Parliament so that we have a four-year government – a Parliament – that’s more stable and productive than what we would have if we allowed the parties to continue partisan squabbling.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Union works to conserve harm reduction, anti-oppression values in residences
Today, the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) sent an open letter to Principal Suzanne Fortier (“Respect floor fellows, support students,” October 15, Commentary, page 9) regarding the collective bargaining process between floor fellows and the University.
Speaking to The Daily, Sadie McInnes, AMUSE VP Floor Fellow and a current floor fellow at Molson Hall, said, “The first time [the idea for a union] came up was in 2012, when two floor fellows at Solin Hall were fired for their involvement in the 2012 student strikes. So that highlighted the lack of job security that we had, and how that was linked to our housing security because we don’t have leases, and so when you lose your job, you also lose your home.”
The main objective of negotiations include an assured conservation of the floor fellows’ current core values: harm reduction and anti-oppression.
According to McInnes, harm reduction “is a model by which we were able to be a support for students. At other schools, [Resident Assistants (RAs)] ticket people for their drug or alcohol use or there are rules for drug and alcohol use. What we see is students hiding their drug use from the main support people in the building. It puts students in danger.”
The second value, anti-oppression, supports students that are part of groups which are often marginalized and works to ensure that harmful power dynamics are not recreated.
“As a floor fellow, I am deeply committed to our values of harm reduction and anti-oppression. I would not have applied to this job had those values not formed the foundation of the floor fellow role.”
In an email to The Daily, Cecilia MacArthur, a floor fellow at Solin Hall, said, “As a floor fellow, I am deeply committed to our values of harm reduction and anti-oppression. I would not have applied to this job had those values not formed the foundation of the floor fellow role.”
“These values are tried and true; they allow for the creation of a strong, supportive, respectful residence community. As floor fellows, we know this because we work with these values on a daily basis,” MacArthur continued.
MacArthur also expressed that these values are supported and appreciated by students who live in residences, as well. “I have had students in the past who have expressed that these values allowed them to feel respected and supported, and felt that these values critically shaped their rez – and McGill – experience,” she said.
The first 11 months of negotiations with McGill were about getting these core values down in writing, McInnes said. “We got a little bit written down, but there’s been this clause in this section that’s essentially [the University] saying, ‘Okay, we’ll write this down but we reserve the right to change this at any point.’’’
AMUSE then began to push for McGill to consult the floor fellows before making any changes to the core values of their job. AMUSE President Molly Swain told The Daily that the negotiations “really stalled because McGill is very reluctant to put anything in an agreement to protect those values.”
Swain noted that “McGill is generally known for driving a very, very hard bargain” in terms of negotiations with unions. Moreover, according to Swain, the type of emotional labour that floor fellows provide is fundamentally different from than that of many other employees at the university; making this is a new territory for everyone involved.
“Our first priority was about our values and about working conditions more generally and it was really in the process […] that we realized that by Quebec labour law we weren’t being paid legally.”
Asking for payment for floor fellows was a secondary priority for AMUSE. “Our first priority was about our values and about working conditions more generally and it was really in the process […] that we realized that by Quebec labour law we weren’t being paid legally,” McInnes said.
The Commission des normes du travail (CNT) has already ruled in favour of backpayments from McGill for two past floor fellows, precedence that could potentially lead to McGill floor fellows getting paid for the hours they put in.
As McGill ignores the union’s plea for payment, McInnes noted that “it feels like in the wake of discussion for remuneration, there’s an emphasis on cutting down the amount that we work, and that has the potential to really get in the way of student support, which has always [been what’s] important for us.”
“At the same time, there’s a capping of Residence Life Manager (RLM) hours. RLMs have less and less support from McGill and they have expressed a lot of frustration with McGill. We’re, at this point, being told more and more to rely on RLMs so much for what we do in our job; the concern there is that that’s not very feasible,” McInnes continued.
When reached out to comment on the negotiation process, Doug Sweet, McGill’s Director of Internal Communications, said that McGill would not be able to comment.
“I have heard surprise from my students regarding the conditions of our jobs.”
“McGill doesn’t comment on labour negotiations while they are continuing, except when issuing a joint statement of progress in the talks that has been agreed to by both parties in the negotiations,” Sweet said in an email to The Daily.
Swain commented that the fundamental reason for these negotiations is that “[floor fellows] want to be able to take care of their students in ways that they know are effective.”
MacArthur said that students living in residences are also in support of the floor fellows’ cause.
“I have heard surprise from my students regarding the conditions of our jobs. In particular, students have expressed shock at the fact that floor fellows do not have leases and thus lack housing security [and] at the fact that administrators are calling the shots, considering they’re so far removed from rez,’” MacArthur explained.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
