The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Black Law Students’ Association of McGill organizes panel discussion
On November 11, the Black Law Students’ Association of McGill (BLSAM) held a panel discussion titled “Black Women and the Law: Reclaiming Spaces and Changing the Narrative of Black Female Success.” The goal of the discussion was to shed light on the barriers that Black women face in the legal world.
The panelists included McGill law students Lillian Boctor, Samanthea Samuels, Stéphanie Déborah Jules, and Alyssa Clutterbock, and Université de Montréal law student Médigne Gourdet. The student panelists talked about their personal experiences and critical analyses regarding the intersection of Blackness and gender in the field of law.
Also present was Rachel Zellars, PhD candidate in the Department of Integrated Studies in Education, whose research focuses on critical race theory.
Samuels and Jules discussed the current media representation of Black women in the field of law, analysing three characters from popular TV shows: Kerry Washington as Olivia Pope in Scandal, Viola Davis as Annalise Keating in How to Get Away With Murder, and Gina Torres as Jessica Pearson in Suits.
“It’s important […] to use that media presence to actually talk about, ‘okay, this is TV. In reality, what’s happening?’”
Samuels and Jules acknowledged that such increased media presence of Black women in law is a positive change. Nevertheless, they said that the characters still enforce stereotypes, pointing to the hypersexualization of Olivia Pope and “angry Black woman” moments of Annalise Keating. While Samuels and Jules praised Jessica Pearson as a strong, self-determined individual they lamented the fact that she remains a supporting character in the show.
This discussion of Black female characters in TV served as a launching pad for the real focus of the evening: the reality of Black women in the field of law. According to Jules, “It’s important […] to use that media presence to actually talk about, ‘okay, this is TV. In reality, what’s happening?’”
“We’re not seeing those roles in real life,” Samuels said.
The panel presented statistics on the underrepresentation of Black people, and specifically Black women, in the legal world. For example, as of March 2013, only 286 of the 24,450 practicing lawyers and 72 of the 1,245 active law students in Quebec were Black.
“For a Black woman, law is far too often a barrier or a bludgeon, rather than any sort of bridge to justice.”
Clutterbuck approached this underrepresentation from a more personal angle, being one of two Black women in her class and the only Black woman in her law firm.
Boctor addressed state violence against Black women. “For a Black woman, law is far too often a barrier or a bludgeon, rather than any sort of bridge to justice,” Boctor explained, focusing on a number of injustices faced by Black women, citing examples of sexual assault by police.
Zellars talked about how Black women are characterized in legal circumstances, where they are portrayed as “self-deprecating agents, things to be shamed, exposed, and ultimately disbelieved in their allegations of sexual violence.”
For Clutterbuck, the most difficult part about going through law school was attempting “to reconcile the fact that I have to write an exam […] using concepts that were once used to oppress my ancestors.”
Gourdet described an interview where she was rejected and was told that she did not look like “the image of our cabinet.” She also explained the difficulties that Black women face in having few role models in the legal profession, and in coming to terms with the fact that hard work alone is not enough to succeed.
“It’s really easy for the status quo to keep producing predictable results, which is that every year, the overwhelming majority of future lawyers are white, from upper middle-class backgrounds.”
The panelists emphasized the importance of unapologetically claiming space as Black women pursuing careers in law and moving forward.
“It’s really easy for the status quo to keep producing predictable results, which is that every year, the overwhelming majority of future lawyers are white, from upper middle-class backgrounds. […] In the spirit of wanting a bench across the country that is representative of the population, we need to continue to fight,” Clutterbuck said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Four-day action sees little response from new prime minister
Thirty-four McGill students and alumni gathered on November 5 to travel to Ottawa in order to participate in the Climate Welcome event. The group joined more than seventy other activists who occupied the gates of 24 Sussex, the residence of Canada’s newly appointed prime minister, Justin Trudeau.
The Climate Welcome was planned by groups throughout Canada, but was supported primarily by 350.org, the Council of Canadians, and the Canadian Youth Climate Coalition. In an interview with The Daily, Kristen Perry, a U4 Environment student and Divest McGill organizer, explained that the demonstrators’ “main demand for real climate action was to freeze tar sands expansion and to start the transition to a just and renewable energy economy.”
Transportation from Montreal to Ottawa was organized by Divest McGill, a campus environmental justice group, bringing students and members of the community to Trudeau’s residence. The McGill participants returned to Montreal on November 6 and November 7, even though the sit-in lasted until November 8.
“Immediately after [the federal elections] we wanted to welcome whoever was coming into office with a Climate Welcome, showing them that the climate movement is big and growing.”
Each day, the demonstrators delivered different sets of ‘gifts’ to Trudeau, in an effort to demand that he take real action on climate change. On the first day, Trudeau was given scientific studies, economic reports, and Indigenous treaties, all of which indicated that the tar sands need to remain underground.
In the following days, the gifts were expanded to include over one million messages from Canadians against tar sands expansion and pipelines, as well as water samples from various communities across the country. On the last day, the demonstrators delivered five solar panels.
Jed Lenestky, a U1 Environment student and Divest McGill organizer, told The Daily, “The only presents that were accepted were on the first day.” The messages, however, were both emailed to the Prime Minister and sent by mail on a USB stick.
Perry expressed that throughout the election period the demonstators’ “goal was to make climate change more of an issue in the election campaign.”
“[Trudeau is] planning to go to the international climate talks [in Paris] without any target essentially. He’s using [former Prime Minister] Stephen Harper’s target, which is completely inadequate.”
“Immediately after [the federal elections] we wanted to welcome whoever was coming into office with a Climate Welcome, showing them that the climate movement is big and growing,” Perry said. “We wanted to be there to show [Trudeau] that we would support him in taking climate action.”
Perry continued, “[Trudeau is] planning to go to the international climate talks [in Paris] without any target essentially. He’s using [former Prime Minister] Stephen Harper’s target, which is completely inadequate. He said he needs to consult with the provinces which, of course, is a good thing. […] But right now he doesn’t have a target. […] We’re trying to push him, but also support him because he has the potential, I think, to be a leader in climate change action.”
Speaking to The Daily, Andrew Stein, a U3 Environment student and Divest McGill organizer, summarized the action on November 5, the main day on which McGill participants were active.
“We marched down to 24 Sussex. Upon arriving, we split into two groups. Half of us [held a sit-in] in front of 24 Sussex, [and] half of us [held a sit-in] in front of Rideau Cottage. We voiced our demands to the Prime Minister’s office and then we converged on Rideau Hall when the executive assistant to the Prime Minister was sent down to speak with us,” Stein said.
According to Stein, demonstrators then proceeded to escalate their tactics.
“We blocked […] Sussex Drive, at which point we were informed by the police that we were trespassing and officially risking arrest. However, they were on marching orders not to arrest anyone for this kind of basic civil disobedience. […] We stayed in the street for a while, sang some songs, did some chants, demonstrated our presence, and then we took off and called it a day.”
“We blocked […] Sussex Drive, at which point we were informed by the police that we were trespassing and officially risking arrest.”
Perry added, “After we were out there sitting for about two hours on the road itself, we got the news that the police actually weren’t going to arrest us as long as we sat there, and the Prime Minister wasn’t going to come down for the day. So we decided at that point [that] we’d de-escalate for the day and come back with even more people the next day.”
On why he chose to attend, Lenetsky replied, “I think climate change is one of the most pressing issues facing the world.”
“[Trudeau] made this promise of real change and I wanted to help hold him to that. […] Every day we were there, the next day we came out with twice as many people. […] Every day we’re growing, this issue isn’t going to go away. […] We’re not going to go away and we’re going to keep fighting until we get what we want,” Lenetsky concluded.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Student mobilization criticized for hypocrisy in VP Internal by-election
On November 11, Céleste Pagniello’s withdrawal from the race for the position of Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP Internal left Alexei Simakov as the sole candidate running for the position. The same day, two students set up a Facebook event titled “Vote(z) NO in the VP Internal by-elections.”
Ben van der Ger, a U2 Environment and Economics student and one of the two official organizers of the event, told The Daily that the event is “definitely not [an] ‘anyone but Simakov’ [movement]. The point is that the student body doesn’t need to accept a candidate that is less than what they feel is the best, and less than what they feel properly represents them.”
Evan Berry, a U3 Geography student and the other co-organizer of the event, added, “We think it’s necessary to empower the student body to vote ‘no’ if they didn’t know that was an option for them.”
The event description cites Simakov’s “inability to understand the demands of the VP Internal portfolio” as a main reason for opposing his election. Van der Ger added that Simakov’s self-professed inexperience with social equity and unwillingness to take up the responsibility makes him unfit for the role.
“The reason why we’re doing this is because we care about our campus, and we care about student politics.”
Berry and van der Ger have come under scrutiny for being roommates with SSMU President Kareem Ibrahim. When asked about a possible conflict of interest, Berry responded that they “have been transparent about the fact that we are [Ibrahim’s] roommates.” He added, “We are running this campaign without an association with [Ibrahim].”
“This is not coming from roommates of [Ibrahim], this is coming from constituents of SSMU who do not feel adequately represented by Alexei Simakov,” Berry continued. “The reason why we’re doing this is because we care about our campus, and we care about student politics.”
Berry and van der Ger have repeatedly denounced the personal attacks that are rife in current and past SSMU election campaigns. They told The Daily that they have tried to run a transparent mobilization free from “dirty tactics,” going so far as to publicly condemn as well as personally speak with members of the page who they felt were making ad hominem attacks on Simakov.
In a statement posted on Reddit on November 11, Simakov denounced the hypocrisy of the “No” event’s effort to steer away from personal attacks. “I find it interesting that the exact same people who last year were rabidly attacking me on everything from my financial status to my ethnicity all of a sudden feel that it’s now unacceptable to discuss the integrity of candidates running for positions of leadership,” said Simakov in the statement.
“SSMU elections should not be a shitty episode of Jerry Springer.”
Simakov further expressed suspicion at the motives of the organizers, saying, “I’m starting to believe that [their] only desire is to just use authority, not to accomplish anything, but as an end in itself.”
“SSMU elections should not be a shitty episode of Jerry Springer,” Berry told The Daily. “The last three years have been loaded with shady campaign tactics, with personal attacks – not just by the candidates, but by their supporters, who should know better – and have become a personal mudslinging battle that benefits no one.”
“We also need to remember that as much as we disagree with his politics and his platform and his qualifications for the role, [Simakov also] deserves respect, personal space, and high levels of mental health,” said Berry.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council discusses Sexual Assault Policy, library renovation
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) met on November 11, passing motions to allow for the resignation of the Internal Affairs Officer Sahil Kumar, to strike a bylaw allowing for Chief Justice special appointments, and to support a fee levy increase for World University Service of Canada (WUSC) McGill.
Principal Suzanne Fortier, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens, and Trenholme Dean of Libraries Colleen Cook were also present at Council, talking to the councillors about issues ranging from the drafting of the Sexual Assault Policy to the renovation of the McLennan-Redpath library complex.
Sahil Kumar resigned his position as Internal Affairs Officer of PGSS in a motion passed by the council. Kumar took a leave of absence from October 5 to November 2, and his resignation will come into effect December 2. Kumar did not disclose the reasons for his resignation.
The Council then approved dates for a by-election to fill the vacant position. The nomination period began on November 9 and will end on 22, with campaigning occurring from November 23 to 29, and the voting period spanning from November 30 to December 6.
Council also ratified the appointment of a new Speaker, Logan Smith. Smith will replace Nida Nizam, who has occupied the position since 2012.
Council heard from Sujay Neupane, a member of WUSC McGill. Neupane spoke in support of a consumer price index (CPI) adjustment to the WUSC levy to sponsor the group’s Student Refugee Program (SRP), which works to sponsor students from refugee camps pursuing their undergraduate degree at McGill.
The SRP started at McGill in 1986 with a referendum that passed a levy of $1 per academic year. However, since 1986, the fee levy has not been adjusted according to CPI. To adjust for the error, the fee would need to be increased to $1.92 retroactively.
“Because there was no local committee at McGill in the nineties, all this money was being accumulated, and with the present levy […] we’re able to sponsor two students every year right now,” Neupane said.
“The accumulated money is running out and a dollar levy is only enough to sponsor one student.”
“Next year we’re going to sponsor four more students, for a total of six, and McGill is paying for the four students […] for [that] one year. But after that, for 2017, again we’re going to go back to sponsoring two students. But we can no longer do that as of 2018, because the accumulated money is running out and a dollar levy is only enough to sponsor one student,” he added.
The adjusted fee constitutes a 92 per cent increase, and the University has asked WUSC to call a referendum on the matter.
According to Neupane, should the levy cease to exist, and should there be no committee in the future, “this program might just end. [….] We want to make a statement to McGill admin [… that] ‘Look, PGSS supports us.’”
Council voted to support the motion, as WUSC McGill is still negotiating terms with the University.
Principal and Vice-Chancellor Suzanne Fortier was also present at Council, speaking with cautious optimism about the future of research funding under the new federal Liberal government, and stressing the importance of “curiosity-driven research and purpose-driven research.”
During the question period, Fortier addressed queries regarding allegations of intimate relationships between professors and research assistants.
“We have to […] be careful in respecting [professors’] private lives,” stated Fortier. She noted, “We must also ensure that people have higher standards of professional conduct.”
Fortier stated that dealing with such issues “is not taking a position on morality but on professionalism.”
“We have to […] be careful in respecting [professors’] private lives.”
Ollivier Dyens, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning), told Council that Dean of Students André Costopoulos was working with the student-run Sexual Assault Policy Working Group (SAPWG) to create a policy, which would include student-professor relationships.
Dyens emphasized the importance of “giving to students the quick access to talk about these things,” and making it easy for students to come forward with an allegation of assault without fear of jeopardizing their academic standing or opportunities.
Additionally, Council heard from Trenholme Dean of Libraries Colleen Cook about the proposed renovation of the McLennan-Redpath library complex.
Cook spoke about a day-long survey conducted in November 2014, which found that “one out of every five students was in one of our libraries during this eight to ten hour period, and [… they] were there to work.” According to Cook, the vast majority of students used libraries for solo or group studying, while only a small fraction accessed physical texts.
The renovation plan proposes to build a three-story robotic storage facility underneath Lower Field, which would house McGill’s large collection of rare and special texts.
“What this does is allow us to free up those spaces that are currently occupied by stacks into […] totally flexible user spaces,” Cook told Council.
The project, called “Fiat Lux” (Latin for “let there be light”), will integrate a large glass-enclosed seating area along the McLennan-Redpath Terrace, preserving the stone walls of the original building.
The project will also renovate the facade of the library facing McTavish and provide a corridor within the renovated library for students to pass through from McTavish to Redpath Terrace.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Canada complicit in criminalizing land defenders in Guatemala
On November 12, the McGill Research Group Investigating Canadian Mining in Latin America (MICLA) hosted an event with Guatemalan journalist Luis Solano. The talk centred around the criminalization of land defenders in Guatemala, the role of the Canadian mining industry in the destruction of the land, the violation of human rights, and the persecution of environmental activists.
Sharing the stage with Solano were Pearl Eliadis, a human rights lawyer and member of the McGill Centre for Human Rights & Legal Pluralism; Aniseto López, a Guatemalan activist; and Jennifer Moore, coordinator of the Latin America Program for MiningWatch Canada.
MICLA, in partnership with MiningWatch Canada, the Committee for Human Rights in Latin America, Voices-Voix, and many other organizations, held the event in the auditorium of the Otto Maass Chemistry building, where over 200 students and community members gathered.
Solano’s talk focused on the damage perpetrated by the Vancouver-based company Tahoe Resources Inc., and the complicity of the Canadian government, transnational corporations, and military contractors in the crisis taking place in southeastern Guatemala.
Solano said, “The Tahoe Resources project is not only a mining project but a part of a greater economic model in Guatemala, […] repeating a pattern found across the world.”
“The Tahoe Resources project is not only a mining project but a part of a greater economic model in Guatemala, […] repeating a pattern found across the world.”
Tahoe Resources Inc. acquired significant land concessions in Guatemala in 2010, when it bought the Escobal silver deposit from Goldcorp Inc., another Vancouver-based company. Solano said that the Escobal project was then undertaken without the consultation and consent of the local communities. In fact, according to Solano, many locals were unaware of the project or the nature thereof until a few years after its construction.
Since 2010, resistance and opposition to the development and the continued operation of the mine have been met with repression, criminalization, and militarization, despite the peaceful nature of the protests.
“They detained people illegally. They get the public ministry support to authorize these arrests, they create these lists of ‘troublemakers’ that they give to the military to arrest them,” said Solano. “It sows terror among people.”
To draw parallels between Guatemala and Canada with regards to governmental action against activism, Eliadis brought up the role of Canada’s anti-terrorism act Bill C-51, which can potentially criminalize environmental and Indigenous activism. As such, said Eliadis, mining companies can destroy the land and perpetrate gross violations of human rights with impunity.
“They get the public ministry support to authorize these arrests, they create these lists of ‘troublemakers’ that they give to the military to arrest them.”
According to the speakers, land defenders in Guatemala are criminalized and labelled as terrorists, and have been targeted by security contractors hired by Tahoe Resources Inc. and the Guatemalan military forces.
However, according to Solano, the problem is “not just military, it’s much more complex; it’s a spiderweb of counterinsurgency.”
Aidan Gilchrist-Blackwood, a U2 Political Science and History student and member of MICLA who attended the event, said in an interview with The Daily, “The criminalization of land defenders is an important human rights issue, but it gets very little coverage in the Canadian media. […] It’s having a major impact on Indigenous peoples both in Canada and around the world.”
Addressing students about the importance of collective action, Eliadis said, “We must assure that there is no impunity, that’s where you all come in.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
