The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Meeting did not meet quorum, vote to be ratified online
At an Arts Faculty meeting on November 24, students and professors met to discuss Divest McGill’s petition to the Board of Governors (BoG) which calls for divestment from the fossil fuel industry. After a lengthy discussion, the assembly voted in favour of a motion to endorse Divest McGill’s petition. Because the meeting did not meet quorum, the vote still has to be ratified online.
The previous week, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council voted unanimously to endorse the petition, which was presented to the BoG’s Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR) in February, alongside a 150-page report on the social and environmental damage caused by the fossil fuel industry. Nearly 11 months later, the committee has yet to issue an opinion on the matter.
At the meeting, Andrew Stein, Kristen Perry, and Emily Boytinck, members of Divest McGill, spoke at length about the importance of divestment in the fight against climate change, and its power to influence public policy.
“It’s really important to recognize that every time a divestment movement has taken place, whether that be divestment from tobacco, or divestment from [the South African apartheid], it has always led to public policy changes,” explained Boytinck, who is also the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP External.
“What we at Divest McGill are asking for is that McGill University align its actions with its stated policies and values.”
Stein acknowledged the importance of individual action to conserve energy and resources, but also noted its inadequacy.
“Where we can have massive impact is on the institutional level, which bridges the gap between individuals and international governmental action. […] What we at Divest McGill are asking for is that McGill University align its actions with its stated policies and values,” Stein said.
The students’ remarks were very well received by most of those present. English professor Derek Nystrom, who brought forward a motion to endorse Divest McGill’s petition, voiced his support for the group’s efforts. “I want to say that the students at Divest McGill are doing [what professors] want our students to do,” he said. “They’re taking the knowledge that they’re learning in their classes, and they’re acting on it to better their world.”
Nystrom applauded the fact that “students at Divest McGill have worked tirelessly on this issue for the past three years.”
“They’re taking the knowledge that they’re learning in their classes, and they’re acting on it to better their world.”
“They’ve done the hard work of scientific inquiry into why we must transition away from a fossil fuel-based economy, they’ve done the hard work of political analysis into the policy ramifications of divestment, and they’ve done the hard work of community outreach in educating the public. They’ve done all of the heavy lifting here. […] We just have to add our voice to theirs.”
Some, however, voiced reservations about the breadth of Divest McGill’s program. Economics professor John Galbraith, for example, suggested focusing the divestment campaign on coal, “a particularly dirty fuel, that we can pretty well entirely avoid.”
“Divesting from oil generally […] is a little trickier, because we all use it,” said Galbraith, “and putting ourselves in the position where we say ‘look, this is not compatible with our values’ seems funny when the university’s burning it, and we’re all burning it.”
Boytinck explained that this was a frequent objection to Divest McGill’s proposals.
“We really understand that society is highly dependent on fossil fuels right now, especially oil,” she said. “But in order for that shift to be made, political action must be taken. As a climate change activist, I recognize that I could go live off the grid – a completely carbon-neutral lifestyle – but I would make no impact on how the rest of society lived. So it’s really important that we don’t disregard political action […] because we’re scared of being hypocritical.”
After a lengthy discussion, the assembly voted to endorse Divest McGill’s petition to CAMSR, with 25 votes in favour of Nystrom’s motion and four against.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Compost Montreal alleges that much of compost goes to landfill
Beginning in 2016, Montreal will be expanding its compost collection services. The municipality currently offers organic waste pickup to eight boroughs, and is planning to expand this service to all 19 boroughs by 2019, reaching more than two-thirds of all households in the city.
Compost Montreal, an organization that offers private organic waste collection service, has been providing an alternative to municipal collection services since 2007. Cameron Stiff, director of finance and development at Compost Montreal, spoke to The Daily about Montreal residents’ current accessibility to composting and the city’s future plans.
“It’s not very easy to compost your organic waste if you’re not doing it at home, because the city doesn’t have collection services,” said Stiff.
According to Stiff, only 17 per cent of the island of Montreal, about 1 in 5 homes, have access to city-run compost services.
Stiff said these homes include apartments with eight units or less, or single family-like homes, but not condominiums or apartments.
“We’re very far behind compared to other Canadian cities, and looking at the targets Montreal and the province of Quebec have set,” continued Stiff. “We’re consistently behind on meeting those targets, and that is why [Compost Montreal] exists in the first place, because nobody else is doing it.”
“We’re very far behind compared to other Canadian cities, and looking at the targets Montreal and the province of Quebec have set.”
“We think it’s better than nothing,” he added
Kiera Wright, a U1 International Development Studies student, talked to The Daily about the accessibility of collection services for students in Montreal.
“It is great that Montreal is expanding its collection services. I think less waste will end up in landfills with the changes, and it will definitely make it easier for us students to do our part.
Composting is hard, especially when you’re a student living in an apartment. My apartment doesn’t have a composting bin, so I have to take my organic waste to somewhere [that] does,” Wright told The Daily.
Stiff spoke positively of the city’s recent plans to expand compost collection, but expressed concern about the usage of the compost.
“We think that it’s good that there is at least a plan in place to compost, but currently a lot of compost goes into landfill and a lot of people don’t know that.”
Compost is an inexpensive source of biocovers, specified waste material that blankets landfills and serves to reduce greenhouse-active methane emissions from Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), which is comprised of discarded everyday items. The covers optimize conditions for methanotrophic bacteria, allowing them to consume emitted methane.
“We think there is more work to be done, and more effort should be made by the city to close the loop with agriculture, and to make sure compost actually gets used to grow food and doesn’t get used to cover the problem,” he noted.
“We’re still collecting a lot more garbage and landfilling a lot more garbage than we are composting. There is a huge landfill that needs to be covered,” said Stiff.
According to an article by the Montreal Gazette, 97,892 households in Montreal currently have organic waste recycling. It is predicted that the number of households will increase to 536,533 by 2019.
“Landfilling and incinerating waste also have negative social impacts. When people live close to a landfill, the value of their land is reduced. [This is] more likely to be related to the pollution from a landfill, higher incidences of cancer. […] Farmland is contaminated,” added Stiff.
Jerry Chen, who has a Masters in Renewable Resource Sciences from McGill, told The Daily about the difficulties students may have composting in an urban setting.
“If it’s not well managed, the neighbours will be a huge challenge, they will definitely complain [if a compost bin has] insects crawling out,” he said. “The other thing is, [for a] student who lives alone [finding] space [for a composting bin] will be a huge challenge.”
“[For a] student who lives alone [finding] space [for a composting bin] will be a huge challenge.”
Chen also commented on the importance of a green lifestyle, despite its challenges. “As an ecologist, I know the cycle of life; it is not only the growing of plants […] it is also the decomposition, the mineralization of all the agricultural waste going back to the soil that completes the circle of life. […] For our generation, […] having a more sustainable lifestyle is getting more and more popular, people are living more and more green. Compost is definitely part of the green lifestyle.”
Stiff said, “There is more awareness that we live on a finite planet.”
Stiff continued, “I think that young people can also raise awareness and be advocates for a better system. They can force the older generation that is usually in [positions of power], they can […] mobilize each other and use social media and use different communication and educational means to make people aware, to force decision makers to make the right decision.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Research to bring together faculties of Arts and Engineering 
A $3.4 million gift from a McGill alumnus has established the Yan P. Lin Centre for the Study of Freedom and Global Orders in Ancient and Modern Worlds. The launch of the Centre took place on October 26, and while the Centre has already organized lectures and activities, the official inaugural lecture by Harvard sociologist Orlando Patterson will take place on April 13, 2016.
The Centre is organized into five partly independent research groups: Global Antiquities, Transitions and Global Modernities, Constitutional Studies, Global Justice, and Democracy, Space, and Technology. Each research group is directed by one or two McGill professors who are leading scholars in their fields.
The Daily spoke to Jacob Levy, the founding director of the Centre, coordinator of its Constitutional Studies research group, and Tomlinson Professor of Political Theory.
According to Levy, the Yan P. Lin Centre “aims to bring together studies of society and of social change from across the normative, comparative, and historical disciplines – broadly speaking, encouraging interdisciplinary work from a range of departments, a range of faculties, all focused on that kind of humanistic inquiry to the nature of society and government.”
“A centre like this [… takes] us outside the box of just thinking in terms of our discipline and our department.”
Yan P. Lin, who obtained his PhD from McGill in 1992, told The Daily he was motivated to donate to the university because he wanted to “find a way to do something that is good for McGill, just like McGill did […] for me many years ago.”
According to Anastassios Anastassiadis, a professor in the Department of History and a co-coordinator of the Transitions and Global Modernities research group, “A centre like this [… takes] us outside the box of just thinking in terms of our discipline and our department.”
As noted by Levy, each research pillar will focus on one area of study. For instance, the research group on Constitutional Studies focuses on research “at the overlap of political theory and philosophy, of political science about constitutional-level institutions […] and legal philosophy.” The research group on Global Antiquities seeks to study ancient Greece, ancient Rome, and ancient China from a comparative perspective.
Hans Beck, co-coordinator of the Global Antiquities research group and History professor, stressed the need for a “new approach to world antiquity,” one that cuts across time and cultural barriers, given that McGill has “changed so dramatically” over recent years, from student population to faculty composition and disciplines.
However, Anastassiadis also noted a simultaneous stagnation at McGill, remarking that “contrary to what [universities] say, they are quite traditional in their organization and their structure,” and that he hoped the Centre would help McGill “rethink its own structure.”
Students seemed largely enthusiastic about the Centre and pleased with the use of the money.
“I think it is a very generous gift to McGill and is going to be a great contribution,” said Ashley Wood, a U0 Arts student.
Emma Ebowe, a U1 Economics and Political Science student, said, “This […] is probably exactly what McGill needs – a way of combining seemingly unrelated disciplines to help us really understand the broader themes we’re trying to study.”
Amid cuts to public education spending under the Quebec Liberal government’s austerity measures, concerns have been voiced for years that alumni donations designated for specific projects gave the illusion of financial affluence and directed attention away from the government’s lack of financial support.
“Philanthropy is no substitute for government support.”
In 2013, when Campaign McGill raised a record $1 billion in donations over eight years, former Principal Heather Munroe-Blum told The Daily that “not a dollar of the philanthropy that comes in is used for the operating budget at the university.”
“With the underfunding of universities that we experience, it is absolutely essential that government stay the course in funding universities to the high level. Philanthropy is no substitute for government support,” said Munroe-Blum at the time.
Asked whether the Centre was the most prudent use of the money, given McGill’s well-documented financial troubles, Beck stated that since the money was an endowment, it was earmarked specifically for the creation of the Centre. As a result, McGill had to comply with the donor’s choice as to how to allocate the funds.
“When we hit the point of having roughly a $3 million endowment, then we’re dependent on the McGill payout rates for what happens with an endowment,” explained Levy. “That means the whole Centre, including the five research groups and the overarching Centre, will be running at about 4 per cent per year of the $3 million.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Invigilators pass motion approving Bargaining Committee’s activities
On November 23, AGSEM Unit 2, the union of invigilators at McGill University, held a General Assembly (GA) to discuss the ongoing bargaining process between the University and the union.
The invigilators’ collective agreement, ratified in May 2013, expired in April. This collective agreement had guaranteed wages of $10.65 per hour.
Currently, invigilators at McGill receive a base pay of $10.86, with the provincially mandated 4 per cent vacation indemnity. In contrast, graduate student invigilators at Université du Québec à Chicoutimi receive $19, those at Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) receive $19.74, and those at Université de Montréal receive $17.43.
In addition, the pay rate for invigilators has remained around $10 per hour since 2003, when the provincial minimum wage was $7.30. If the pay increase for invigilators had increased at the same rate as the minimum wage did, the invigilators would currently receive around $15 an hour.
“The Bargaining Committee believes that we have gotten as far as we can regarding our non-monetary demands, and we are happy with our progress.”
The Invigilator Bargaining Committee’s initial proposal was to increase pay to $19 per hour, with a 2 per cent annual increase, as well as an additional 2 per cent vacation pay bonus for invigilators who have passed the probationary period.
In addition, the committee demanded improvements to invigilator working conditions, such as having a maximum ratio of forty students per invigilator, a guarantee of priority in shift assignment for returning invigilators, and proper training sessions.
Over the course of this fall, the committee met with the University several times and managed to finalize in principle the non-monetary sections of the agreement. In a statement released on November 10 on their website, the committee said,“The Bargaining Committee believes that we have gotten as far as we can regarding our non-monetary demands, and we are happy with our progress.”
At the GA, the invigilators passed a motion that approved the committee’s activities so far. More specifically, the motion considered the demands concerning priority in shift assignment, a centralized posting and application system, as well as improved training to have been met.
“So far what they’ve got for us is okay – except we want an increase in pay [greater than] what they are proposing.”
However, the invigilators were not satisfied with the University’s response to the monetary portion of the agreement.
Although it has not made a formal offer, the University is considering increasing the base pay to $12, which is significantly lower than what the invigilators are demanding.
As such, the motion also called for another GA to be held on December 8. If, at that time, the invigilators decide that the University has failed to meet their demands, there will be a strike vote.
Speaking to The Daily, AGSEM Invigilator Grievance Officer Jamie Burnett said, “What we’ve heard from our members today is [that the University’s offer is] not something they think is acceptable and they want us to go back and try to negotiate something that would be fair. If we’re not able to negotiate something that would be acceptable, we would be holding a strike vote.”
Vivian Belfo, who has been invigilating for the Faculty of Medicine for around five years, explained that the invigilators were very accommodating with regards to the University’s offers.
“If the offer is high enough or acceptable to us – then why not? There won’t be a strike.”
“So far what they’ve got for us is okay – except we want an increase in pay [greater than] what they are proposing. We are very flexible, we’re accepting all the other items. […] The main issue is, we’d like a little more increase in the salary,” she said.
Belfo also explained that there is an increasing demand for invigilators at the Faculty of Medicine, and that the skills required of invigilators are specialized.
“It’s very serious – exams and the whole process. [… The Faculty is] demanding a lot, and sometimes we take over if the main person is not there. So we have to be aware of many things. It’s not just looking at students and walking around. There is a lot involved,” she said.
Germano Belfo, another invigilator for the Faculty of Medicine, was optimistic about the negotiations.
“Hopefully they’ll accept […] our offer. And if the offer is high enough or acceptable to us – then why not? There won’t be a strike,” he said.
In an email to The Daily, McGill’s Director of Internal Communications Doug Sweet said that the “[University doesn’t] comment on labour negotiations.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students fail to separate food waste
Amidst rumours that the one composting bin in the Shatner Building is actually being emptied into the garbage, The Daily interviewed Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik, who confirmed the rumors.
The composting program originally began a year and a half ago, Bialik told The Daily in an email, and from the beginning it was evident there was a problem with contamination of products in the compost bin.
“Students using the cafeteria weren’t differentiating between food waste that was compostable, garbage, and recycling,” Bialik said. As a result, the compost collection agency, Compost Montreal, refused to accept the waste.
The SSMU Environment Committee and the two SSMU Environment Commissioners attempted to address this issue through an awareness-raising initiative implemented in February. The program aimed to increase student knowledge about composting through a general education campaign and the use of signs indicating which products are compostable.
“Students using the cafeteria weren’t differentiating between food waste that was compostable, garbage, and recycling.”
According to Bialik, the initiative proved ultimately unsuccessful. There was “no change in the amount of garbage being mixed in with genuine compostable material,” she noted.
SSMU Environment Commissioner Kristen Perry informed The Daily that the Commissioners “were mostly involved in the educational aspect of the program last year as it was first implemented, but the ongoing management of composting actually falls under building management.”
In an interview with The Daily, Leia Jones, a U3 Environment student and member of the Environment Committee, remarked that she has not observed students making an effort to separate compost in the SSMU cafeteria.
When asked why this may be, Jones said, “I think a major reason for this could [be] that it is time-consuming to actually think about every piece of waste you have produced, and to try and figure out what is compostable, what is recyclable, and what is garbage.”
In addition, Bialik believes “the fact that the compost, garbage, and recycling are all side by side in similar-looking bins is likely a large part of the problem.”
Bialik is unsure whether Compost Montreal stopped collecting, or if SSMU cancelled the pick-up requests because of the contamination, as the cessation of composting happened before her term.
“It is time-consuming to actually think about every piece of waste you have produced, and to try and figure out what is compostable.”
However, she added that there was no indication that the relationship ended badly, and is confident that SSMU “could renew that relationship if the appropriate measure were undertaken at SSMU to ensure that our compost program was successful.”
While the Environment Committee has not discussed the issue of composting much in its meetings, Jones added that the Committee plans to host a workshop discussing different ways students can compost. She added that there is a possibility the Committee will run one workshop they were unable to implement last year, which would focus on DIY composting using composting worms. “By the time we went to organize the workshop [last year], it was too cold and the ground had frozen along with the worms,” Jones said. Meanwhile, the Committee is working toward increasing student awareness of environmental issues through a series of bi-weekly workshops hosted in SSMU.
Other campus environmental groups do not appear to be focused on the issue of composting.
According to Bialik, the Environment Committee is the only environmental group on campus directly involved in the awareness campaign about the compost in the cafeteria. However, she added that “Plate Club does work generally on preventing waste in the cafeteria, so they could be a natural partner in the future.”
Bialik said that SSMU is “looking into getting freestanding compost bins that would be differentiated by colour and location within the cafeteria” to emphasize the difference between compost, recycling, and garbage bins.
The project is still in its formative stages, and SSMU is looking at logistical aspects such as cost, location, and bringing Compost Montreal back on board to review feasibility and planning. As of yet, there is no timeline for the project, but Bialik said she hopes it will stop the misuse of the compost bin and encourage students to learn more about composting.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Board of Governors talks key performance indicators, Bill 100 violation
On November 26, McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG) convened to listen to a report from its Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR) and to consider the University’s alleged violation of provincial Bill 100. The BoG also discussed the reformatting of the university’s annual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and the state of philanthropic donations to the university.
BoG Chair Stuart “Kip” Cobbett reported on CAMSR’s deliberations on Divest McGill’s demand for a freeze on fossil fuel investments, and informed the BoG that CAMSR would not be able to recommend fulfilling this demand.
Nevertheless, Cobbett said that he “would like to congratulate Divest McGill for their respectful attitude.”
Members of Divest McGill were present at the meeting, and responded to Cobbett’s report by offering the BoG a large fake check worth $43 million. According to an analysis of McGill’s investments by environmental groups Corporate Knights, 350.org, and South Pole Group, this is approximately the amount that the university could have saved by divesting from the fossil fuel industry.
Marius Karolinksi, a member of Divest McGill, said that he was hoping the donation of the fake check would help the BoG to “think more clearly” in the future.
Cobbett also reported on behalf of the Human Resources Committee, addressing press reports that McGill was violating provincial Bill 100, which states, “no bonus, allowance, premium, compensation or other additional remuneration based on performance for either of the fiscal years beginning in 2010 and 2011, may be granted to […] a senior executive or the management personnel in the education network or a university.”
The allegation of a violation was made on July 27 by Quebec’s Ministry of Education.
“Our view is that we are certainly in the spirit of the law,” Cobbett said, emphasizing the University’s “sensible, logical approach” to merit-based raises.
Olivier Marcil, Vice-Principal (External Relations), was said to be discussing the subject with the provincial government.
The BoG also discussed the university’s annual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which have now been reformatted.
Among other data, McGill’s KPIs include student-faculty ratio, undergraduate class size, graduation rate after six years at the undergraduate level, faculty salary, and philanthropy donations received.
“Our view is that we are certainly in the spirit of the law.”
In a presentation made to the members of the BoG, McGill’s KPIs were compared to those of other universities, particularly to the other members of the U15 Group of Canadian Research Universities.
While McGill did well in most KPIs (such as the undergraduate student-faculty ratio), it was the last of the U15 institutions in terms of its industrial relations, as determined by the Times Higher Education industry income score. This point was of particular concern to the members of the BoG.
Collaborating with industry is “important primarily for students,” Principal Suzanne Fortier claimed, as “the vast majority [of them] will work in the private sector.” Fortier cited this example as an incentive for pursuing a higher ranking.
Fortier also mentioned that the university was seeking to create variety in class sizes, with work being done to offer larger online-based courses in order to also provide smaller in-class courses.
Marc Weinstein, Vice-Principal (University Advancement), presented the Annual Report on Philanthropy for 2014-15. Weinstein noted a decrease in alumni donations. Weinstein specified that most of current donations were by donors who had graduated in the sixties and seventies.
Over the course of the past five years, the number of annual fund donors has decreased from 30,141 in 2011 to 26,776 in 2015. Nevertheless, in the 2014-15 fiscal year, philanthropic donations brought in $86,269,199.
“We are doing everything we can to build that momentum on connectivity,” said Weinstein. “We want to engage with our alumni.”
“The biggest thing for younger cohorts is to be involved,” Danielle Toccalino, Secretary-General of the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), told The Daily after the meeting, citing the limited financial resources of recent alumni and pointing to other, non-monetary ways in which they can show support.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Calls for sustained discussion on anti-oppression in residences
Approximately 3,000 first-year undergraduate students are housed at McGill residences each year. Part of their orientation includes Rez Project, an anti-oppression workshop that focuses on topics of sexual assault, gender, and sexuality.
First introduced in 2003 by residence floor fellows and students from the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS), and Queer McGill, Rez Project was created out of a need to educate students on issues of gender and sexuality so as to make residences a safer environment for all students.
Regardless of its mandate, however, Rez Project faces certain limitations. Speaking to The Daily in 2013, Chelsea Barnett and Annie Preston, who were Rez Project coordinators at the time, talked about how the reception of the anti-oppression workshops was far from consistent and the project itself was lacking in intersectionality.
In 2015, many of the same problems persist. One student, who completed Rez Project this year and wished to remained anonymous, pointed to the West-centric assumptions of the workshop.
“It seemed as though people with strong religious beliefs and people who grew up in [different cultures] were very taken aback by what was discussed.”
“It was automatically assumed that everyone grew up the same,” they told The Daily. “It seemed as though people with strong religious beliefs and people who grew up in [different cultures] were very taken aback by what was discussed, while also being judged by some of the volunteers.”
In response to concerns of Rez Project’s limited and West-centric focus, some McGill students have organized a new workshop titled Race Project, which will be mandatory for students in residence, beginning this January. However, many of Rez Project’s other shortcomings continue to go unaddressed.
Criticisms of Rez Project go beyond its content. According to a Rez Project facilitator who wished to remain anonymous, facilitator trainings are often rushed, leaving little time to discuss more complex issues.
Lucie Lastinger, another Rez Project facilitator, agreed, but added that it is not only the facilitator training that needs reworking, but also the selection of facilitators.
Lastinger told The Daily, “In one of my workshops we ended up talking a lot about intersex people, and I don’t think [that] was mentioned at all – or only mentioned once or twice – during the training session. But if you don’t know much about intersex people, it would have been really difficult to deal with that [discussion].”
Ki-eun Peck, who has been a Rez Project facilitator for the past two years, argued that the facilitators themselves could be part of the problem, noting that facilitators “can say problematic things” during a workshop.
“Especially if you have bad workshops with students who are very combative, [it becomes] very difficult.”
“The thing I liked last year, as compared to this year, was that in last year’s training session they specified that if you are a facilitator who is in a position of a lot of privilege, and you notice that you’re talking a lot or talking over your other co-facilitator, you should try and take up less space,” Peck told The Daily.
Due to time constraints and uninterested participants, the workshops themselves can be very draining and place a heavy burden on facilitators. Though coordinators do get paid, facilitating Rez Project is unpaid volunteer work that demands significant time and emotional energy.
“Especially if you have bad workshops with students who are very combative, [it becomes] very difficult,” Rhiana Warawa, another Rez Project facilitator, pointed out.
Responding to these concerns in an email to The Daily, Rez Project coordinators Kelly Schieder, Sophia Salem, and Kai O’Doherty stated that they “recognize and acknowledge the issues raised.”
“Rez Project is a huge undertaking, logistically, pedagogically, and culturally. […] We collect feedback and make improvements every year, and we look forward to continuing to evolve Rez Project for next year,” they continued.
Despite the criticism, students and facilitators stressed the importance of Rez Project.
Lastinger said, “[Rez Project] does a lot of productive work for people in residences. […] For example, in my first year, Rez Project was where I learned what the word cis meant.”
Nevertheless, Lastinger emphasized that Rez Project should not just be a one-time occurrence. “I don’t think it necessarily has to be as formal as another workshop, it could also just be incorporation of these values and discussions throughout the semester between the floor fellow and their students,” they said.
“When I was a student, that didn’t really happen for me […] but I think that’s an important aspect, to continue the education. You learn about this once, and then you forget what cis means. If you’re talking about it a lot, it becomes ingrained, and you realize these are important issues,” they continued.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Current burden on executives “not sustainable”
On November 26, three executives of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held an open forum in the SSMU Clubs Lounge focused on community input on SSMU’s planned restructuring. The executives present were VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke, VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik, and VP Finance and Operations Zacheriah Houston, as their portfolios are the ones most affected by the restructuring. The event was attended by around twenty students.
The restructuring is a response to a decade of expanding SSMU activities, which has increased the burden on each individual executive to an unsustainable level.
At the Fall 2015 SSMU General Assembly (GA), President Kareem Ibrahim noted that there were multiple restructuring proposals, the most extensively discussed being the addition of a seventh executive.
At the open forum, Rourke explained the decision to add a seventh executive instead of hiring more permanent staff, stating, “Every other staff [member] gets minimum wage, permanent staff get benefits, and we [as executives] work way more than full-time hours. So in terms of money for labour, [executives] are kind of the cheapest option for students.”
Alexei Simakov, a U4 International Development Studies student, asked whether the workload could be an “isolated situation” due to the recent resignations of SSMU General Manager (GM) Jennifer Varkonyi and VP Internal Lola Baraldi.
“Would it not naturally resolve itself if there [was] a GM, and there was a full-time VP Internal?” Simakov asked.
Rourke responded that this is not the only year that executives have been overworked, as is evident from past executives’ exit reports.
The SSMU executive contracts specify working seventy hours a week, but Houston said, “This year we have many executives working ninety to 100, or more than 100 hours a week.” Houston also said that executives often work more than seventy hours per week, “even in an average year.”
“That leaves little to no time to do anything to advance the portfolio. There are dozens of projects that I had thought I would like to achieve this year that are just not going to happen, because so much of my time is taken up with administrative work,” continued Houston.
“Executives are the foundation of SSMU.”
Other students disagreed with the idea that a seventh executive would solve SSMU’s problems. Omar El-Sharawy, a U1 Economics student and recently elected VP Internal, who was still a candidate at the time of the forum, talked about the lack of student trust in SSMU executives, citing the fact that the SSMU Accountability Committee, established in 2013 and mandated to meet every month, has not met once this year.
“How can I trust the people running these things if, when I vote for them, […] this shit still happens and I’m still not informed and people still aren’t held accountable?” asked El-Sharawy. “I don’t think [SSMU] needs to be reconstructed, the foundation of it has to be stronger so that we can build upon it.”
“Executives are the foundation of SSMU,” responded Rourke.
“We should fix the execs’ workload, and then we can start complaining about everything else,” concurred a student in the audience.
One student suggested adding only one executive may not even be enough, saying, “I’m okay with paying more if it means I’d be getting more.”
Alternate proposals from students also included creating a cyclical unit review committee to recommend changes to reform SSMU, with changes to be implemented through referendum.
The executives also clarified some logistical points about the addition of a seventh executive. When asked where the money for the position would come from, Houston responded that it was “to be determined,” but added that it would likely be sourced from reshuffling other staff salaries, saying that “in the long term, I’m not worried.”
Bialik explained that January 2016 would be devoted to student consultation and gathering feedback. If the response is favourable, a referendum to amend the SSMU Constitution will be called at the end of the month.
After about an hour of discussion and questions, the executives presented a breakdown of the current structure and the proposed redistribution of tasks.
Among other changes, the portfolio items Student Services and Mental Health would be reassigned from VP University Affairs to VP Clubs & Services, which would then be renamed to VP Student Life. VP Finance and Operations would separate into two positions, VP Finance and VP Operations. The newly created VP Operations position would be tasked in part with building management and student-run operations such as Gerts and MiniCourses.
Emphasizing the ramifications of overworked executives, Rourke said, “Eighty hours a week is not sustainable [or] equitable. I’m less of use to the people around me when I’ve worked that many hours a week. […] The decisions we are making are very important, significant decisions that affect students in a large capacity. The ones that really suffer at the end of the day are students.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
