The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Sexual harassment policy, accessibility on campus discussed
On September 24, McGill’s Senate convened for its first meeting of the 2015-16 academic year. The senators discussed, among other things, the probation of the undergraduate medicine program, three questions regarding McGill’s response to the Truth and Reconciliation report, McGill’s alleged violation of provincial Bill 100, and physical accessibility on campus. The senators also discussed the annual report on the Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment and Discrimination Prohibited by Law.
Before the meeting started, members of Divest McGill picketed outside the doors of Leacock room 232, where Senate meetings take place. The group was able to stop Principal Suzanne Fortier and talk to her before she made her way into the meeting.
Speaking to The Daily, Divest McGill organizer Kristen Perry said, “We had invited [Fortier] earlier in the week to come to some of [Fossil Free Week] events. And she said [that] she was looking out of her window, and [that] she didn’t see anything going on. And I think that’s really indicative of how disconnected she is from the university.”
“We have […] so many students, so many professors, so many community members out there in [Community] Square, supporting us and calling for a freeze on fossil fuel investments, calling for the Board [of Governors] to take the issue of divestment and climate change seriously – and she’s saying she sees nothing,” Perry continued.
Sam Quigley, another organizer with Divest McGill, explained that the group asked Fortier to support its request to freeze McGill’s investments in the fossil fuel industry when it was brought up at the Board of Governors meeting.
In an interview with The Daily, Fortier said, “My answer was that this is not only of my calling here. There’s a process. There’s a committee that looks after these issues. […] That’s where it would be considered. It would be inappropriate for me to express my own view. ”
On June 2, 2015, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) of Canada released its final report, after seven years of investigations regarding the colonial legacy of Canada.
In reaction to the TRC’s report, Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke and Arts Senator Erin Sobat asked the Senate: “Will McGill consider adopting a university-wide strategic plan on Indigenous education?” and “What efforts is McGill undertaking to build relationships with local Indigenous communities?”
In their written response to the question, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens and Dean of Students André Costopoulos talked about Portage McGill, a “new process to help [Indigenous] applicants and potentially other underrepresented groups gain admission to McGill.”
Speaking to Senate, Provost Christopher Manfredi said, “We’ve got, I think, an opportunity to be a leader in the full range from the […] recruitment and support of [Indigenous] students, to the research and teaching on […] Indigenous issues both in Canada and abroad.”
McGill has historically been hesitant to take symbolic steps such as moving the Hochelaga Rock to a more prominent position on campus or flying the Hiawatha Belt Flag on National Aboriginal Day. When asked by The Daily how the University is planning on becoming a leader in this area, Manfredi gave the example that Indigenous students are recognized as such when they graduate.
“We’ve [also] established the Indigenous Studies program. We’ve had an opportunity last spring to create some stability in that program by creating a tenure track position.”
In response to comments that most Indigenous rights initiatives on campus were led by students, Manfredi mentioned that the administration was receptive to student input throughout.
“I don’t think that’s true. With the Indigenous Studies [minor] I told the students that I had to be sure that students supported that program, and […] they rose to the challenge and they did it.”
Rourke and Sobat posed another question: “What current processes and evaluation procedures are in place within McGill’s decision-making structures to ensure the prioritization of physical accessibility on campus?”
Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures and Equity) Angela Campbell stated, “There are a list of things that [the Universal Access Capital Projects Working Group] wants to accomplish. So that committee works with a budget annually of $400,000 and it also works with the Office for Students with Disabilities, so I did see a list of things that are coming over.”
However, Campbell noted that she was unable to present a timeline for the projects.
In regards to the progress of accessibility, Campbell told Senate, “Our first meeting will happen in early November and it deals with things, not only physical access but also things like gender-neutral washrooms.”
Campbell also presented the annual report on the Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment and Discrimination Prohibited by Law. According to Campbell, “Last year, there were 23 cases brought forward, down from an average of 36 cases in the previous eight years.”
After Campbell presented Senate with various figures pertaining to sexual harassment at McGill, Fiona Ritchie, a senator and an associate professor in the Department of English, referred to The Daily’s feature “Let’s Talk about Teacher” (Features, page 11, September 1). She stated that at the end of the article, the writer expresses uncertainty with regards to what degree sexual harassment policy applies to student-faculty relationships, and that the writer’s “perception of the policy is that it is very unpleasant” for complainants. Ritchie went on to inquire if there was a problem with students not being aware that that policy was “something they [could] have recourse to,” and whether there could be something Senate could “do to change that situation.”
Campbell responded that “the policy is open to students and is used by students.” However, she added that they were looking “at ways to make the process not only more effective, but also […] to ensure that [those] coming forward [are] in circumstances that are safe for those who wish to make the disclosure.”
Another topic addressed at Senate was that of McGill’s undergraduate medicine program which was put under probation over the summer.
Dean of Medicine David Eidelman stated, “Every medical school’s dean’s nightmare is to be put on probation.”
However, despite this, Eidelman expressed that he was not extremely worried about the program staying accredited, as they intend to formally submit the plan to follow the accreditation body’s requirements by December 1, 2016. He also added that the Faculty of Medicine had quickly established a working chair in order to ensure that they had a response for each complaint.
Moreover, Eidelman added, “It’s a good opportunity for students [who have been] involved in every aspect [and] have been some of the most effective spokespeople.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Agreement serves as “foundation” for dialogue and future negotiations
After three years of negotiations, the McGill Course Lecturers & Instructors Union (MCLIU) reached its first collective agreement with the University during a Special General Assembly (SGA), held on September 18.
Originally certified in August 2011, and then re-certified in November 2013, MCLIU has worked toward harmonizing the working conditions of McGill lecturers and instructors in affiliation with the Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN) and the Fédération nationale des enseignantes et des enseignants du Québec (FNEEQ).
MCLIU’s collective agreement, which was ratified at the SGA with a 96 per cent majority vote, recognizes the implementation of grievance and progressive disciplinary procedures. Employees will also be given seniority in allocation of courses, paid sick leave, and parental leave rights, as well as associated benefits equivalent to full-time teachers.
“Our new work agreement […] represents substantial gains for our members,” said MCLIU President Raad Jassim. “The members will benefit from significant salary increases over the three years of the agreement, as well as the retroactive pay from January 2015. It should be noted that the course lecturers in this university in Montreal were the lowest paid in the province of Quebec.”
MCLIU Interim Communication and Mobilization Officer Jeanette Wong spoke on the obstacles the union faced while attempting negotiations with McGill. “When we asked for something, the [Administration] might say no, or refuse to really talk about it. If [they say] a complete no, we are facing a wall,” said Wong.
Despite a majority vote of 96 per cent and a successful collective agreement in the four years since accreditation, Wong says this agreement is only a foundation to build further improvements for working conditions upon. Wong added, “96 per cent is [a] high percentage, and you [could] say ‘Oh! we can celebrate now,’ but it is [just] our first collective agreement. Before that there was nothing […] so we just made one big giant step.”
“[The ratification] means the members […] have at least the foundation of a clear and transparent system. In that sense, yes, we have a full agreement […] but there are still things we need to negotiate in the future. […] The basis of foundation was really needed and we approved this foundation,” said Wong.
Wong also commented on how the improvement of job security for teachers would increase efficiency in the workplace, thus benefitting the university as a whole.
“It means a lot. It means to all McGill people, to the students, to the whole [of] McGill, that you see an improved quality of education. […] The instructors and course lecturers […] feel more secure at their work. They feel no threat from their employment. They can focus that energy to do research to develop professionally, to focus on what they do best: teaching,” Wong said.
Wong further discussed how the collective agreement is also a gesture of recognition for teachers, who make an important contribution to McGill, stating that “[the collective agreement] also means that these teachers have been recognized as part of McGill. It is important that we’re not just teaching year by year, term by term, without knowing what is coming next.”
MCLIU Vice President and Chair of the Bargaining Committee Ahmad Munir expressed that he expected the agreement to positively impact the education quality for McGill students. Munir also noted that students play an important role in the issue, as all students benefit from a better educational environment, and many students advocate for the Union.
“Our slogan is ‘We Are McGill.’ It is very important that ‘we,’ course lecturers and instructors, contribute [to] the education mission of McGill with peace of mind to pursue our maximum abilities in teaching, research, and professional development. Better working conditions of instructors have a direct impact on the quality of education,” stated Munir.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Rallies, discussions, and events raise awareness on climate change
During the week of September 21, Divest McGill organized Fossil Free Week, a series of rallies, discussions, and other events that aimed to convince McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG) and its Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR) to freeze its investments in the fossil fuel industry.
The first event organized as part of Divest McGill’s Fossil Free Week was a student discussion on “Intersectionality of Justice and Coalition Building,” and took place on September 21. Students from diverse groups such as McGill Students for UNICEF, Demilitarize McGill, McGill Students for Feminisms, and the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), came together to show the different connections between climate justice and various other systems of oppression.
Emily Boytinck, SSMU VP External and a Divest McGill organizer, spoke on how Quebec’s austerity measures are detrimental to the environment. Boytinck used the example of Plan Nord, which aims to develop more mining and extraction projects in Northern Quebec. According to the Liberal government, this is to balance the budget.
“When we’re talking about fossil free, [when] we’re talking about climate justice, it’s really important to recognize that this government’s attempts to balance the budget […] make [it] more likely to approve projects that would have detrimental impacts, not only to Quebec’s environment, but [also] to global carbon emissions,” Boytinck said.
Maud Nathalie Édouardine and Morgane Juliat, representatives from McGill Students for UNICEF, explained that climate change disproportionately affects children. “[Children] are the least responsible for climate change, yet they’re the ones that are going to be most affected by it in the long term,” Édouardine said.
Mona Luxion, PhD candidate in Urban Planning, Demilitarize McGill organizer, and former Daily columnist, spoke about the relationship between militarism and environmental degradation. “The amount of fossil fuels used by the military is ridiculous,” Luxion said. “Research on the American military [has] suggested that it is actually the largest fossil fuel user and the largest greenhouse gas emitter in the world, making up about 5 per cent of the world’s fossil fuel consumption.”
Lastly, Paniz Khosroshahy, speaking on behalf of McGill Students for Feminisms, referred to the United Nations, which recently reported that “climate justice is a gendered issue and affects women more gravely.” Khosroshahy explained that all oppression is interrelated and phenomena like climate change only work to exacerbate the conditions of women and other groups who are already marginalized.
On September 23, Divest McGill held a rally at Community Square in front of the James Administration building. Students and community members convened to hear speeches, chant, and share their reasons for supporting McGill’s divestment from the fossil fuel industry, under a frame that read “I want McGill to divest because…”
Speakers included two McGill alumni: Karel Mayrand, Director General for Quebec and Atlantic Canada with the David Suzuki Foundation and chair of Al Gore’s Climate Reality Project in Canada, and Camil Bouchard, a former member of Quebec’s National Assembly. Mayrand and Bouchard both declared that if by March 30 McGill has not divested from fossil fuels, they will hand back their degrees, and urged other alumni to join them.
“We are no longer able to identify ourselves with an institution which blindfolds itself for the sake of small and irresponsible returns,” said Mayrand.
The rally also heard from Vanessa Gray, a tar sands activist from the Aamjiwnaang First Nation reserve near Sarnia, Ontario. Gray spoke about the impact of Enbridge’s Line 9B Reversal proposal, which would transport tar sands bitumen oil through her reserve, all the way to Montreal.
“We are no longer able to identify ourselves with an institution which blindfolds itself for the sake of small and irresponsible returns.”
Although many Canadians are unaware of the disproportionate impact of oil pipelines on Indigenous peoples, “there are Indigenous communities on the front lines who have no choice – they have to defend their land and their lungs,” Gray said.
Derek Nystrom, a professor in the Department of English, gave a speech on behalf of McGill Faculty and Librarians for Divestment. “McGill […] is in direct contradiction to many of the things that we’re trying to teach our students in our classes,” said Nystrom.
Divest McGill organizers then led the crowd in chants, which were filmed to be sent to Stuart “Kip” Cobbett, the chair of the BoG and CAMSR. Chloé Laflamme, an organizer with Divest McGill, told The Daily that Cobbett’s response to the week of mobilization was that “the Board could not take a public stance on fossil fuel divestment because [Cobbett] thinks it would be to ‘prejudge the issue.’”
Jenny Fryer, a U2 international development studies and political science student, expressed a desire for still greater student engagement with Divest McGill’s efforts. “I think McGill, as a huge campus and a huge community, could definitely have a better showing at things like this,” said Fryer.
“These movements tend to underrepresent minorities and groups that really deserve more of a voice.” Fryer added that one reason for this might be the fact that “we’re on a campus that isn’t as diverse as I would want it to be in a perfect world.”
Iain Childerhose, a U4 urban studies and Canadian studies student, told The Daily, “You really need to stand by what you say, obviously. Divest has been going for two and a half years and there haven’t been any changes, so it might take five years working with like-minded organizations to see real changes.”
“I’ve seen this with a number of other similarly critical organizations on campus. You’ll have one really strong year where you’ll have a bunch of people who have been involved for a while, and then they graduate and then it takes a few more years of education for people to be as mobile,” Childerhose commented. “So the University knows that if they stall for a little bit, then it’ll take some rebuilding of the student organizations.”
“I worry because it’s such a huge bureaucracy,” said Fryer. “There’s so much red tape. […] It’s a lot of money and it’s a big system. But I really hope that they do [divest], that they’re smart enough to, and that they can go down on the right side of history.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Events bring attention to Indigenous cultures
From September 21 to 25, the Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) office hosted McGillís annual Indigenous Awareness Week. During the week-long series of events, participants honoured and celebrated Indigenous cultures in McGill and beyond, with the aim of increasing awareness. Events included a speech by Truth and Reconciliation Commissioner Marie Wilson, a Kairos blanket exercise, dreamcatcher making workshops, and much more.
On September 24, organizers of Indigenous Awareness Week held a symposium on the gendered nature of colonialism and activism by Indigenous women, featuring a talk by Audra Simpson, a Mohawk woman from Kahnawake.
Simpson is a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, and author of Mohawk Interruptus, a book about the struggles of Mohawk people in so-called Quebec to maintain political sovereignty. At the talk, Simpson shared one of her new articles, which describes the way society overlooks the Indigenous movements which are organized and led by Indigenous women.
The catalyst for Simpson’s article was a 2004 interview with Yasser Arafat, former leader of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, who said Palestinians “are not red Indians,” implying there might actually be hope for the Palestinian struggle against colonialism, whereas colonialism has triumphed over Indigenous groups in the U.S. and Canada. This idea that Indigenous groups have bowed down to colonial forces and are no longer capable of effective resistance, Simpson noted, is commonly held, but is also completely false, and stems from a broader lack of understanding of Indigenous histories and societies.
Simpson described how colonialism is known only by “inaccurate and heroic versions of what is fundamentally a dispossession – a scene of stealing.”
Simpson also described how colonialism is known only by “inaccurate and heroic versions of what is fundamentally a dispossession – a scene of stealing.” She explained how the concept of sharing, perpetuated by stories such as those told at Thanksgiving, paint a picture of equality and camaraderie between settlers and Indigenous peoples, hiding the betrayal of Indigenous nations and the “dismembering violence and wars that raged on for hundreds of years.” Simpson also noted how the treaties between Indigenous peoples and Canada can create the semblance of a consenting relationship between the state and Indigenous communities, which does not do justice to the realities of their tortured and oppressive relationship.
Simpson argued Indigenous peoples have not failed in their resistance of colonialism, and “persist with their sovereignty intact in spite of the grinding historical and political process of settler colonialism.” Groups such as the Sioux have not only been resisting colonialism for centuries, but have continued to militantly defend their territories, saying they will under no circumstances allow the Keystone XL pipeline to pass through their lands. Simpson also noted that Indigenous women spearheaded the movement to raise awareness about missing and murdered Indigenous women and play a central role in Indigenous resistance.
Rachel Baker, a French language and literature Master’s student said, “[Simpson] has an ability to frame the issues in a context that is just not available to me as a non-Indigenous woman, and also I certainly don’t have her level of scholarship either. It definitely informed me of the larger contexts.”
The symposium was co-hosted by the the Institute for Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies (IGSF). “For us at IGSF, this is not a one-off – this is the start of something that we want to commit to and we want to hear like a beat over the course of the year and over the course of years to come,” a representative from IGSF said during the talk. She noted that IGSF will be offering a course on Indigenous feminisms in the upcoming Winter 2016 semester.
—Jill Bachelder
The seminar “Reflections on the Truth & Reconciliation with Aboriginal People” took place on September 23. It was facilitated by Michael Loft, a member of the Kanien’kehá:ka (Mohawk) community of Kahnawake and an academic associate at the McGill School of Social Work.
Loft is an intergenerational survivor – his father, Mitchell, attended a residential school for 11 years, followed by Loft, who also attended an “Indian Day School” for three years. At the event, Loft shared his personal experiences of overcoming challenges despite spending his childhood at an Indian Day School. He also spoke on how “respect, responsibility, and cooperation can work” to achieve reconciliation.
Loft described residential schools as “institutions of cultural and linguistic genocide, leaving survivors with no education and emotionally unattached to endure the abuse inflicted upon others and themselves.”
“Even after coming out [of the residential schools], love is so deeply buried in your soul, [it doesn’t] come out right half the time. All you’re left with is the feeling of shame, fear of authority. How do you be cool in a situation like that?” Loft said.
At the seminar, Loft spoke on the significance of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) as an attempt to understand history, despite it being emotionally draining for the survivors, who have to relive their experiences.
“Even after coming out [of the residential schools], love is so deeply buried in your soul, [it doesn’t] come out right half the time. All you’re left with is the feeling of shame, fear of authority. How do you be cool in a situation like that?”
He showed the audience a poem titled “Monster” written by Dennis Saddleman, a survivor who attended a residential school for seven years.
In the poem, which Saddleman read at a TRC gathering in Ottawa, he compares his residential school experience to a monster that took away his native culture and childhood.
“I hate you residential school, I hate you. / You’re a monster. / A huge hungry monster. / Built with steel bones. Built with cement flesh. / You’re a monster,” Saddleman writes.
Loft encouraged the audience to engage with the poem in smaller groups. “When [Saddleman] talks about that monster, I heard about that monster,” Loft said, adding, “I don’t know how many times I heard about the monster over the course of my career.”
In addition, Loft told the audience reconciliation between Indigenous people and Canadians, although an inevitable process, can only be reached by honouring past treaties and through mutual respect.
Loft said, “There has to be a responsibility somewhere to set that right. […] Let’s settle something. Deal’s a deal.”
—Rayleigh Lee
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
