The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
More than 600 attend march in downtown Montreal

Updated on November 21.
On November 17, more than 600 teachers and public sector workers marched through downtown Montreal as part of their two-day strike announced on October 2.
The demonstrators at the march hailed from a variety of different sectors, represented provincially by the Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN) and the Centrale des syndicats du Québec (CSQ).
Demonstrators convened at Place du Canada at approximately 10:30 a.m.. From there, they marched east until McGill College, at which point they turned north. Once on Sherbrooke, the demonstrators marched west and eventually made their way back to Place du Canada.
The march was organized in part by the Front commun, a coalition of public sector unions. According to a Front commun security volunteer, the itinerary of the demonstration was given beforehand to the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM), meaning that it was considered legal under municipal bylaw P-6.
Last week’s strike marked the end of a series of rotating strikes that started in the Laurentians on October 26. The Front commun was expected to hold three consecutive days of striking from December 1 to 3 across health and education sectors. However, it decided against these strike days on November 18.
“It’s clear that [education has] become a question of dollars and cents. […] That’s now the bottom line for all public services: health, education, welfare.”
Speaking to The Daily at the march, Sara Iatauro, an educational consultant at the English Montreal School Board, explained that her biggest concern is the decline in the quality of students’ education as a result of the provincial government’s proposed budget cuts. Students with learning disabilities will be those most severely affected, Iatauro said.
“[The government is] looking to take away codes. Basically, students, if they have special needs, they’re coded, and it gives them extra services in the classroom,” Iatauro said.
“For example, if you have a student who has ADHD [attention deficit hyperactivity disorder] or ADD [attention deficit disorder], they need extra time, extra services, extra space, where they can get the attention they need, so they can be more successful. […] They need the resources that will help them, give them better strategies to learn,” Iatauro continued.
On November 6, public sector workers rejected the government’s latest contract offer, on the grounds that the improvements offered were negligible. Teachers have been without a new contract since April.
Paul Jones, who has been a teacher in Quebec for more than 40 years, attended the march and told The Daily that his classroom today is very different than it was when he started teaching.
“You can’t separate the teacher from the student. If our reality is worsening, then so is theirs.”
“When I was hired as a teacher, I had about 28 students in my classroom. I’m up to now 40. I started the semester with 45. That’s one concrete example of what the government’s idea is – that we can do more with less,” Jones said.
“It’s clear that [education has] become a question of dollars and cents. […] That’s now the bottom line for all public services: health, education, welfare. […] It’s all now based on this mantra, which is a bunch of bullshit […] that somehow ‘zero-deficit’ is a sacred goal that all society should meet,” Jones continued.
Jean-Michel Sotiron, a professor at John Abbott College, said that he was at the march for a “brighter future,” and argued that teachers’ working conditions directly inform the quality of education they can provide.
Sotiron explained, “The neoliberal government has been […] trying to undermine the public sector. […] I don’t think that’s the proper way of doing things. That will lead to more suffering, greater cleavages in society. […] Together we can build something better.”
“You can’t separate the teacher from the student. If our reality is worsening, then so is theirs,” Sotiron said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
CKUT fee increase referendum fails, Safety Network Fee created
Alexei Simakov failed to win the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP Internal by-election, Elections SSMU announced on November 15. Overall, 16.7 per cent of eligible voters turned out to vote in the by-election and the Fall Referendum.
Simakov, the sole candidate left running for the VP Internal position after his opponent Céleste Pagniello withdrew, was not elected, with 51.7 per cent of voters voting “no.”
Pagniello withdrew from the electoral race on November 11. In a statement made public by Elections SSMU, Pagniello said, “Due to personal attacks and threats directed towards my family, and myself, I have decided not to continue with my campaign to be VP Internal of SSMU. These messages have escalated far beyond the appropriate level of a student government campaign, and I have decided to end this campaign in order to protect myself and all parties involved.”
The nomination period for another VP Internal by-election began on November 16. Students who wish to run for the VP Internal position are expected to submit their nomination packages by 5 p.m. on November 20.
The question to increase the opt-outable CKUT fee by $1.50 per student per semester failed, with 54.7 per cent of the voters voting “no.”
A similar question was put to referendum among Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) members in October. Although it was initially announced that the question had failed, the question passed with 51 per cent support after ineligible votes were discounted.
The referendum question regarding the creation of a Safety Network Fee passed, with 75.3 per cent of the voters voting “yes.” Accordingly, SSMU will create a single non-opt outable fee of $3.97 per undergraduate student, which will be collected starting in the Winter 2016 semester. A fee renewal motion will be brought back to the SSMU membership in Winter 2021.
Two plebiscite questions were asked during the voting period. A plebiscite question is not binding in nature, but serves to gauge the interest of the student body toward a particular topic.
The first question asked, “Do you support the SSMU focusing more of its energy on developing projects to increase the financial accessibility of commodities, such as student housing and food cooperatives, for students?”
This question received a “yes” vote from 79 per cent of all voters.
The second question was in two parts. The first part asked if students would be willing to pay a small per-semester fee for the Old McGill Yearbook if all students would be eligible to receive a copy upon graduation with no additional fee.
The second part of the question asked whether students would want to make that fee opt-outable, with the understanding that those who opted out of the fee would not be able to receive a yearbook.
The first part of the question received a “yes” vote from 56.9 per cent of students, while 76.6 per cent voted “yes” for the second part.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
