The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Motion passed to condemn potential destruction of McGill property
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council adopted a climate change policy at its meeting on October 15. The decision came after a two-hour debate, in which both councillors and non-members spoke on the motion.
In addition, Council discussed a motion to release a statement in response to a call to action from the McGill Students for Vandalisms Collective. Council also approved two referendum questions, one asking for an increase in the CKUT fee levy and the other with regard to the creation of a Safety Network Fee.
Motivating the motion to adopt the climate change policy, VP External Emily Boytinck said, “I am honestly just very relieved that we’re talking about it [at] Council today.”
The proposal for a climate change policy first emerged in the 2014-15 academic year. A motion passed during the Fall 2014 General Assembly (GA) mandated former VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette to draft a policy on the matter.
On April 9, an early draft of the climate change policy was brought to Council. At that meeting, current VP Finance and Operations Zachariah Houston, a Science Representative at the time, brought up concerns that students from the faculties of Science and Engineering had not been consulted adequately.
As a result, the policy was referred to a special committee and brought back to Council in Fall 2015.
Medicine Representative Joshua Chin, joining Council through Skype, motioned to add the phrase “non-violent” to article 7.2 of the policy, which states that “SSMU shall support a diversity of tactics needed to address climate change effectively and equitably,” and to add the World Health Organization’s definition of violence as article 2.5.
Chin argued, “It is important for SSMU to emphasize its support of non-violent means of protest and opposition and not give carte blanche to activities such as vandalism, looting, defacing buildings, or attacks on persons.”
“Who gets to  define what violent is?”
Boytinck expressed her opposition to the amendment, arguing that the word violent has been widely used to discredit various social movements, such as the Black Lives Matter movement.
“The media portrays [Black Lives Matter] as violent. Who gets to define what violent is? I think even our [proposed] violence definition, which Joshua Chin is suggesting, talks about psychological harm and that leaves it open to things like property damage, which I personally do not consider to be violence,” Boytinck explained.
Arts Representative Adam Templer was in favour of Chin’s amendment, arguing that not including a definition of violence and an emphasis on non-violence would set a “dangerous precedent for future SSMU motions.”
Templer said, “Generally, I just think that this would be setting an unpleasant precedent for the SSMU, and I think that SSMU, as an organization, needs to support only non-violent tactics.”
In the end the amendment failed with more than two thirds of councillors voting against it.
Once the debate regarding the amendment was over, Engineering Representative Malcolm McClintock took the floor to thank the movers for the consultation, but expressed the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS)’s opposition to the policy.
“It is part of the mandate of [EUS] since 2013 to support the environmentally responsible and ethical development of oil sand industry. […] This motion inherently opposes that, not to mention it supports a politically charged group, namely Divest McGill. […] A large portion of our constituents benefit and have invested, both educationally and occupationally, their time into this industry,” McClintock explained.
However, Joey Broda, a U4 Chemical Engineering student and a member of Divest McGill, expressed that not all engineers felt the same way.
“A large portion of our constituents benefit and have invested, both educationally and occupationally, their time into this industry.”
“We understand, as people who are scientifically literate, that climate change is an important issue. As engineers and scientists, we further realize that when a company starts funding bunk science and when they start launching major media and political campaigns to undermine what scientists are saying – that is an attack on the credibility of scientists and engineers,” Broda said.
In the end, the policy was adopted with 21 votes in favour, two against, and three abstentions.
Arts and Science Representative Matthew Satterthwaite brought a motion from the floor regarding a SSMU response to “#RememberThis: a call for campus alterations,” an article that was published on the Demilitarize McGill website, and was attributed to the McGill Students for Vandalisms Collective.
“Demilitarize McGill is a group who draws a lot of support from SSMU and SSMU does support and provide resources for Demilitarize McGill. In my view, it’s appropriate to be pre-emptive about this issue,” said Satterthwaite.
Boytinck, however, said, “[Demilitarize McGill is] a controversial group, so it may be really tempting to just automatically condemn them when we think that they might have done something which might be problematic. But I urge everybody to take a step back and really consider the facts here.”
Following an hour-long debate, councillors decided to amend the motion to reaffirm SSMU’s support for “dialogues surrounding alternative narratives of history on campus, particularly those surrounding issues of anti-oppression and social justice,” and its disapproval of “actions that could be destructive to property on McGill’s campus.”
This version of the motion was adopted with 13 votes in favour, ten against, and three abstentions. SSMU will be publishing the polished statement on its website.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panelists hope equity at university will carry over into industry
On October 6, the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) Equity Committee held its second annual Forum on Diversity and Inclusivity in Engineering. The event aimed to build on the momentum created following a conversation on equity in engineering started last year.
The keynote speaker was Brie Code who, until recently, was the lead programmer at Ubisoft Montreal. Code worked on the Assassin’s Creed video game series as well as Child of Light, and was a founding member of the UbiDiversity team.
Code spoke primarily about the plight of women in the gaming industry, who face essentialization and biased hiring practices, such as how an interviewer “may just be looking to hire someone that reminds them of themselves.” Women experience pressure to assimilate in an industry dominated by men that is often hostile to those who do not fit the “geek identity,” she said.
“If you work in an industry where you’re not part of the dominant group, you won’t always fit in,” she cautioned. “I won’t sugarcoat it, it’s not always easy.”
She further commented on the links between diversity and a company’s corporate performance, and her efforts through UbiDiversity to reconceptualize diversity. “It’s not a hassle, it’s an advantage,” she said.
“I think we have to acknowledge that, as students, we can only do so much. We leave after four years. The faculty is here for a long time.”
“There’s a strong link between diversity and innovation, but just in general, diverse teams perform better, especially on complex tasks,” she noted.
The panel which followed included Code as well as Adeola Odusanya, the president of the McGill chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE); Tynan Jarrett, Equity Educational Advisor (LGBTTQ) for the Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) office; and Susan Gaskin, a professor in the Department of Civil Engineering.
The panelists discussed how to make marginalized groups feel more included in McGill’s Engineering faculty, where the most visible demographic is still white men. The EUS Equity Committee, along with other student initiatives like Promoting Opportunities for Women in Engineering (POWE), Queer Engineer, and NSBE, have been working to make the faculty more inclusive and diverse.
“Equity is becoming much more embedded at every level at McGill,” said Jarrett.
While some panelists expressed hope that the equity work being done at McGill would carry into the industry as students graduate and begin working, others cautioned eager new graduates about the challenges they would face in large corporate environments.
“Sometimes you have to put your head down to get to where you want to be, but once you’re there, you need to pull people up with you,” said Code. “Find allies, be careful; but if the company is making you uncomfortable, there are systemic problems. Coming in from the outside, you’re not going to fix them.”
One participant expressed frustration with Code seemingly encouraging women to passively accept some discrimination as an unavoidable part of the corporate environment. “As an impatient young person who is going to start working, I feel like I always have to wait to pick my battles because I’m not in a position of power,” commented the participant.
While the conversation primarily addressed issues of sexism and, to a lesser extent, racism, issues regarding cissexism, heteronormativity, and ableism were absent from the conversation.
As student initiatives spearhead work to increase diversity in engineering, some students expressed a desire for the administration to pay more attention to the issue.
EUS Equity Commissioner Emilie Froeliger noted, “Recently, the whole push for diversity has come from students.”
“That kind of woke up the faculty. […] We’ve seen that they’ve taken a stand recently and they’ve actually been proactive about wanting to [enact] change in the faculty. I think we have to acknowledge that, as students, we can only do so much. We leave after four years. The faculty is here for a long time,” Froeliger added.
Dean of Engineering Jim Nicell told The Daily that the Faculty of Engineering’s work on diversity is concentrated on making the admissions process more attractive and accessible to diverse students.
“The real issue with undergraduates is, is there a way of lowering the barriers […] to a more diverse group of people actually applying to our school?” said Nicell. “We want to cast the net wide to make sure that all know that they’re fully welcome and supported while they’re here.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators declare, “Refugees are welcome”
A round 500 people met at Place Norman-Bethune on October 10 to participate in a march against deportations, organized by Solidarity Across Borders, the Non-Status Action Committee, the Action Committee Against the Dominican Republic’s 168-13 Declaration, and the Let’s Unite Campaign.
The march was organized to start right after an earlier protest that same day against the Energy East and Enbridge pipelines, organized by Étudiant(e)s contre les oléoducs (ÉCO); some demonstrators from this previous march joined the protest against deportations to show inter-movement solidarity.
Before the protest started, activists representing various migrant justice organizations and campaigns gave speeches.The first person to speak was Ellen Gabriel, a Kanien’kehá:ka (Mohawk) activist from Kanehsatà:ke, a Mohawk community which was besieged by the Canadian army and Suréte du Québec (SQ) police during the Oka Crisis 25 years ago.
Speaking to the crowd, Gabriel said, “I say to the people who are immigrants or are people who are families of migrant workers, we know how you feel, because that’s how Indigenous people have felt.”
“We have been told that we do not have rights to our land. We are dealt with like homeless in our homeland, and when we cross borders – the imposed borders on our traditional territory – to visit our relatives on what is known as the United States, we have to have identification that’s issued from the Government of Canada, the colonizer,” Gabriel continued.
Another speaker was Serge Bouchereau, head of the Non-Status Action Committee, who spoke about the troubles faced by Zimbabweans, and by Dominicans of Haitian origins.
“I say to the people who are immigrants or are people who are families of migrant workers, we know how you feel, because that’s how Indigenous people have felt.”
“We have sent a letter to Prime Minister [Stephen] Harper, who has refused us reception and has delegated this letter to his Minister [of Citizenship and Immigration Chris] Alexander. And until now, until this moment at which I’m speaking to you, we’ve had no response from Mr. Harper.” Bouchereau told the crowd in French.
To illustrate his point, Bouchereau mentioned the plight of a family who was present at the march. The family includes three children, one of whom was born in Canada. The family was sent a deportation letter on September 18 and are expected to leave Canada by October 17.
“Since when does the law allow for the deportation of Canadian citizens?” Bouchereau asked the crowd.
Franz André, a spokesperson for the Action Committee Against the Dominican Republic’s 168-13 Declaration, explained that Dominicans of Haitian origins are also discriminated against in the Dominican Republic.
The 168-13 Declaration, made by the Constitutional Court of the Dominican Republic, retroactively revoked the citizenship of people of Haitian origins who had migrated to the Dominican Republic since 1929 or who are descendants of these people born in the Dominican Republic.
“We currently have a situation in the Dominican Republic where more than a quarter million Dominicans have had their citizenships revoked since September 23, 2013. These are people who have lost all of their civic rights, who cannot go to school, who cannot use health services, who cannot travel, who cannot acquire passports,” André told the crowd in French.
“It’s obvious that the Harper government is detrimental to basic human rights and especially when it comes to refugees.”
Robert McBryde, a member of the Council of Canadians, told The Daily that it is important to show solidarity with refugees and immigrants.
“It’s obvious that the Harper government is detrimental to basic human rights and especially when it comes to refugees. […] We have to push from a grassroots level so that political parties will adopt more – in this case – refugee-friendly policies,” McBryde said.
After the speeches, the demonstrators marched east on Ste. Catherine towards Phillips Square, chanting “So-so-so-solidarité, avec les refugés, avec les sans-papiers” (“So-so-so-solidarity with refugees, with the undocumented”).
Solidarity Across Borders, on principle, refused to provide the itinerary to the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM), thereby making the march illegal under municipal by-law P-6. Even though the police did not declare the march illegal, the demonstrators were accompanied by riot police.
Upon the arrival of the march at the corner of Ste. Catherine and Union, riot police initially prevented the demonstrators from entering the square. In response, the sound system truck that had been leading the march started to play music and the demonstrators danced and chanted in the middle of the street.
Eventually, the police yielded and the demonstrators entered the square to hang a banner that read “Open the borders!” on the monument of King Edward VIII, while continuing to sing and dance.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Clubs bemoan inadequate consultation
Starting this month, the assigned club spaces on the fourth floor of the Shatner building will be converted to general bookable spaces, as reported by the McGill Tribune. This decision was made over the summer by Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP Clubs and Services Kimber Bialik, in consultation with the SSMU Clubs Representative and Services Representative, giving clubs with existing offices until Thanksgiving weekend to move out of their offices.
Only SSMU clubs have been affected by this decision; SSMU services, such as Queer McGill, the Union for Gender Empowerment, and Elections SSMU, will keep their offices.
One of the clubs affected by this decision is the McGill Outdoors Club (MOC), which is one of the largest student clubs under SSMU, runs the largest non-faculty frosh, and previously had a gear room and office on the fourth floor.
Currently, the MOC is being asked to leave its office, but has been given an extended deadline of May 2016 to move out of their office, but is hoping to keep it.
MOC President and former Daily Editor Chris Mills told The Daily that the MOC’s operations and membership will be heavily affected by this decision, especially in terms of renting out gear to students.
“These two rooms are critical to the operation of the club,” Mills said. “If we didn’t have our gear room we would probably sell our gear and stop doing gear rentals. We would be able to run office hours, but you would see far fewer people becoming members, far fewer people being able to come to trips.”
According to Mills, this is not the only issue the MOC has had with SSMU. Mills said that on May 21 of this year, previous VP Clubs & Services Stefan Fong sent an email to the MOC at 1:17 p.m. giving them overnight notice to move out their gear for renovations. The Shatner building closes at 5 p.m. during the summer, giving the MOC less than four hours to vacate the office.
“[Bialik] knows the importance of the gear room, because over the summer, when we had to move all of our gear out, it was made very clear to SSMU how important this was, how much stuff we had, how critical the gear room was to the operation of the club. They had a very good idea.”
“It came kind of as a surprise. There was barely any lead up to it. So I feel like there was limited communication. […] The past system was more fair than the new one because of the application process.”
According to Mills, SSMU has also been pushing the MOC to become an independent student group (ISG), like the Tribune Publications Society or the Legal Information Clinic, which would require the club to negotiate a lease for office space as a separate entity from SSMU as well as negotiate a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with McGill for student fees. Despite a years-long ongoing conversation regarding the MOC becoming an ISG, Mills said that it wasn’t until the beginning of the school year that the MOC was notified of the impending reallocation plans.
“I spent all summer talking to Kimber about potentially becoming an ISG, and about [a] bunch of other things. So it’s [a] fairly deliberate failure to communicate [the fact that] if [we] remain a club [we would] no longer have these offices starting in 2016. It’s exactly the same time we were talking about becoming an ISG [that the fact that we need to leave was mentioned.]”
Jency Zhen, a U2 Finance student and VP Communications of the Hong Kong Student Network (HKSN), claimed that the decision to remove clubs from the fourth floor has been made arbitrarily with limited consultation.
“I don’t think we’ve really gotten a say in this, because it’s mostly been just email notifications on what is going to happen, and not really asking for feedback, asking if this was fair,” Zhen said in an interview with The Daily.
“It came kind of as a surprise. There was barely any lead up to it. So I feel like there was limited communication,” Zhen continued. “The past system was more fair than the new one because of the application process.”
Speaking to The Daily, Bialik argued that the previous system, because it was application based, yielded an inequitable distribution of space. According to Bialik, given the shortage of space in the Shatner building, SSMU could allocate office space to only approximately thirty clubs each year. One specific problem that Bialik mentioned was the arbitrary nature of the phased-out allocation process.
“I absolutely think it’s a fair decision, and I definitely think it’s the direction we need to be moving in.”
“Because all the groups would provide the same reason why they needed an office, there was no coherence in why groups were being granted [an] office. […] It is a very, very inequitable distribution of space as it stands,” Bialik told The Daily.
“The fourth floor of [the Shatner building] is intended to be a community space that benefits all of our student groups. By picking thirty every year that we’re able to offer space to, that really detracts from what the other 200, that get nothing, are […] able to do.”
Mills criticized the consultation process that was undertaken as part of the decision, arguing that sending out a survey was not enough.
“The sole thing that’s pointing to saying that this was a consultation is there was a survey put out last semester. It did not specifically anywhere say ‘what do you think about the idea of taking all the fourth floor and turning them into storage space and taking offices away from everyone?’ It said things like ‘what would you like to see more of?’, ‘check this box for more bookable room space,’ ‘check this box for more booking hours.’ So yes, lots of clubs will check those boxes, [but] we were essentially not consulted about this specific measure.”
Bialik told The Daily that the decision was a result of extensive consultation between the SSMU Clubs Reprsentative, the Service Representatives, and herself.
“It was a difficult situation because the decision needed to be made over the summer. No clubs are active for the most time in the summer, [but] any club that came to speak to me at my office hours, [I] talked to them about it. […] It wasn’t feasible to reach out to everyone individually over the summer,” Kimber said. “A lot of the consultation actually went through the Club representatives to SSMU Council.”
“This decision has been in the works for months now. I absolutely think it’s a fair decision, and I definitely think it’s the direction we need to be moving in. […] I really think that this is a move towards a more equitable distribution of space, and it’s going to benefit so many more groups than we were able to benefit before,” commented Bialik.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Karel Mayrand and Camil Bouchard talk with The Daily
At a Divest McGill rally held on September 23 as part of Fossil Free Week, alumni Karel Mayrand and Camil Bouchard announced their intent to return their diplomas if McGill failed to freeze its investments in the fossil fuel industry. Mayrand is the director general of the David Suzuki Foundation for Quebec and the chair of Al Gore’s Climate Reality Project in Canada. Bouchard was a professor at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) for over thirty years, where he developed a research centre for human and social ecology. The Daily spoke to Mayrand and Bouchard about climate change, McGill’s reputation and financial management, and the responsibilities of alumni.
The McGill Daily (MD): Can you tell me what your plan is regarding returning your diplomas to McGill?
Karel Mayrand (KM): [During Fossil Free Week] we called upon all McGill alumni to join us in asking McGill University to divest from fossil fuels, and we’re giving McGill until March 30 to announce its intention to divest. Otherwise, we will come back with a group of alumni and hand back our diplomas on that date.
MD: What are the implications of McGill failing to divest?
KM: If we exploit all the fossil fuels that are currently in the reserves of fossil fuel companies, we will end up warming the planet by over four degrees [Celsius]. It’s not possible to combine our civilization with four degrees of warming.
If we say that we’re going to address the climate risk, as countries and businesses are [doing], it means that the value of these fossil fuel assets will fall, will actually collapse; because the value of fossil fuel assets is based on the potential of exploiting the entire reserves of fossil fuels that are in the books of these companies. So if we say that we’re only going to exploit 20, or 25, or 50, or 60 per cent of these reserves, it means the value [of the investment] will fall by that much. You’re investing in a stock that will be a “stranded asset” soon. 
So if you’re to keep your investment in fossil fuels, you’re making a bet that the world will not be acting decisively on climate. […] It’s a completely unethical posture for any investor to say, ‘I’m betting on the destruction of the planet.’ 
MD: Some people have said that McGill divesting would be just a symbolic gesture rather than an actually effective economic tactic. They argue that divestment will only serve to cause fossil fuel prices to drop and create an opportunity for other value-hunting investors to pick up shares at a discount.
“The fossil fuel folks have never had any concerns about energy poverty, or delivering cheap energy to the masses.”
KM: I think that argument has some value. But at the same time, if you look at the value of assets in the coal sector right now, they’ve been falling for four or five years. And I don’t see people rushing and saying, ‘Wow, coal is cheap now, I’m going to buy more coal!’ It’s actually the contrary that’s happening. 
You see major investment funds in the world – for example, the Norway investment fund, the California pension fund, Stanford, Oxford – divesting from coal. […] Mainly, they do this because they’re losing so much money by staying in coal. That’s a sign of the times, I believe. It’s a sign that there’s a massive shift of investment money that’s going to occur in the next couple years from fossil fuels toward other, cleaner energy sources that are delivering much more interesting returns.
MD: Do you think that the investment in alternate energy sources is happening at a rate that is able to keep up with our movement away from fossil fuels? The worry is that the choice is between energy poverty [leaving low-income people without energy] and slowing climate change.
KM: The fossil fuel folks have never had any concerns about energy poverty, or delivering cheap energy to the masses. […] I haven’t seen Exxon say, ‘We’re going to deliver cheap energy to the masses.’ Basically, their concern is much more profit than cheap energy. 
[People in India and Bangladesh] are moving to solar without ever having [grid] electricity. Right now, renewables are helping [people in poorer countries] get electricity much more than coal. Of course, coal is cheap energy. But as the cost of solar [energy] is falling, coal will not necessarily be competitive in ten years from now. 
“I don’t understand how an institution such as McGill can do that. You just can’t operate a university endowment fund without having minimal scientific and ethical screens.”
MD: It’s safe to assume that many members of McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG) understand the science behind climate change. Why do you think that McGill is still so hesitant to divest?
KM: I think it’s really a sign of moral duplicity. […] Basically, they’re not making any choices, because they are risk-averse, and they want to make a short-term profit. And they’re betting that somehow the problem will solve itself. 
I don’t understand how an institution such as McGill can do that. You just can’t operate a university endowment fund without having minimal scientific and ethical screens.
Camil Bouchard (CB): I don’t have any numbers, but I would be curious to know […] how many researchers [at McGill] are supported in their private or semi-private contracts […] by fossil fuel companies. I suspect that could be a reason why there is so much hesitation around the issue [of divestment] with the BoG.
MD: Why do you think that it’s important for alumni to focus their energies on getting McGill, specifically, to divest, as opposed to other institutions?
KM: I’m sure that most alumni chose McGill because of its reputation, because it’s a place of science. I would be sad to see McGill become perceived by the younger generation […] as an institution that is trying to avoid change.
CB: When I’m asked to describe my bio, I’m very proud to say that I got my PhD from McGill. But I’m not able, now, to be as proud as I should be, because I don’t like to be identified with an institution that blindfolds itself for the sake of irresponsible investment returns. 

This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
