The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students promote discussion on universal design in Engineering
On February 23, about seventy students, faculty, and staff attended the Forum on Accessibility and Universal Design in the Faculty of Engineering, hosted by the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) and the engineering faculty, with help from the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD).
The forum is the second in a series of equity events spearheaded by the EUS Equity Committee – an informal body within the EUS that works alongside the EUS Equity Commissioner to address inequality in Engineering. The first forum took place in October and discussed “inclusivity.”
The goal of the forum was to create awareness about accessibility, emphasizing ‘universal design.’ Universal design is the concept of designing buildings, products, and environments that are accessible to the widest range of people, both with and without disabilities.
The panel was comprised of four experts whose work focuses on accessibility, and who implement universal design in their work. Before the discussion began, keynote speaker Isabelle Cardinal, the Consultation Services Director at Société Logique, a non-profit that promotes creating universally accessible spaces, explained the concept of universal design.
She said that much of the concept of universal design focuses on removing obstacles and making places “barrier-free.” Cardinal pointed out that these obstacles “create” disability.
“Separate is not equal. The way you’re offering service is important.”
For example, if a person had a spinal injury or a walking disability and there was a gradual slope to the building that they were trying to access, then there wouldn’t be any obstacles and they wouldn’t be handicapped.
She explained that universal design’s focus on creating structures that are inherently accessible differs from the previous approach of ‘accessible design,’ which focuses more on adding features to inaccessible structures.
Cardinal illustrated this by explaining that, instead of creating a building with a separate ramp for people in wheelchairs, under universal design, the entrance to the building would be lower in the first place, so that no ramp would be needed.
“Separate is not equal,” said Cardinal. “ The way you’re offering service is important.”
Ernesto Morales, an architect and Assistant Professor at Université Laval, noted some of the challenges in implementing universal design. The current construction code, he said, is not conducive to a universal approach, and to change the code one needs to either argue that the issue is a question of human rights or provide scientific evidence as to how the code is inaccessible.
Furthermore, panelist Ling Suen, Director of Transportation Planning and consultant at Intelligent Computer Systems and Applications (ICSA) Inc., pointed out some factors that may be overlooked.There is a difference between making something accessible for a person who is deaf and a person who is deaf and blind. She also noted that cultural differences need to be brought up in universal design.
During the question period, one audience member asked about how to encourage engineers to create more accessible designs.
Morales said that education was key, and that universal design should be integrated into the curriculum and not taught as a separate concept.
Michael Kokkolaras, a mechanical engineering professor, noted during the discussion period that accessibility is often not incorporated in design because of the way engineers are taught.
“Mechanical engineers are traditionally trained to find solutions for given problems, but they’re not really trained to formulate problems already,” he said, explaining that while problem formulation is emphasized in design courses, students often “don’t realize that formulation is 50 per cent [of the process].”
There was also debate over the importance of cost. For example, to add in an elevator in the Redpath building would cost about $1.09 billion, compared to the $450,000 budget that is allocated to this type of planning.
However, Suen argued that it wasn’t a matter of cost but political will.
“Cost is strictly relative,” she said.
“Mechanical engineers are traditionally trained to find solutions for given problems, but they’re not really trained to formulate problems already.”
Jenna Laham, a U3 student in chemical engineering and member of the EUS Equity Committee, noted that in classrooms, students are taught to think ahead when it comes to costs and to under-budget, but not so much to consider costs of accessibility.
“What’s important for us is to witness conversations happening,” said Tinke-Marie De Witte, also a U3 chemical engineering student on the EUS Equity Committee. “To have four panelists who come from different backgrounds professionally, to be a in a room with students who are studying different things and professors who are teaching different things – it brings together in one room people who are approaching problems in a lot of different ways.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panelists draw similarities between South Africa and Israel in SSMU-hosted event
On February 23, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) hosted a panel entitled “Boycotting Apartheid States.” Organized in collaboration with McGill Students in Solidarity with Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR), the event was moderated by SSMU VP External Amina Moustaqim-Barrette.
The panelists – Michelle Hartman, associate professor of Arabic literature; Jon Soske, assistant professor in the Department of History and Classical Studies; and Samia Botmeh, a professor at Birzeit University in the West Bank – drew links between the apartheid regime in South Africa and Israeli apartheid practices in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. They connected campaigns against the South African apartheid regime from the late 1950s until the 1990s to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement initiated by Palestinian civil society in 2005 to pressure the Israeli government into ending its occupation of the West Bank and its ongoing blockade of the Gaza Strip.
Soske, who specializes in modern African history, opened the panel by asserting that the apartheid analogy between Israel and South Africa is uncontroversial in South Africa, and drew similarities between the conditions that Israel enforces on Palestinians and the conditions enforced by white South Africans on the black community under the apartheid regime.
Soske noted that sanctions came in the form of economic pressure on the apartheid South African government, which greatly affected the livelihoods of white South Africans, and emphasized the integral role of universities in kickstarting the movement through boycotts and divestment.
“For universities as institutions to take an early stance and say, ‘We will no longer be complicit with apartheid,’ was key to starting to push broader sections of society in [Canada and the U.S.] against apartheid,” said Soske.
“One of the most important things said here is that there’s no neutrality on an issue like this.”
Botmeh, a member of the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic & Cultural Boycott of Israel, stated that the BDS movement was a response to the asymmetric nature of the peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization in the 1980s and 1990s, notably in negotiating the 1995 Oslo Accords.
“You cannot make peace […] assuming symmetry of power, because there is no symmetry of power between the oppressor and the oppressed,” said Botmeh.
Botmeh also took issue with the international community’s response to the situation in Palestine, claiming that it is treated like a humanitarian issue rather than a political one. “Dealing with Palestinians as if the creation of the state of Israel led to a natural catastrophe has meant that the intervention was very charity-like,” said Botmeh. “So [they] feed the Palestinians, [they] provide them with all forms of charity, and that neutralized the political factor. What the BDS movement tries to do is hold the international community responsible.” 
Hartman maintained that it is the duty of professionals, academics, and students alike to respond to the call for BDS, which comes from their colleagues who live under occupation in Palestine. She called on the audience to reflect on why, for example, some might choose to boycott Israeli academic institutions in the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
“[The] Hebrew University [of Jerusalem] is built on confiscated land, it is built over a Palestinian village,” said Hartman. “As Canadians, and people studying at Canadian educational institutions [built in Indigenous land], I think we need to take that very seriously, and take that into account, and look [at] where the calls [for solidarity] are coming from. When we have a call like [BDS], it is our duty to respond to it.”
“It is very empowering to know that people stand in solidarity with us, and that enables us to resist and move forward on the path of liberation,” Botmeh declared. 
The fact that the panel was organized by SSMU drew opposition from some students. An online petition expressing concern with the event began circulating a few days before the panel, and gathered 220 signatures.
“SSMU should ensure that there is open and balanced dialogue on such contentious topics,” the petition reads. “We are upset that SSMU, which we expect to represent the entire student body of McGill, has chosen to host an event that offers only one perspective on such a divisive issue.” 
Moustaqim-Barrette explained to The Daily that the panel was a result of students’ calls for forums for such debates, made during the discussion of a Palestine solidarity motion at the Fall SSMU General Assembly (GA). SSMU was also mandated to “support campaigns that mobilize in solidarity with the people affected by the use of military technology” at the GA.
An anonymous U2 Science student, who attended the event, found the petition expressing concern about the event “hypocritical.”
“Facilitating those debates is what they were asking for at the GA to begin with, so in that sense I think it does fall under SSMU’s mandate and it is SSMU’s responsibility to facilitate,” they told The Daily.
U0 Arts student Jonah Winer told The Daily that the panel had brought about personal reflection. “In general I’m not a huge fan of the BDS movement, but I also realize that I’ve only heard really negative portrayals of it,” he said. “I think to hear people who [participate] in forming [the movement], and also people who are really [in] favour of it, gives it a lot of nuance and gives me a lot to think about.”
U3 Arts student Ameya Pendse expressed concern about the selection of panelists. “I was, to be honest, disgusted that SSMU was hosting an event on such a divisive issue on campus,” he said. “I think that it was very sad that there wasn’t a single person or academic to counter what these three panelists were saying. […] I think SSMU should focus on issues that are actually affecting students. […] They should not be taking foreign affairs decisions, that is not why we elected them.” 
Asked whether SSMU should remain neutral on the issue of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Moustaqim-Barrette said that this was impossible. “There is no way to be neutral in these kinds of affairs, I think that’s just a way of silencing dissent and just another form of censorship,” she said. “I think it’s important that SSMU talks about these things and has events like these where people can come talk about these things.” 
“I think one of the most important things said here is that there’s no neutrality on an issue like this,” noted Winer. “You’re either for or against, and to try to remain neutral is disingenuous.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
