The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Quebec student associations create two new federations
Since last April, student associations across Quebec have been deliberating on the creation of a new provincial student federation that would replace the dormant Fédération étudiante universitaire du Québec (FEUQ).
According to Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP External Emily Boytinck, a functioning student federation is necessary to increase the reach of student associations that are mandated to lobby the provincial government.
In an interview with The Daily, Boytinck said, “In my job description as VP External, it says ‘lobby the government,’ but I can’t just call up the Minister of Education for a meeting. […] I can’t just write my own research report, with all my spare time, and go give it to the government.”
“If SSMU doesn’t join a student federation, then our voice just honestly won’t be represented at the governmental level.”
Former and current members of FEUQ at the table included SSMU, McGill’s Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), the Concordia Student Union (CSU), and the 40,000-student Fédération des associations étudiantes du campus de l’Université de Montréal (FAÉCUM), which left FEUQ in March. During the talks, an interim organization known as the Projet pour le mouvement étudiant (PPME) was created and tasked with setting the modalities for the creation of a new federation.
“If SSMU doesn’t join a student federation, then our voice just honestly won’t be represented at the governmental level.”
The PPME released a contract that could be signed by interested student associations, and, according to SSMU VP External Emily Boytinck, the interested associations also contributed money toward the realization of the goals of PPME.
“SSMU, however, did not sign the contract or put in money,” Boytinck told The Daily. “It was quite abrupt and there [were] a lot of organizations that were not feeling how abrupt and fast-paced a lot of people wanted to move.”
Several student organizations were unsatisfied with the proceedings of the PPME, criticizing the movement for recreating the dynamics of FEUQ. These organizations began a new project known colloquially as “vision commune.”
The organizations who left the table for the “vision commune” were mainly “regional organizations, as well as [the Association des étudiantes et étudiants de la Faculté des sciences de l’Éducation de l’UQAM (ADEESE)]” Boytinck explained.
By the end of the summer, the PPME became what is now known as the Union étudiante du Québec (UEQ), and “vision commune” became the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ).
While some student associations have chosen to side with only one of the two options (UEQ or AVEQ), others (such as SSMU and PGSS) have decided to sit at both tables. Notably, FAÉCUM is more in favour of UEQ and ADEESE is more in favour of AVEQ.
The main difference between the two new student federations has to do with their voting systems. Similar to a certain extent to FEUQ, UEQ employs a double majority system, wherein each decision must first be approved through a “one association, one vote” system, and then through a semi-proportional system, which gives more weight to the votes of more crowded associations. In contrast, and like the more direct-democratic Association pour une solidarité étudiante (ASSÉ), AVEQ employs only the “one association, one vote” system.
In an interview with The Daily, CSU President Terry Wilkings said, “Having been a member association of the FEUQ, [we believe that UEQ’s] approach is one [that] leads to a high degree of factionalism, given that the votes are proportional to size and, therefore, voices around the table aren’t treated with the same value.”
“[We believe that UEQ’s] approach is one [that] leads to a high degree of factionalism, given that the votes are proportional to size and, therefore, voices around the table aren’t treated with the same value.”
“Whereas the AVEQ model, where each association shares equal weight in the conversation, leads to more constructive dialogue and leads to decisions that are more representative of the entire province, of the entire region,” Wilkings continued.
Nicolas Lavallée, secretary-general of FAÉCUM, denies that UEQ’s voting system is similar to that of FEUQ.
“We were trying to reach consensus on [the issue of voting systems] and we had collectively planned to speak about it later in the summer. But at a certain point, some associations left and created what seems to be called AVEQ,” Lavallée told The Daily.
Lavallé also argued that FAÉCUM was not allowed into the deliberations about AVEQ. “It was restricted for us and many associations to attend the first AVEQ meetings […] at the beginning. We were invited once,” Lavallé explained.
“That’s partially the truth,” said ADEESE External Affairs Officer Marjorie Cyr-Beaudin, in French in an email to The Daily.
“However, it’s important to understand the context that explains this temporary exclusion. Because of previous collaborations with [each other], the asscoations participating in the creation of AVEQ chose to set up certain basics (voting method, values, et cetera) before inviting the entirety of Quebec university student associations,” Cyr-Beaudin said.
Wilkings characterized Lavallé’s statement as “misleading,” in concurrence with Cyr-Beaudin’s statement.
“I don’t think it was really about being exclusionary at all. It was more about presenting something that had adequate time to be produced.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Executive chef says fruit cost approximately $10,000
On September 1, McGill once again set out to make it into the Guinness Book of World Records. Similar to McGill’s previous attempts over the past three years, which included the world’s largest fruit salad in 2012, McGill concocted the world’s largest smoothie using thousands of kilograms of cantaloupes and watermelons from the Macdonald Farm, berries grown in Quebec, and fairtrade bananas.
As per Oliver de Volpi, Food and Dining Services Executive Chef, the goal was originally to create a 3,800 litre smoothie. Although the end product only measured in at 3,121.7 litres, the university’s concotion beat the record set by its predecessor (in Sydney, Australia) by over 800 litres.
Starting at approximately noon, thousands of fruits, and litres of yogurt and juice were blended together at Lower Field. One hundred volunteers worked together to chop and blend all the fruits in order to meet the Guinness rule that requires the smoothie be free of chunks.
Not everyone was happy about the mammoth beverage, however. Paniz Khosroshahy, a U2 student in Women’s Studies and Computer Science who passed by the event, commented on a pitcher of wasted smoothie left on the field. “We started drinking from the pitcher and a staff person came over and told us that we shouldn’t drink it because it has milk and it’s been sitting there all day in that container and [it has] gone bad,” she told The Daily in an email.
Senior Director of Student Housing and Hospitality Services Matthieu Laperle. “One of the white plastic containers we used to hold the smoothie before it was poured into the big tank was inadvertently left on the field, and there were about 100 portions or so left in the vat at the end.”
Nevertheless, Laperle was content with the record-breaking event. “Every year, we try to do a special activity on campus to welcome all the students. At the same time, we try to promote what we do [which is] the food offering on campus,” he said.
 
Aidan Gilchrist-Blackwood 
	Laperle added, “It’s a good way to welcome all the McGill community, but also to be in touch with Montreal. We try to invite the Montrealers to visit us, and also to see what we do at McGill.” He also stated, “It’s a nice way to show we’re sustainable,” referring to the use of fairtrade and local products, as well as the event’s strict separation of recyclable and compostable waste.
According to an email from Laperle, 2,100 litres of the smoothie were served to the crowd that flocked to the field, over 600 litres were donated to the Old Brewery Mission, and more than 150 litres were allocated to the Royal Victoria College (RVC) Dining Hall.
Khosroshahy said, “It’s frustrating to see that in the face of all these budget cuts, we have the budget to make [3,121.7] litres of smoothie. It’s irrelevant that these fruits came from Mac campus. What’s important is that the resources for this smoothie could have gone into supporting more crucial services on our campus.”
Jamie Snytte, a U2 Cognitive Science student told The Daily, “The smoothie is kind of just for show.”
“This incident was a clear waste of my tuition money as a student and I’m very frustrated.”
“This incident was a clear waste of my tuition money as a student and I’m very frustrated,” Khosroshahy said.
Aside from the costs of the ingredients that went into the world’s largest smoothie, the venture incurred additional costs. Laperle confirmed in an email to The Daily that “there were costs associated with having the Guinness representative here to monitor the preparation of the smoothie and declare it to be the world’s largest.” He added, “These costs were anticipated and factored into the cost of the event.”
The bounty of fruit came at a high cost to the university. According to de Volpi, the fruit alone cost approximately $10,000.
Laperle also commented that the venture did not represent a significant cost to the university, as both the yogurt and juice used were donated. In addition, Laperle and de Volpi noted that the tent, in which the record was broken, did not cost the university anything. “There [are] some costs [that are not] paid by us. We have been able to work with alumni [on], for example, the tent. We did not pay for the tent, but we have to pay [for] security,” stated Laperle.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Protesting in Montreal remains restricted
Since a court ruling in February 2015 that found police actions in a 2013 demonstration in downtown Montreal unwarranted, activists claim that there has been little change in how the Service de Police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) has been acting during protests, and say, if anything, its methods have become more violent.
At issue here are two key pieces of legislation. The first, which has generated the most controversy, is Montreal’s municipal bylaw P-6. Amendments 2.1 and 3.2, added to the legislation in May 2012, during the Maple Spring student protests, require protesters to provide an itinerary and route to the police and forbids them from wearing clothing that obscures their faces.
The court ruling on February 9, 2015 saw three tickets issued under this bylaw dismissed, with Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre announcing that all similar pending cases against protestors would be dropped. At the time, Judge Randall Richmond, who made the ruling, called police use of P-6 “shocking,” adding that the SPVM “risked condemning innocent people,” due to the fact that the police distributed the tickets en masse.
Since then, however, the ruling seems to have made no difference to police actions. In an interview with The Daily, Katie Nelson, a student at Concordia and a veteran of the Maple Spring, pointed out that protesters have “still received P-6 tickets after the judgement” and that police “still threaten P-6 when [activists] go to protest.”
The second legislation protesters have cited is article 500.1 of Quebec’s Highway Safety Code, which gives police the right to stop any obstructions to vehicular traffic on public roads. According to Nelson, 500.1 is responsible for most of her tickets.
The article, while not new, has only been regularly applied to protest situations since March 2011, when it was used to disperse the 15th annual anti-police brutality protest. In 2013, some who were arrested at that protest legally challenged the city’s application of the article, which relies on the false assumption that protesters’ primary intent is to block traffic.
“Within a month of the P-6 ruling […] instead of seeing mass arrests [under P-6 or 500.1], we just saw super heavy violence from the police.”
In particular, COBP has argued that the police have selectively targeted certain protests over others. In a publication released in May 2014 on its website, COBP points out that over sixty protests have occurred since 2013 where police were not provided itineraries and routes, in violation of P-6, but did not interfere with protesters. In other cases, most notably during May Day and anti-police brutality protests in 2015, police issued P-6 warnings and immediately stopped protesters with mass arrests and ticketing.
Without any indication that those protests would be violent, such police actions, COBP claims, can only amount to political profiling, and a worrying sign that police have the power to arbitrarily decide which protests are good or bad.
To Abraham Weizfeld, a Montreal-based peace activist and author, “Police no longer treat protests according to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.”
Speaking to The Daily, Weizfeld argued that police are specifically targeting demonstrations that “are affecting the pro-austerity policies of the government.” Nelson also pointed out that all of her tickets, amounting to approximately $11,000, have been “in the context of something political […] whether it be a strike or a picket line, a protest, a rally, or sit-in – even events that are apolitical in their nature.”
“So for example, […] there was a movie screening in a park […] regarding the 2012 [student strikes.] We received tickets there,” Nelson explained.
Nelson suggests the police response to the controversy has just been “way more violence.”
“Within a month of the P-6 ruling […] instead of seeing mass arrests [under P-6 or 500.1], we just saw super heavy violence from the police,” Nelson said.
According to Nelson, this is a trend that runs contrary to what is supposed to be the SPVM’s public image, pursuant to which it tries to keep everyone safe.
Remembering the 2015 May Day protests, Nelson said, “[The police] had tear gas being shot into Centre Eaton, and there were kids, there were people, there was a family that ended up in the hospital. […] It’s [unbelievable] because they’ve completely disregarded everyone.”
Weizfeld, who also attended the May Day protests, stated that the police, realizing that tickets given under P-6 and article 500.1 of the Highway Safety Code “were likely to be thrown out of court,” instead “escalated it, […] and charged us under the criminal code.”
“What the police want to accomplish with such charges is intimidation. They want to intimidate people so they don’t come back to a demonstration,” Weizfeld said.
“The justification has always been that we are the aggressors, or we are the people who attacked first or threw something,” Nelson said. “Now, we’re seeing the police just automatically crackdown before a protest even starts. […] The police are no longer needing justifications for violence.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“Pilot project” to test curriculum-integrated mental health service
With the start of the 2015-2016 academic year, McGill’s Schulich School of Music will be implementing a mandatory course that aims to reduce and prevent acute stress and anxiety in students.
According to Mental Health Education Coordinator Emily Yung, the stress that music students face is unique, as they have to deal with competitive auditions and performance anxiety, amongst other things. Without education on self-care methods, many crumble under the constant pressure to do well, some start to miss classes, and others suffer injuries.
“Music students have to deal with the pressure of performance, meaning they must be able to handle pressure well, have good self-esteem, […] and navigate through obstacles with good mental health,” Jacqueline Leclair, Associate Dean, Academic and Student Affairs, told The Daily.
Interested in her students’ psychological well-being, Leclair approached Nancy Low, Clinical Director at the McGill Mental Health Service, to work out a program. Her goal was to find novel ways aside from therapy, that are economically reasonable, and would allow her students to work on their wellness.
There is an ardent focus on mental health in athletics programs where they have moved away from the “no pain, no gain” mentality, Leclair explained. Leclair spoke to sports psychologists in hopes of creating for music students what has already been made for athletes, a model that places personal well-being as a priority.
The focus of the new program will include talks on the Alexander technique, a method that teaches students to move mindfully through life and makes use of services offered to athletes, such as massage therapy.
“To me this is like a pilot project. I don’t think it should be exclusively music.”
Incoming students will now be required to take the course Music as a Profession, to be taught by Leclair, and partake in a peer mentorship program. Each new student will be assigned a senior student mentor trained by McGill Mental Health Service.
Leclair believes that simple questions like “How are you?,” and “Are you sleeping and eating well?” are necessary in sustaining student well-being. Her initiative will also include creating a student hub, a physical space students can use in the New Music Building that is filled with resources on how to help students in distress, mental health, and injury prevention.
Music as a Profession will also teach students how to practice efficiently and will include lecturers that will speak on topics ranging from leadership to website design to music injury prevention. Guest lecturers will include alumni such as performing violinist John Austin, who will speak on the Alexander technique and professional opportunities.
According to Giuseppe Alfonsi, Associate Clinical Director at the McGill Mental Health Service, the program has been a project in progress all summer, and there has been talk on expanding the program to other faculties in the near future.
Alfonsi worked with psychology professor Richard Koestner, who lectures on well-being and its predictors, to formulate a presentation on self-determination theory, a theory of human motivation, for the course.
“To me this is like a pilot project. I don’t think it should be exclusively music. This year we’re testing it out, seeing what it would be like if other than just waiting in the Brown building, we connect with students and faculty, meet them where they are,” Alfonsi told The Daily.
The plan for the future is to eventually have professional peer partnerships where groups of students learn wellness strategies from licensed professionals and trained peers. Alfonsi described the program as taking “regular actions and strategies that can be used to boost wellness, and offering it in a relatively low-intensity environment – a class. It’s not a miracle cure but the notion is that these students will be getting a sense of how to do what they need to do.”
According to CBC, McGill is the first university in Cananda to make mental health content required in the Music curriculum, and Leclair hopes that doing so will improve the mental health of students and “dispel incorrect ideas regarding mental health [to] ensure a smoother and more successful future.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
