The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“Fascists are not welcome,” protesters tell Front National leader
Approximately 100 protesters gathered outside the Marriott Chateau Champlain Hotel on March 21 at 8 p.m. to peacefully demonstrate against the arrival of Marine Le Pen, leader of France’s far-right Front National (FN) party. Le Pen was planning on staying at the hotel and hosting a cocktail reception for supporters there.
There were at least 25 members of the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) outside the hotel preventing their entry. The demonstration came in the wake of a protest in Quebec City on March 20 while Le Pen was touring Quebec and struggling to find members of the Parti Québécois (PQ) willing to meet her.
Protesters carried signs bearing anti-fascist and anti-Nazi imagery, as well as slogans such as “Fascists aren’t welcome in Montreal,” written in both French and English.
Le Pen’s leadership of the FN has been fraught with controversy. In October 2015, Le Pen stood trial for “inciting racial hatred” in France for comparing public prayer by Muslims to the Nazi occupation of France during the second world war. The March 21 protest against her visit ended in at least two arrests, including that of Montreal activist Jaggi Singh.
Le Pen, who is also a member of the European Parliament, arrived on March 19 in Quebec, ostensibly to visit a Bombardier plant as an economic mission from Parliament. However, Le Pen used the opportunity to deliver a series of speeches and interviews in the province criticizing Canada’s immigration policy and multiculturalism.
The Globe and Mail reported that Le Pen described the federal government’s immigration policy as “erroneous,” insisting that “a multicultural society is a society in conflict.”
“We want her to know that her ideals are part of a past that we want no part of.”
After the assault of a protester by Le Pen’s bodyguard in Quebec City on March 20, Montreal-based activists organized a “Welcoming Committee” event on Facebook to “encourage everyone to take a stand against racism, sexism, homophobia, and the worldwide advance of the far right,” and to “let all hotel guests and staff know exactly who is staying in the hotel.”
Kyle, a protester at the demonstration at Le Pen’s hotel, explained to The Daily that “the increasing trend of fascism and right-wing extremism throughout the world […] is not welcome at all in Montreal and Quebec. It should be resisted the world over.”
Kyle added that “the high-ups in the political parties in Quebec have nothing to gain by supporting [Le Pen]. They know that their constituents wouldn’t approve of them meeting this far-right [extremist], and ultimately this is the reason they are rejecting her.”
Shortly after the protest began, the hotel management explained to protesters that Le Pen’s reservation and all FN events had been cancelled. At around 8:45 p.m., protestors learned via social media that Le Pen had moved her interview with Radio-Canada to the basement of the Station des Sports bar on Ste. Catherine, and protesters began to gather outside the bar.
According to Gregoire Beaune, a protester who was present at both demonstrations, a large police presence was already barricading the bar entrance when the group arrived. At least two arrests were made by the SPVM, including Montreal activist Jaggi Singh. According to The Link, Singh was fined $440 for being in violation of a by-law concerning noise and $148 for refusing to cooperate with the police.
Nolwenn Bellec, a French protester at the demonstration in Montreal, told The Daily that they would want Le Pen to know that “nobody here, or anybody with any attachment to France, finds her welcome or desirable. We want her to know that her ideals are part of a past that we want no part of.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Politicide of Palestine discussed as part of Israeli Apartheid Week
As part of this year’s Montreal Israeli Apartheid Week, Nahla Abdo, a Palestinian professor of sociology at Carleton University, spoke about the need for anti-colonial, anti-imperialist feminism at a talk titled “Imperialist Feminism and Arab Women’s Struggle: The Palestinian Case,” held on March 23 at Concordia University.
Abdo’s talk focused on the Western feminist rhetoric on Palestinian women’s struggle and the push-back to this discourse by Palestinian women. Abdo also discussed the importance of using oral history as a research method to highlight the struggle of Palestinian women who are political prisoners.
Abdo introduced the concept of “politicide” as important to understanding Palestinian women’s anti-colonial struggle. She explained that politicide is a form of genocide committed against Palestinians by the state of Israel through the erasing of Palestine as a political entity and through erasing Palestinian geography – for example, Israel’s renaming of many Palestinian towns and villages with Hebrew names.
“At the heart of the [struggle against] settler colonialism is the loss of land and struggle to regain the land,” Abdo said.
She linked the politicide of Palestine with the lack of criticism of Israel in the Western world. “Such politics have gone hand in hand with an Amero-European politics of a deafening silence toward Israel’s policies,” Abdo said. “We all have, as academics, in one way or another felt the pressure on our freedom of expression when it comes to [when we] critically think and publicly speak about the Israeli state.”
“At the heart of the [struggle against] settler colonialism is the loss of land and struggle to regain the land.”
Abdo also mentioned that a result of such a a lack of an anti-colonial analysis in discussing settler-colonial states like Israel and Canada leads to the conflation of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism.
“You criticize Canada left and right, but you are not to touch Israel,” she said, referring to some activists’ propensity to speak out against Canada’s policies, but their silence on Israel’s occupation of Palestine.
More specific to the topic of women’s anti-colonial struggle, Abdo spoke about “orientalist feminism,” which she defined as the essentialization of Arab and Muslim women. Orientalist feminism, said Abdo, imagines Arab and Muslim women to be under patriarchal and cultural oppression. In addition to problematizing this type of feminism, Abdo also spoke about imperialist feminism. While orientalist feminism focuses on culture, Abdo argued, imperialist feminism is a result of a political ideology.
“Imperialist feminism is a 21st-century feminism developed in response to the so-called War on Terror. [It is] the linking of resistance to colonialism [to] acts of terror; everyone who resists colonialism becomes a terrorist,” Abdo said. “[Imperialist feminism] uses women’s bodies and sexuality for ideology, for racializing and dehumanizing Palestinian freedom fighters.”
Abdo concluded her talk by saying, “While the state can erase the physical marker [of Palestinian land], they can’t erase [the Palestinian] vision and memory. Memory of the land, the home, the olive and the cypress trees, of the hills and mountains from the collective conscience of Palestinians.”
“I sometimes find that Western interpretations of people’s experience can be a colonial one, whether intended or not.”
Amal, a Concordia student present at the talk, told The Daily in an email that she disagreed with Abdo’s point that one doesn’t have to have lived an experience or be from a community to write about it.
“Very often the voices of those concerned are drowned out by Western academics because they have more opportunities to publish and discuss their work,” said Amal. “Basically, there are enough academics and writers who can give a more complete representation and analysis of an experience, and I sometimes find that Western interpretations of people’s experience can be a colonial one, whether intended or not,” she continued.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
